BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            10TH AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 34-246
TENTH AIR FORCE
                                                                                  23 MARCH 2010

                                                                                           Services

                                                            RESERVIST LODGING PROGRAM
                                                                           PROCEDURES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 610 RSG/A1S                                                        Certified by: 610 RSG/A1
                                                                      (Col Christopher C. Stevens)
                                                                                          Pages: 7


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 34-6, Air Force Lodging. This
instruction extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 34-246, Air Force Lodging
Program. It establishes procedures and responsibilities for personnel authorized to occupy
quarters (on-base/off-base contract commercial) and mandates use of lodging for all Reserve
personnel to which it applies, performing active duty and inactive of training tours. It applies to
all Reservists assigned to Headquarters Tenth Air Force (HQ 10 AF), 610th Regional Support
Group (610 RSG), 610th Security Forces Squadron (610 SFS), 610th Services Flight (610 SVF),
and 810th Civil Engineer Flight (810 CEF) physically located at Naval Air Station (NAS) Joint
Reserve Base (JRB) Fort Worth, Texas (TX). Failure to comply with this directive may result in
loss of lodging privileges. This publication requires the collection and/or maintenance of
information protected by the Privacy Act (PA) of 1974. The authorities to collect and or maintain
the records prescribed in this publication are Title 37, United States Code, Section 301a and
Executive Order 9397, Numbering System for Federal Accounts Relating to Individual Persons,
November 22, 1943. Forms affected by the PA have an appropriate PA statement. System of
records notice F034 AF AFSVA A Lodging Reservations System (February 1, 2000, 65 FR
4809) applies. The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1974, as amended in 1996, affects this
publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in the publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management
Systems       (AFRIMS)       Records      Disposition       Schedule     (RDS)       located      at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

This is the initial publication of Tenth Air Force Instruction (10 AFI) 34-246.
2                                                               10AFI34-246 23 MARCH 2010


1. Procedures. All HQ 10 AF, 610 RSG, 610 SFS, 610 SVF and 810 CEF personnel must use
on-base lodging when adequate and available, and will make advance reservations. Personnel
living outside the 50-mile radius of NAS JRB Fort Worth are authorized lodging at unit expense
when performing Inactive Duty for Training (IDT) at NAS JRB Fort Worth. All Unit Training
Assembly (UTA) lodging reservations are to be made through 10 AF Services (A1S).
    1.1. Adequate Quarters: Existing quarters must be used that comply with Department of
    Defense (DoD) and Air Force Lodging Standards as stated in Table 2.1. Reservists E-4 and
    below will be required to share a room in on- or off-base facilities. All quarters (Officer and
    Enlisted) on NAS JRB Fort Worth are adequate in accordance with (IAW) these directives.
    1.2. Available Quarters: Reservations must be made through the Navy Gateway Inn &
    Suites for all personnel requiring lodging. The only exception is for UTA where the unit
    lodging sign-up sheet will be used and all personnel regardless of rank will have the option to
    select on-base lodging. On-base quarters must be used until all allotted rooms have been
    reserved.
    1.3. Inactive Duty for Training:
       1.3.1. Family members are not authorized lodging. Reservists bringing their families are
       not authorized unit-paid lodging. Exceptions: When a Reservist is retiring and is having
       a formal retirement ceremony, then immediate family members are authorized.
       1.3.2. Pets are not authorized. Reservists bringing their pets are not authorized unit-paid
       lodging.
       1.3.3. Newcomer Lodging. Newcomers residing outside the commuting area will be
       lodged on base for their first UTA, if possible. After the first UTA, reservists will be
       responsible for making their own UTA lodging reservations via the unit lodging sign-up
       sheet.
    1.4. “No-Show” Policy:
       1.4.1. Tenth Air Force must pay for IDT lodging rooms reserved and not used.
       Reservists making reservations for UTA lodging who do not check in at their confirmed
       quarters are considered a “no-show”. Administrative action may be taken against
       Reservists who abuse this privilege. All changes to reservations should be made with the
       lodging representatives as soon as possible to avoid any “no-show” charges.
       1.4.2. Reservists making reservations for UTA lodging and/or not checking in at lodging
       are considered a “no-show” for the UTA. Reservists will receive counseling from their
       supervisor indicating they did not call, cancel or change their reservation and are being
       identified as a “no-show”.
       1.4.3. Reservists failing to cancel UTA reservations or not checking in for a second time
       will receive a counseling from the division chief/commander indicating they did not call,
       cancel or change their reservation and are being identified as a “no-show” for a second
       time within 12 months.
       1.4.4. Reservists failing to cancel UTA reservations and/or not checking in for a third
       time within a 12 month period will receive a “Denial of Lodging” letter from lodging
       program point of contact (POC) indicating this is the third offense in a 12 month period
       and they will be denied unit provided UTA lodging for 6 months. Reservists who have
10AFI34-246 23 MARCH 2010                                                                        3


       been denied lodging are responsible for their own lodging arrangements at their own
       expense.
   1.5. Active-Duty (AD) Tours:
       1.5.1. Unit-assigned Reservists performing active duty tours (Air Force (AF) Form 938,
       Request and Authorization for Active Duty Training/Active Duty Tour), regardless of per
       diem status, must contact the Navy Gateway Inn & Suites for lodging reservations.
       1.5.2. If a certificate of non-availability (CNA) is issued by Navy Gateway Inn & Suites,
       personnel are authorized to utilize quarters with any hotel of their choosing, up to the per
       diem rate; room rates above the per diem rate will not be reimbursed. This
       documentation is required for personnel to file with their travel voucher for
       reimbursement. No other entity is authorized to issue non-availability statements so that
       contract quarters may be used. Note: Unit Reservists performing duty (AD and IDT) at
       locations other than home station will use the host lodging at the installation where they
       will be perform the duty.
   1.6. Check out procedures:
       1.6.1. Unit Reservists are required to checkout through the front desk. Checkout time for
       the Navy Gateway Inn & Suites is 1100 hours. Failure to check out through the front
       desk by checkout time will incur a late checkout fee of one half of the room rate.
       Checkouts after 1500 hours will incur a full day’s room rate. Late fees are the
       responsibility of the Reservist not the unit.
       1.6.1.1. Local hotel checkout times vary. Check with the hotel to verify checkout times
       and fees associated with late checkouts.
2. Responsibility.
   2.1. Tenth Air Force Commander:
       2.1.1. Ensures compliance of lodging program policies and procedures.
       2.1.2. Appoints a Resource Advisor to manage the Unit IDT Lodging Government
       Purchase Card (GPC) payments.
       2.1.3. Appoints a Unit Lodging Manager to oversee the Unit Lodging Program.
   2.2. Unit Lodging Manager/POC:
       2.2.1. Works directly with the Navy Gateway Inn & Suites management to ensure
       adequate quarters are available to meet UTA lodging requirements.
       2.2.2. Provides lodging a copy of the unit’s annual UTA schedule as soon as it is
       approved (July - September time frame). Revalidate and update data on an annual basis.
       Notify lodging of any changes/amendments to the annual UTA schedule.
       2.2.3. Manages unit lodging reservations through the use of unit lodging rosters.
       2.2.4. Validates IDT lodging bills from the Navy Gateway Inn & Suites and contract
       commercial quarters. Maintain files to ensure accountability and integrity of the Unit
       Lodging Program.
4                                                              10AFI34-246 23 MARCH 2010


       2.2.5. Works with the division lodging representatives to ensure all IDT lodging
       requirements are properly identified.
       2.2.6. Complies with all Air Force GPC program directives in administering the IDT
       lodging payment process.
       2.2.7. Maintains billing and payment documentation to ensure accurate accountability
       IAW Air Force requirements.
    2.3. Division Chiefs:
       2.3.1. Appoint a unit lodging point of contact to act as their liaison with the Unit
       Lodging POC regarding UTA lodging reservations.
       2.3.2. Prepare a letter authorizing special lodging needs for reservists who work
       abnormal shifts, have transportation problems, or other reasons deemed necessary by the
       division chief for the reservist who resides within the commuting distance for IDTs to be
       lodged. Requests for Reservists needing special lodging will be approved by the
       appropriate unit commander. Requests for reservists needing special lodging will be
       monitored on a quarterly basis to ensure compliance with commuting distance as status
       changes.
       2.3.3. Ensure all Reservists are briefed on lodging procedures on a semiannual basis.
    2.4. Division Lodging Representatives (DLRs):
       2.4.1. Work with the Unit Lodging POC to ensure only authorized unit Reservists are
       provided IDT lodging.
       2.4.2. Maintain a non-commute list of unit Reservists authorized IDT lodging at unit
       expense and revalidate on an annual basis.
       2.4.3. Ensure unit Reservists make lodging reservations IAW this directive to eliminate
       Reservists arriving without appropriate reservations.
       2.4.4. Actively monitor unit “no-shows” to ensure the unit does not pay for quarters not
       used.
       2.4.5. Make reservations for unit Reservists who have been rescheduled and/or were not
       present for duty during the scheduled UTA.
    2.5. Unit Reservists will:
       2.5.1. Make lodging reservations during the UTA prior to the next scheduled UTA.
       2.5.2. Change or cancel lodging reservations through their respective lodging
       representative in a timely manner, if their requirements/dates change.
       2.5.3. Pay for personal charges ( i.e., telephone, in-room resale items, late check-out
       fees, etc.) These fees must be paid prior to being assigned lodging for the following
       month’s UTA. Note: It is the Reservists’ individual responsibility to make and cancel
       lodging reservations for all duty statuses. Reservists in an IDT status who fail to make
       reservations in accordance with this directive will not be provided lodging at unit
       expense. Reservists who make reservations and fail to cancel if not attending UTA or
10AFI34-246 23 MARCH 2010                                                                         5


      other IDT requirements may be subject to administrative action and denial of their
      lodging privilege (see para 1.4. through 1.4.4. above).
3. Making Lodging Reservations.
   3.1. Reservists will:
      3.1.1. Make all manday or Annual tour lodging reservations directly through the Navy
      Gateway Inn & Suites (Commercial #:              817-782-5483) or on-line at .
      www.dodlodging.net.
      3.1.2. Use the unit lodging sign-up sheet located in 10 AF/A1S for UTA lodging
      reservations. Reservations must be made no later than the Tuesday after the UTA. Sign
      up is performed during the current UTA for the following month’s UTA IAW AFI 34-
      246, Attachment 4.
      3.1.3. Cancelled reservations must be accomplished by the Thursday prior to the UTA
      through their division lodging representative. Cancellation after this date must be made
      directly with the host lodging activity. Reservations are guaranteed; Reservists may not
      cancel and reserve different quarters without a valid reason. Failure to comply may result
      in loss of unit provided quarters.
4. Payment Procedures.
   4.1. Per AFI 34-246, Attachment 4, Reserve Components (RC) are authorized to pay (or
   reimburse) lodging for their Reservists in an IDT status only when Government-controlled
   quarters, i.e., on-base lodging or off-base contract commercial lodging, are provided.
   4.2. Tenth Air Force Reservists performing IDTs at NAS JRB Fort Worth who reside
   outside the commuting distance will be provided lodging (limited to the room rate) at unit
   expense only when the proper procedures above are followed. The Reservist is responsible
   for personal charges ( i.e., telephone calls, pay-to-view movies, restaurant charges, etc).
   4.3. Tenth Air Force Reservists in an active duty status assigned to on-base and contract
   commercial lodging, regardless of per diem status, are responsible for their lodging charges.
   Individuals will file a travel voucher for reimbursement through the 301st Fighter Wing
   Finance Office (301 FW/FM).
   4.4. For on-base lodging bills, the Navy Gateway Inn & Suites accounting section will
   ensure that all backup documentation (unit lodging reservation/revalidation listings, plus all
   portfolios) to substantiate the charges are provided with each bill. For easier validation, bills
   may be broken out by unit of assignment.
      4.4.1. This portion of the process will be accomplished within 5 working days of the
      UTA. The 10 AF lodging POC, upon validation, will use the GPC to make payment. If
      discrepancies occur, the Navy Gateway Inn & Suites or local contract quarters
      representative and the 10 AF lodging POC will work together to resolve the issue. This
      entire process will be accomplished with 20 working days from the UTA. Note: At least
      monthly, the Navy Gateway Inn & Suites will prepare other IDT lodging bills (i.e.,
      rescheduled UTAs (RUTAs), Air Force Training Periods (AFTPs), etc). These bills may
      be provided at the same time as the UTA bill, but must be documented separately.
      Payment is made via the GPC or a centrally billed account.
6                                                          10AFI34-246 23 MARCH 2010


    4.4.2. Contract commercial lodging bills will be sent directly to the unit lodging POC.
    The Air Reserve Command (ARC) unit lodging POC validates billing from each contract
    hotel. Payment is made within 20 days of receiving the bill. Note: When a unit-
    assigned 10 AF Reservist performs an IDT at home station in conjunction with an active
    duty tour, to include annual tour in a non-per diem status, only the IDT portion is
    authorized for payment by the unit of assignment. The Reservist is responsible for
    payment of their lodging charges for all active duty tours regardless of location and per
    diem status.




                                         FRANK J. PADILLA, Maj Gen, USAFR
                                         Commander
10AFI34-246 23 MARCH 2010                                    7


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 34-6, Air Force Lodging, 22 July 1993
AFI 34-246, Air Force Lodging Program, 9 November 2007
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AD—Active Duty
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management Systems
AFTP—Air Force Training Period
ARC—Air Reserve Command
AT—Annual Tour
CNA—Certificate of Non-Availability
DLR—Division Lodging Representatives
DoD—Department of Defense
GPC—Government Purchase Card
IAW—In accordance with
IDT—Inactive Duty for Training
JRB—Joint Reserve Base
MPA—Military Personnel Appropriation
NAS—Naval Air Station
POC—Point of Contact
RC—Reserve Components
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RUTA—Reschedule Unit Training Assembly
TX—Texas
UTA—Unit Training Assembly
