 




TENTH AIR FORCE
COMMANDER’S SAFETY VISION
All Airmen - officer, enlisted and civilian - are our number
one priority. Each of you is a member of our 10th Air Force
family, and I expect your involvement as leaders in safety.
We have an obligation as commanders, functional
managers and supervisors to provide our Airmen a safe
and healthy working environment.
Our goal for 10th AF is zero accidents and fatalities in our command and the Air
Force. We are fortunate to have the techniques and procedures in place to ensure we
all go home safe at night. With that being said, use your checklists, tech orders and
procedures to ensure we all comply with Air Force Instructions and OSHA guidance.
Training and wartime missions are critical, but we must accomplish the mission and
be successful in our operations while accepting as little risk as possible. Risk
Management must be integrated into on- and off-duty activities, support, mission
planning and execution. Commanders must solicit inputs and determine acceptable
levels of risk commensurate with the significance of the mission.
I encourage all commanders, functional managers and supervisors to promote safety
into all operations and exercises. Some key preventative measures I would encourage
are: promotion of safety at commanders’ calls, newsletters, participating in Safety
down days and promoting the Voluntary Protection Program. If we cannot employ
and deploy valuable resources and bring them home safely, we fail in our mission to
deliver combat readiness. Safety is the core in reaching our goal of eliminating
mishaps to maximize mission success.




                                                               FRANK J. PADILLA, Maj Gen, USAFR
                                                               Commander
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

10AFVA91-302, 1 March 2010                                                                        OPR: 10 AF/SEG
Prescribed By: AFI 91-301
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
