BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   10TH AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-101
10TH AIR FORCE                                                                       3 FEBRUARY 2007

                                                                                               Operations

                                                                           10TH AIR FORCE COMBAT
                                                                                PLANNING COUNCIL



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                       e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 10AF/A3TT                                           Certified by: 10AF/A2A3 (Col Stephen Moore)
Supersedes 10AFI10-101, 1 September 2003                                                   Pages: 14

This instruction implements Air Force Reserve Command Mission Directive (AFRC MD) 1118, Head-
quarters Fourth, Tenth, and Twenty-Second Air Forces, Air Force Reserve Command Instruction
(AFRCI) 10-601, Mission Needs and Operational Requirements, and Air Force Instruction (AFI)
11-202V1, Aircrew Training. It establishes the 10th Air Force (10 AF) Combat Planning Council (CPC)
membership, working groups, meeting dates, procedures, duties and responsibilities. The CPC advises the
10 AF Commander (10 AF/CC) on training and equipment issues. The CPC will be a tool for the com-
mander to ensure command assigned Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units are trained and
equipped to maintain operational readiness according to the applicable gaining command standards, as
directed by the above mission directive. This instruction applies to all unit equipped and associate 10 AF
units. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Respon-
sibility (OPR) using the Air Force Information Management Tool (AF IMT) 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF IMTs 847 from the field through headquarters (HQ) 10 AF publications/
forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363),
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. All specific dates for the
planning cycle have been deleted. The CPC timelines will now be based on the AFRC Plans Requirement
Division’s (A5R) requirement document deadlines. Immediately following the Requirements Consolida-
tion Working Group all of the new requirements documents must be completed.


1. Organization/Tasks. The CPC will be organized to address training and equipment requirement
issues across all weapons systems/missions and by individual mission area. The permanent working
2                                                                   10AFI10-101 3 FEBRUARY 2007


groups listed below are the minimum specified. The 10 AF Operations Division (A2A3) may establish
temporary working groups to address specific issues.
    1.1. Broad Area Working Groups. To address issues across all weapons systems/missions, the CPC
    will have three standing Broad Area Working Groups:
       1.1.1. Training Working Group. This working group will be composed of operations officers
       and training officers (or their equivalent) from all units, intelligence officers/noncommissioned
       officers (NCO) with training responsibilities and members of the 10 AF Operations Training staff.
       Members of the AFRC Operations Training staff will be invited as advisers. A member of the 10
       AF Operations Training staff will be the Training Working Group Chairman. The working group
       will consider the following: unit issues, open tasks from previous CPCs, issues generated by the
       Air Combat Command (ACC) Realistic Training Review Board (RTRB) and after action reviews
       from current contingency or Air Expeditionary Force (AEF) operations. The working group is not
       limited to these issues and may also consider Ready Aircrew Program (RAP) issues affecting all
       units, training inputs to the Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS) and use of the Avi-
       ation Resource Management System (ARMS). The output of the working group will be to share
       common problems and solutions across all mission areas. When solutions cannot be found, the
       working group will generate tasks for the mission area working groups or the 10 AF Operations
       Training staff.
       1.1.2. Weapons and Tactics Working Group. This working group will be composed of weap-
       ons and tactics officers (or their equivalent) from all units, intelligence officers/NCOs from units
       with a weapons and tactics function, space officers from units with an intelligence mission and
       members of the 10 AF Weapons and Tactics staff. Members of the AFRC Operations Training
       staff with weapons and tactics responsibilities and AFRC representatives from the Air Force
       Reserve/Air National Guard Air Reserve Test Center (AATC) will be invited as advisers. A mem-
       ber of the 10 AF Weapons and Tactics staff will be the Weapons and Tactics Working Group
       Chairman. The working group will consider the following: unit issues, open tasks from previous
       CPCs, issues generated by the Air National Guard (ANG)/AFRC Weapons and Tactics Confer-
       ence, after action reviews from current contingency AEF operations, munitions forecasting/expen-
       diture and airspace/ranges. The working group is not limited to these issues and may also consider
       Tactics Improvement Proposals (TIP) if required as part of the Numbered Air Force (NAF) Tactics
       Review Board (TRB) process. The output of the working group will be to share common problems
       and solutions across all mission areas. When solutions cannot be found, the working group will
       generate tasks for the mission area working groups or the 10 AF Weapons and Tactics staff.
       1.1.3. 10 AF/A2A3 Requirements Consolidation Working Group. This working group will be
       composed of 10 AF unit operations group commanders or their designated representatives. The 10
       AF/A2A3 is the chairman. Members of the 10 AF/A2A3, AFRC/A2A3, United States Air Force
       (USAF) REOR, AFRC/A5R, and AATC staffs will be invited as briefers and advisers. The output
       of this working group is a consolidated, prioritized list of the top 30 equipment requirements from
       the eight mission area working group lists. The working group will consider the previous year’s
       CPC Top 30 Requirements List and the status of current AFRC requirement projects. At a mini-
       mum, the group will consider the top five items from each mission area list, but is not limited to
       the top five items. The group will give priority to items appropriate for funding with 0350 or
       National Guard/Reserve Equipment Account (NGREA) funding but may place other items on the
       list to emphasize their relative merit to senior AFRC leadership. The group may use the current
10AFI10-101 3 FEBRUARY 2007                                                                             3


     AFRC Reserve Requirements Oversight Council (RROC) ranking spreadsheet from the mission
     area groups as a tool, but the final list should be a subjective ranking based on combat capability.
     Requirements from non-unit equipped units will be taken on as taskers by 10AF/A2A3 to coordi-
     nate the requirements with appropriate agencies.
  1.2. Mission Area Working Groups. To address specific mission area issues, the CPC will have
  nine standing mission area working groups:
     1.2.1. A-10 Working Group. This working group will be composed of officers from all 10 AF
     A-10 units and members of the 10 AF Operations Training and Weapons and Tactics staffs. Mem-
     bers of the AFRC/A2A3, AFRC/A5R, USAF/REOR and AATC staffs with A-10 responsibilities
     will be invited as advisers. The A-10 working group will be chaired by an A-10 Operations Group
     Commander, Deputy Operations Group Commander or other unit leadership selected by the 10
     AF/A2A3. The working group will have requirements and training subcommittees chaired by
     unit-level officers selected by the A-10 Working Group Chairman and the 10 AF/A2A3. The
     working group will have two outputs: a training issues list and a prioritized equipment require-
     ment list. The working group is not limited to these issues and may be assigned other tasks by the
     10 AF/A2A3. When solutions to training or equipment issues cannot be found, the working group
     will generate tasks for the 10 AF Operations Training staff.
        1.2.1.1. A-10 Training Subcommittee. The training subcommittee will consider the follow-
        ing: unit issues; open tasks from previous CPCs; issues generated by the ACC RTRB; issues
        forwarded by the CPC broad area working groups; a review of the A-10 RAP tasking; and
        changes to AFI 11-2A/OA-10 Volume 1, A/OA-10 Aircrew Training and AFI 11-2A/OA-10
        Volume 3, A/OA-10 Operations Procedures.
        1.2.1.2. A-10 Requirements Subcommittee. The requirements subcommittee will consider
        the following: the most recent A-10 CPC equipment ranking list; the most recent ANG/AFRC
        Weapons and Tactics Conference A-10 requirements ranking; the most recent A-10 lead com-
        mand requirements conference ranking; the status of current AFRC projects and new items
        suggested by unit members. The requirements subcommittee will consider all requirements
        without regard as to funding source or potential cost. The final list will be a subjective ranking
        based on the proposed requirement’s impact on combat capability.
     1.2.2. B-52 Working Group. This working group will be composed of officers from the 917th
     Wing/93rd Bomb Squadron and members of the 10 AF Operations Training and Weapons and
     Tactics staffs. Members of the AFRC/A2A3, AFRC/A5R, USAF/REOR and AATC staffs with
     B-52 responsibilities will be invited as advisers. The working group will be chaired by the 917th
     Operations Group Commander, Deputy Operations Group Commander or other unit leadership
     selected by the 10 AF/A2A3. The working group will have requirements and training subcommit-
     tees chaired by unit-level officers selected by the working group chairman and the 10 AF/A2A3.
     The working group will have two outputs: a training issues list and a prioritized equipment
     requirement list. The working group is not limited to these issues and may be assigned other tasks
     by the 10 AF/A2A3. When solutions to training or equipment issues cannot be found, the working
     group will generate tasks for the 10 AF Operations Training staff.
        1.2.2.1. B-52 Training Subcommittee. The training subcommittee will consider the follow-
        ing: unit issues; open tasks from previous CPCs; issues generated by the ACC RTRB; issues
        forwarded by the CPC broad area working groups; a review of the B-52 RAP tasking; and
4                                                                 10AFI10-101 3 FEBRUARY 2007


       changes to AFI 11-2B-52 Volume 1, B-52 Aircrew Training and AFI 11-2B-52 Volume 3, B-52
       Operations Procedures.
       1.2.2.2. B-52 Requirements Subcommittee. The requirements subcommittee will consider
       the following: the most recent B-52 CPC equipment ranking list; the most recent ANG/AFRC
       Weapons and Tactics Conference B-52 requirements ranking; the most recent B-52 lead com-
       mand requirements conference ranking; the status of current AFRC projects and new items
       suggested by unit members. The requirements subcommittee will consider all requirements
       without regard as to funding source or potential cost. The final list will be a subjective ranking
       based on the proposed requirement’s impact on combat capability.
    1.2.3. F-16 Working Group. This working group will be composed of officers from all 10 AF
    F-16 units and members of the 10 AF Operations Training and Weapons and Tactics staffs. Mem-
    bers of the AFRC/A2A3, AFRC/A5R, USAF/REOR and AATC staffs with F-16 responsibilities
    will be invited as advisers. The F-16 working group will be chaired by an F-16 Operations Group
    Commander, Deputy Operations Group Commander or other unit leadership selected by the 10
    AF/A2A3. The working group will have requirements and training subcommittees chaired by
    unit-level officers selected by the working group chairman and the 10 AF/A2A3. The working
    group will have two outputs: a training issues list and a prioritized equipment requirement list. The
    working group is not limited to these issues and may be assigned other tasks by the 10 AF/A2A3.
    When solutions to training or equipment issues cannot be found, the working group will generate
    tasks for the 10 AF Operations Training staff.
       1.2.3.1. F-16 Training Subcommittee. The training subcommittee will consider the follow-
       ing: unit issues; open tasks from previous CPCs; issues generated by the ACC RTRB; issues
       forwarded by the CPC broad area working groups; a review of the F-16 RAP tasking and
       changes to AFI 11-2F-16 Volume 1, F-16 Aircrew Training and AFI 11-2F-16 Volume 3, F-16
       Operations Procedures.
       1.2.3.2. F-16 Requirements Subcommittee. The requirements subcommittee will consider
       the following: the most recent F-16 CPC equipment ranking list; the most recent ANG/AFRC
       Weapons and Tactics Conference F-16 requirements ranking; the most recent F-16 lead com-
       mand requirements conference ranking; the status of current AFRC projects and new items
       suggested by unit members. The requirements subcommittee will consider all requirements
       without regard as to funding source or potential cost. The final list will be a subjective ranking
       based on the proposed requirement’s impact on combat capability.
    1.2.4. HH-60 Working Group. This working group will be composed of representatives from all
    10 AF HH-60 units and members of the 10 AF Operations Training and Weapons and Tactics
    staffs. Members of the AFRC/A2A3, AFRC/A5R, USAF/REOR and AATC staffs with HH-60
    responsibilities will be invited as advisers. The HH-60 working group will be chaired by a HH-60
    Group Commander, Deputy Operations Group Commander or other unit leadership selected by
    the 10 AF/A2A3. The working group will have requirements and training subcommittees chaired
    by unit-level members as required. The working group will have two outputs: a training issues list,
    and a prioritized equipment requirement list. The working group is not limited to these issues and
    may be assigned other tasks by the 10 AF/A2A3. When solutions to training or equipment issues
    cannot be found, the working group will generate tasks for the 10 AF Operations Training staff.
10AFI10-101 3 FEBRUARY 2007                                                                           5


        1.2.4.1. HH-60 Training Subcommittee. The training subcommittee will consider the fol-
        lowing: unit issues; open tasks from previous CPCs, issues generated by the ACC RTRB con-
        cerns, issues forwarded by the CPC broad area working groups; a review of RAP tasking and
        changes to aircraft-specific training/operating instructions.
        1.2.4.2. HH-60 Requirements Subcommittee. The requirements subcommittee will con-
        sider the following: the most recent HH-60 CPC equipment ranking list; the most recent ANG/
        AFRC Weapons and Tactics Conference HH-60 requirements ranking; the most recent HH-60
        lead command aircraft requirements conference ranking; the status of current AFRC projects
        and new items suggested by unit members. The requirements subcommittee will consider all
        requirements without regard as to funding source or potential cost. The final consolidated list
        will be a subjective ranking based on the proposed requirement’s impact on combat capability.
     1.2.5. HC-130 Working Group. This working group will be composed of representatives from
     all 10 AF HC-130 units and members of the 10 AF Operations Training and Weapons and Tactics
     staffs. Members of the AFRC/A2A3, AFRC/A5R, USAF/REOR and AATC staffs with HC-130
     responsibilities will be invited as advisers. The HC-130 working group will be chaired by the
     HC-130 Group Commander, Deputy Operations Group Commander or other unit leadership
     selected by the 10 AF/A2A3. The working group will have requirements and training subcommit-
     tees chaired by unit-level members as required. The working group will have two outputs: a train-
     ing issues list, and a prioritized equipment requirement list. The working group is not limited to
     these issues and may be assigned other tasks by the 10 AF/A2A3. When solutions to training or
     equipment issues cannot be found, the working group will generate tasks for the 10 AF Operations
     Training staff.
        1.2.5.1. HC-130 Training Subcommittee. The training subcommittee will consider the fol-
        lowing: unit issues; open tasks from previous CPCs; issues generated by the ACC RTRB con-
        cerns; issues forwarded by the CPC broad area working groups; a review of RAP tasking and
        changes to aircraft-specific training/operating instructions.
        1.2.5.2. HC-130 Requirements Subcommittee. The requirements subcommittee will con-
        sider the following: the most recent HC-130 CPC equipment ranking list; the most recent
        ANG/AFRC Weapons and Tactics Conference HC-130 requirements ranking; the most recent
        HC-130 lead command aircraft requirements conference ranking; the status of current AFRC
        projects and new items suggested by unit members. The requirements subcommittees will con-
        sider all requirements without regard as to funding source or potential cost. The final consoli-
        dated list will be a subjective ranking based on the proposed requirement’s impact on combat
        capability.
     1.2.6. Guardian Angels Working Group. This working group will be composed of representa-
     tives from all 10 AF Guardian Angels units and members of the 10 AF Operations Training and
     Weapons and Tactics staffs. Members of the AFRC/A2A3, AFRC/A5R, USAF/REOR and AATC
     staffs with Guardian Angels responsibilities will be invited as advisers. The Guardian Angels
     working group will be chaired by the senior ranking Guardian Angels unit commander, or other
     unit leadership selected by the 10 AF/A2A3. The working group will have requirements and train-
     ing subcommittees chaired by unit-level members as required. The working group will have two
     outputs: a training issues list, and a prioritized equipment requirement list. The working group is
     not limited to these issues and may be assigned other tasks by the 10 AF/A2A3. When solutions to
6                                                                10AFI10-101 3 FEBRUARY 2007


    training or equipment issues cannot be found, the working group will generate tasks for the 10 AF
    Operations Training staff.
       1.2.6.1. Guardian Angels Training Subcommittee. The training subcommittee will con-
       sider the following: unit issues; open tasks from previous CPCs; issues generated by the ACC
       RTRB concerns; issues forwarded by the CPC broad area working groups; a review of RAP
       tasking and changes to aircraft-specific training/operating instructions.
       1.2.6.2. Guardian Angels Requirements Subcommittee. The requirements subcommittee
       will consider the following: the most recent Guardian Angels CPC equipment ranking list; the
       most recent ANG/AFRC Weapons and Tactics Conference Guardian Angels requirements
       ranking; the most recent lead command aircraft requirements conference ranking; the status of
       current AFRC projects and new items suggested by unit members. The requirements subcom-
       mittees will consider all requirements without regard as to funding source or potential cost.
       The final consolidated list will be a subjective ranking based on the proposed requirement’s
       impact on combat capability.
    1.2.7. MC-130 Working Group. This working group will be composed of representatives from
    all 10 AF Special Operations Forces (SOF) (MC-130E/P) units. The SOF representatives will
    meet with members of the 10 AF Operations Training and Weapons and Tactics staffs. Members
    of the AFRC/A2A3, AFRC/A5R, USAF/REOR and AATC staffs with MC-130 responsibilities
    will be invited as advisers. Also representatives of the AFRC Rescue HC-130 units should be
    included in this group to discuss helicopter air refueling mission requirements, tactics and train-
    ing. The working group will be chaired by a MC-130 Group Commander, Deputy Operations
    Group Commander, or other unit leadership selected by the 10 AF/A2A3. The MC-130 Working
    Group will have requirements and training subcommittees chaired by unit-level members as
    required. The working group will have two outputs: a training issues list, and a prioritized equip-
    ment requirement list. The working group is not limited to these issues and may be assigned other
    tasks by the 10 AF/A2A3. When solutions to training or equipment issues cannot be found, the
    working group will generate tasks for the 10 AF Operations Training staff.
       1.2.7.1. MC-130 Training Subcommittee. The training subcommittee will consider the fol-
       lowing: unit issues, open tasks from previous CPCs, issues generated by the ACC RTRB, Air
       Force Special Operations Command concerns, issues forwarded by the CPC broad area work-
       ing groups, a review of RAP tasking and changes to aircraft-specific training and operating
       instructions.
       1.2.7.2. MC-130 Requirements Subcommittee. The requirements subcommittee will con-
       sider the following: the most recent MC-130 CPC equipment ranking list, the most recent
       ANG/AFRC Weapons and Tactics Conference MC-130 requirements ranking, the most recent
       MC-130 lead command aircraft requirements conference ranking, the status of current AFRC
       projects and new items suggested by unit members. The requirements subcommittee will con-
       sider all requirements without regard as to funding source or potential cost. The final consoli-
       dated list will be a subjective ranking based on the proposed requirement’s impact on combat
       capability.
    1.2.8. Intelligence Working Group. This working group will be composed of intelligence, offic-
    ers and NCOs from all 10 AF units and HQ 10 AF Operations Intelligence staff .Members of the
    AFRC Intelligence and Operations staff will be invited as advisers. The Intelligence Working
10AFI10-101 3 FEBRUARY 2007                                                                           7


     Group will be chaired by a senior intelligence officer selected by the 10 AF/A2A3. The Intelli-
     gence Working Group will have requirements and training subcommittees chaired by unit-level
     officers as required. The Intelligence Working Group will have two outputs: a training issues list,
     and a prioritized equipment requirement list. The working group is not limited to these issues and
     may be assigned other tasks by the 10 AF/A2A3. When solutions to training or equipment issues
     cannot be found, the working group will generate tasks for the HQ 10 AF Intelligence staff and
     appropriate points of contact.
        1.2.8.1. Intelligence Training Subcommittee. The training subcommittee will consider the
        following: operational intelligence issues, open tasks from previous CPCs, issues generated by
        the ACC RTRB, AOC training concerns, issues forwarded by the CPC broad area working
        groups and a review of Major Command (MAJCOM) training instructions.
        1.2.8.2. Intelligence Requirements Subcommittee. The requirements subcommittee will
        consider the following: the most recent intelligence CPC equipment ranking list; the status of
        current AFRC projects and new items suggested by unit members. The requirements subcom-
        mittee will consider all requirements without regard as to funding source or potential cost. The
        final consolidated list will be a subjective ranking based on the proposed requirement’s impact
        on combat capability.
     1.2.9. Space Working Group. This working group will be composed of Space officers and
     NCOs from all 10 AF units and members of the 10 AF Operations Space staff. Members of the
     AFRC/A2A3 staff with space responsibilities will be invited as advisers. The Space Working
     Group will be chaired by a senior unit Space officer selected by the 310th Space Group Com-
     mander (310 SG/CC) with 10 AF/A2A3 concurrence. The Space Working Group will have
     requirements and training subcommittees chaired by unit-level officers as required. The Space
     Working Group will have a minimum of two outputs: a training issues list, and a prioritized equip-
     ment requirement list. The working group is not limited to these issues and may be assigned other
     tasks by the 10 AF/A2A3. When solutions to training or equipment issues cannot be found, the
     working group will generate tasks for the 10 AF Operations Training staff.
        1.2.9.1. Space Training Subcommittee. The training subcommittee will consider the follow-
        ing: unit issues; open tasks from previous CPCs; issues generated by the ACC RTRB; issues
        forwarded by the CPC broad area working groups and a review of MAJCOM training instruc-
        tions.
        1.2.9.2. Space Requirements Subcommittee. The requirements subcommittee will consider
        the following: the most recent space CPC equipment ranking list; the status of current AFRC
        projects and new items suggested by unit members. The requirements subcommittee will con-
        sider all requirements without regard as to funding source or potential cost. The final consoli-
        dated list will be a subjective ranking based on the proposed requirement’s impact on combat
        capability.
     1.2.10. Air Operations Center (AOC) Working Group. This working group will be composed
     of AOC officers and NCOs from 10 AF AOC (representatives of the AFRC Airborne Warning and
     Control System (AWACS) associate unit will be included in this group to represent C2ISR and
     ensure they have a voice at the CPC). Members of the AFRC Intelligence and Operations staff
     with AOC responsibilities will be invited as advisers. The AOC Working Group will be chaired by
     a senior intelligence or AOC officer selected by the 10 AF/A2A3. The AOC Working Group will
8                                                                   10AFI10-101 3 FEBRUARY 2007


       have requirements and training subcommittees chaired by unit-level officers as required. The
       AOC Working Group will have two outputs: a training issues list, and a prioritized equipment
       requirement list. The working group is not limited to these issues and may be assigned other tasks
       by the 10 AF/A2A3. When solutions to training or equipment issues cannot be found, the working
       group will generate tasks for the HQ 10 AF staff and appropriate AOC points of contact.
           1.2.10.1. AOC Training Subcommittee. The training subcommittee will consider the fol-
           lowing: operational AOC issues, open tasks from previous CPCs, issues generated by the ACC
           RTRB, AOC training concerns, issues forwarded by the CPC broad area working groups and a
           review of MAJCOM training instructions.
           1.2.10.2. AOC Requirements Subcommittee. The requirements subcommittee will consider
           the following: the most recent AOC CPC equipment ranking list; the status of current AFRC
           projects and new items suggested by unit members. The requirements subcommittee will con-
           sider all requirements without regard as to funding source or potential cost. The final consoli-
           dated list will be a subjective ranking based on the proposed requirement’s impact on combat
           capability.
       1.2.11. Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) Working Group. This working group will be com-
       posed of UAS officers and NCOs from 10 AF UAS units. Members of the AFRC Operations staff
       with UAS responsibilities will be invited as advisers. The UAS Working Group will be chaired by
       a senior UAS officer selected by the 10 AF/A2A3. The UAS Working Group will have require-
       ments and training subcommittees chaired by unit-level officers as required. The UAS Working
       Group will have two outputs: a training issues list, and a prioritized equipment requirement list.
       The working group is not limited to these issues and may be assigned other tasks by the 10 AF/
       A2A3. When solutions to training or equipment issues cannot be found, the working group will
       generate tasks for the HQ 10 AF staff and appropriate UAS points of contact.
           1.2.11.1. UAS Training Subcommittee. The training subcommittee will consider the follow-
           ing: operational UAS issues, open tasks from previous CPCs, issues generated by the ACC
           RTRB, UAS training concerns, issues forwarded by the CPC broad area working groups and a
           review of MAJCOM training instructions.
           1.2.11.2. UAS Requirements Subcommittee. The requirements subcommittee will consider
           the following: the most recent UAS CPC equipment ranking list; the status of current AFRC
           projects and new items suggested by unit members. The requirements subcommittee will con-
           sider all requirements without regard as to funding source or potential cost. The final consoli-
           dated list will be a subjective ranking based on the proposed requirement’s impact on combat
           capability.

2. Membership. The CPC has permanent members from within 10 AF. These members are instrumental
to the effectiveness of the CPC. Members who are unable to attend should ensure a knowledgeable per-
son, empowered to act on their behalf, represents them. The CPC also relies on the expertise of invitees
from outside 10 AF as advisers.
    2.1. The permanent members of the CPC are:
       2.1.1. 10 AF Director of Operations.
       2.1.2. 10 AF Assistant Director of Operations.
10AFI10-101 3 FEBRUARY 2007                                                                               9


       2.1.3. 10 AF Operations Training staff.
       2.1.4. 10 AF Weapons and Tactics staff.
       2.1.5. Unit Operations Group Commanders and Deputies.
       2.1.6. Unit Squadron Commanders and Directors of Operations.
       2.1.7. Unit Training Officers.
       2.1.8. Unit Weapons/Tactics Officers.
       2.1.9. Unit Intel Officers.
   2.2. The CPC solicits the expertise of AFRC members from outside 10 AF (including those on
   extended active duty on other MAJCOM and USAF staffs). Regular invitees are:
       2.2.1. HQ USAF/REOR and staff.
       2.2.2. HQ AFRC Operations Division and Director of Operations Training staff.
       2.2.3. HQ AFRC/A5R and staff.
       2.2.4. HQ ACC Reserve advisers to the commander (CC) and operations and requirements divi-
       sions.
       2.2.5. AATC representatives.
       2.2.6. AFSOC representatives.
   2.3. Attendance by other unit members and Reserve advisers is encouraged. The CPC project officer
   will ensure wide dissemination of meeting announcements by e-mail, message and posted on the
   10AF CPC web site for all permanent members, regular invitees and others.

3. Responsibilities. The 10 AF/A2A3 is the overall chairman of the CPC. The 10 AF Operations Train-
ing Division (A3T) and the CPC project officer are the OPRs for CPC meeting planning and conduct and
the CPC master tasking list. The responsibility for a successful CPC is at every level. Individual responsi-
bilities are:
   3.1. Unit Commanders.
       3.1.1. Send the required attendees to council meetings and empower them to speak for the unit.
       3.1.2. Allow council member time and temporary duty (TDY) funds to accomplish assigned
       tasks.
       3.1.3. Provide feedback to 10 AF/CC and Director of Operations on CPC effectiveness.
   3.2. 10 AF Director of Operations.
       3.2.1. Provide overall CPC planning direction to the 10 AF Director of Operations Training and
       the CPC Project Officer. Provide extra manpower as required.
       3.2.2. Set CPC meeting dates in relation to the ANG/AFRC Weapons and Tactics Conference and
       the AFRC RROC.
       3.2.3. Select CPC working group chairmen and confirm subcommittee chairmen.
       3.2.4. Select a CPC project officer from the 10 AF operations staff.
10                                                                   10AFI10-101 3 FEBRUARY 2007


        3.2.5. Serve as the focal point for CPC issues requiring input to the AFRC senior leadership. Pro-
        vide the 10 AF/CC an executive outbrief of CPC issues within 30 days of the CPC.
        3.2.6. Coordinate RTRB issue resolution with AFRC and ACC.
        3.2.7. Ensure the CPC Top 30 Requirements list and other requirements issues are provided to the
        Reserve requirement process through the 10 AF RROC representative.
        3.2.8. Establish a permanent archive of the CPC minutes and master tasking list.
        3.2.9. Provide 10 AF operations manpower as required to accomplish the tasks on the CPC master
        task list.
     3.3. 10 AF Director of Operations Training.
        3.3.1. Function as the day-to-day CPC contact in the absence of the CPC project officer.
        3.3.2. In concert with the 10 AF/A2A3, select and supervise the CPC project officer from the 10
        AF Operations staff.
        3.3.3. Ensure all meeting planning and schedule timeline actions are accomplished in accordance
        with (IAW) this instruction.
        3.3.4. Provide day-to-day supervision to ensure items on the CPC task list are followed to conclu-
        sion and documented.
     3.4. CPC Project Officer.
        3.4.1. Execute the CPC planning and scheduling tasks IAW this document.
        3.4.2. Coordinate CPC meeting dates with the 10 AF/A2A3 and A3T and prepare a meeting
        announcement not later than (NLT) 60 days prior that requests input for agenda items.
        3.4.3. Coordinate with 301 FW and host base for meeting facilities, billeting, audio-visual equip-
        ment, etc., NLT 60 days prior to CPC.
        3.4.4. Confirm CPC working group chairmen NLT 30 days prior to CPC and subcommittee chair-
        men NLT 15 days prior to CPC.
        3.4.5. Coordinate and publish draft agenda in concert with 10 AF/A3T and working group chair-
        men NLT 15 days prior to CPC.
        3.4.6. Provide information on agenda, driving information, billeting and meeting room location to
        attendees prior to CPC by e-mail, message or posted on the 10 AF CPC website.
        3.4.7. Collect attendee information prior to and during the CPC to create an attendance list for use
        in the minutes.
        3.4.8. Provide a slide format to all chairmen for working group outbrief reports.
        3.4.9. Collect minute’s reports from each working group chairman for inclusion in the overall
        CPC minutes.
        3.4.10. Within 30 days of the conclusion of the CPC prepare minutes of the CPC for the 10 AF/
        A2A3 to include all taskings and an executive summary.
        3.4.11. Distribute the CPC minutes (when approved by the 10 AF/A2A3) to all attendees, guests
        and 10 AF wing commanders by e-mail and post them on the 10 AF CPC web site.
10AFI10-101 3 FEBRUARY 2007                                                                           11


       3.4.12. Within 30 days of the conclusion of the CPC prepare for the 10 AF/A2A3T a master CPC
       tasking list extracted from the CPC minutes that includes any open tasks from previous CPCs.
       3.4.13. Within 30 days of the conclusion of the CPC prepare for the 10 AF/A2A3 an executive
       outbriefing from the CPC minutes to be presented to the 10 AF/CC.
       3.4.14. Prepare and collect critique forms from CPC attendees and consolidate suggested changes
       for the next CPC.
   3.5. Broad Area Working Group Chairmen.
       3.5.1. Coordinate meeting agenda with CPC project officer NLT 15 days prior to CPC.
       3.5.2. Confirm meeting room and equipment requirements with CPC project officer NLT 15 days
       prior to CPC.
       3.5.3. Provide CPC project officer with outbrief slides and taskers IAW required format prior to
       Mission Area Working Group meetings.
       3.5.4. Provide the CPC project officer with working group minutes NLT 15 days after the CPC.
   3.6. Mission Area Working Group Chairmen.
       3.6.1. Coordinate meeting agenda with CPC project officer NLT 15 days prior to CPC.
       3.6.2. Confirm meeting room and equipment requirements with CPC project officer NLT 15 days
       prior to CPC.
       3.6.3. Coordinate subcommittee chairmen assignments with 10 AF/A2A3 and CPC project officer
       NLT 15 days prior to CPC.
       3.6.4. Provide CPC project officer with outbrief slides and taskers IAW required format prior to
       the CPC general session outbriefing.
       3.6.5. Provide the CPC project officer with working group minutes NLT 15 days after the CPC.

4. Meeting Schedule. CPC meetings will normally be held annually in August. The 10 AF/A2A3 will set
the meeting date. Factors to be considered will be the date of the ANG/AFRC Weapons and Tactics Con-
ference, MAJCOM TRBs and the AFRC requirements planning timeline in AFRCI 10-601. The CPC
should be scheduled with enough lead-time to generate the requirements documents and deliver them to
AFRC/A5R by their deadline. This timing may force an earlier TIP/TRB process. To facilitate travel, the
CPC should be scheduled for a Tuesday through Thursday with the following breakdown:
   4.1. The CPC will begin on Tuesday morning with opening remarks from the 10AF/A3. The morning
   session will consist of informational and administrative briefings to include: conference agenda, unit
   capabilities, Rules of Engagement (ROE), local area security, Computer Security (COMSEC) and
   Operations Security (OPSEC) and any other briefings or issues determined by the 10AF/A3 Staff to
   be benefit to the conferees.
   4.2. The Training and Weapons and Tactics Working Groups will meet on Tuesday morning, prior to
   the general session, in preparation for the following day’s breakout meetings. They should hold sepa-
   rate meetings during the same time frame encompassing most of the first morning.
   4.3. A CPC general session will be held Wednesday morning prior to the start of the Mission Area
   Working Groups. Members of the USAF/REOR, AFRC/A5R, and AATC staffs will be invited as
12                                                                    10AFI10-101 3 FEBRUARY 2007


     briefers and advisers. They will brief the members of all working groups on the status of all studies
     and analysis, engineering, and acquisition programs by mission area. The members will be briefed on
     the most current three-year’s Reserve Acquisition Priority List (RAPL). The briefings should be
     scheduled prior to breaking up for the individual working groups. The members will take this infor-
     mation to their respective working groups so they may make informed project validation and priority
     decisions. The agenda will protect a minimum of a four-hour block for the working groups.
     4.4. Thursday will be dedicated to finishing working group agendas and a formal outbrief by each
     working group chairman. The outbrief will be scheduled as a general session and may be chaired by
     the 10 AF/CC. This session should be scheduled to end by noon to facilitate travel. The 10 AF/A2A3
     Requirement Consolidation Working Group will meet after the general session is adjourned.
     4.5. The 10 AF/A2A3 Requirement Consolidation Working Group will generate all requirements to
     be forwarded to AFRC/A5R. Immediately following the conclusion of the working group, representa-
     tives for each of the Mission Design Series (MDS) generating new requirements must remain at 10 AF
     until such time as all of the requirements documents have been completed.

5. Planning Cycle. The planning cycle is intended to be a general checklist for CPC execution and is not
all-inclusive. The planning cycle for each new CPC begins at the end of the previous one with a review of
critiques. That means the CPC and this instruction will evolve and change.
     5.1. Last Day of CPC: Collect critique forms and compile suggestions for changes.
     5.2. Within 30 days: Prepare and distribute minutes, tasking list and executive outbrief.
     5.3. Quarterly: Review CPC Tasking List for progress and update suspense’s.
     5.4. Six months prior: Select CPC project officer and begin date selection process.
     5.5. 60 days prior: Set and announce CPC dates; begin coordination for facilities and billeting; begin
     draft agenda.
     5.6. 30 days prior: Confirm working group chairmen; begin work group agendas.
     5.7. 15 Days prior: Send out draft agenda; confirm meeting rooms, audio-visual equipment and billet-
     ing.



                                                RICHARD C. COLLINS, Maj Gen, USAFR
                                                Commander
10AFI10-101 3 FEBRUARY 2007                                                             13


                                         Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFRC MD 1118, Headquarters Fourth, Tenth, and Twenty-Second Air Forces, 15 April 1999
AFRCI 10-601, Mission Needs and Operational Requirements, 1 March 1999
AFI 11-202V1, Aircrew Training, 23 November 2005
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, 31 August 1994
AFI 11-2A/OA-10 Volume 1, A/OA-10--Aircrew Training, 31 August 2006
AFI 11-2A/OA-10 Volume 3, A/OA-10--Operations Procedures, 11 February 2002
AFI 11-2B-52 Volume 1, B-52--Aircrew Training, 21 November 2006
AFI 11-2B-52 Volume 3, B-52--Operations Procedures, 22 June 2005
AFI 11-2F-16 Volume 1, F-16--Aircrew Training, 8 August 2002
AFI 11-2F-16 Volume 3, F-16--Operations Procedures, 30 September 2005

Abbreviations and Acronyms
10 AF—10th Air Force
AATC—Air National Guard Air Reserve Test Center
ACC—Air Combat Command
AEF—Air Expeditionary Force
AF IMT—Air Force Information Management Tool
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRC MD—Air Force Reserve Command Mission Directive
AFRCI—Air Force Reserve Command Instruction
ANG—Air National Guard
AOC—Air Operations Center
ARMS—Aviation Resource Management System
AWACS—Airborne Warning and Control System
CC—commander
COMSEC—Computer Security
CPC—Combat Planning Council
14                                               10AFI10-101 3 FEBRUARY 2007


HQ—headquarters
IAW—in accordance with
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDS—Mission Design Series
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NCO—noncommissioned officers
NGREA—National Guard/Reserve Equipment Account
NLT—not later than
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OPSEC—Operations Security
RAP—Ready Aircrew Program
RAPL—Reserve Acquisition Priority List
RDS—Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
ROE—Rules of Engagement
RROC—Reserve Requirements Oversight Council
RTRB—Realistic Training Review Board
SOF—Special Operations Forces
SORTS—Status of Resources and Training System
TDY—temporary duty
TIP—Tactics Improvement Proposals
TRB—Tactics Review Board
USAF—United States Air Force
UAS—Unmanned Aerial Systems
