BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                             11TH WING INSTRUCTION 10-3
HEADQUARTERS, 11TH WING                                                                 19 MARCH 2001

                                                                                               Operations

                                                               INFORMATION MANAGEMENT FOR
                                                                    CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.

OPR: 11 CS/CCI (CMSgt Michael A. Dixon)                                          Certified by: 11 WG/SC
                                                                             (Lt Col Gregory B. Edwards)
                                                                                                  Pages: 3
                                                                                           Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and AFI 36-2110, Assignments. It
explains the eligibility and selection criteria used for tasking Information Managers to support contin-
gency operations. It applies to enlisted Information Managers assigned to Bolling AFB and surrounding
areas. Individuals assigned to tenant units on Bolling AFB and surrounding areas may volunteer for task-
ing providing they have approval from their supervisors. This instruction directs collecting and or mainte-
nance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974. The authority to collect and or maintain the
records prescribed in this instruction is Title 10, U.S.C., 8013.



1. PURPOSE : This instruction helps all affected personnel to understand the procedures for selecting
Information Managers (3A0X1) for contingency temporary duty (TDY) taskings.

2. SELECTION PROCESS :
   2.1. Eligibility: All Information Managers are eligible to deploy, unless covered by specific non-eli-
   gibility standards.
   2.2. Non-Eligibility:
       2.2.1. Minimum time-on-station (TOS) for personnel deploying is: Assigned in the Continental
       United States (CONUS) – 45 days, assigned in the CONUS and was assigned from a short tour or
       CONUS isolation station – 60 days. These periods allow military members and their families who
       have made a recent Permanent Change of Station (PCS) move to stabilize their personal affairs
       and also satisfy essential post-PCS military and family requirements. Personnel with less than the
       minimum (TOS) are not available for deployment unless waived by the unit commander. Com-
       manders may waive these deployment selection minimums; however, all other options must be
       reviewed before committing newly assigned personnel.
2                                                                      11THWINGI10-3 19 March 2001


       2.2.2. Members who have less than 30 calendar days before Date of Separation (DOS) or PCS are
       not eligible. Unit commanders may waive this restriction provided deployment will not interfere
       with DOS or PCS processing and departure dates (DOS must not expire during TDY). Before
       approving a waiver, commanders must review all other available avenues in accordance with AFI
       36-2110. If the TDY completion date is more than 30 calendar days before DOS or PCS, the mem-
       ber is available for deployment.
       2.2.3. Personnel coded in a non-deployment status based on a medical profile.
       2.2.4. Personnel projected or selected as a primary to attend a Professional Military Education
       course school during the duration of deployment.
       2.2.5. Military personnel who have adopted children are not available for deployment until four
       months after the effective date of adoption. For military couples, only one member is exempted.

3. SELECTION CRITERIA :
    3.1. Eligible personnel are placed in a database. The database consists of name, rank, skill-level,
    units, Date Assigned Station (DAS), security clearance, short tour return date, dates of last deploy-
    ment, and contingency supported. The database is sorted by DAS, date of last deployment, and then
    by short tour return date. If a member has not completed a short tour, the date entered active duty is
    used, resulting in a temporary duty (TDY) order of eligibility.
    3.2. A primary and alternate will be selected from the eligibility list and the units will be notified. 11
    CS/CCI will request information on each individual and a tasking letter can be generated.
    3.3. 11 CS/CCI will forward the tasking letter to 11 MSS/MPF (Personnel Readiness Unit (PRU)).
    Note: The alternate must be ready to depart on short notice if the primary is unable to fulfill the
    obligation.
       3.3.1. Once individuals depart on a tasking or deployment, their names falls to the end of the list.
       Alternates maintain their position. Personnel selected for short TDYs (less than 45 days) may be
       tasked again before those who have credit for a 90 or 120-day TDY, however, they will not be
       tasked before those who do not have a credit.
       3.3.2. Personnel may volunteer for deployments by submitting a letter through their supervisor
       and Commander or Agency Chief to 11 CS/CCI. Include the following in the letter must have the
       individual’s name, rank, SSAN, AFSC, identification (ID), Unit Line Number (ULN), Date
       Required In-place (DRI) date, tour length, and be signed by the squadron commander or designed
       representative. 11 CS/CCI will forward to 11 MSS/MPF and 11 WG/DP for processing. If, for any
       reason, the letter individuals are unable to deploy, a letter must be submitted to 11 CS/CCI as soon
       as possible. However, if 11th Wing is selected to fill a volunteer tasking and member subsequently
       can’t deploy, the Wing is still responsible for filling that volunteer tasking.

4. RECLAMA REQUESTS : RECLAMAs must be fully justified. Letters must be signed by the squad-
ron and group commanders and forwarded to 11 CS/CCI. The Functional Manager will forward the letter
to 11 WG/CV for approval/disapproval.

5. DATA COLLECTION AND DOCUMENTATION : IAW AFI 33-101, Communications and Infor-
mation Management Guidance Responsibilities, personnel supporting IM deployments must complete an
AF Form 209, Information Management Operations After Action Report, and forward it to 11 CS/CCI
11THWINGI10-3 19 March 2001                                                                              3


NLT 30 days after completion of deployment. Information will be used to analyze discrepancies, suggest
corrective actions, share lessons-learned, and send analysis and associated data to higher headquarters for
evaluation.



                                                         JAMES P. HUNT, Colonel, USAF
                                                         Commander
