BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    11TH WING MISSION DIRECTIVE 13-1
HEADQUARTERS, 11TH WING                                                                  23 APRIL 2003



                                                    HEADQUARTERS 11TH OPERATIONS GROUP




NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 11 WG/XPMR (Ms Linda Russell)                    Certified by: HQ 11 WG/XP (Ms Debbie Turner)
Supersedes 11 WGMD 13-1, 1 Sep 97                                                          Pages: 3
                                                                                    Distribution: F




1. Mission. The Headquarters 11th Operations Group, via the USAF Chaplaincy at Arlington National
Cemetery (ANC), USAF Band, and USAF Honor Guard, elevates troop morale; executes military funer-
als; and creates ceremonial, recruitment, and community relations effects worldwide through expedition-
ary ceremonial and musical excellence. The Headquarters 11th Operations Group directly supports
national, Department of Defense, Air Force, and 11th Wing leaders.

2. Command. The Headquarters 11th Operations Group Commander is responsible to the Commander,
Headquarters 11th Wing, HQ 11 WG/CC.

3. Responsibilities.
   3.1. The Headquarters 11th Operations Group Commander:
       3.1.1. Organizes and maintains operational control of the ANC Chapliancy, USAF Band, and
       USAF Honor Guard.
       3.1.2. Directs the ANC Chapliancy, USAF Band, and USAF Honor Guard missions of
       - troop morale
       - ceremonies and funerals
       - recruitment
       - community relations
       3.1.3. Oversees Air Force funerals and associated chaplain ministry programs at ANC.
       3.1.4. Coordinates all Air Force issues related to presidential state funeral planning on behalf of
       the Commander, 11th Wing. Per SecAF message 0001Z Mar 95, the Commander, 11th Wing is
       assigned as the office of primary responsibility for presidential state funeral planning.
2                                                                         11WGMD13-1 23 APRIL 2003


    3.2. The ANC Chaplaincy
       3.2.1. Provides a comprehensive funeral ministry for Air Force members and their dependents
       who are to be buried at Arlington National Cemetery.
       3.2.2. Conducts appropriate funeral and committal service as requested by the next of kin.
       3.2.3. Participates in military honors, as provided by the USAF Honor Guard.
       3.2.4. Provides special ministry to family members of the deceased.
    3.3. The USAF Band Commander:
       3.3.1. Operates the United States Air Force Band.
       3.3.2. Promotes the Air Force mission by providing world-class musical products and services in
       support of troop morale, ceremonies and funerals, protocol entertainment, recruiting, community
       relations, and the preservation of our national heritage.
       3.3.3. Organizes, trains, and equips units to fill flexible and deployable Unit Type Code (UTC)
       packages to create musical and entertainment effects that boost troop morale.
       3.3.4. Assists officials in greeting and entertaining visiting foreign dignitaries.
       3.3.5. Ensures proper musical honors for funerals at ANC.
       3.3.6. Performs national and international tours in support of United States, Department of
       Defense and HQ USAF objectives.
       3.3.7. Performs concert tours in support of Air Force and Department of Defense community rela-
       tions programs.
       3.3.8. Provides musical honors to the flag, nation, military, and civilian dignitaries at local events.
       3.3.9. Provides music in support of USAF Recruiting Service activities, patriotic and public ser-
       vice broadcasts, and provides audiovisual products for the Armed Forces Radio and Television
       Service.
       3.3.10. Supports educational initiatives through musical performance for the Education Outreach
       Program; educational organizations such as the Music Educators National Conference; combined
       education/industry programs such as the Midwest International Band and Orchestra Conference;
       and through sponsorship of the Colonel George S. Howard Young Artist Competition.
       3.3.11. Supports music industry advances for new wind literature through the Colonel Arnald D.
       Gabriel Award for new symphonic band compositions and the Sammy Nestico Award for new jazz
       compositions.
    3.4. The USAF Honor Guard Commander:
       3.4.1. Operates the United States Air Force Honor Guard and the United States Air Force Honor
       Guard Technical Training School.
       3.4.2. Ensures the availability of trained and equipped ceremonial personnel to meet routine and
       special ceremonial commitments. This includes funerals, Armed Forces arrivals and departures in
       the National Capital Region, wreath laying ceremonies, parades, and other approved ceremonial
       functions at CONUS and overseas locations.
11WGMD13-1 23 APRIL 2003                                                                                  3


       3.4.3. Represents the United States Government at significant national and international events.
       3.4.4. Promotes esprit de corps through support of ceremonies, troop morale, welfare, and enter-
       tainment events.

4. Direct Communications. The Headquarters 11th Operations Group is authorized to communicate
directly with MAJCOMs, other activities of the Air Force, federal and DoD agencies, bases, and units on
matters which pertains to the Group area of responsibility.



                                                   WILLIAM A. CHAMBERS, Colonel, USAF
                                                   Commander
