BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                            12TH FLYING TRAINING
12TH FLYING TRAINING WING                                               INSTRUCTION 21-102

                                                                                 9 MARCH 2012

                                                                                    Maintenance

                                                         TOOL CONTROL AND EQUIPMENT
                                                                        MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 12 FTW/MX                                                         Certified by: 12 FTW/MX
                                                                               (Mr. Robert West)
Supersedes:    Randolph Air Force Base                                                   Pages: 3
               Instruction 21-102,
               5 November 2008


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space
Maintenance, 25 Feb 2003 and extends the guidance in AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment
Maintenance Management, 26 Jul 10 for tool control and equipment management. These
guidelines are applicable to all base personnel (military, civilian, and contractors) that perform
maintenance on the flightline and aircraft/aerospace equipment. Group Commanders will ensure
personnel are familiar with these procedures to minimize potential foreign object damage (FOD)
to aircraft and support equipment. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route the AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the AF Records Disposition Schedule (AF RDS)
located at: https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. The major change
to this publication is the naming convention change from "RANDOLPHAFBI" to "12FTWI"due
to Joint Basing. Additionally this revision includes a change of the OPR and certifier. AFI 21-
101 has changed from Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management to Aircraft and
Equipment Maintenance Management. The Quality Assurance Division has changed from MXQ
to MXO.
 2                                                             12FTWI21-102 9 MARCH 2012


1. Responsibilities:
     1.1. Group/Squadron Commanders will:
        1.1.1. Document local procedures (as applicable) defining tool security, control, and
        accountability for work centers that perform maintenance in flightline areas. In addition,
        procedures will include control of personal protective equipment (e.g., ear protectors,
        reflective belts, headsets) that may be issued from the work center.
        1.1.2. Ensure tools that are subject to be mobilized during a unit deployment are marked
        with a worldwide identifier (WWID) for rapid identification and reporting in the event
        they become lost or missing. Note: Refer to AFI 21-101 for guidelines in marking the
        WWID.
        1.1.3. Ensure a second party or on-duty supervisory inspection of a dispatch consolidated
        tool kit (CTK) that is checked in/out of a workcenter. The same individual that signs out
        a CTK cannot sign it back in.
     1.2. Personnel will:
        1.2.1. Inventory tools prior to and after each maintenance task performed on the
        flightline.
        1.2.2. Immediately contact the Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) at 652-4428 and
        flightline expediter when a tool or item is suspected to be lost or missing.
        1.2.3. When a tool or item is suspected lost on an aircraft or equipment, coordinate with
        the flightline expediter to place a Red X in the aircraft/equipment forms with a
        description of the tool and last known specific location.
        1.2.4. Conduct a thorough search for the lost tool or item. After the search is
        accomplished and the tool or item is not found, the responsible individual will coordinate
        with the expediter to clear the aircraft/equipment forms.
        1.2.5. Initiate a lost tool report (AETC Form 138, Lost Tool or Item Investigation
        Record). Upon completion, the lost tool report will be submitted to 12 FTW/MXQ,
        Quality Assurance Division, for tracking and trend analysis.




                                             RICHARD M. MURPHY, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
12FTWI21-102 9 MARCH 2012                                                                 3


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 21-101, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 Jul 2010
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009
AETC Form 138, Lost Tool or Item Investigation Record, 25 Jun 2007

Abbreviations and Acronyms
FOD—-Foreign Object Damage
WWID—-World Wide Identifier
MOC—-Maintenance Operations Center

Terms
Consolidated Tool Kit (CTK)—-A controlled area or a container used to store tools or
equipment to maintain positive control, security, and ease of inventory. A CTK may be in the
form of a toolbox, a shadow board, shelves, system of drawers (Stanley Vidmar, Lista, etc.),
cabinets, or similar area/container.
Tool Storage Facility/Tool Room—A controlled area within a work center designated
for storage and issue of tools and equipment.
Individual Issued Tools/Equipment-—Tools or equipment issued for use as an individual item
to complete a specific task.
Dispatch CTK—-A CTK issued from a tool storage facility or tool room to perform routine
maintenance tasks. Note: FOD pouches will be attached to all dispatch CTK’s.
Local Manufactured Tools and Equipment—-Tools or equipment designed and developed to
perform a specific maintenance task on aircraft, support equipment, or system components.
