BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         12TH FLYING TRAINING INSTRUCTION
12TH FLYING TRAINING WING                                                    21-103

                                                                                12 APRIL 2012

                                                                                   Maintenance

                                                     CRASHED, DAMAGED, OR DISABLED
                                                         AIRCRAFT RECOVERY (CDDAR)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading..

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 12 FTW/MX                                                        Certified by: 12 FTW/MX
                                                                              (Mr. Robert West)
Supersedes:   Randolph Air Force Base                                                   Pages: 6
              Instruction 21-103, 5
              November 2008


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space
Maintenance, 25 Feb 2003 and extends the guidance in AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment
Maintenance Management, 26 Jul 10 for the Crashed, Damaged, or Disabled Aircraft Recovery
(CDDAR) Program. It is applicable to all base agencies (military, civilian, and contractors) that
have specific responsibilities to support CDDAR recovery efforts. Group Commanders will
ensure all personnel are familiar with these procedures and take appropriate action when notified
of an aircraft mishap. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route the AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. . Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the AF Records Disposition Schedule (AF RDS) located at:
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. The major change
to this publication is the naming convention change from "RANDOLPHAFBI" to "12FTWI" due
to Joint Basing. Additionally this revision includes a change of the OPR and certifier. AFI 21-
101 has changed from Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management to Aircraft and
Equipment Maintenance Management. Plus the addition of geographically separated unit
12FTW/MX-OL Pensacola, FL requirements.
 2                                                                12FTWI21-103 12 APRIL 2012


1. Crashed, Damaged, Disabled, Aircraft Recovery (CDDAR) Responsibilities
     1.1. The Randolph Control Tower will:
        1.1.1. Activate the primary crash net upon notification of an aircraft mishap.
        1.1.2. After consultation with the Supervisor of Flying, consider advising taxiing and
        airborne aircraft concerning the mishap and instructing aircraft to divert or hold position
        as required.
     1.2. The Command Post will:
        1.2.1. Notify the Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) of aircraft type and
        approximate location.
        1.2.2. Support for CDDAR after normal duty hours will be coordinated by the Director
        of Maintenance or Deputy Director of Maintenance after notification from the Command
        Post. When notified, the Director of maintenance or the Deputy Director will notify the
        Aircraft Maintenance Division Chief and/or Branch Chief who will activate the CDDAR
        emergency recall roster. Upon arrival, the CDDAR team will assemble at Hangar 5 for a
        briefing and await further instructions.
        1.2.3. Coordinate with the Incident Commander (IC) to activate the Emergency
        Operations Center (EOC) and notify key personnel.
     1.3. Airfield Management Operations will:
        1.3.1. Activate the secondary crash net upon notification of a mishap.
2. CDDAR Equipment
     2.1. 12 FTW MX maintains the crash recovery trailers containing the following equipment:
        2.1.1. T-1A, T-6A, and T-38C sling assemblies.
        2.1.2. T-1A, T-6A, and T-38C jacks, pads, and bolts.
        2.1.3. Tie down chains, load binders.
        2.1.4. Pick, ax, hoe, rope, shovel, pry bar, and tethering ropes.
        2.1.5. Air lifting bags
        2.1.6. Fuel, hydraulic, and oil sample kits.
     2.2. The 12 FTW Aircraft Maintenance Division provides a qualified crane operator.
        2.2.1. 15-ton crane.
     2.3. The Base Transportation will:
        2.3.1. Provide a 40-ft trailer and driver to support CDDAR operations.
        2.3.2. Provide an operator and the All-Terrain Forklift, if required.
        2.3.3. Coordinate with off-base agencies for additional equipment for removal of the
        aircraft from crash site when required. When base transportation cannot support heavy
        equipment requirements such as cranes and/or semi tractors and trailers, units must
12FTWI21-103 12 APRIL 2012                                                                  3


     establish lease agreement(s) with local suppliers. IAW lease procedures established in
     AFI 24-302
3. CDDAR Program Requirements
  3.1. The Incident Commander will:
     3.1.1. If the aircraft mishap is located off-station the IC will determine the designated
     assembly area and coordinate required recovery operations and required recovery team
     support (Base Detail).
     3.1.2. Coordinate with the Base Bio-Environmental Engineering (BEE) office to provide
     a briefing on all known hazards and personal protective equipment (PPE) requirements
     before allowing them access to the site. ICs must ensure personnel are properly trained
     and equipped to enter any site where hazardous materials (including blood-borne
     pathogens) pose a threat to their safety.
     3.1.3. Determine equipment, tools, vehicles and other supplies/consumables required for
     CDDAR operations.
  3.2. The 12 FTW/MX will:
     3.2.1. Appoint a CDDAR Team Chief and personnel certified for CDDAR operations
     (e.g., team chiefs, crane operators, team members). All CDDAR members will be tracked
     on CAMS/IMDS using specific course codes.
     3.2.2. When required, 12 FTW/MX will assist in the recovery of transient aircraft the
     same MDS as assigned wing aircraft.        Situations that warrant assistance will be
     coordinated between the Contract Project Manager and MOC.
     3.2.3. Host/Tenant Base CDDAR Responsibilities.    The 12th Aircraft Maintenance
     Directorate based at Randolph A.F.B., TX has overall responsibility for recovery of
     host/tenant crashed/disabled aircraft.
  3.3. The CDDAR Team Chief will:
     3.3.1. Coordinate with Maintenance Training Flight to develop course control documents
     and/or lesson plans for CDDAR training.
     3.3.2. Ensure CDDAR procedures are coordinated with the Fire Department, Safety, CE
     Readiness, Security Forces, Bio-Environmental, and Airfield Manager.
     3.3.3. Maintain a list of tools and equipment required for CDDAR support. Inform
     the12th FTW/MX in writing of equipment shortages or other serviceability issues that
     affect recovery operations.
     3.3.4. Ensure sufficient personnel are trained for each assigned aircraft MDS to support
     CDDAR operations. Specific tasks and qualifications will be documented in the
     individual’s training record CAMS/MIS as applicable.
     3.3.5. Ensure CDDAR team members receive initial training comprised of both
     academic and hands-on recovery exercises.
     3.3.6. Conduct/participate in annual training exercises for each assigned MDS.
     Coordinate with the maintenance Quality Assurance (QA) to evaluate CDDAR exercises.
 4                                                              12FTWI21-103 12 APRIL 2012


        3.3.7. The CDDAR team will assist in obtaining aircraft fluid samples when requested.
        The CDDAR Team Chief is in charge of the actual lifting operation.
     3.4. The MOC will:
        3.4.1. Upon notification, MOC will initiate the emergency action checklist.
        3.4.2. Inform the CDDAR Team, consisting of a Team Chief, a crane operator, a special
        vehicle driver, Egress, and Survival personnel and enough personnel to accomplish the
        recovery safely, will assemble at Hangar 5 with the needed support equipment and await
        instructions from the On-Scene Commander.
        3.4.3. Provide radios and vehicles to support maintenance CDDAR representative(s).
        3.4.4. Coordinate with maintenance agencies to ensure oxygen, hydraulic, fuel, and oil
        samples are taken. Ensure support equipment used to service the aircraft is impounded
        pending investigation.
        3.4.5. Instruct applicable work centers to isolate and secure all aircraft maintenance
        records. Notify maintenance Data Management to log out the IMDS/CAMS database for
        aircraft involved. Records will be collected by maintenance QA and provided to the Wing
        Flight Safety Office upon request.
        3.4.6. For aircraft not assigned to Randolph AFB, notify the owning base/organization of
        the mishap. Coordinate with the owning organization and local CDDAR Team Chief to
        determine support requirements for aircraft of different MDS than assigned wing aircraft.
3.5. Transient Aircraft Services will:
        3.5.1. Maintain equipment (e.g., tow bars, tow vehicles) for unlike aircraft and may be
        requested to assist with the towing.
     3.6. Security Forces will:
        3.6.1. Respond and establish a disaster cordon based on the recommendation of the
        senior fire official, who will initially determine the size of the cordon. Security Forces
        will keep the site clear of nonessential personnel.
     3.7. Base Bio-Environmental Engineering (BEE) will:
        3.7.1. Determine PPE required to perform recovery of an aircraft containing
        composite/hazardous materials as established by technical data.
4. Geographically Separated Units:
     4.1. 12FTW/MX-OL Pensacola, FL
        4.1.1. Per Support Agreement N00204-20100419-0001, crash and rescue services are
        provided by NAS Pensacola. The Maintenance Directorate at NAS Pensacola will
        maintain liaison with NAS Pensacola Air Operations, for the purpose of providing the
        required support as a tenant unit as delineated by AFI 21-101, paragraph 14.10.
        4.1.2. The maintenance directorate at NAS Pensacola will maintain a cadre of
        maintenance personnel who have received familiarization training sufficient to meet
        responsibilities as a tenant unit with regard to CDDAR.
12FTWI21-103 12 APRIL 2012                                                              5


     4.1.3. CDDAR Equipment: Aircraft peculiar equipment, such as aircraft slings, are
     provided and maintain by the COMBS contractor and will be provided to the
     recovery/salvage activity when required. The maintenance directorate at NAS Pensacola
     is not required to maintain or provide any other CDDAR equipment.




                                        RICHARD M. MURPHY, Colonel, USAF
                                        Commander
 6                                                           12FTWI21-103 12 APRIL 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 21-101, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 Jul 2010
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
BEE—Bio-Environmental Engineering
CDDAR—Crashed Damaged or Disabled Aircraft Recovery
EOC—Emergency Operations Center
IC—Incident Commander
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment

Terms
Accident Scene—: The cordoned area surrounding an accident site from which all nonessential
personnel and resources are evacuated and prohibited.
Accident Site—: The area surrounding the impact point in which hazards to personnel
(wreckage, fire, or damage) are readily identifiable.
Cordon—: A physical barrier surrounding the accident scene where controls are established to
preclude unauthorized entry.
Disabled Aircraft:—An aircraft that has been rendered immobile that will require
assistance to be moved.
Emergency Operations Center (EOC)—: The location where base support agencies convene to
determine recovery efforts to support a major accident and establish command and control under
the direction of the IC.
Ground Emergency:—A malfunction or accident on the ground that requires immediate
assistance.
Incident Commander (IC) :— The person designated to coordinate the rescue and recovery
efforts at the crash site. This individual is the personal representative of the installation
commander and controls all base agencies responding to an accident scene.
In Flight Emergency (IFE):—An in-flight malfunction or problem which makes further flight
uncertain or pr esents a clear and present danger to the aircrew or aircraft.
Major Accident—: An accident involving Department of Defense materiel of such a magnitude
to warrant response by the base disaster response force.
