BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                           12TH FLYING TRAINING
12TH FLYING TRAINING WING                                              INSTRUCTION 21-104

                                                                                8 MARCH 2012

                                                                                   Maintenance

                                               FOREIGN OBJECT DAMAGE PREVENTION
                                                  AND DROPPED OBJECT PREVENTION

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 12 FTW/MX                                                        Certified by: 12 FTW/MX
                                                                              (Mr. Robert West)
Supersedes:   Randolph Air Force Base                                                   Pages: 6
              Instruction 21-104,
              5 November 2008


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space
Maintenance, 25 Feb 2003 and extends the guidance in AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment
Maintenance Management, 26 Jul 10. It outlines specific responsibilities for the implementation
of the 12th Flying Training Wing’s Foreign Object Damage (FOD) Prevention and Dropped
Object Prevention (DOP) Programs. It is applicable to all base agencies (military, civilian, and
contractors) that have personnel working in, around, or traveling through flightline designated
areas. Group Commanders/Squadron Commanders will ensure all personnel are familiar with
these procedures to minimize potential FOD to aircraft and support equipment. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
the AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the      AF      Records      Disposition     Schedule      (AF       RDS)        located     at:
https://www.my.af.mil/afrms/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. The major change
to this publication is the naming convention change from "RANDOLPHAFBI" to "12FTWI"due
to Joint Basing. Additionally this revision includes a change of the OPR and certifier. AFI 21-
101 has changed from Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management to Aircraft and
 2                                                            12FTWI21-104 8 MARCH 2012


Equipment Maintenance Management. The Quality Assurance Division has changed from MXQ
to MXO. Any reference to the T-43 aircraft has been removed from this instruction.
1. Responsibilities:
     1.1. Group/Squadron Commanders will:
        1.1.1. Ensure all personnel working in or traveling through flightline areas receive a
        FOD
            1.1.1.1. As a minimum the briefing should include: location of designated flightline
            entry control points (ECP), FO tire checks before entering the ECP, procedures for
            reporting actual or potential FO, and vehicle operations around parked and taxiing
            aircraft.
        1.1.2. Designate personnel as applicable that are responsible for group/squadron FOD
        prevention and forward a copy of the appointment letter to the Wing FOD Monitor, 12
        FTW/MXO.
            1.1.2.1. Units requiring FOD prevention monitors include T-1, T-6, and T-38 Flying
            Training Squadrons, Aircraft Maintenance Divisions, Logistics Readiness Division,
            Security Forces Squadron, Civil Engineer and Contractors working in or around
            flightline areas. Others may be tasked as deemed necessary by the Wing/CV or FOD
            Program Monitor.
     1.2. The 12th Flying Training Wing Maintenance Directorate (12 FTW/MX) and 12th
     Operations Group (12 OG) will monitor FOD prevention practices and procedures incidental
     to their respective daily flying operations.
     1.3. The 12th Civil Engineering Squadron will ensure airfield sweepers and related
     equipment are adequately maintained to support cleanup of aircraft parking, taxiway, and
     runway areas.
        1.3.1. Sweeper/equipment status and condition will be briefed at scheduled FOD
        prevention meetings.
     1.4. The Wing Airfield Manager will:
        1.4.1. Routinely assess the overall condition of aircraft parking areas, runways, and
        taxiways. Appropriate action will be taken to correct discrepancies when noted.
            1.4.1.1. The condition of the airfield will be briefed at scheduled FOD meetings to
            include any new or on-going construction projects that may impact safe operation of
            aircraft.
        1.4.2. Ensure aircraft parking, runway, taxiways and hangar aprons are swept on a
        regular basis to minimize FOD potential.
     1.5. The 12 FTW/MX will:
        1.5.1. Comply with additional FOD prevention procedures as directed in AFI 21-101,
        Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, and local Maintenance Operating
        Instructions (MOI).
12FTWI21-104 8 MARCH 2012                                                                      3


   1.6. Vehicle Control Officers will:
      1.6.1. Ensure personnel have received the appropriate training prior to issuing flightline
      driving permits.
2. FOD Prevention Meetings:
   2.1. FOD Prevention Meetings will be conducted quarterly and chaired by the 12 FTW/CV
   or12 FTW/MX Director in the 12 FTW/CV’s absence.
      2.1.1. Minimum attendees/representatives for the meetings will include: Group
      Commanders, Wing Safety, Civil Engineer, Airfield Manager, Wing FOD Monitor,
      Aircraft Maintenance Divisions, and Security Forces. The 12 FTW/CV may designate
      additional attendees as needed.
      2.1.2. Recommended agenda items discussed during the meeting include:
      mechanical/vacuum sweeper status, identification of potential FOD sources, lost
      tools/items, dropped objects, cockpit FOD incidents, airfield condition, reportable FOD
      incidents, and new initiatives/actions to minimize FOD.
      2.1.3. The meeting may also be used as a forum to recognize personnel that have made
      significant contributions to the FOD prevention program.
   2.2. A monthly FOD meeting will be initiated when FOD incidents exceed the MAJCOM
   established standard. The focus of these meetings will be to discuss negative trends and to
   develop appropriate action plans to resolve them.
3. FOD Prevention Procedures:
   3.1. Special attention will be given to small items of debris (i.e., safety wire, bolts, nuts,
   screws) during maintenance on aircraft and support equipment. Items of this nature will be
   placed in FO bags or containers.
   3.2. Metal insignia or similar uniform items will not be worn on the flightline. Some badges
   may be worn under the following conditions:
      3.2.1. Restricted area badges and base exercise evaluation team (EET) badges will be
      secured to the individual’s clothing with a subdued/cotton cord or plastic armband when
      worn in flightline areas.
   3.3. Wigs, hairpieces, metal hair fasteners, earrings, or any other jewelry that may fall off
   without notice, are not authorized on the flightline.
   3.4. During engine maintenance and operations, no items will be placed near aircraft intakes
   or on canopy sills.
   3.5. Hats/berets will not be worn within 25 feet of aircraft operating engines.
   3.6. Aircraft forms are potential FOD hazards on the flightline. They will be secured when
   subject to jet blast from a taxing aircraft and will be stored during periods of inclement
   weather such as high winds.
4                                                              12FTWI21-104 8 MARCH 2012


    3.7. Before entering the cockpit/cabin of an aircraft, personnel will ensure pockets are
    emptied and loose articles are secured. If tools are required for maintenance or flight
    operations they will be strictly controlled and accounted for before and after any work that is
    accomplished on the aircraft.
    3.8. Vehicles normally driven on the flightline will be equipped with secured and lidded FO
    containers. The containers will be stenciled with the word “FOD” in contrasting letters no
    smaller than two inches. FOD containers will be emptied when full or once a day, whichever
    comes first.
       3.8.1. Vehicle operators will perform tire FO checks prior to entering flightline entry
       control points or other accessible areas. FO removed from tires will be placed in the
       vehicle FO container.
    3.9. FOD walks are mandatory to remove FO from ramps, runways, and access roads; in
    addition vacuum sweepers will be used to the fullest extent to supplement FOD walks.
    3.10. All personnel working in flightline areas should be alert to potential FOD hazards.
    When discrepancies are noted (loose debris, rocks, deteriorated taxi/runways, etc.)
    immediately contact the Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) at 652-4428 to report the
    problem.
    3.11. Personal tools not controlled through a consolidated tool kit (CTK) are not authorized
    on the flightline, or in any maintenance area (e.g. Mini-Mag type flashlights, Leatherman
    type multi-tools, buck knives). The only exceptions are items deemed necessary for flight by
    the pilot during scheduled missions.
    3.12. Work centers directly involved in aircraft maintenance will mark and control tools for
    accountability and inventory purposes. Contact the Aircraft Maintenance Quality Assurance
    Division (12 FTW/MXO) at 652-5558 for guidance on proper marking of CTK items.
    3.13. Lost Tool/Item:
       3.13.1. Maintenance personnel will account for tools before and after each maintenance
       task. Aircrew members will account for personal items before and after each flight. If the
       aircraft is off-station, the aircrew will contact the MOC to inform them of the lost
       tool/item.
       3.13.2. The individual identifying the missing tool/item will initially search the
       immediate work area. If not found, inform the flightline expediter/production supervisor,
       MOC or Wing Command Post as applicable depending on aircraft location.
       3.13.3. Place a Red “X” in the affected aircraft forms with a description of the tool/item
       and specific last known location. Perform a thorough search for the tool/item and if still
       not found initiate a lost tool/item report using AETC IMT 138, Lost Tool or Item
       Investigation Record.
           3.13.3.1. Maintenance personnel will follow additional guidance published in AFI
           21-101 and local maintenance operating instructions (MOI).
           3.13.3.2. The search for a lost tool/item may be terminated by the 12 FTW/MX
           Director of Maintenance (DOM), Division Chief, or Production Supervisor after all
           published procedures to find the item has been exhausted. Note: Aircraft off-station
12FTWI21-104 8 MARCH 2012                                                                      5


          will be coordinated through the 12th FTW MX/Director of Maintenance and OG/CC
          to determine safety of flight prior to returning to home station.
      3.13.4. Upon completion of the lost tool/item report, submit a copy of the form AETC
      IMT 138 to 12th FTW/MXO, Quality Assurance Division, for filing purposes.
4. Dropped Object Prevention Program
   4.1. Dropped Object: A dropped object is any aircraft part, component, surface, or other item
   lost during aircrew operations, unless intentionally jettisoned from engine start to engine
   shutdown.
   4.2. Reporting: 12 FTW MXO will notify the base/wing safety office of all dropped objects.
   The initial dropped object report will be made to the MAJCOM via telephone, e-mail, or
   message. If it involves casualties, property damage, or if adverse publicity is likely, report
   IAW AFMAN 10-206, Operational Reporting.
   4.3. Transient Aircraft. The local wing DOP monitor will be responsible to investigate
   dropped objects from a transient aircraft. The wing DOP monitor will provide the home
   station DOP monitor with sufficient data to generate a report for trending and tracking
   purposes.




                                            RICHARD M. MURPHY, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
 6                                                           12FTWI21-104 8 MARCH 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 21-101, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 Jul 2010.
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CTK—- Consolidated Tool Kit
DOM—- Director of Maintenance
DOP—Dropped Object Program
ECP—- Entry control points
EET—- Exercise Evaluation Team
FO—- Foreign Object
MOC—- Maintenance Operations Center
MOI—- Maintenance Operating Instructions
12 FTW/MX—12th Maintenance Directorate
12 OG—12th Operations Group

Terms
FOD—Any damage to an aircraft, engine, aircraft system, component, tire, munitions, or support
equipment caused by a foreign object (FO) which may or may not degrade the required safety
and/or operational characteristics of the aforementioned item(s).
Aircraft Movement Area—Any designated area an aircraft can taxi/takeoff under its own
power or be towed during maintenance operations (i.e., taxiways, parking ramps, and runways).
Flightline Area—Designated aircraft parking areas, entrance points, and facilities where
maintenance is conducted and aircraft are launched and recovered.
Lost Tool and Item—Any controlled tool a maintenance technician discovers missing or
personal item an Aircrew member can’t account for after flight. Examples of lost tools or items
include: missing tools from consolidated tool kits, pencils, ear plugs etc.
