                             DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                        18TH WING (PACAF)



                                                                              18WGGM2014-36-02

                                                                                 18 November 2014



MEMORANDUM FOR ALL 18TH WING PERSONNEL

FROM: 18 WG/CC
      Unit 5141 Box 10
      APO AP 96368-5141

SUBJECT: 18th Wing Guidance Memorandum - Pass Accountability Policy

Releasability: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

        By order of the Commander, 18th Wing, this is an 18th Wing Guidance Memorandum
immediately implementing Pass Accountability Policy. It applies to all military members
assigned to the 18th Wing. Compliance with this Memorandum is mandatory. To the extent its
directions are inconsistent with other Air Force publications, the information herein prevails IAW
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.

        This Memorandum serves as a local supplement to AFI 36-3003, Military Leave Program.
It establishes the area in which Airmen can travel during a pass period without taking leave.
Airmen who plan to travel “off-Okinawa” to other parts of Japan must receive approval from their
supervisor before traveling. “Off-Okinawa” is defined as traveling outside the Okinawa
Prefecture.

        During regular and special passes, Airmen who plan to travel “off-Okinawa” may travel
throughout the country of Japan without taking leave, subject to their supervisor’s approval. For
travel on a pass “off-Okinawa,” supervisors must consider the same factors used to approve or
disapprove leave, including a determination that their absence will not endanger the wing’s ability
to meet operational mission requirements. Under these criteria, if the needs of the Air Force
dictate that an Airman’s ability to travel on a pass “off-Okinawa” should be denied, then it would
also be inappropriate to approve their travel via leave as an alternative.

        Due to the inability to return in a timely manner to meet the operational mission
requirements of the wing, Airmen may not depart the country of Japan on a regular or special
pass. Group or squadron commanders may implement more restrictive policies based on their
specific mission requirements, consistent with AFI 36-3003 and other applicable law, regulation,
or policy. All applicable law, regulation, or policy associated with the failure to return from leave
or a pass period continues to apply.

     It is suggested that all supervisors review the Risk Assessment Matrix in AFI 90-802, Risk
Management, and evaluate the risks associated with planned trips to ensure all possible ways to
reduce risks have been assessed. Supervisors are highly encouraged to emphasize personal and
professional Risk Management to assess hazards and control risks prior to travel.

       Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS).

         This Memorandum becomes void after one year has elapsed from the date of this
Memorandum, or upon release of an Air Force publication incorporating the guidance, whichever
is earlier.




                                           JAMES B. HECKER, Brigadier General, USAF
                                           Commander
