BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                18TH WING INSTRUCTION 32-9001
18TH WING
                                                                               23 AUGUST 1996
                                                                      Certified Current, 19 August 2011
                                                                                Civil Engineering

                                                             MAINTENANCE OF GROUNDS



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 18 CES/CEORH                                                       Certified by: 18 CES/CC
                                                                         (Lt Col Neil K. Kanno)
Supersedes:   18WGR91-1,                                                                 Pages: 3
              1 December 1992


This instruction implements AFPD 32-90, Real Property Management. It defines and delineates
command and organizational responsibilities for maintenance of grounds, Real Property
Management. It applies to all 18th Wing and associate units to Kadena Air Base.
Implementation of this instruction is to insure that maintenance of grounds on Kadena Air Base
is accomplished on a continual basis.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision reflects the new format procedures for Air Force publications. This revision
incorporates the requirements, information, and procedures formerly in 18 WGR 91-1 and
reorganizes the text.
1. Policy: Timely and proper maintenance of grounds is necessary for safeguarding personal
health, improving unit and base appearance, and providing a safer environment for work and
recreation.
2. Maintenance of Grounds: Maintenance includes cutting and trimming grass, edging the
grass by sidewalks, removing vegetation from cracks and joints in sidewalks and other paved
areas, caring for trees, shrubbery and flowers, and cleaning drains in streets next to assigned
areas to permit free drainage at all times.
3. Area of Responsibilities: This is an area in which a specific unit or activity is responsible
for maintenance and upkeep of the grounds. Unless otherwise made known, an area is defined as
follows. Each organization is responsible for the area surrounding its assigned buildings, to the
 2                                                            18WGI32-9001 23 AUGUST 1996


equal distance between buildings in adjacent areas and to the center line of all public roads
around the areas, or 150 feet from the building, whichever is closer.
4. Unit Policing Responsibility:
     4.1. Organizations Occupying Dormitories.             In accordance with AFI 32-6005,
     Unaccompanied Housing Management and the Dormitory Managers’ Handbook, all
     dormitory areas are the responsibility of each individual and assigned bay orderly.
     4.2. Organizations Occupying Industrial Buildings or Work Areas. These areas are the
     responsibility of each unit or organization. Units desiring contract grass cutting must submit
     AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer (CE) Work Request to CE Production Management,
     requesting area be placed on service contract. Reimbursable organizations must ensure funds
     are available before requesting ground maintenance contract. Areas actually cut by contract
     are determined by the 18th Civil Engineering Squadron (18 CES). See paragraph 5.2.
     4.3. Unaccompanied Officers Quarters and Transient Quarters. Policing of these areas are
     the responsibility of 18th Services Squadron.
     4.4. Open Messes. The areas surrounding club facilities are the responsibility of the
     respective open mess manager.
     4.5. Base Exchange (including concessions). The areas around the Okinawa Area Exchange
     (OWAX) activities are the responsibility of the exchange manager.
     4.6. Recreation Support Flight Facilities. The areas in and around these facilities are the
     responsibility of the director of each facility.
     4.7. Military Family Housing. Maintenance of grounds 80 feet around all military family
     housing, to include curbside gutters, drains, and the trimming of bushes, shrubs, and hedges,
     is the occupants responsibility. For further information refer to 18 WGP 32-6001, Okinawa
     Family Housing Brochure, paragraph 6, 20, and 21.
5. Related Procedures.
     5.1. Obtaining and Maintaining Mowing Tools. Mowers and all hand tools can be obtained
     through normal Base Supply channels. Care and use of equipment and hand tools are the
     responsibility of the user. Commanders should use contract maintenance to maintain power
     equipment.
     5.2. Contract Grass Cutting. The grass in some base areas is cut by contract as shown on a
     map located at 18 CES Contract Services section. Frequency of cutting is regulated by need
     and financial limitations. Policing of areas cut by contract is the using organizations’
     responsibility.
     5.3. Top Soil. Top soil for filling in depressions and minor erosions may be obtained by
     calling 18 CES Production Management at 634-2424 or appropriate zone. It is the unit’s
     responsibility to spread the top soil.
     5.4. Grass Seed and Fertilizer. These may be obtained through the Base Self-Help Store.
6. Minimum Acceptable Standards.
     6.1. Height of Grass. Grass around facilities shall be cut no lower than 1-1/2 inches and kept
     no higher than 3 inches.
18WGI32-9001 23 AUGUST 1996                                                                    3


  6.2. Trimming of Hedges and Bushes. Building custodians or occupants are responsible for
  maintain a maximum height of six feet for all bush or hedge. Any bush or hedge adjacent to
  a street or near any intersection will not be higher than three feet. Any hedge or bush next to
  a building must be trimmed to maintain at least four inches between the bush and wall.
  These bushes and hedges must be trimmed below windows.
  6.3. Removal of Grass or Weeds from Cracks and Joints in Pavement. Building custodians
  or occupants are responsible for removing vegetation from cracks or joints in sidewalks,
  driveways, parking spaces, roadway gutters, and doorsteps.
  6.4. Cleaning of Roadway Gutters and Storm Drains. Building custodians or occupants are
  responsible for cleaning roadway gutters around facilities. Roadway gutters will be swept at
  least weekly and policed as need to keep drains free of debris. All grates must be kept free of
  grass, leaves, and other debris to allow free flow of water. Because drainage is critical on
  Okinawa.
  6.5. Trimming of Trees. Trimming of trees to a height of 10 feet, or those branches which
  can be reached with a ladder, are the responsibility of the building custodians or occupants.
  For branches at a greater height, 18 CES is responsible for cutting and removing. Contact
  Ground Maintenance Controller at 634-2852.
  6.6. Disposal of Branches and Debris. All branches trimmed by building occupants will be
  cut into lengths not longer than four feet, contact Ground Maintenance Controller at 634-
  2852 to schedule pickup day. Branches in military family housing is collected via contract.




                                           JOHN R. BAKER, Brigadier General, USAF
                                           Commander, 18th Wing
