BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  18TH WING INSTRUCTION 21-143
18TH WING (PACAF)
                                                                          26 SEPTEMBER 2012

                                                                                    Maintenance

                                                             HANDLING, STORAGE AND
                                                         TRANSPORTATION OF IMPULSE
                                                      CARTRIDGES, PYROTECHNICS, AND
                                                                        AMMUNITION

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 18 MXG/MXL                                                        Certified by: 18 MOS/CC
                                                                         (Lt Col Bryan P. Ford)
Supersedes:    18 WGI 21-143,                                                            Pages: 5
               3 February 2004


This instruction implements AFPD 21-1, Managing Aerospace Equipment Maintenance. It
establishes local procedures for handling, storing and transporting impulse cartridges and applies
to the 18th Wing at Kadena AB. It does not apply to the Marine Wing Liaison Kadena which
follows the guidance of NAVSEA OP-5. This publication does not apply to the Air National
Guard or US Air Force Reserve. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication of 18 WGI 21-143, revises 18 WGI 21-143 dated 3 February 2004. It updates
references, changes verbiage to clarify requirements for handling, storage, and transportation of
impulse cartridges.
1. Responsibilities. Unit commanders and weapons supervisors will ensure compliance with
this wing instruction and other applicable technical data.
 2                                                        18WGI21-143 26 SEPTEMBER 2012


2. Operating Locations. All weapons personnel will accomplish procedures in this wing
instruction in approved aircraft parking areas, storage locations containing a current explosive
facility license or an explosive site plan.
3. Personnel Limits. Weapons personnel will ensure the following:
     3.1. Strictly adhere to personnel limits posted on the explosive facilities license at each
     storage location.
     3.2. Restrict the number of people riding in the vehicle when transporting munitions to the
     minimum necessary to accomplish required operations.
     3.3. STOP all explosive operations when visitors are present. Visitors are non-essential
     personnel (not associated with explosives) with limited access.
4. Explosive Limits. Weapons personnel will ensure the following:
     4.1. Ensure quantities and types of munitions stored will not exceed the limits prescribed by
     the current explosive facility license.
     4.2. The quantity of impulse cartridges, pyrotechnics, and ammunition transported will be
     kept to the minimum necessary to perform operations.
5. Training and Safety. Weapons supervisors will ensure the following:
     5.1. Only personnel trained and qualified in explosive safety procedures performs munitions
     activities.
5.2. Munitions handling operations will only be authorized in a designated explosive area.
        5.2.1. Metal containers, pyrotechnics, and ammunition will not be tumbled, dragged,
        dropped, thrown or walked on. Exercise special precautions to avoid bumping primers of
        ammunition removed from shipping containers and those loaded into magazines.
        5.2.2. Impulse cartridges, and other such electrically or mechanically initiated devices
        will be handled/transported in protective containers. Use containers designed to prevent
        item-to-item contact.
     5.3. Fire symbols are posted as required.
        5.3.1. Fire-fighting information is posted in a conspicuous location at each storage
        location.
        5.3.2. Fire extinguishers are positioned (as required by the explosive facility license) at
        each storage facility.
     5.4. Vehicles are inspected for serviceability and ensure two portable 2A:10BC rated fire
     extinguishers are available.
6. Procedures. Weapons supervisors will ensure the following:
     6.1. Key and lock control procedures meets the requirements of KADENAABI31-101,
     Security.
     6.2. Each impulse cartridge is carefully inspected for serviceability prior to removing from
     the storage facility.
18WGI21-143 26 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                                    3


   6.3. All procedures outlined in technical orders, checklists, instructions and local wing
   instructions are complied with during munitions handling activities.
   6.4. Turn in all unserviceable impulse cartridges, pyrotechnics, and ammunition IAW
   AFMAN91-201 18WGSUP_I, Explosives Safety Standards, Paragraph 2.35.1.
   6.5. Impulse cartridges from transient or TDY aircraft maybe stored at AMU/HMU licensed
   locations. Transient impulse cartridges will be clearly separated and marked to prevent
   intermixing with Kadena AB assets. Ensure authorized quantities of impulse cartridges listed
   on the explosive facility license are not exceeded. If adequate storage capability cannot be
   provided, contact 18 MUNS personnel to store transient or TDY aircraft impulse cartridges.
   When required, Weapons Standardization (WS) personnel will coordinate with AMU/HMU
   Section NCOIC, or equivalent, to gain access and store impulse cartridges for transient or
   TDY aircraft in AMU/HMU licensed locations.
7. Inventory Procedures.
   7.1. Weapons expediters will conduct a 100 percent inventory of impulse cartridges (stored
   and installed) at the end of every shift and immediately after the last flight of the day. Shift
   change inventories will be a standard task entry on the daily Specialist Dispatch Control Log
   (2430); however, the actual inventory record will be maintained and documented in a log at
   the licensed location.
   7.2. The munitions account custodian or weapons expeditor will conduct a 100 percent
   inventory and inspection of all impulse cartridges every Friday, or the last duty day of each
   week. In the 33 HMU, the munitions custodian/shift supervisor will conduct a 100 percent
   inventory of Weapons Section controlled munitions every Friday, or last duty day of each
   week.
      7.2.1. Inspect cartridges for serviceability and segregate as appropriate.
      7.2.2. Explosives in storage will be segregated according to type, lot number, and
      condition code. Different items will be stored in separate containers. Update munitions
      log with current quantities on-hand.
   7.3. The weapons expeditor will maintain documentation of the weekly inventory and
   inspection of the munitions storage facility. Inventory and inspection documentation will
   include the following information as a minimum:
      7.3.1. Type of impulse cartridges.
      7.3.2. Total quantity of impulse cartridges currently maintained. Include the location(s)
      of all impulse cartridges.
      7.3.3. Total quantity of serviceable and unserviceable impulse cartridges segregated by
      lot number and condition code.
      7.3.4. The account custodian or weapons expeditor’s signature and date of inventory and
      inspection.
8. Emergency Procedures.
   8.1. Personnel involved in munitions handling activities will be thoroughly familiar with
   emergency procedures and knowledgeable on the use of fire extinguishers.
 4                                                          18WGI21-143 26 SEPTEMBER 2012


     8.2. In the event of injury, personnel will take the following actions:
        8.2.1. Notify the Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) by the most expedient means
        possible.
        8.2.2. Administer first aid until assistance arrives.
     8.3. In the event of fire, personnel will call 911 and give location and aircraft tail number (if
     applicable), or notify the MOC who in turn will notify the fire department.
        8.3.1. Essential Personnel will take the following actions:
            8.3.1.1. The on-scene commander, or senior ranking individual, determines who are
            essential emergency personnel and what distances they shall maintain.
        8.3.2. If munitions are not engulfed in flames, immediately attempt to fight the fire to
        prevent it from spreading and engulfing munitions.
        8.3.3. Evacuate non-essential personnel as follows:
            8.3.3.1. When explosives are not involved in fire, such as dropped munitions or
            partially armed munitions, clear the area initially to a distance of 300 feet (125 feet
            for simulators and smoke producing devices). After evaluation of the situation, the
            on-scene commander may adjust the withdrawal distance for non-essential personnel.
            8.3.3.2. The on-scene authority will direct minimum withdrawal distances for type of
            explosives involved in fire.
9. Distribution. Each AMU/HMU will maintain a minimum of two copies of this wing
instruction. Weapons Section NCOIC will post a copy of this wing instruction in each licensed
location/impulse cartridge storage facility and in each weapons expediter’s continuity
book/vehicle.




                                               MATTHEW H. MOLLOY
                                               Brigadier General, USAF
                                               Commander, 18th Wing
18WGI21-143 26 SEPTEMBER 2012                                         5


                                     Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI21-101, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 July 2010
KADENAABI31-101, Security, 24 March 2008
AFMAN91-201, Explosive Safety Standard, 12 January 2011
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
