BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                                          18TH WING INSTRUCTION 31-201
18TH WING (PACAF)                                                                           5 JUNE 2006
                                                                         Certified Current 7 January 2012
                                                                                                  Security

                                                                    KADENA DISCIPLINARY ACTION
                                                                               PROGRAM (KDAP)



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 18 MSG/KDAP                                                                Certified by: 18 MSG/CD
                                                                                (Lt Col Denis P. Delaney)
Supersedes 18WGI31-201, 18 May 1999                                                              Pages: 9

This instruction implements AFPD 31-2, Law Enforcement. The Air Force must provide safe and secure
living and working conditions for its members and their families. The Kadena Disciplinary Action Pro-
gram (KDAP) is intended to provide standardized disciplinary services, and procedures for dealing with
civilian misconduct on Kadena Air Base (AB). This instruction applies to all family members and civil-
ians subject to the Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA), regardless of service affiliation, while on Kadena
AB and all other Air Force installations and facilities on Okinawa, Japan. These facilities include Kadena
Marina, Okuma Joint Services Recreation Facility, and all government military family housing areas.
Additionally, this instruction applies to all individuals residing on Kadena AB. It does not apply to the
Air National Guard or US Air Force Reserve.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
Several revisions reflecting the organizational change to the Mission Support Group have been made.
Additional revisions more accurately reflect the authority of the KDAP presiding authority and an update
to the KDAP process/procedures. New or revised material is indicated by an a bar (|).


1. General. The SOFA governs jurisdiction of all criminal offenses committed in Japan by family mem-
bers of armed forces personnel, Department of Defense employees, and contractors (DODDS included).
The SOFA also governs jurisdiction of all criminal offenses committed in Japan by DoD civilian employ-
ees and contractors. Base policy is also set by the 18 WG/CC and 18 MSG/CC (through base policy let-
ters). Additionally, acts of misconduct by family members and civilians are subject to a wide range of
administrative sanctions under the provisions of this instruction and base policy letters, regardless of any
action taken by Japanese authorities. Failure by Japanese authorities to pursue jurisdiction against depen-
dents of service members, DoD civilian employees, and contractors, or against civilian employees and
contractors themselves, will not preclude action under this instruction. The KDAP is the direct responsi-
bility of the Commander, 18th Mission Support Group, (18 MSG/CC). Its objectives are as follows:
2                                                                          18WGI31-201 5 JUNE 2006


    1.1. Maintain good order and discipline in the Kadena AB community.
    1.2. Protect the well being of all personnel residing on Kadena AB.
    1.3. Screen all acts of civilian misconduct and facilitate standardized management of all cases when
    involvement by KDAP staff is deemed appropriate.
    1.4. Prevent further misconduct through an aggressive program of standard disciplinary action.
    1.5. Whenever possible, effectively utilize base resources to provide individuals and families with the
    best possible referral and assistance services.
    1.6. Misconduct refers to the following:
       1.6.1. Conduct committed on any military installation on Okinawa, Japan, which, if committed in
       the US, violates US Federal Law.
       1.6.2. Violations of Japanese law committed on Okinawa, Japan.
       1.6.3. Violations of Air Force 18th Wing instructions and policies relating to dependent or civil-
       ian conduct.
       1.6.4. Any conduct determined by the presiding authority, which negatively impacts good order
       and discipline in the Kadena AB community.

2. KDAP - Program Management and Responsibilities.
    2.1. The KDAP is the office of primary responsibility for the management of all civilian and depen-
    dent misconduct on Kadena AB. Individuals assigned to the program serve as the primary advisor,
    point of contact, and operational and administrative managers for this program.
    2.2. The Deputy Commander, 18th Mission Support Group (18 MSG/CDB), or his/her designee,
    serves as the presiding authority during KDAP hearings, makes all findings of fact, and directs all
    punishment actions based on the preponderance of evidence. The 18 MSG/CDB or his/her appointed
    designee (KDAP Hearing Officers) is authorized to suspend, revoke, or terminate privileges granted
    to family members, DoD civilian employees, and contractors by virtue of employment, contract, or
    military service subject to applicable laws and instructions. Sponsors may be financially liable for
    family member actions and/or could lose base housing privileges.
    2.3. The Commander, 18th Mission Support Group, directs activities of the KDAP to achieve the
    objectives stated above and serves as appeal authority on all action taken under authority of the KDAP
    with the exception of action taken by the 18 WG/CC.
    2.4. The Commander, 18th Wing, is the sole authority for barment of individuals from Kadena AB
    and all Air Force installations and facilities on Okinawa, Japan.

3. KDAP Procedures.
    3.1. The KDAP staff (KDAP Hearing Officers, KDAP Director, Judge Advocate, Family Advocacy,
    and Security Forces support) will be responsible for screening all acts of dependent and civilian mis-
    conduct. This will be accomplished through a daily review of the security forces blotters and from
    pending investigations, when available. The KDAP Director will obtain appropriate police and inves-
    tigative agency reports. After initial screening, the KDAP Director will make recommendations to the
18WGI31-201 5 JUNE 2006                                                                                  3


  18 MSG/CDB who will determine whether the case should be referred to a hearing, be conducted
  paperwork only, or coordinated with another agency for disposition.
     3.1.1. The KDAP Director will establish a case file on individuals involved in misconduct. Mis-
     conduct case files will contain all pertinent identification data, correspondence, and police reports.
     All original information entered into the case file will remain a permanent part of the case file.
     3.1.2. The KDAP Director will coordinate with the following organizations prior to the hearing
     date:
        3.1.2.1. Sponsor’s unit of assignment (commander, first sergeant, and/or supervisor).
        3.1.2.2. Department of Defense Dependents Schools (when incident involves school-age
        dependent).
        3.1.2.3. Life Skills and/or Family Advocacy.
        3.1.2.4. Office of the Staff Judge Advocate.
        3.1.2.5. After initial coordination has been conducted by the KDAP Director, a paperwork
        only notification or hearing date will be established.
     3.1.3. The 18 MSG/CDB or his/her designee and KDAP Director can recommend a paper only
     hearing if the offender has confessed to the offense, where all pertinent information is available, or
     the preponderance of evidence would enable a Hearing Officer as the presiding authority to deter-
     mine appropriate administrative adjudication for cases of civilian and dependent misconduct.
        3.1.3.1. The KDAP Hearing Officer as the presiding authority will then impose appropriate
        punishment up to recommending suspended barment. If barment is recommended, the case
        will be documented as a KDAP case and if barment is justified, the Hearing Officer will staff
        paperwork for the 18 WG/CC review and action. (If barment action is recommended/staffed
        by WG/JA for civilians/dependents, then KDAP coordination is only required.)
        3.1.3.2. The sponsor and dependent will be presented with a memorandum of disciplinary
        action. The memorandum of disciplinary action will be signed by the sponsor and offender and
        will be provided with a copy. If the sponsor picks up the memorandum without the offender
        being present, the offender will return a signed copy of the paperwork within two weeks.
     3.1.4. Punishment options available to the KDAP Hearing Officer when the case is paperwork
     only include the same items mentioned in section 3.2.3. below.
  3.2. KDAP hearings.
     3.2.1. The KDAP hearings will be held as directed by the 18 MSG/CDB. The KDAP Hearing
     Officer is the presiding authority to determine appropriate administrative adjudication for cases of
     civilian and dependent misconduct.
        3.2.1.1. The 18 WG/JA will appoint a legal representative to serve as advisor to the KDAP
        Hearing Officer when required. A KDAP legal advisor should be present during all KDAP
        hearings. The primary purpose of the JA advisor is to pass information to 18 WG/JA on
        KDAP actions and support the Hearing Officer with legal issues if required.
        3.2.1.2. Attendance at KDAP hearings will be mandatory for the following individuals
        involved in the case:
4                                                                        18WGI31-201 5 JUNE 2006


              3.2.1.2.1. Alleged offender.
              3.2.1.2.2. Sponsor.
              3.2.1.2.3. Commander, first sergeant, or designated unit representative or senior civilian
              representative, as appropriate. This is the command’s opportunity to discuss unit issues
              and requirements.
       3.2.2. The KDAP hearings will proceed as follows:
          3.2.2.1. The KDAP Hearing Officer will present allegations of misconduct as outlined in
          appropriate reports.
          3.2.2.2. The alleged offender will have an opportunity to make a brief presentation.
          3.2.2.3. The KDAP Hearing Officer as the presiding authority will then determine if the
          alleged offender committed the offense.
          3.2.2.4. The KDAP Hearing Officer as the presiding authority will then impose appropriate
          punishment, or if barment is recommended, will advise the offender that a recommendation to
          the 18 WG/CC to bar the offender from all Air Force installations on Okinawa will be made.
          3.2.2.5. The sponsor and dependent will be presented with a memorandum of disciplinary
          action. The memorandum of disciplinary action will be signed by the sponsor and offender
          who will be provided with a copy.
       3.2.3. Punishment options available to the KDAP include, but are not limited to, the following:
          3.2.3.1. Verbal Counseling.
          3.2.3.2. Memorandum of Notification of Disciplinary Action (Warning Letter).
          3.2.3.3. Assignment of community service (accompanied by sponsor/parent).
          3.2.3.4. Curfew restriction.
          3.2.3.5. Suspension of AAFES, MWR, commissary privileges.
          3.2.3.6. Suspension of driving privileges.
          3.2.3.7. Enrollment in Kadena Youth Monitor Program (see Para 4.).
          3.2.3.8. Recommendation for barment from all Air Force installations and facilities on Oki-
          nawa or recommending suspended barment based on one year of model behavior.
          3.2.3.9. Other actions deemed appropriate by the presiding authority. These can include, but
          are not limited to: letters of apology, direction to pay damages, essays on the offense or how
          to prevent it in the future (for offender and/or sponsor/parents), directed to Family Advocacy
          or Substance Abuse Counseling, 24 hour eye’s on parental supervision.
    3.3. Community Service:
       3.3.1. Air Force units on Kadena AB or the KDAP Director will be responsible for designating
       appropriate community service tasks and work sites.
       3.3.2. Air Force units, through the first sergeant, will monitor and ensure individual compliance
       with community service requirements, sponsor/parent must be present during the performance of
18WGI31-201 5 JUNE 2006                                                                                 5


       community service, and will report progress of assigned community service to the KDAP Direc-
       tor.
       3.3.3. The KDAP Director will assign community service work sites and monitor compliance
       with community service requirements for dependents of sister service and civilian members.
       Sponsors/parent must be present unless otherwise directed by the KDAP Hearing Officer and will
       report progress of assigned community service to the KDAP Director.

4. Kadena Youth Monitor Program. A disciplinary option available to the presiding authority in cases
involving dependents 10-17 years of age who commit serious or repeated acts of misconduct.
   4.1. Objective: The Kadena Youth Monitor Program is established to provide a means of rehabilita-
   tion for youth who are involved in misconduct. Juveniles enrolled in the program must successfully
   complete all requirements, or they will be subject to further sanctions as determined by the presiding
   authority. Enrollment in the Kadena Youth Monitor Program will be for a 6-month period.
   4.2. The KDAP staff will:
       4.2.1. Work with appropriate community agencies to locate and identify potential areas to per-
       form community service.
       4.2.2. Monitor participants on a weekly basis to ensure that all requirements of the action memo-
       randum are being met.
       4.2.3. Recommend barment and termination of a juvenile's enrollment in the program for engag-
       ing in further acts of misconduct or for failure to comply with the requirements stipulated in the
       action memorandum.
       4.2.4. Recommend modifications in sanctions to include early release from the program for those
       juveniles who show accelerated progress and compliance with program requirements.

5. KDAP Appeal Procedures. All persons affected may appeal disciplinary actions imposed under the
provisions of this instruction.
   5.1. Appeals must be submitted in writing within 5 duty days of receipt of the disciplinary action
   memorandum.
   5.2. All appeals must be indorsed by the sponsor.
   5.3. The Commander, 18th Mission Support Group (18 MSG/CC) will serve as appellate authority for
   all actions imposed by the KDAP.
   5.4. When the 18 WG/CC orders that an offender be barred, there is no appeal if the case has been
   staffed through the KDAP hearing process. If the Hearing Official recommends barment to the 18
   WG/CC, the offender/sponsor has 5 days to request an appeal and provide any additional information
   for the 18 WG/CC review. The 18 MSG/CC will review the case prior to going to the 18 WG/CC.
   Any barment action taken by the 18 WG/CC that is outside of KDAP channels, can be reviewed by
   KDAP at the request of the 18 WG/CC.
   5.5. The KDAP staff will not release police reports or reports of investigation. Individuals requesting
   this documentation are directed to the appropriate offices of primary responsibility.
6                                                                             18WGI31-201 5 JUNE 2006


6. Rights to Counsel. The process of adjudicating civilian misconduct issues is an administrative pro-
cess. Alleged offenders are not entitled to have legal counsel present during the hearing or for an appeal.
Legal assistance from 18 WG/JA and Kadena AB Area Defense Counsel is not available for alleged
offenders. This instruction does not limit an individual’s authority to hire civilian counsel to assist in pre-
paring for the hearing or for an appeal.

7. Barment Action.
    7.1. Barment is in effect immediately upon imposition by the proper authority.
    7.2. Sponsors will acknowledge receipt of the barment memorandum by signing the endorsement
    block.



                                                 JAN-MARC JOUAS, Brigadier General, USAF
                                                 Commander, 18th Wing
18WGI31-201 5 JUNE 2006                                          7


                                     Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 31-2, Law Enforcement

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AB—Air Base
DOD—Department of Defense
DODDS—Department of Defense Dependent School
KDAP—Kadena Disciplinary Action Program
SOFA—Status of Forces Agreement
 8                                                                                                      18WGI31-201 5 JUNE 2006


                                                                  Attachment 2

                  MISCONDUCT MATRIX KADENA DISCIPLINARY ACTION PROGRAM

 Table A2.1. Misconduct Matrix.
                  Uncontrol    Curfew     Shoplifting     Assault/        Illegal Use/     Vandalism/   Substance Abuse/    Underage    Drunk/
                   Pets /     Violation   or Larceny    Mutual Affray   Possession of BB    Property    Huffing/ Bron/etc   Drinking   Reckless
                  Pet Bites                                                   Guns          Damage                                     Driving
Letter of
Notification /
                     X           X            X              X                 X               X               X               X          X
Document
reprimand
Verbal
Counseling –         X           X            X              X                 X               X               X               X          X
(See Note #0)
Community
Service                          X            X              X                 X               X               X               X          X
(See Note #1)
Essay
                                 X            X              X                 X               X               X               X          X
(See Note #2)
Restricted
Curfew                           X            X              X                 X               X               X               X          X
(See Note #3)
Suspension of
AAFES
                                              X
Privileges
(See Note #4)
Suspension of
Driving
                                              *               *                *               *               *               X          X
Privileges
(See Note #5)
6 Month Youth
Monitor
                                              *               *                *               *               *               *          *
Program
(See Note #6)
Financial
Restitution                                   X               *                                X                                          *
(See Note #7)
Letter’s of
Apology to           X                        X              X                 X               X
Victim (s)
24 hrs eye’s on
parental
                     *                                        *                                *               *                          *
supervision
(See Note #8)
Susp of NCO/
Officer Club                                                  *                                                                           *
Privileges
Substance
Abuse
                                                                                                               X               *          *
Evaluation/
Education
Suspended
Barment (See         *                        *               *                *               *               X               *          X
Note #9)
Barment
                     *                                        *                                *               *                          *
(See Note #10)
18WGI31-201 5 JUNE 2006                                                                                  9


This matrix can be used as a guide for hearing officers and as an example to personnel on how
KDAP deals with offenders. The actual punishment or corrective action is left to the hearing officer
and can be a combination of any of the items listed on the matrix.
* This punishment may be applied depending on the severity of the misconduct.
Note 0: Verbal Counseling is normally given at a hearing (Can be given in non-hearing cases at the hear-
ing authority’s office)
Note 1: Community Service hours are normally between 10-80 hours. (Given at minimum of 5 hours per
week). Parent supervision will be required (to demonstrate serious of situation, due to age of subject, or
lack of cooperation).
Note 2: Normally imposed for first time offenders. Request feedback from offender and parent on issue
or preventative measures.
Note 3: Only if under 18 years of age. (Restricted to base can also be imposed due to severity or if over
18 years of age)
Note 4: 3 months for 1st time offense, 6 months to a year for 2nd or more offenses.
Note 5: Suspension of Driving Privileges on non- alcohol related incidents, not involving a vehicle, result
in a 3-6 month suspension. Revocation of privileges for Drunk Driving, minimum 12 months, 24 months
if Implied Consent Refusal, 6 months for Driving While Drinking Indicated. (Consult BTRO if you have
questions)
Note 6: Youth Monitor Program: This program is for the most serious misconduct or repeated acts of
misconduct not requiring barment. This program may consist of weekly visits to the KDAP office for 3/
6 months with school progress reports, and enrollment in a Teen Life Skills program.
Note 7: Financial Restitution could be required for damage to personal property or theft.
Note 8: This is normally imposed of individuals that are pending barment and you feel might be a threat
to the community.
Note 9: Suspended barment is normally used if financial restitution is imposed or with continued acts of
misconduct (last chance).
Note 10: Normally imposed on the most serious misconduct or continued acts of misconduct.
