BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                      19TH AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 65-101
NINETEENTH AIR FORCE
                                                                                              12 JUNE 2003

                                                                                     Financial Management

                                                  19 AF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY


NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the HQ AETC Publishing WWW site at
http://www.aetc.randolph.af.mil/im. If you lack access, contact your base publishing manager.


OPR: 19 AF/RA (Ms Sarah Young)                               Certified by: 19 AF/CV (Col Michael Billings)
                                                                                                  Pages: 3
                                                                                           Distribution: F


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 65-1, Management of Financial Services, to
define staff responsibility for processing budget estimates, financial plans, operating budgets, funding
programs, and revisions. Additionally, it describes the concept, responsibility, organization, and functions of
the 19 AF Financial Management Board (FMB), and establishes the procedures for administering matters
referred to the board. It does not apply to Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve Command units.
Send comments and suggested improvements to 19 AF/RA. Maintain and dispose of records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication in accordance with AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition
Schedule. A glossary of references and supporting information is found in Attachment 1.
1. Concept. Divisions must submit, review and validate all budget estimates, financial plans, and other fiscal
actions to 19 AF/RA prior to their presentation to the 19 AF/FMB. October through December normally
operate under continuing resolution authority (CRA) and spending must be kept at a minimum level. After
initial distribution (normally received in January) 19 AF/RA must determine if it meets funding requirement
for the year. If determined it is short, then divisions must assist in preparing the justification for funding
requirements (Budget Execution Report [BER], normally due February timeframe; and also financial plan
due in February; sometimes an additional BER II is necessary in July timeframe), distributing approved
requirements and funding, and monitoring obligations and expenses within their financial program areas.
Unfunded requirements or shortfalls can result from initial under-funding, unprogrammed requirements, or
price increases. Unfunded requirements fall into one of the following categories:
1.1. Must Pay. A requirement that will cause mission failure if not funded, for example, civilian pay, expert
witnesses, and some temporary duty (TDY) requirements.
1.2. Mission Critical. A requirement that is necessary to accomplish the mission effectively. However, if
funding is not obtained, the organization’s mission can still be accomplished although not at the most
effective level. Examples of such requirements are travel, training, and automated data processing
equipment (ADPE).
1.3. Mission Impact. A requirement that is of lesser important mission accomplishment than a mission-
critical requirement. Miscellaneous supplies are examples of this type of requirement.
2                                                                       19AFI65-101       19XX JUNE 2003

1.4. Mission or Morale Enhancement. A wish list or nice-to-have requirement that is of least importance in
accomplishing mission.
2. Justification and Mission Impact Statement. The justification and the mission impact statement are
critical to the unfunded requirement process. The justification should include the description of the service,
product, or program that is required. Follow the principle of keeping it simple. Tell the where, what, why,
and when. If this is something new to your program or a different way of doing business, tell how this will
improve your current operations. If this item became unfunded because you had a higher priority item, then
tell what you had to fund.
3. 19 AF Financial Advisory Board (FMB):
3.1. The 19 AF FMB determines program priorities among competing requirements, and ensures effective
allocation of resources. The board shapes and refines proposals prior to presentation to the 19 AF
Commander. Significant board issues and decisions are presented as a recommended position to the 19 AF
Commander. In addition, the board has decision-making authority over issues submitted by the divisions
within 19 AF.
3.2. The 19 AF/CV is the board chairperson. 19 AF/RA will act as recorder, prepare minutes of meetings,
and provide them to FMB members.
3.3. Voting membership is restricted to the incumbents of the following offices: 19 AF/CV, 19 AF/DP, 19
AF/DO, 19 AF/JA, 19 AF/LG, and 19 AF/SE. 19 AF/CCC, 19 AF/CCG, and 19 AF/CCR are nonvoting
members of the FMB.
3.4. A deputy/assistant will attend in the incumbent’s absence. Others may attend by invitation of board
members.
3.5. The FMB will review operating budgets, program execution, and resource allocation within 19 AF.
After review, the FMB will provide their recommendations to the 19 AF/CC, and ensure that overall
programs are balanced within the actual resources.
3.6. The FMB will also provide detailed justification for financial program requests (after 19 AF/CV and CC
approval), and forward through the AETC corporate process in accordance with AETCI 16-501, AETC
Corporate Structure.
4. Responsibilities. Unless otherwise determined by the board, the division responsible for the issue being
reviewed by the board is responsible for completion of assigned tasking.



                                                JAMES E. SANDSTROM, Major General, USAF
                                                Commander

Attachment
1. Glossary of References and Supporting Information
19AFI65-101    19 JUNE 2003                                      3

                                         Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 65-1, Management of Financial Services
AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule
AETCI 16-501, AETC Corporate Structure
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADPE—automated data processing equipment
AFPD—Air Force policy directive
BER—Budget Execution Report
CRA—continuing resolution authority
FMB—financial management board
TDY—temporary duty
