BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           19TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 90-901
LITTLE ROCK AFB 19TH AIRLIFT WING
                                                                          15 NOVEMBER 2010

                                                                           Special Management

                                                      OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this instruction.

OPR: 19 AW/SE                                                           Certified by: 19 AW/SE
Supersedes: 463 AG Process Guide 90-                                     (Lt Col John T. Julian)
            901, 1 August 2005                                                         Pages: 12


This 19th Airlift Wing Instruction implements AFPD 90-9, Operational Risk Management, AFI
90-901, Operational Risk Management, and DoD 6055.1, Safety and Occupational Health
(SOH) Program. This instruction provides the strategic framework and guidance for the
implementation and sustainment of Operational Risk Management in the 19th Airlift Wing. The
goal of ORM is to enhance mission effectiveness at all levels while minimizing risks. This
instruction establishes the requirement for developing and managing tailored, mission-specific
ORM programs. It assigns responsibilities for program elements, contains program management
information and will provide all personnel assigned to the 19th Airlift Wing a process to
implement ORM into everyday activities, both on and off duty, and to accurately identify and
assess risks. This instruction does not apply to the 314th Airlift Wing, the 189th Airlift or any
other associate organizations assigned or attached to Little Rock AFB, AR.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.
 2                                                           19AWI90-901 15 NOVEMBER 2010


1. Executive Summary:
     1.1. GENERAL: This document is intended to provide the strategic plan for the
     implementation and sustainment of Operational Risk Management (ORM) in the 19 AW.
     ORM implementation provides vision and is not intended as an administrative program.
     Application and use of ORM, both formal and informal, by all 19 AW members is the
     objective. ORM initiatives include training, tools and information, application to mission
     activity, integration, and oversight. These initiatives will be refined, added to, and updated as
     ORM integration matures, experience is gained, and mission needs change the sustainment
     focus.
     1.2. Resources: All resources required to implement and sustain ORM for units within the 19
     AW will be provided by the respective unit.
     1.3. Financial Requirements: Current O&M funding is expected to be sufficient to support
     implementation and integration of ORM into 19 AW activities.
     1.4. Manpower Requirements: Each squadron within the wing will appoint an ORM
     program advisor to oversee the implementation and sustainment of ORM within their unit.
     This member will be the squadron POC for all ORM issues within their squadron, to include
     attending ORM sustainment meetings. Additionally, each squadron commander will support
     the wing ORM program by designating unit primary and alternate functional area specific
     ORM advisors. Supervisors will ensure assigned personnel employ ORM in all mission-
     related activities.
2. Introduction
     2.1. PURPOSE: The purpose of this plan is to implement requirements identified in AFPD
     90-9, paragraph 5.5., which specifically states, “commanders at all levels will develop and
     maintain an ORM implementation and sustainment plan.”
     2.2. VISION: Ensure an organization in which all personnel manage risk so that operations
     are successfully completed in the most effective manner possible.
     2.3. MISSION: Enhance mission effectiveness while minimizing risk.
     2.4. GOALS: The hierarchy of goals, illustrated in Figure 1, is the crucial framework for
     defining operational risk management.
19AWI90-901 15 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                  3


Figure 1. Operational Risk Management Hierarchy




3. Objectives
   3.1. OVERVIEW. The following objectives provide an overview of how this plan will be
   implemented in support of Air Force requirements.
      3.1.1. Objective 1: Train our people to apply, implement, and integrate ORM both on
      and off duty.
      3.1.2. Objective 2: Provide tools and information to enable ORM use.
      3.1.3. Objective 3: Integrate ORM into all 19 AW mission-related activities.
      3.1.4. Objective 4: Continuously improve ORM processes, products, and policies.
      3.1.5. Objective 5: Encourage off-duty application of ORM.
      3.1.6. Objective 6: Provide oversight.
   3.2. OBJECTIVE 1: Train our people to apply, implement, and integrate ORM both on and
   off duty.
      3.2.1. Introduction: Training and education initiatives within the 19 AW in support of
      ORM are categorized as basic level and advisor level.
          3.2.1.1. Basic: The basic level includes locally performed training for all wing
          members.
          3.2.1.2. Advisor: The advisor level includes participation in all basic level training
          and participation in specialized Air Force-level training.
4                                                     19AWI90-901 15 NOVEMBER 2010


    3.2.2. Implementation and Responsibilities:
       3.2.2.1. Basic: The basic level involves participation by all members in a
       combination of training venues. It includes introduction to ORM, initial workplace
       training, annual ORM-related briefings as determined and provided by the
       commander, on-the-job training, and participation in application of ORM to mission
       activities.
           3.2.2.1.1. Introduction to ORM training will be provided by the wing ORM
           advisor. This training will include the Introduction to ORM training course and
           should be accomplished via CBT at https://rmis.kirtland.af.mil/. This training
           should be documented in an appropriate manner to include AF Form 55’s in
           addition to any other training documentation product utilized by the unit.
           3.2.2.1.2. Initial workplace training will consist of the unit involving the new
           member in a flight-level ORM process as soon as possible.
           3.2.2.1.3. ORM-Related Activities.
              3.2.2.1.3.1. ORM-down days may be scheduled by HQ AMC, 19 AW/CC or
              integrated into training days on a periodic basis. These days will be fully
              supported by all personnel, by unit safety representatives, and all unit ORM
              advisors.
              3.2.2.1.3.2. Annual Recurrent training: AMC/CC guidance directs that
              aircrew personnel will accomplish annual ORM training. This training may be
              presented as Air Force video presentations or briefings by an ORM advisor.
              Additionally, non-aircrew members should receive a one-time ORM training
              course via CBT at https://rmis.kirtland.af.mil/. Supervisors will document
              attendance at these briefings on the individual’s AF form 55 or automatic
              system (ARMS) as ORM Refresher Training.
           3.2.2.1.4. On-the-Job Training: Personnel at every level will work with their
           supervisors and the group/unit ORM advisor to learn wing and unit procedures for
           applying ORM to tasked activities.
           3.2.2.1.5. Participation in ORM-Related Mission Activity. Project managers and
           team members will employ the wing process for managing risk associated with
           mission-related activity for all projects, with the assistance of the group/unit ORM
           advisor.
           3.2.2.1.6. Responsibility and documentation: Supervisors are responsible to
           ensure all personnel receive training and that it is documented on the employee’s
           AF Form 55 Employee Safety and Health Record or by an automated system
           (ARMS). Attendance records will be maintained.
              3.2.2.1.6.1. Organizations that do not have automation capabilities for
              documentation will use the AF Form 55 for initial training. Subsequent
              training will be documented on attendance records or other acceptable means
              such as Excel spreadsheets.
              3.2.2.1.6.2. Aircrew training will be tracked locally using the Aviation
              Resource Management System (ARMS) database via AF Form 1522, ARMS
19AWI90-901 15 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                5


                Additional Training Accomplishment Report, input.
                3.2.2.1.6.3. Maintainers will continue to track their training accomplishment
                by AF Form 55 Employee Safety and Health Record or an automated system
                (GO81).
                3.2.2.1.6.4. In addition to the requirements of 3.2.2.1.6.1- 3.2.2.1.6.3,
                supervisors will complete the on-line training course, ORM Essentials for
                Leaders Course, located at the USAF ORM University website,
                https://rmis.kirtland.af.mil/.
         3.2.2.2. Advisor: Advisor level training includes participation in all basic level
         activities and attending the Air Force ORM Application and Integration Course at the
         Air Force Safety Center, Kirtland AFB, New Mexico, or at other locations where
         training is offered. At a minimum, unit ORM advisors will complete the following
         three on-line training courses at the USAF ORM University website,
         https://rmis.kirtland.af.mil/: ORM Fundamentals Course, ORM Essentials for
         Leaders Course, and ORM Application and Integration Course.
            3.2.2.2.1. Each group will generate an appointment letter for their group level
            ORM program coordinator and forward a copy to the 19 AW ORM advisor. This
            group program coordinator will be responsible for their group’s specific ORM
            implementation plan.
            3.2.2.2.2. Each squadron will generate an appointment letter for their ORM
            advisor and forward a copy to the 19 AW ORM advisor.
  3.3. OBJECTIVE 2: Provide tools and information to enable ORM use.
     3.3.1. Introduction: Providing the tools and information necessary for assigned personnel
     to apply ORM to mission activities is essential to successful implementation of ORM in
     the wing. The tools and information required will be provided in three ways: Web-based
     products, wing-produced content and personal contact.
         3.3.1.1. Web-based Products: The latest web-based information in support of ORM is
         available from the AMC ORM site via the Air Force Portal.
         3.3.1.2. Wing-Produced Content: The wing will publish all ORM checklists,
         continuity materials and other ORM information to the CoP. The 19 AW/SE CoP can
         be      found      at     https://wwwd.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?
         Filter=OO-SE-AM-14.
         3.3.1.3. Personal Contact: Despite the best of training and web-based products,
         personal contact remains a staple of doing business. All wing members will be
         encouraged to discuss any ORM-related topic with their supervisor, group/unit ORM
         advisor, or safety representatives.
  3.4. OBJECTIVE 3: Integrate ORM throughout the wing into all mission-related activity.
     3.4.1. Introduction: Employing ORM in the conduct of mission-related activity is the key
     focus of ORM policy and guidance.
     3.4.2. Implementation and Responsibilities:
6                                                        19AWI90-901 15 NOVEMBER 2010


          3.4.2.1. Planning Activity: During planning, project managers and teams will
          routinely integrate ORM into their planning activities by using the wing process for
          integration. All identified hazards and controls will be identified and integrated into
          the plan so they become a part of the planned activity. In addition, the risk analysis
          will be reviewed by unit or group commanders before being briefed to the appropriate
          commander as a part of the plan briefing. Risks that cannot be reduced to an
          acceptable level will be identified to the commanders to enable an informed decision
          regarding the level of risk.
          3.4.2.2. During Execution: Throughout the execution of any project or procedure,
          project managers and teams will implement all risk controls identified in planning and
          observe their effectiveness. Inadequate risk controls will be cause for delaying
          operations until adequate risk controls can be employed or an informed decision by
          the appropriate commander is provided. Lessons learned will be noted for future use.
          3.4.2.3. Post Mission Activity: Once after-action reports are published, project
          managers will assemble any ORM lessons learned and provide them to the group/unit
          ORM advisor so the process for applying ORM can be updated.
          3.4.2.4. Each squadron will establish an ORM binder (hard copy or electronic)
          containing, as a minimum, a copy of this process guide, AFI 90-901, AFPAM 90-902,
          and a current unit ORM representative appointment letter. All after-action reports will
          be maintained for one year in the squadron’s ORM binder. The squadron
          representative will have a database with all squadron personnel listed along with the
          level of ORM training completed (ie. ORM Fundamentals or ORM Essentials for
          Leaders). In addition, the Squadron Commander or Director of Operations will
          accomplish the ORM Executive Overview and the squadron representatives will
          accomplish the ORM Application and Integration course. These ORM courses can
          be taken at the ORM University, https://rmis.kirtland.af.mil/. Airmen (E-1 to E-4)
          are required to accomplish the Fundamental course and NCOs and all CGO/FGO
          Officers are required to accomplish the Fundamental and Essentials for Leaders
          courses.
    3.5. OBJECTIVE 4: Continuously improve wing ORM processes, products, and policies.
       3.5.1. Introduction: Continuous improvement of ORM processes is essential to keep
       abreast of the mounting complexity of hazards to mission activity.
       3.5.2. Implementation and Responsibilities:
          3.5.2.1. ORM Processes, Products and Policies: All wing personnel will note any
          difficulty or inadequacy in any unit ORM process, products or policies, and identify
          their observations and recommended fixes to the ORM advisor by any practical
          means.
    3.6. OBJECTIVE 5: Encourage off-duty application of ORM.
       3.6.1. Introduction: Application of ORM by Air Force personnel to off-duty activities is
       identified at Air Force level as an essential part of any unit ORM program.
       3.6.2. Implementation and Responsibilities:
19AWI90-901 15 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                  7


          3.6.2.1. ORM Down Days: During all safety or ORM down-day activities,
          application of ORM to off-duty activities will be included as a part of the day’s
          activities.
          3.6.2.2. ORM Briefings: Application of ORM to off-duty activities will be included
          as a part of commander’s call ORM briefings.
          3.6.2.3. Off-Duty ORM Worksheet (Available on the 19 AW/SE CoP): Each
          individual should perform a personal risk assessment prior to beginning his/her off-
          duty activity. Reconsider whether to participate in any activity assessed in the high-
          risk or very-high-risk section. Moderate risks should be given special consideration
          since only one or two elements have significantly raised the overall risk level.
   3.7. OBJECTIVE 6: Provide ORM program oversight.
       3.7.1. Introduction: Commander/unit personnel ownership of ORM activities is essential
       to ensure ORM is employed and becomes an integrated part of all mission activity.
       3.7.2. Implementation and Responsibilities: On an annual basis, the applicable ORM
       advisor and unit/group/wing commander will review their instruction for currency and
       completeness.
4. Group and Unit Responsibility: Each unit in the 19 AW performs a very specialized
mission. Any group with a group-wide, formalized ORM process will have an appendix to this
regulation. Groups will provide any information on their ORM programs that differ from the
Wing regulation. This includes but is not limited to such items as additional programs, more
detailed information, and/or Unit Specific items within their respective groups. All group
specific information will be contained in the Appendix. The Appendix with the basic regulation
will serve as the Operation and Sustainment Plan for that respective Group.
5. Flight Operations.
   5.1. All flying operations will be ORM assessed. TACC tasked missions will be assessed
   using the MAF Mission Aviation ORM worksheet. All non-TACC tasked flying operations
   will be ORM assessed using the 19th Operations Group Operational Risk Management
   Matrix (19 OG ORM, available on 19 AW/SE CoP at https://wwwd.my.af.mil/afknprod/
   ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=OO-SE-AM-14.)
   5.2. 19th Operations Support Squadron, Current Operations, will perform the initial ORM
   assessment for each TACC mission tasked. This assessment will be documented on the
   MAF Mission Aviation ORM Worksheet (available in applet format online at
   https://aviationorm.amc.af.mil/AppStart.aspx            or      in     Excel     format at
   https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/AFP40/d/1075206690/Files/editorial/12%20Jun
   %2008%20CRB%20Approved%20Worksheet.xls). The flight commander of Current
   Operations will ensure this document becomes a part of the permanent record for each off-
   station mission. Specific actions and responsibilities are outlined on the worksheet.
   5.3. For all missions, to include local trainers, an assessment will be performed at the
   squadron level. The squadron Director of Operations (or his/her representative) will make an
   assessment using the six-step ORM process.
   5.4. For all missions the aircraft commander will perform the final assessment. This will be
   documented on the Sign In Go/No-Go Checklist prior to departure. This assessment will be
 8                                                         19AWI90-901 15 NOVEMBER 2010


     performed daily prior to every flight. Each assessment will incorporate individual crew
     member assessments using the personal risk definitions included on the Sign in Go/No-Go
     Checklist. Units may develop additional pre-mission checklists, actions, and responsibilities,
     as required. NOTE: ORM assessments for Exercise GREEN FLAG EAST missions
     (hosted by 34 CTS) in support of the Joint Readiness Training Center will be accomplished
     on the applicable host unit ORM matrix of the participating unit. In addition to this
     assessment 34 CTS Trainer/Mentors on the mission will execute the 34 CTS ORM matrix for
     any known additional exercise risks and adjust the scenario accordingly.
6. Adopted Forms. AF Form 55 Employee Safety and Health Record and AF Form 1522,
ARMS Additional Training Accomplishment Report, AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change
of Publication.

7. Prescribed Forms.
None




                                              GREGORY S. OTEY, Col, USAF
                                              Commander
19AWI90-901 15 NOVEMBER 2010                                                      9


                                     Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management, 1 Apr 2000
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AFPAM 90-902, Operation Risk Management (ORM) Guidelines and Tools, 14 Dec 2000
AFPD 90-9, Operational Risk Management, 1 Apr 2000
DoD 6055.1, Safety and Occupational Health (SOH) Program, 19 Aug 1998

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ARMS—Aviation Resource Management System
CBT—Computer Based Training
MAF—Mobility Air Forces
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
ORM—Operational Risk Management
POC—Point of Contact
TACC—Tanker Airlift Control Center
 10                                                       19AWI90-901 15 NOVEMBER 2010


                                         Attachment 2
                ORM PRINCIPLES AND APPLICATION PROCEDURES

A2.1. Principles of ORM.
   A2.1.1. Accept no unnecessary risk.
   A2.1.2. Make risk decisions at the appropriate level to establish clear accountability.
   A2.1.3. Accept risk when benefits outweigh the costs, but take all actions to minimize risk.
   A2.1.4. Integrate ORM into implementation of Air Force doctrine and planning at all levels.
A2.2. Application Procedures.
   A2.2.1. The Air Force Six-Step Process:
      A2.2.1.1. Identify the hazards. A hazard can be defined as any real or potential
      condition that causes mission degradation, injury, illness, or death to personnel, or
      damage to or loss of equipment or property.
      A2.2.1.2. Assess the risk. Risk is the probability and severity of loss from exposure to
      the hazard. Assessment is the application of quantitative or qualitative measures to
      determine all levels of risk associated with a specific hazard. The assessment step in the
      process defines the probability, severity and exposure of a mishap that could result from
      the hazard.
      A2.2.1.3. Analyze risk control measures. Investigate specific strategies and controls that
      reduce or eliminate risk. Effective control measures reduce one of the three components
      (probability, severity, or exposure) of risk.
      A2.2.1.4. Make control decisions. Decision makers at the appropriate level choose
      controls based on analysis of overall costs and benefits.
      A2.2.1.5. Implement risk controls. Once control strategies have been analyzed, an
      implementation strategy needs to be developed and then applied by management and the
      work force. Implementation requires commitment of time and resources.
      A2.2.1.6. Supervise and review. ORM is a process that continues throughout the life
      cycle of the system, mission, or activity. Once controls are in place, the process must be
      scrutinized to determine its effectiveness.
   A2.2.2. Abbreviated Risk Management
      A2.2.2.1. In order to enhance ORM throughout the 19 AW, the use of the abbreviated
      risk management tool “ACT” is encouraged. This tool was developed by the 19th Airlift
      Wing, and their goal is to deploy a simple and easy to remember ORM phrase to easily
      allow all assigned personnel to routinely apply risk management principles to prevent
      mishaps in all aspects of their lives, both on and off duty.
      A2.2.2.2. ACT, an abbreviated form of the ORM six-step process, is a supplemental tool
      that may be used for risk assessments in time-critical situations. ACT is most beneficial
      in less complex off-duty activities, such as driving and recreational events. This
      abbreviated risk management process may also be appropriate in the execution phase of
19AWI90-901 15 NOVEMBER 2010                                                               11


      an operation that mission demands do not allow enough time to perform a detailed
      analysis using the six-step ORM process, or for an “on-the-run” review prior to
      performing a technical order task. ACT merges the six steps of ORM into three broader
      steps that may be used where risk management is accomplished mentally or verbally and
      action is taken within minutes or even seconds. ACT is not appropriate for deliberate or
      strategic levels of risk management where more in-depth assessments are necessary to
      meet mission needs. Just like the six-step ORM process, ACT is not authorization to
      violate policy or established rules. These risk assessments, properly performed, may
      serve as a tool to seek necessary changes through established channels. The ACT process
      is as follows and is characterized pictorially in Figure 1 below:

Figure A2.1. The ACT Process




         A2.2.2.2.1. Assess the Situation. Look at your surroundings. Determine what could
         go wrong, the likelihood of occurrence, and the severity of the impact if something
         did go wrong. Areas for consideration include:
             A2.2.2.2.1.1. People. How many people are involved and what are the chances
12                                                 19AWI90-901 15 NOVEMBER 2010


        for injury, illness, or death? Assess personal risk factors such as fatigue,
        distractions, emotions, health, and lack of training. What are the chances personal
        factors will affect the safe and successful accomplishment of the task or activity?
        A2.2.2.2.1.2. Task or Activity. Look at what you are trying to accomplish. Is
        there adequate time? What are the consequences of not completing the task or
        activity?
        A2.2.2.2.1.3. Equipment. Take into account the equipment you are using. Do
        you have the right tools for the job? Is machinery in good condition? Are the
        necessary safety devices in place? What are the chances the equipment will be
        damaged or destroyed? Do you have the correct personal protective equipment
        for the task?
        A2.2.2.2.1.4. Environment. Environmental conditions may present risk factors
        whether inside or outdoors. Consider factors such as light, noise, weather, road
        conditions, etc. What is the likelihood an unfavorable condition will negatively
        impact the task or activity?
     A2.2.2.2.2. Consider the Options. Once you have assessed the situation and
     evaluated the risks, consider the options to limit risk. Seek ways to eliminate risks
     that will lessen the likelihood of something going wrong. Think about the
     consequences if something does go wrong, and ask yourself what you can do to
     ensure a positive outcome. Does the task have to be completed now, or can it be
     postponed to await more favorable conditions? Do you have the authority to make a
     decision, or does the level of risk necessitate that you elevate the circumstances to
     someone else for a final decision? The objective in this step is to make an informed
     decision at the appropriate level. Remember, if you have the authority to accept the
     risk, you may need to document the reasons for your decision.
     A2.2.2.2.3. Take the Right Action. Implement the best options to mitigate risk. If
     others are involved, make sure they fully understand the potential risk and proper
     actions they must take. When you are done with the activity, take a few minutes to
     review your thought process. If your ACT process worked, remember the options
     you used to lessen the risk factors and use them again. If your ACT process didn’t
     work as well as planned, think about how you might improve the situation the next
     time.
