BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                CONR-1 AF Instruction 23-1
HEADQUARTERS CONTINENTAL U.S. REGION
FIRST AIR FORCE (AIR FORCES NORTHERN)
TYNDALL AIR FORCE BASE, FL 32403                                                        10 March 2009


                                                                               Equipment Management


                                                 MANAGEMENT OF GOVERNMENT PROPERTY

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available on the AFNORTH Web Page/Reference Library.

OPR: 1 AF/A4RS                                              Certified by: 1 AF/A6O (MSgt Tompkins)
Pages: 4                                                                             Distribution: F

This instruction provides additional policy, guidance and procedures for the proper management of
government owned assets in the possession of the Air Force. It applies to Headquarters First Air Force
(HQ 1/AF), Air Forces Northern (AFNORTH), Continental United States (CONUS) North American
Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD) Region (CONR) and Direct Reporting Units (DRU). This
instruction conforms to Air Force Instruction 23-111, Management of Government Property in
Possession of the Air Force and Air Force Manual 23-110, USAF Supply Manual. It authorizes and
directs division chiefs and DRU commanders to manage government property under their command.
It instructs subordinate personnel to responsibly manage and care for Air Force property under their
authority and/or control. This instruction applies to all Air Force military/civilian personnel and
individuals required by contract to manage and be responsible for government property including
contractors, the Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve. Management of nonappropriated fund
property is addressed in AFI 34-204, Property Management. This instruction outlines definitions for
the accountable officer, responsible officer and responsible person (Property Custodian). Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance
with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records and disposed of in-accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

1. References:

1.1. AFI 23-110

1.2. AFMAN 23-111

1.3. AFMAN 23-220

1.4. AFMNAN 33-363
2                                                      CONR- 1 AF Instruction 23-1, 10 March 2009


2. General Property Management Responsibilities:

2.1. The Air Force’s mission makes it imperative that all personnel operate and maintain government
systems, equipment, supplies and real property in the best possible condition, in constant readiness and
in the absolute minimum quantities necessary to accomplish assigned tasks.

2.2. The Air Force provides through property managers, proper allocation, control, use, and
safeguarding of property under Air Force control. Property management tenets apply to each
individual. Property management responsibilities limit the use of government property to official
purposes only.

2.3. Supply discipline is mandatory and essential to conserve, protect and maintain available
government systems, equipment, supplies and real property for operational requirements. Subordinate
commanders are responsible to their commanders for prudent management, control, storage and cost-
effective use of government property under their jurisdiction. Government property includes, but is
not limited to, hand tools, operating stocks, individual equipment, organizational and operational
administrative equipment and supplies.

2.4. Property management responsibility includes financial liability for the loss, damage, or
destruction of property resulting from negligence, willful misconduct or deliberate unauthorized use.

3. Specific Property Management Responsibilities:

3.1. DOD and Air Force policy provides for varying levels of responsibility and roles when managing
or controlling government property.

3.2. In addition to the general responsibilities applicable to all Air Force personnel, Department of
Defense directives establish the following property accountability echelons:

3.2.1. Accountable Officer. An individual appointed by proper authority that maintains item records
and/or financial records in connection with government property, irrespective of whether the property
is in his or her possession for use or storage, or is in the possession of others to whom it has been
officially entrusted for use or for care and safekeeping (a primary and alternate should be appointed).

3.2.2. Responsible Officer. An individual appointed by proper authority to exercise custody, care and
safekeeping over property entrusted to his or her possession or under his or her supervision
(branch/section chiefs).

3.2.3. Responsible Person (property custodian). An individual issued government property on the
basis of a property receipt.
CONR-1 AF Instruction 23-1, 10 March 2009                                                           3

4. Roles and Responsibilities:

4.1. Commanders, division chiefs and subordinates:

4.1.1. Accurately maintain property records to reflect current inventory and condition of property, to
include Government Purchase Card purchases.

4.1.2. Ensure all personnel carefully and economically use and safeguard property.

4.1.3. Provide adequate security, protection and storage for property.

4.1.4. Ensure property found on installations and not accounted for is identified and recorded on
property book records.

4.1.5. Adjust records to reflect all discovered shortages and make adjustments according to prescribed
directives.

4.1.6. Make recommendations to accountable officers for the prevention and correction of fraud,
waste, and abuse activity.

4.1.7. Appoint primary and alternate accountable officers.

4.1.8. Adhere to all Air Force and Department of Defense policies concerning acquisition of specific
classes of supply. For materiel ordered through base medical supply, use the Medical Logistics or
Defense Medical Logistics Standard Support System.

4.1.9. Ensure authorization request action is taken to obtain the equipment necessary to support the
assigned or programmed functions and unit mission.

4.1.10. Make sure all items are properly maintained and safeguarded. If loss, damage or destruction
occurs to reportable equipment items, factual data must be provided as support documentation for
relief of responsibility and accountability.

4.1.11. Ensure all unit personnel are properly instructed in the care and safeguarding of supplies and
equipment and instructions are rigidly enforced.

4.1.12. Appoint capable individuals as property custodians and alternates and establishment of,
change to or reconciliation of custodian accounts.

4.1.13. Ensure that all personnel within the organization are aware of the policies and guidelines
expressed in AFI 23-111.

5. Relief from Custodial Responsibility:

5.1. Commanders provide relief from custodial responsibility with:

5.1.1. Documents or computer records showing turn-in or transfer of items to another custodian.
4                                                        CONR-1 AF Instruction 23-1, 10 March 2009

5.1.2. Approved reports that provide for disposition of, or relief from responsibility for items that have
become unusable due to damage, loss, deterioration, obsolescence or destruction.

5.1.3. Approved inventory adjustments or a prescribed document to adjust losses incidental to normal
operations.

5.1.4. Policies and procedures regarding the unauthorized use of property, recovery of property
unlawfully held and accounting for property lost or destroyed by other than fair wear and tear are in
AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force property.

6. Monetary value of items to be included in property records

6.1. All items valued in excess of $500 will be annotated, inventoried and accounted for according to
this instruction.

6.1.1. Lesser valued items may be added at the division chief discretion (highly pilferable or difficult
to control items).

6.1.2. Equipment/items will not be accounted for and inventoried in more than one system such as
ADPE or COMSEC. They will be controlled through the more stringent processes as defined by the
appropriate AFIs.

6.2. Each division and work section will be responsible for the items included in their inventory.

6.3. Each responsible officer will contact A4R supply to seek assistance when required and/or
appropriate.




                                                                //SIGNED//
OFFICIAL                                                     HENRY C. MORROW
                                                             Major General, USAF
                                                             Commander
