BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                  TWENTIETH AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 90-101
TWENTIETH AIR FORCE
                                                                            12 JANUARY 2012

                                                                           Special Management

                                                  CONTINUOUS MISSION IMPROVEMENT
                                                                          PROCESS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available for downloading on the e-Publishing website
               at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 20 AF/A9L                                                           Certified by: 20 AF/A9
                                                                       (Mr. Arthur T. Beisner II)
                                                                                        Pages: 7


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-16, Air Force Studies,
Analyses, Assessments and Lessons Learned. It provides policies and procedures for the
collection, validation, dissemination and resolution of intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM)
operational issues in support of the Air Force Lessons Process (AFLP). It applies to individuals
at all levels in Twentieth Air Force (20 AF), except where noted otherwise, to include Air Force
Reserve and Air National Guard (ANG) members when on duty status. Units may supplement
this instruction to allow for local requirements. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Comply with AFI 33-332, Privacy Act
Program, for documents containing privacy act information. Comply with DoDR 5400.7, DoD
Freedom of Information Act Program, Air Force Supplement for documents containing For
Official Use Only information. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route the AF Form 847 from the field through
major command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.

This document is new and should be completely reviewed.

1. Purpose.
   1.1. The purpose of the Continuous Mission Improvement (CMI) process is to foster a self-
   critical culture across 20 AF through the use of mission-oriented tools that support the AFLP.
 2                                                           20AFI90-101 12 JANUARY 2012


     CMI is a commander’s program. By employing CMI tools, 20 AF commanders can report,
     review and respond to issues affecting the ICBM mission with the goal of changing attitudes
     and behaviors to prevent occurrence (or recurrence) of these issues.
     1.2. There are two CMI process components, the Alert Force Field Bulletin (see paragraph
     3.1 below) and the CMI database (see paragraph 3.2 below).
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
     2.1. Commander, Twentieth Air Force (20 AF/CC):
        2.1.1. Appoints the Directorate of Analyses, Assessments and Lessons Learned (20
        AF/A9) as the office of primary responsibility (OPR) for the CMI process.
        2.1.2. Directs, as deemed appropriate, inclusion of issues into the CMI process.
        2.1.3. Conducts periodic reviews of CMI issues with subordinate commanders and 20
        AF staff.
        2.1.4. Approves closure of CMI issues in consultation with subordinate commanders and
        20 AF staff.
     2.2. Twentieth Air Force Director of Analyses, Assessments and Lessons Learned (20
     AF/A9):
        2.2.1. Serves as the primary AFLP advisor to 20 AF/CC and subordinate commanders.
        2.2.2. Administers the CMI process to include providing process management guidance.
        2.2.3. Develops and maintains tools and applications as necessary to support the CMI
        process.
        2.2.4. Trains and advises 20 AF and missile wing staffs on the CMI process and the use
        of CMI tools and applications.
        2.2.5. Organizes formal reviews of CMI issues with 20 AF/CC and subordinate
        commanders in accordance with paragraph 5 below.
     2.3. Twentieth Air Force Directors of Manpower and Personnel (20 AF/A1), Intelligence
     (20 AF/A2), Operations (20 AF/A3), Logistics (20 AF/A4), Plans and Requirements (20
     AF/A5), Security Forces (20 AF/A7), Judge Advocate (20 AF/JA) and Safety and Nuclear
     Surety      (20 AF/SE) will appoint a point of contact (POC) for the CMI process in writing
     to 20 AF/A9. Each POC:
        2.3.1. Maintains an active SIPRNET account to ensure access to CMI tools and
        applications.
        2.3.2. Establishes an internal process to ensure the directorate complies with CMI
        policies and guidance.
        2.3.3. Designates other directorate personnel, as desired, as CMI members to assist in
        execution of the CMI process. CMI members must maintain an active SIPRNET account
        to be included as a CMI user.
        2.3.4. If designated as OPR for a CMI issue, accomplishes appropriate action items to
        resolve the issue. If designated as office of collateral responsibility (OCR) for a CMI
20AFI90-101 12 JANUARY 2012                                                                  3


      issue, provides support and advice to the OPR and, as necessary, coordinates with
      organizations above the NAF to resolve the issue.
      2.3.5. Develops policies and guidance as necessary to enable ICBM units to integrate
      lessons learned into recurring training and evaluation programs. If OPR for training
      and/or evaluation products, performs actions for ensuring lessons learned are integrated
      into recurring training and evaluation programs.
   2.4. Commanders of the 90th Missile Wing (90 MW/CC), 91st Missile Wing (91 MW/CC),
   341st Missile Wing (341 MW/CC) and 625th Strategic Operations Squadron (625 STOS/CC)
   will appoint a POC for the CMI process in writing to 20 AF/A9. Each POC:
      2.4.1. Maintains an active SIPRNET account to ensure access to CMI tools and
      applications.
      2.4.2. Establishes an internal process to ensure the missile wing/unit complies with CMI
      policies and guidance.
      2.4.3. Designates other missile wing/unit personnel, as desired, as CMI members to
      assist in execution of the CMI process. CMI members must maintain an active SIPRNET
      account to be included as a CMI user.
      2.4.4. If designated as OPR for a CMI issue, accomplishes appropriate action items to
      resolve the issue. If designated as OCR for a CMI issue, provides support and advice to
      the OPR, determines applicability of OPR actions to local operations, and records
      comments in the CMI database.
3. CMI Process Components.
   3.1. Alert Force Field Bulletin.
      3.1.1. The purpose of the Alert Force Field Bulletin (AFFB) is to ensure all ICBM
      commanders quickly obtain the information needed to apply initial lessons learned from
      any issue at any ICBM unit. In the AFLP, the AFFB encompasses the components of
      collection, validation and dissemination within 20 AF for the short term.
          3.1.1.1. The AFFB informs ICBM fielded forces of the facts surrounding an actual
          (or potential) issue that has affected (or could affect) the optimal execution of the
          ICBM mission. It also provides the initial root cause and initial corrective actions
          (IRC/ICA) implemented by the unit that discovered the issue. These facts and
          IRC/ICA are recorded in Part A of the AFFB.
          3.1.1.2. The AFFB compels commanders at the other ICBM units to assess the facts
          and IRC/ICA then report on the actions they will implement at their units. This
          assessment is recorded in Part B of the AFFB.
          3.1.1.3. The AFFB solicits a recommendation from the commander of the unit that
          initiated the AFFB and a decision from 20 AF/CC on the disposition of the issue (i.e.
          remains open or close). This recommendation and decision are recorded in Part C of
          the AFFB.
      3.1.2. The CMI process is intended to be a bottom-up process; therefore, ICBM
      commanders are highly encouraged to initiate an AFFB based upon any activity
4                                                          20AFI90-101 12 JANUARY 2012


       (favorable or unfavorable) at their unit from which they think other ICBM units could
       benefit. However, 20 AF/CC may direct initiation of an AFFB at his/her discretion.
       3.1.3. The AFFB is an internal 20 AF tool designed to collect and disseminate initial
       information only and represents the actions taken by a commander to correct a procedural
       failure or process deficiency and prevent its immediate recurrence. Therefore,
       completing the AFFB does not relieve nor preclude a commander from implementing
       other investigative tools (e.g. commander-directed investigation, accident and/or safety
       investigation board) to determine a more refined root cause and other corrective actions.
       3.1.4. Timely action is essential to the success of the AFFB. Commanders unable to
       meet one of the following completion timelines should coordinate with 20 AF/CV for an
       extension.
          3.1.4.1. The unit at which the issue arose should complete Part A of the AFFB and
          submit it to 20 AF/A9 no later than 48 hours following discovery of the issue. Within
          24 hours after receiving a Part A submission, 20 AF/A9 will review the information
          and forward the AFFB to other units for Part B completion.
          3.1.4.2. Other ICBM units should complete Part B of the AFFB and submit it to 20
          AF/A9 no later than 5 duty days after receipt of the completed Part A from 20 AF/A9.
          3.1.4.3. Within 24 hours after receipt of all Part B submissions, 20 AF/A9 will
          discuss future actions for the issue with the unit that initiated the AFFB.
              3.1.4.3.1. If all ICA are implemented and the unit commander is not awaiting the
              findings from other investigative tools, 20 AF/A9 will recommend to 20 AF/CC
              (or designated representative) that the issue be closed and not tracked in the CMI
              database. This recommendation and             20 AF/CC’s decision are recorded in
              Part C of the AFFB. As appropriate, 20 AF/A9 will complete the Resolution
              component of the AFLP for this issue by capturing pertinent data in the Joint
              Lessons Learned Information System (JLLIS).
              3.1.4.3.2. If all ICA are not implemented or if the unit commander is awaiting the
              findings from other investigative tools, 20 AF/A9 will open a new issue in the
              CMI database per paragraph 3.2 below to continue the lessons learned process.
              This action is recorded in Part C of the AFFB.
          3.1.4.4. Within 24 hours after coordinating on the disposition of the issue, 20 AF/A9
          should publish the final version of the AFFB with Parts A, B and C completed. 20
          AF/A9 will notify units the AFFB is complete, provide direction for obtaining a copy
          of the AFFB and as necessary identify any items continued in the CMI database.
       3.1.5. Based on the actual software used for the AFFB, 20 AF/A9 will provide
       supplemental instructions as required. An AFFB user guide is available on the 20 AF/A9
       SharePoint website.
    3.2. CMI Database.
       3.2.1. The purpose of the CMI database is to provide ICBM commanders a tool through
       which they can proactively and deliberately manage the ongoing activities to fully
       incorporate lessons learned from an issue affecting the optimal execution of the ICBM
       mission. In the AFLP, the CMI database encompasses the components of collection,
20AFI90-101 12 JANUARY 2012                                                                  5


      validation and dissemination within 20 AF for the mid- and long-term issue resolution, as
      required.
          3.2.1.1. The database allows CMI members to record the current status of each CMI
          issue and subordinate tasks (called actionable outcomes) required to successfully
          address an issue.
          3.2.1.2. The report generator draws upon the database to give ICBM commanders the
          facts required to ensure CMI issues are being worked to resolution.
          3.2.1.3. The database is a live system, meaning updates can be immediately seen by
          other personnel with CMI database access.
      3.2.2. 20 AF/A9 will notify units any time a new item is added to the CMI database.
      Units will appoint individuals to resolve issues based on area of expertise.
          3.2.2.1. The OPR for a given CMI issue is primarily responsible for the currency and
          accuracy of the information in the CMI database pertaining to that issue.
          3.2.2.2. The OPR should actively seek inputs from the OCR(s) to ensure
          commanders have a complete picture of each open CMI issue.
          3.2.2.3. The OPR, after consulting with the OCR(s), is responsible for recommending
          closure of any CMI issue or associated actionable outcome to 20 AF/CC.
      3.2.3. Only completed CMI issues and/or associated actionable outcomes may be
      recommended for closure to 20 AF/CC. For an issue or actionable outcome to be
      complete, all directed actions must be implemented and validated at all applicable ICBM
      units. The OPR may also recommend completion for a directed action that, after further
      research, is deemed untenable due to monetary cost, personnel requirements or other
      limiting factor.
      3.2.4. 20 AF/A9 will mark as Closed those CMI issues and/or actionable outcomes
      approved by 20 AF/CC. However, these will remain in the CMI database for future
      reference. As appropriate, 20 AF/A9 will complete the Resolution component of the
      AFLP for this issue by capturing pertinent data in the Joint Lessons Learned Information
      System (JLLIS).
      3.2.5. Based on the actual software used for the CMI database, 20 AF/A9 will provide
      supplemental instructions as required. A CMI user guide is available on the 20 AF/A9
      SharePoint website.
   3.3. All AFFBs and the CMI database will reside on the SIPRNET as the aggregate of the
   information maintained in the CMI process could reveal potential mission vulnerabilities. As
   a minimum, each separate CMI issue will be marked and handled as UNCLASSIFIED//FOR
   OFFICIAL USE ONLY.
4. Missile Wing and 625 STOS Internal Process. Twentieth Air Force subordinate units
should establish and codify a robust and enduring process to meet the requirements of this
instruction. This process should include:
   4.1. Appointing an overall POC and team members with functional (e.g. operations,
   maintenance, security) expertise per paragraph 2.4 above.
 6                                                           20AFI90-101 12 JANUARY 2012


     4.2. Steps for reviewing issues and initiating an AFFB per paragraph 3.1.2 above.
     4.3. Steps for reviewing and approving updates to the CMI database, to include granting
     permissions to post updates to the live CMI database.
     4.4. A schedule for unit leaders to periodically review the CMI database and/or receive
     updates on CMI issues in advance of 20 AF-led reviews per paragraph 5.2 below.
     4.5. Steps for ensuring lessons learned are integrated into recurring training and evaluation
     programs.
5. CMI Reviews. Both formal and informal reviews of CMI products are necessary for
commanders to proactively resolve issues affecting optimal ICBM mission execution.
     5.1. Formal reviews should occur quarterly and are facilitated by 20 AF/A9 using either
     secure video-teleconference or in-person meeting.
        5.1.1. The CMI Working Group is chaired by 20 AF/CV and composed of the missile
        wing vice commanders, 625 STOS/DO, group deputy commanders (as appropriate) and
        20 AF deputy directors (as appropriate).
            5.1.1.1. As a minimum, the working group reviews each open CMI issue to assess
            progress toward completion and to identify any issues and/or actionable outcomes
            that are complete and ready for closure. The OPR for a CMI issue is responsible for
            briefing progress to the working group.
            5.1.1.2. 20 AF/CV may expand the working group agenda and/or membership as
            desired to maximize effectiveness of the review process. 20 AF/CV should also
            provide guidance on agenda items for the CMI Council.
        5.1.2. The CMI Council typically meets 2-4 weeks after the CMI Working Group. It is
        chaired by 20 AF/CC and composed of 20 AF/CV, 20 AF/CCC, 20 AF/CD, missile wing
        commanders, 625 STOS/CC, command chiefs, group commanders (as appropriate) and
        20 AF directors (as appropriate).
            5.1.2.1. As a minimum, the CMI Council will review all issues and/or actionable
            outcomes recommended for closure to 20 AF/CC and obtain his decision in each case.
            Time permitting, the CMI Council will review each open CMI issue to assess
            progress toward completion. The OPR for a CMI issue is responsible for briefing
            progress to the council.
            5.1.2.2. 20 AF/CC may expand the council agenda and/or membership as desired to
            maximize effectiveness of the review process.
     5.2. Informal reviews by ICBM commanders should occur on a routine basis in accordance
     with paragraph 4.4 above. Frequent reviews and follow-up questions will show leadership’s
     interest in resolving issues and compel POCs to keep information in the CMI database as
     current as possible.




                                             ROBERT M. WALKER, Colonel, USAF
                                             Vice Commander
20AFI90-101 12 JANUARY 2012                                                7


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Prescribed Forms: No forms are prescribed in this publication.
Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
