                             DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                  90TH MISSILE WING (AFGSC)


                                                                   20AFI24-301_20AFGM2014-01

                                                                                21 March 2014

MEMORANDUM FOR 20 AF UNITS

FROM: 20 AF/CV
      6610 Headquarters Drive, Suite 1
      F. E. Warren AFB WY 82005-3943

SUBJECT: Twentieth Air Force Guidance Memorandum to 20 AFI 24-301, Transportation
Control Center (TCC) Operations and Vehicle Operations Within And Outside The Missile Field
Complex

Releasability: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

        By Order of the Commander, Twentieth Air Force, this 20 AF Guidance Memorandum
immediately implements changes to 20 AFI 24-301, Transportation Control Center (TCC)
Operations and Vehicle Operations Within And Outside The Missile Field Complex, dated
1 September 2009. Compliance with this memorandum is mandatory. To the extent its
directions are inconsistent with 20 AF publications, the information herein prevails, IAW
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.

       The following are key changes to this memorandum: approval authority for travel in RED
and YELLOW conditions, approval authority for upgrading RED and YELLOW travel
conditions, approval authority for visiting teams, changing TCC to Transportation Control
Function (TCF) and added TCF Checklists at Attachment 2.

      This memorandum becomes void after one-year has elapsed from the date of this
memorandum, or upon publication of an Interim Change or rewrite of the affected publication,
whichever is earlier.




                                                              SCOTT M. FOX, Colonel, USAF
                                                              Vice Commander
         2. TCF Activities. TCF serves as the wing commander’s single agency charged with
tracking all government vehicle movement in the missile complex to present a complete synopsis
of all travel and road conditions to wing agencies. The TCF has sole responsibility for
monitoring road conditions and tracking official travel to/from/within the missile complex and
will not be duplicated by other agencies. TCF works closely with all wing, group, squadron and
work center personnel to include Missile Security Control (MSC), Missile Maintenance
Operations Center (MMOC) and Alternate Command Post (ACP) to track teams, advise on risk
management decisions and to inform personnel of current road conditions during pre-mission
planning or of any changes while traveling in the missile complex.

       2.1. TCF will:

        2.1.6. Coordinate changes to TC with the group commander (or designated
representative no lower than squadron commander) for TC RED or flight commander, missile
combat crew commander, flight chief, or equivalent level for TC YELLOW.
        2.1.6.1.1. TCF will consult the flight commander, missile combat crew commander,
flight chief, or equivalent of the agency requesting upgrade of TC from YELLOW to GREEN.
All group commanders will be notified of change, if approved.

       2.1.6.1.2. TCF will consult the group commander, or designated representative, to
upgrade TC from RED to YELLOW or GREEN. This may be delegated no lower than the
squadron commander.

       2.1.7. (Added) Report travel conditions to 20 AF/Operations Center upon request.

       2.1.8. (Added) Be centralized and operate as the wing’s single point agency
consolidating all travel conditions and vehicle movements reported by assigned units.

       3.3. All 2M0XX PT/TE tractor/trailer operators will prepare and operate large
maintenance vehicles IAW AFGSCI 21-106, Large Maintenance Vehicle Operations.

        3.4. All trips traveling to/from/within the missile complex must contact TCF prior to
their departure and upon arrival at their destination. Conduct trips in support of Treaty
Compliance Inspections IAW appropriate Treaty Annexes. Exceptions can be made for higher
headquarter inspections.

       3.5. Pass trip information to TCF via landline, cell phone, radio, fax, or e-mail prior to
departure from the support base, MAF or LF or designated stopping point.

        3.5.1. At a minimum, trips will provide TCF with trip number/call sign, vehicle
registration number, number of personnel, destination, travel route, estimated arrival time, and
any authorized stops.

        3.6.1. All trips will use primary or secondary/alternate routes identified in the route
folder unless the appropriate authority approves a deviation. Obtain authorization prior to trip
departure, when possible. Any additional deviations require approval from the appropriate
authority. Approval authority for deviations is the requesting Group/CC or designated
representative (no lower than squadron commander).

        3.6.3. Missile field maintenance personnel required to perform maintenance at locations
other than LFs or MAFs (HICS teams, Cable Affairs, etc.) will inform TCF when vehicles must
travel on other than primary and/or secondary/alternate routes. Teams will notify TCF prior to
deviation from approved routes to accomplish equipment repairs/inspections and do not require
separate authorization. Prior to traveling on non-approved routes, personnel will attempt to
gather information from TCF utilizing local and state resources to assess road status.

        3.7.1. The folder will identify approved route of travel to each LF and MAF from home
base. The directions will clearly indicate primary routes (vehicles over 20,000 pounds GVWR)
and secondary/alternate routes (all other routes approved for use within the missile complexes),
as well as road surfaces (paved, gravel).

       3.9. Short, periodic non-duty related rest stops are authorized as determined locally,
when not prohibited by instructions or force protection conditions. Notify TCF prior to stopping
and upon travel continuation for stops exceeding 10 minutes.

        4.1. Road probes are used when road conditions for safe travel are questionable. After
verifying current road conditions through TCF, weather services, and individual state road
condition reports, it may be necessary to probe a road to determine if it meets the parameters for
safe travel. Road probes will be conducted by highly-experienced supervisory personnel only
after proper risk assessment has been accomplished and is authorized by group commander.
This may be delegated no lower than the squadron commander.

        4.3.1. Permission is not required for security forces response to alarm situations
regardless of road/weather conditions. However, the Flight Security Controller (FSC) or MSC
will contact TCF as soon as possible to obtain road condition information, provide departure
information and notification to TCF/SF flight leadership of alarm condition response.

       4.3.2. (Deleted)

        4.4. For visiting teams, the team chief/senior individual is dispatch authority for team
members for missile complex travel in TC GREEN/YELLOW. For TC RED, dispatch authority
is provided in conjunction with the wing commander, vice wing commander, or designated
group commander. Anyone authorizing travel is required to use wing-approved Risk
Management driver risk assessment procedures and take steps to mitigate moderate to high-risk
situations.

        5.1. Government vehicle operators, to include but not limited to government owned,
rented, and leased vehicles, will practice Risk Management (RM) IAW 20 AFI 91-1 until
superseded by AFGSCI 91-1.
       5.1.1. If government vehicle operators are outside of their 20 AF home station, it is the
supervisor’s responsibility to counsel the operator on the below items before operating the
vehicle. Keep in mind this is not a comprehensive list and supervisors can add applicable
information.

        6.1. Develop TCF inspection checklists (see Attachment 2).

        7.1.1. Provide, maintain and equip a TCF facility.

        7.1.2. Assign a TCF OIC and/or NCOIC.

        7.1.3. (Deleted)

       7.1.4. Implement, as required, RM driver risk assessment procedures and take steps to
mitigate moderate to high-risk situations.

        7.2. Group responsibilities:

     7.2.1. Group commanders, or designated representative (no lower than squadron
commander), will:

        7.2.1.1. (Added) Authorize travel in TC RED.

        7.2.1.2. (Added) Authorize use of non-approved routes of travel.

       7.2.1.3. (Added) Authorize use of road probes. This may be delegated no lower than the
squadron commander.

       7.2.1.4. (Added) Implement, as required, wing-approved RM driver risk assessment
procedures and take steps to mitigate moderate to high-risk situations.

        7.2.2. Flight commanders, missile combat crew commanders, flight chiefs, or equivalent
will:

        7.2.2.1. (Added) Authorize travel in TC Yellow.

       7.2.2.2. (Added) Implement, as required, wing-approved RM driver risk assessment
procedures and take steps to mitigate moderate to high-risk situations.

        7.3. TCF OIC and/or NCOIC will:

        7.3.1. Ensure TCF controller training program is implemented.

        7.3.1.1. Appoint a TCF instructor.

        7.3.1.3. Establish qualification requirements for personnel assigned to TCF.
     7.3.2. Ensure TCF has direct communication links with MSC, MMOC, ACP and Wing
Command Post.

      7.3.6. When possible, TCF personnel will have a valid security clearance.

      7.4. TCF Controller(s) will:

      7.5. TCF Instructor(s) will:

      7.5.1. Implement a TCF controller training program.

      7.5.4. Develop and maintain lesson plans for all TCF tasks.
                                    Attachment 1

                                 TRAVEL CONDITIONS

Table A1.1. Travel Conditions.
                                 Attachment 2 (Added)

                           TCF INSPECTION CHECKLIST

Figure A2.1. (Added) TCF Inspection Checklist.
Figure A2.1. (Continued) TCF Inspection Checklist.
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                 TWENTIETH AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 24-301
TWENTIETH AIR FORCE
                                                                         1 SEPTEMBER 2009

                                                                               Transportation

                                           TRANSPORTATION CONTROL CENTER (TCC)
                                             OPERATIONS AND VEHICLE OPERATIONS
                                            WITHIN AND OUTSIDE THE MISSILE FIELD
                                                                       COMPLEX

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available for downloading on the e-Publishing website
               at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 20 AF/A4RL                                                        Certified by: 20 AF/A4
                                                                  (Col Stephen B. Czerwinski)
                                                                                      Pages: 7



This instruction establishes Transportation Control Center (TCC) guidance; Government owned,
leased and rented vehicle operations within and outside the missile field complex for Twentieth
Air Force Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) units. It outlines 20 AF and unit
responsibilities. Units may supplement this instruction as needed. Maintain and dispose of
records created as a result of prescribed processes in accordance with AFMAN 37-139, Records
Disposition Schedule. Comply with AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program, for documents
containing Privacy Act information. Comply with DoD Regulation 5400.7/Air Force
Supplement/AFSPCSUP1, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program, Chapter 4, for documents
containing For Official Use Only information.

1. Terms Explained.
   1.1. Qualification. The process of qualifying controller tasks will be annotated in the
   controller’s training records.
   1.2. Missile complex. Area encompassing all missile squadrons at a unit.
   1.3. Military vehicle. Includes owned, leased and rented vehicles assigned to or used by the
   unit.
   1.4. Government vehicle operator. Anyone driving a government owned, leased or rented
   vehicle.
2                                                          20AFI24-301 1 SEPTEMBER 2009


2. TCC Activities. TCC serves as the unit commander’s single agency for tracking military
vehicle movement in the missile complex. The TCC works closely with group/squadron
commanders, Missile Security Control (MSC) and Missile Maintenance Operations Center
(MMOC) to ensure all dispatching teams comply with established dispatch/travel policies during
all road conditions, in order to maximize safety/security.
    2.1. The TCC will:
       2.1.1. Operate 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
       2.1.2. Monitor and track all military vehicle movements within the missile complex.
       2.1.3. Monitor vehicle incidents impacting unit personnel or the unit's ability to conduct
       operations.
       2.1.4. Track and record missile complex road conditions.
       2.1.5. Set Travel Conditions (TC) IAW Attachment 1 based on the weather and vehicle
       crew reports.
       2.1.6. Coordinate changes to TC with the wing commander (TC RED) or SFG, OG,
       MXG and MSG commanders (TC YELLOW).
           2.1.6.1. Upgrading TC (YELLOW to GREEN, RED to YELLOW or GREEN)
           requires verification and approval.
               2.1.6.1.1. TCC will consult the group commander of the agency requesting
               upgrade of TC from YELLOW to GREEN but all group commanders will be
               notified of change, if approved.
               2.1.6.1.2. TCC will consult the wing commander to upgrade TC from RED to
               YELLOW or GREEN. This may be delegated to no lower than group
               commander.
3. Vehicle Operator Responsibilities Within the Missile Field Complex.
    3.1. In vehicles with limited visibility (e.g., tractor trailer type vehicles, HUMVEEs, M-
    vans, S-vans, etc.), operators will use spotters when backing or negotiating tight turns. When
    a non limited visibility vehicle has a lone operator and no spotter is available, the vehicle
    operator will perform a vehicle walk around to identify hazards prior to backing.
    3.2. All Payload Transporter, Transporter Erector, Missile Transporter or Periodic
    Maintenance Team vans will be parked in approved parking areas or on pads. Pads/approved
    parking areas will allow a separation of 10 feet from edge to edge between any portion of the
    parked vehicles, except during booster roll transfer procedures. Secured (i.e. fenced-in)
    parking is the primary option and should only be deviated from in limited instances.
    3.3. All 2M0XX tractor/trailer operators will use approved Twentieth Air Force checklists to
    prepare and operate a tractor trailer.
    3.4. All trips traveling to/from/within the missile complex must contact TCC prior to their
    departure and upon arrival at their destination. Conduct trips in support of Treaty
    Compliance Inspections IAW appropriate Treaty Annexes.
20AFI24-301 1 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                                    3


   3.5. Pass trip information to TCC via landline, cell phone, radio, fax or e-mail prior to
   departure from the support base, MAF or LF.
      3.5.1. At a minimum, trips will provide TCC with trip number/call sign, registration
      number, number of personnel, destination, travel route, estimated arrival time, and any
      authorized stops.
   3.6. Primary and secondary routes are the authorized routes of travel for government motor
   vehicles.
      3.6.1. All trips will use only approved routes of travel to their destination unless the
      appropriate authority validates a deviation. Obtain authorization prior to trip departure,
      when possible. Any additional deviations require approval from the appropriate
      authority.
      3.6.2. Security Force response teams responding to a real world Covered Wagon,
      Helping Hand, In-Field Response, Back-up Force or emergency situation involving
      possible loss of life or limb may use other routes of travel. In these cases, security force
      response teams are authorized to use any maintained township, county, state or federal
      roadway. Security Forces units will conduct familiarization training for these seldom-
      used routes upon squadron commander approval.
      3.6.3. Missile field maintenance personnel will inform TCC when vehicles must travel
      on other than primary and/or secondary routes to accomplish repairs and inspections on
      their equipment.
   3.7. Each wing will develop and maintain a missile complex folder for each missile complex
   vehicle.
      3.7.1. The folder will identify directions to each LF and MAF from home base. The
      directions will clearly indicate primary routes (route certified and paid for by Defense
      Access Roads funds…vehicles over 20,000 pounds GVWR) and secondary/alternate
      routes (all other routes approved for use within the missile complexes), as well as road
      surfaces (paved, gravel, unpaved).
      3.7.2. Roads other than primary and secondary routes, which may be used by SF
      response teams, will have road hazards (blind corners, sharp bends, railroad crossings,
      etc.) clearly indicated.
   3.8. Private motor vehicle (PMV) travel is limited to approved tours and for extreme
   emergencies with approval. Individuals will not conduct PMV travel to the missile complex
   for mission-related reasons without appropriate group commander approval. Follow all pre-
   dispatch requirements when PMV travel in the missile complex is necessary to fulfill mission
   needs.
   3.9. Short, periodic non-duty related rest stops are authorized as determined locally, when
   not prohibited by instructions or threat conditions. Notify TCC prior to stopping and upon
   travel continuation, for stops exceeding 10 minutes.
4. Travel Conditions (TC).
   4.1. Road probes are used when road conditions for safe travel are questionable. After
   verifying current road conditions through TCC, weather services and individual state road
4                                                           20AFI24-301 1 SEPTEMBER 2009


    condition reports, it may be necessary to probe a road to determine if it meets the parameters
    for safe travel. Road probes will be conducted by highly experienced, supervisory personnel
    and only after proper risk assessment has been accomplished and is authorized.
    4.2. Consult and adhere to the TC in Attachment 1. The chart defines TC and the criteria
    used to classify travel conditions as GREEN, YELLOW, or RED. (Vehicle operators should
    only report observed conditions, not designate a specific TC.)
    4.3. IAW appropriate security guidance, security forces must provide immediate response to
    all alarm situations. Security forces must exhaust all attempts to respond prior to declaring
    all or parts of a site(s) as not accessible.
    4.3.1. TCC permission is not required for security forces response to alarm situations
    regardless of road/weather conditions. However, the Flight Security Controller (FSC) or
    Missile Security Control (MSC) will contact TCC as soon as possible to obtain road
    condition information and departure information.
       4.3.2. Each unit will ensure a process is in place so that SF flight leadership and TCC are
       notified of responses to alarm conditions. All other movements will be IAW this
       instruction.
    4.4. For visiting teams, the team chief/senior individual is dispatch authority for team
    members for missile complex travel in TC GREEN/YELLOW. For TC RED, dispatch
    authority, is provided in conjunction with the wing commander.
5. Vehicle Operator’s Responsibilities Outside the Missile Field Complex. 5.1 Government
vehicle operators, to include but not limited to, government owned, rented and leased vehicles
will practice Operational Risk Management (ORM) IAW 20 AFI 91-1, Para 3.
       5.1.1. If government vehicle operators are outside of 150 miles of their 20 AF home
       station, it is the supervisor’s responsibility to counsel the operator on the below items
       before operating the vehicle. Keep in mind this is not a comprehensive list and
       supervisors can add applicable information.
           5.1.1.1. Is the operator familiar with the roads he or she will be traveling?
           5.1.1.2. Is the operator familiar with the weather in the area he or she will be
           traveling?
           5.1.1.3. Is the operator familiar with the vehicle he or she will be operating?
           5.1.1.4. Brief the operator on safe vehicle driving habits.
6. Twentieth Air Force Responsibilities.
    6.1. Develop TCC inspection checklists.
    6.2. Maintain this instruction.
7. Unit Responsibilities.
    7.1. Wing commander or designated representative will:
       7.1.1. Provide, maintain and equip a TCC facility.
       7.1.2. Assign a TCC OIC and/or NCOIC.
20AFI24-301 1 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                                  5


      7.1.3. Authorize travel in TC RED.
      7.1.4. Implement, as required, ORM driver risk assessment procedures and take steps to
      mitigate moderate to high-risk situations.
  7.2. Group commanders, or designated representative (no lower than squadron commander),
  will:
      7.2.1. Authorize travel in TC YELLOW.
      7.2.2. Implement, as required, wing-approved ORM driver risk assessment procedures
      and take steps to mitigate moderate to high-risk situations.
  7.3. TCC OIC and/or NCOIC will:
      7.3.1. Ensure TCC controller training program is implemented.
           7.3.1.1. Appoint a TCC instructor
           7.3.1.2. Certify tasks in controllers’ training records.
      7.3.1.3.   Establish qualification requirements for personnel assigned to TCC
      7.3.2. Ensure TCC has direct communication links with Missile Security Control (MSC),
      Missile Maintenance Operations Center (MMOC) and Wing Command Post.
      7.3.3. Develop and maintain local OIs, emergency action checklists or quick reaction
      checklists as required.
      7.3.4. Develop procedures to support battle staff operations.
      7.3.5. Establish procedures to track all military vehicles operating in the missile
      complex.
      7.3.6. Ensure all TCC personnel have a valid security clearance.
      7.3.7. Implement procedures to ensure immediate relay of emergency information to
      lateral, subordinate and, if necessary, civilian agencies.
      7.3.8. Establish vehicle tracking priorities. Protection Level 1 movements will receive
      priority over all other vehicle movements.
  7.4. TCC Controller(s) will:
      7.4.1. Track all military vehicles operating in the missile complex and follow established
      tracking priorities.
  7.4.2.   Track team departure and arrival times.
      7.4.3. Continuously track all Protection Level 1 movements in conjunction with MSC.
      7.4.4. Not delay Security Forces personnel responding to alarm situations regardless of
      road/weather conditions per paragraph 4.3.1.
      7.4.5. Obtain periodic road and weather conditions from missile alert facilities and trips
      travelling within the missile complex, and provide this information to teams departing or
      travelling within the missile complex as well as unit/wing leadership.
6                                                          20AFI24-301 1 SEPTEMBER 2009


       7.4.6. Promptly notify Wing Safety office of military vehicle related mishaps and
       accident scene location information.
    7.5. TCC Instructor(s) will:
       7.5.1. Implement a TCC controller training program.
       7.5.2. Conduct and document initial controller training.
       7.5.3. Conduct and document recurring and remedial controller training, as necessary.
       7.5.4. Develop and maintain lesson plans for all TCC tasks.
       7.5.5. Review lesson plans annually and document review.




                                            GARY W. POND, Colonel, USAF
                                            Vice Commander
20AFI24-301 1 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                                7


                                          Attachment 1
                                  TRAVEL CONDITIONS

Table A1.1. Travel Conditions.
Condition                          GREEN        YELLOW2           RED

Winds                              <35 Knots1   35-45 Knots       >45 Knots Sustained1
                                                Sustained1
Visibility                         >0.5 Mile    0.1 to 0.5 Mile   <0.1 Mile
Snow                               None         0.5” To 6”        >6”
Drifting Snow/Packed Snow/Ice      None         Patchy            Mostly Covered
Standing Water/Rain                Dry          <0.5”             >0.5”
Hail/Freezing Rain/Sleet           None         Scattered/Early   Road Glazed/Covered
                                                Accumulation
Mud                                None         Passable            Impassable or
                                                                    Significant Loss of
                                                                    Traction
1
  Special Purpose Vehicles will use wind limits in Technical Orders. Wind speed detection
equipment at MAFs may be used to determine wind speeds in Flight.
2
 Wing commander permission is required for any lone member dispatching during TC
YELLOW. SFG, OG, MXG and MSG leadership and representatives designated (in
writing), may travel alone provided permission is obtained from owning group commander
during TC YELLOW. These individuals MUST travel in a 4-wheel drive radio-equipped
vehicle.
