BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                    TWENTIETH AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 91-1
TWENTIETH AIR FORCE
                                                                        27 DECEMBER 2011

                                                                                       Safety

                                                VEHICLE SAFETY FOR TWENTIETH AIR
                                                  FORCE MISSILE FIELD OPERATIONS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available for downloading on the e-Publishing website
               at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 20 AF/SEG                                                         Certified by: 20 AF/SE
                                                                       (Lt Col David S. Bunz)
Supersedes:   20 AFI 91-1, Vehicle Safety                                             Pages: 8
              for Twentieth Air Force
              Missile Field Operations, 15
              Oct 2009


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive 91-2, Safety Programs. It provides
policies and procedures for vehicle safety, general information regarding vehicle operator
responsibilities, driver training requirements, speed limits and other safety requirements in
Twentieth Air Force missile field operations not covered by other directives. It applies to
individuals at all levels in the Twentieth Air Force missile complex, except where noted
otherwise, to include Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard (ANG) members when on duty
status. Units may supplement this instruction to allow for local requirements. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Comply with AFI 33-332, Privacy Act
Program, for documents containing privacy act information. Comply with DoDR 5400.7, DoD
Freedom of Information Act Program, Air Force Supplement for documents containing For
Official Use Only information. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the office of primary responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route the AF Form 847 from the field through
major command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility.
 2                                                              20AFI91-1 27 DECEMBER 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has significant changes and requires complete review.
1. Vehicle Operator Responsibilities.
     1.1. When a vehicle mishap occurs in the missile complex, the wing commander or
     designated representative will consider restricting travel on applicable roads until safety
     personnel investigate, review the circumstances and recommend unrestricted travel.
     1.2. Vehicle Crew Concept (VCC). Everyone in the vehicle shares responsibility for safety
     and mission accomplishment. Each member of the crew has specific responsibilities and is
     accountable for safely completing the mission. The senior ranking person is responsible for
     safe vehicle operation and occupant safety. The vehicle crew concept applies to all
     Government Motor Vehicles (GMV) driven in the missile field complex for missile field
     operations. Each occupant will participate in mission planning, to include route selection and
     risk management and ensure all personnel and equipment is secure.
     1.3. A first-aid kit, route folder, spare tire, jack, highway warning kit and a fire extinguisher,
     IAW 49 CFR 571, AFJM 24-306 or AFOSH std 91-501 requirements, will be available in the
     vehicle prior to trip departure. Additionally, during locally determined periods, all occupants
     will carry personal cold weather gear and the vehicle will be equipped with a winter survival
     kit. See Attachment (Atch 2) for recommended survival kit items.
     1.4. Secure all items (survival kits, vehicle accessory kits, tools, personal bags/A-3 bags,
     Individual Protective Equipment not worn, etc.) during travel.
     1.5. Secure all weapons at all times, in such a manner as to remain secured if the vehicle is
     involved in a mishap.
     1.6. Use vehicle headlights at all times. Daytime running lights will suffice during daylight
     hours as long as they are on. This aids visibility of the vehicle operator as well as other
     vehicle operators seeing you.
     1.7. The Risk Management (RM) process will include driver selection and factors outlined in
     paragraph 3. Whenever possible, the senior ranking passenger will be in the front seat. The
     front seat passenger (safety observer) will remain alert during the dispatch, handle all radio
     communications, read maps, assist in identifying hazards and ensure compliance with driving
     regulations and laws. NOTE: For the purposes of conducting driver and safety observer
     evaluations, the senior ranking individual can sit in the back seat (if conducting an
     evaluation).
     1.8. Notify Transportation Control Center (TCC) of road conditions that differ from those
     briefed prior to leaving Missile Support Base (MSB). When factors affecting road conditions
     deteriorate enough to implement a change in Travel Condition, operators will stop in a safe
     location. To avoid/minimize the potential of a traffic mishap, stop at a rest area, gas station
     or parking lot, if available. Engage hazard-warning lights. Notify TCC of conditions and
     await permission to continue travel.
2. Speed Limits.
20AFI91-1 27 DECEMBER 2011                                                                       3


   2.1. All speed limits are maximums based on optimum road and weather conditions.
   Personnel operating GMVs will comply with all federal, state, local and commander-directed
   speed limits, and will lower speed whenever road and weather conditions warrant.
   2.2. At no time will a vehicle be operated at speeds unsafe for conditions. The maximum
   speed limit on all gravel roads is 25 miles per hour or lower, as road and weather conditions
   dictate.
   2.3. SF Team vehicle operators responding to a real world Covered Wagon, security
   situation, Back-up Force, or emergency situation involving life or limb are authorized to
   exceed 25 MPH on gravel/dirt roads but at no time will vehicle operation exceed a speed
   reasonable for weather, visibility, traffic or roadway conditions, as directed by local wing
   policy. Due to local law enforcement having jurisdiction off-base, military response to
   emergency situations does not automatically give the driver the “right of way.” Drivers
   retain accountability for safe travel, regardless of response priorities.
3. Risk Management (RM). Conduct a unit-managed, formalized RM decision-making
process for every vehicle movement to/from/within the missile complex. Implement mitigators
to offset high-risk situations. For example, choosing to reduce speed or swap to a more
experienced driver during inclement weather conditions would be examples of mitigators.
Consider the following examples of factors in the RM process:
   3.1. Vehicle operator’s driving experience (month/years)
   3.2. Vehicle operator’s driving history (tickets, accident, mishaps, etc.)
   3.3. Geographic driving experience (e.g. southern or northern states)
   3.4. Driving experience on gravel roads (month/years)
   3.5. Driving experience on winter road conditions (months/years)
   3.6. Vehicle operator’s age
   3.7. Vehicle operator’s rest/sleep prior to driving
   3.8. Existing and forecasted weather (to include wind speed)
   3.9. Vehicle type
   3.10. Road condition
   3.11. Travel distance
   3.12. Hours on duty prior to trip departure
   3.13. Day or night travel
   3.14. Familiarity with the area to be traversed (flight, squadron, etc.)
   3.15. Other factors as directed by local policy
4. Additional Safety Requirements.
   4.1. The senior vehicle occupant will, to the greatest extent possible, be at least an E-4.
   4.2. The center front seat will only be occupied if all other available seats are filled.
 4                                                              20AFI91-1 27 DECEMBER 2011


     4.3. All passengers regardless of rank, seniority or position will ensure safe procedures are
     practiced and seat belts are worn.
     4.4. Report all vehicle mishaps IAW AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports and
     applicable supplements.
     4.5. A rollover is defined as any Air Force vehicle, moving on or off-base, which, in the
     course of a single vehicle mishap, rolls onto its side, its top, or rolls 360 degrees or more and
     comes to rest on its wheels. Exempt vehicles designated as Gravel Road Trainers from this
     requirement when performing initial and/or annual refresher training.
     4.6. On advice of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, the following safety
     restrictions apply when operating government 15-passenger vans:
        4.6.1. Vans will not be operated with more than nine personnel (includes driver).
        4.6.2. Do not operate the van at a speed greater than 55 MPH under any circumstances.
        4.6.3. Only personnel who have received hands-on familiarization training and
        understand the driving and loading characteristics of 15-passenger vans will be allowed
        to operate such vehicles. Personnel designated to drive 15-passenger vans must have the
        qualification annotated on their government driver’s license (AF Form 2293 with
        management code BXXX1.). In addition, the National Highway Traffic Safety
        Administration warning/safety brief must be completed and annotated on the member’s
        AF Form 55 and on the AF Form 171.
5. Team Chief/Leader Responsibilities.
     5.1. The team chief/leader will check Travel Conditions (TC) prior to trip departure, to
     include departures from Missile Alert Facilities (MAF) or Launch Facilities (LF) while in the
     missile complex. The team chief/leader will ensure performance of appropriate risk
     management assessment, approval by the appropriate level and review by leadership prior to
     departure. The team chief/leader will also ensure each vehicle operator understands their
     responsibilities IAW paragraph 1.
     5.2. Ensure all teams dispatch with a copy of the Travel Condition (TC) chart (20 AFI 24-
     301, Atch 1).
6. Driver’s Training Courses/Requirements.
     6.1. There are six types of driver’s training required for personnel who dispatch in the
     missile field complex. They are Driver’s Safety, Vehicle Orientation and Operation, Vehicle
     Crew Concept (VCC), SkidCar, Gravel Road and Route Familiarization. Maintain this
     documentation at the wing commander’s discretion.
        6.1.1. Driver’s Safety Training. All personnel will attend driver’s safety training. This
        training will emphasize driving conditions, proper risk assessment (pre-dispatch and
        trans-dispatch), proper vehicle inspection, emergencies, radio-use, and instructions and
        policies within this instruction and local directives governing missile complex travel.
        6.1.2. Vehicle Orientation and Operation Training. Each unit will conduct a driver-
        training program for each individual on those vehicles that the individual will operate.
        Tailor this training to the driver’s experience and unit driver training requirements.
        Vehicle driver training in inclement weather is an essential element for drivers to learn
20AFI91-1 27 DECEMBER 2011                                                                     5


     and gain experience on how to handle vehicles in such conditions. Training in inclement
     weather can only occur after proper coordination between the squadron commander and
     group commander. Do not conduct training in TC RED.
     6.1.3. VCC Training. All personnel dispatching to the missile field complex will receive
     VCC Training incorporating the elements described in paragraph 1.2. Each wing will
     develop this training for their personnel.
     6.1.4. SkidCar and Gravel Road Training. All personnel who drive GMVs in the missile
     field complex will complete this training within 90 days of initial assignment to 90 MW,
     91 MW or 341 MW unless they have documented proof of attending the class at another
     20 AF wing.
         6.1.4.1. All personnel under 24 years of age, dispatching to the missile field complex
         will receive annual skid and gravel road training.
         6.1.4.2. No missile field complex vehicle operator will receive a government vehicle
         license until the individual has completed skid and gravel road training.
     6.1.5. Route Familiarization Training. This training should, to the greatest extent
     possible, include driver’s familiarization of the missile flight area. Perform route folder
     training on a regular basis (i.e.-quarterly, semi-annually). Include all known road hazards
     and peculiarities in Route Familiarization Training.
  6.2. For mission-related dispatches, no operator or front seat passenger will operate a vehicle
  in the missile field complex until they complete Driver’s Safety, Vehicle Orientation and
  Operation, Vehicle Crew Concept, SkidCar, Gravel Road and Route Familiarization.
     6.2.1. Squadron Commanders may document the inability of a front seat passenger to
     meet this requirement in a signed memorandum that states the reasons for the shortfall
     (maintenance issues, weather, etc.) and a suspense for the member to complete the
     required training. The duration for this memorandum will not exceed 6 months from
     initial assignment to 90 MW, 91 MW or 341 MW. During the period the member is
     under the memorandum, they may sit in the front seat and perform the required duties of
     the front seat passenger but this does not give them a waiver to operate a GMV. The
     group commander will endorse each memorandum indicating his/her acceptance of the
     risk to allow the individual to perform duties as a front seat passenger.
     6.2.2. Senior personnel accomplishing orientation-only dispatches may take
     distinguished visitors and newly-arrived personnel to the ICBM complex as front seat
     passengers. These passengers are exempt from the provisions in paragraph 6.1.
     6.2.3. The Missile Wing commander has discretion to permit missile complex travel for
     visiting personnel/teams who lack training/certification required by 20 AFI 91-1,
     paragraph 6.1.
         6.2.3.1. Visiting personnel/teams are responsible for adhering to all provisions of 20
         AFI 91-1 (e.g., operational risk management, travel conditions, speed limits, etc.) and
         will abide by direction for travel in paragraph 6.4.
  6.3. Wing Safety will use 20 AF standardized lesson plan template to develop local lesson
  plans for SkidCar and Gravel Road training and will develop local vehicle crew concept
  training. Wing safety will provide these lesson plans and any updates to the affected units.
6                                                             20AFI91-1 27 DECEMBER 2011


    Wing ground safety staffs will train/certify all instructors on the Gravel Road academic
    curriculum, vehicle and course. SkidCar training will be accomplished IAW training
    received from the parent company of the SkidCar assembly. Experienced trainers outside the
    safety office may certify other instructors with prior authorization of Wing Safety.
    6.4. Units are responsible for the training of their personnel on Gravel Road, SkidCar and
    Vehicle Crew Concept training to include scheduling and maintaining training records. Units
    must keep on file a list of personnel who have received initial or recurring training and those
    overdue.




                                             ROBERT M. WALKER, Colonel, USAF
                                             Vice Commander
20AFI91-1 27 DECEMBER 2011                                                                 7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Prescribed Forms: There are no prescribed forms.
Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record
AF Form 171, Request for Driver’s Training and Addition to U. S. Government Driver’s License
AF Form 2293, U. S. Air Force Motor Vehicle Operator Identification Card
8                                                      20AFI91-1 27 DECEMBER 2011


                                     Attachment 2
           SUGGESTED VEHICLE SURVIVAL KIT CONTENTS

    ITEM                                                     QUANTITY
    State road report phone numbers                          1 per kit

    List of state weather radio stations                     1 per kit

    State/Wing Winter Driving Booklet                        1 per kit

    Flashlight with extra batteries, chemical light sticks   2 per kit

    Emergency candles                                        4 per kit

    #10 can to contain candle wax and prevent fire           1 per kit

    Match safe with waterproof matches                       4 per kit

    Standard vehicle first aid kit                           1 per kit

    Road hazard signal triangles                             2 per kit

    Antenna signal (e.g.-red ribbon, flag, etc.)             1 per kit

    Small sack of sand or cat litter                         1 per kit

    Soft case (hold all contents)                            1 per kit

    Basic tools (pliers, screwdriver, adjustable wrench)     1 per kit

    Shovel                                                   1 per kit
