BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          21ST SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 44-220
21ST SPACE WING
                                                                                 10 APRIL 2012

                                                                                         Medical

                                                  BASE PUBLIC ACCESS DEFIBRILLATOR
                                                                     (PAD) PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 21 MDG/SGNE                                                      Certified by: 21 MDG/CC
                                                                       Colonel Michael S. Burke
Supersedes:    21SWI 44-1, 18 Apr 06                                                    Pages: 8


This instruction establishes the Peterson Air Force Base Public Access Defibrillator (PAD)
Program, and implements the provisions of the Guidelines for Public Access Defibrillations in
Federal Facilities dated 23 May 2001. It applies to all Peterson AFB units, Thule ABG, and
Cheyenne Mountain Air Force Station units that house PAD Automated External Defibrillators
(AEDs). This instruction also applies to Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard mission
partners. The program enables AEDs to be placed in strategic locations as PAD AEDs, based
upon population traffic, occupational or cardiac arrest risk. PAD AEDs are intended for use by
non-medically trained individuals. Buildings with PAD AEDs have individuals designated as
site coordinators and targeted responders to use these devices. These trained individuals have
ready access to the PAD AEDs to use in reviving victims of sudden cardiac arrest prior to arrival
of first-responder emergency personnel. This instruction identifies responsibilities, maintenance,
quality assurance, and documentation requirements. The instruction prescribes 21 SW Form 17,
Sample Event Summary Sheet/Mock Response Event Summary Sheet; and 21 SW Form 18, PAD
AED Monthly Checklist. This instruction covers all PAD AEDs maintained by the 21st Medical
Group (21 MDG). Geographically separated units (GSUs) should utilize their closest military
treatment facility or supporting host medical unit to lead their PAD programs. Noncompliance
with this instruction may result in the Director of Base Medical Services (DBMS) (21 MDG/CC)
reporting deficiencies to the site coordinator’s unit commander for corrective action. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the office of primary
responsibility (OPR) using AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF
IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
 2                                                               21SWI44-220 10 APRIL 2012


Comply with AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program, for documents containing Privacy Act
information. Comply with DOD Regulation 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, and USD
(I) memorandum Interim Information Security Guidance, for documents containing For Official
Use Only information. This publication may not be supplemented. The use of the name or
mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this
publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. See Glossary of References and
Supporting Information (Attachment 1).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. 21 SW Form 17 and
21 SW Form 18 have been added. The term Critical Incident Stress Management was replaced
with Traumatic Stress Response (TSR) in sections 1.6.4. and attachment 4. Section 1.7. Targeted
Responders is substantially revised. This instruction was re-numbered from 21 SWI 44-1 to
21 SWI 44-220.
1. RESPONSIBLITIES:
     1.1. 21st Space Wing Commander (21 SW/CC). The installation commander has the
     overall responsibility for the PAD Program and ensures the DBMS maintains proper medical
     objectives for the PAD Program IAW AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, and AFI 41-
     209, Medical Logistics Support. The installation commander oversees the operation of the
     PAD program and ensures each organization with an AED appoints a unit individual as the
     site coordinator to meet guidelines set forth in this document. The PAD program is not a
     “medical” program; it is a “user” program. The installation commander provides installation
     control of this “user” program through the respective unit commanders and unit site
     coordinators.
     1.2. 21st Medical Group Commander (21 MDG/CC). The MDG/CC is the DBMS and is
     responsible to the installation commander for implementation of the PAD Program. The
     DBMS will ensure all medical objectives are maintained and provide professional guidance
     on program administration. The DBMS will appoint, in writing, a medical director and
     program coordinator for the PAD Program. The DBMS is the final approval authority.
     1.3. 21st MDG Medical Director. The medical director will be a licensed physician
     proficient in emergency medical services protocols, Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR),
     and the use of PADs IAW Federal Guidelines for Public Access Defibrillation Programs in
     Federal Facilities, FR 28495, 23 May 2001; and Colorado State Law, Colorado AED
     Immunity Statute, 13-21-108.1. The medical director is responsible for providing oversight
     for training, protocols, and formulation of the PAD Program’s deployment strategies. The
     medical director, or designee, will assess quality assurance via review of all event summary
     sheets within 2 duty days of PAD AED use.
     1.4. Program Coordinator. The program coordinator, at a minimum, will be a Basic Life
     Support (BLS) Instructor. The program coordinator will validate that site coordinators and
     targeted responders complete training in basic CPR and AED use. The program coordinator
     will provide recommendations to squadron commanders for individuals to serve as site
     coordinators. They will provide guidance to site coordinators on the PAD Program
     continuity binder content, training materials and will assist with binder inspections
21SWI44-220 10 APRIL 2012                                                                       3


  periodically. They will act as consultants to provide recommendations regarding PAD AED
  locations and number of targeted responders for each PAD AED location.
  1.5. Unit Commander/Agency Director. The unit commander or agency director will
  deploy the PAD Program, AEDs, and associated equipment (Attachment 2) for selected sites
  once approved by DBMS. The unit commander or director agrees to the start up, annual, and
  on-going cost of maintaining AEDs for public access, to include costs associated with
  training all staff associated with AEDs. They will also appoint, in writing, a site coordinator
  to manage their PAD Program.
  1.6. Site Coordinators. The site coordinators and their alternates, at a minimum, will be
  certified in basic CPR/AED and appointed, in writing, by the squadron commander or agency
  director. It is recommended a site coordinator should only be responsible for PAD AEDs in
  one or two buildings.
     1.6.1. Monthly, the site coordinator or designee will inspect the PAD AEDs, check
     battery status, and notify the 21 MDG Biomedical Equipment Repair Office (BMETs) if
     problems arise. The site coordinator or designee will complete 21 SW Form 18 and file
     the forms (checklists) in a PAD Program continuity binder, which is maintained at the
     unit. The binders will be reviewed annually by the program coordinator and at the 21
     MDG Medical Director’s discretion.
     1.6.2. The site coordinators are responsible for the PAD AEDs, associated equipment,
     and keeping the PAD Program continuity binder current. They will ensure all required
     inspections and maintenance actions are accomplished by 21 MDG BMETs in
     accordance with the manufacturer’s manual. Units may choose to have PAD AED child
     electrodes, in addition to adult electrodes, after consultation with the program
     coordinator.
     1.6.3. The site coordinators will identify targeted responders near each PAD AED
     location for normal duty hours and track proper training, certification, and recertification
     documentation for all targeted responders. They will also maintain copies of current CPR
     cards of targeted responders. The site coordinators will provide training on program
     requirements and incident reporting annually to targeted responders. The site coordinator
     will conduct and document periodic mock response events to review emergency response
     procedures with targeted responders.
     1.6.4. The site coordinators are also responsible for ordering replacement supplies
     needed for the PAD Program through the 21 MDG Logistics Office (Attachment 2).
     Operations and Maintenance funds may be used to purchase replacement supplies. After
     a PAD AED is used, the site coordinator will offer to arrange TSR services for all
     individuals involved in the emergency response (Attachment 3).
  1.7. Targeted Responders. A core group of personnel most likely to be called upon to use
  the AED within their facility based upon staffing, type of facility, continuity, and risk. Those
  individuals identified as targeted responders will, at a minimum, be certified in basic CPR
  and AED use through an approved course such as the American Heart Association (AHA) or
  American Red Cross. They will provide documentation of their training to the site
  coordinator.
 4                                                                21SWI44-220 10 APRIL 2012


        1.7.1. In an emergency situation, targeted responders should follow the protocol as
        depicted in the AHA “AED Algorithm.”
        1.7.2. If present, they will respond to an emergency response that occurs at their site.
        After the emergency, they will complete the Event Summary Sheet (21 SW Form 17) and
        forward it to the site coordinator, who will forward it to the medical director.
2. EVENT SUMMARY SHEET. An Event Summary Sheet (21 SW Form 17) will be
completed by the individuals who used the PAD AED on a victim. The medical director will be
notified as soon as possible after PAD AED use and the Event Summary Sheet will be forwarded
by the site coordinator to the medical director within 2 duty days. The 21 SW Form 17 will be
used as a guide to document mock training events.
3. REQUESTING AED PLACEMENT. Prior to purchasing an AED, commanders requesting
a PAD Program should contact the program coordinator. The program coordinator will provide
guidance on purchases, to include guidance on placement of the AED at the site.
     3.1. The program coordinator will assist the unit in obtaining a request for a
     vulnerability/risk assessment with the base fire department to validate the need for a PAD
     AED. If it is determined that a PAD Program is appropriate, the group or squadron
     commanders will submit the request “in writing” to the program coordinator for appropriate
     coordination and approval.
     3.2. It is recommended that units with an existing PAD program perform vulnerability/risk
     assessment revalidation biennially to validate the need to maintain a PAD program.
4. PROCUREMENT OF AEDs. Procurement of all PAD AEDs must be approved by the 21
MDG, through its Equipment Review Authorization Activity meeting. The 21 MDG Medical
Logistics Flight will determine the PAD AED model and type and ensure the procuring unit is
aware of all procedures to purchase and maintain the unit funded PAD AED and associated
supplies and equipment. All 21 SW PAD AEDs will be logged into the Defense Medical
Logistics Standard Support database by the 21 MDG Medical Logistics Flight.
5. MAINTENANCE OF AEDs. The 21 MDG BMETs will conduct annual maintenance,
address any mechanical problems found by the site coordinators, and inspect all PAD AEDs after
their use on a victim. If a PAD AED is in need of service or repair, it will be removed from the
facility until it is deemed serviceable. The site coordinator will place a sign over the temporarily
missing device box with instructions on how to contact emergency services. After an event, 21
MDG BMETs will download the event recording from the PAD AED and offer the unit a
temporary loaner PAD AED, if available. All maintenance and operation costs are the
responsibility of the unit owning the PAD AED. The 21 MDG Medical Logistics Flight will
work closely with the site coordinator and 21 MDG BMETs if a PAD AED is recalled. PAD
AEDs should be stored in such a way that an alarm is activated when the unit is removed for use.
If a unit owns a PAD AED that has not been in service (stored) or awaiting replacement supplies,
the 21 MDG BMETs must be contacted to service the PAD AED prior to use.
21SWI44-220 10 APRIL 2012                                                                      5


6. QUALITY ASSURANCE. The 21 MDG medical director will review all event summary
sheets to assess quality of care in accordance with state law. Additionally, the medical director
will forward all event summary sheets to the 21 MDG Executive Committee of the Medical Staff
for final review. Noncompliance with this instruction may result in the DBMS reporting
deficiencies to the site coordinator’s unit commander for corrective action.




                                            CHRIS D. CRAWFORD
                                            Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
 6                                                            21SWI44-220 10 APRIL 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program, 29 January 2004
AFI 33-322, Records Management Program, 7 October 2003
AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, 1 May 2006
AFI 41-209, Medical Logistics Support, 30 June 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Record, 1 March 2008
AHA-American Heart Association 7272 Greenville Ave. Dallas, TX 75231
www.americanheartassociation.org
ARC-American Red Cross National Headquarters 2025 E Street, NW Washington, DC 20006
www.americanredcross.
Cardiac Arrest Survival Act of 2000 http://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov
Colorado State law, Colorado AED Immunity Statute, 13-21-108.1
http://www.ehs.colostate.edu/WAED/Home.aspx
DoD 6055.6, DoD Fire and Emergency Services Program
DoD Regulation 5200.1-R, Special Access Program, Interim Information Security Guidance
9 October 2008
Federal Register E9-19555, Guidelines for Public Access Defibrillation Program in Federal
Facilities
MTN-Military Training Network 4301 Jones Bridge Road, Bethesda, Maryland 20814-4799
http://www.usuhs.mil
Prescribed Forms
21 SW Form 17, PAD Event Summary/Mock Response Event Summary Sheet
21 SW Form 18, PAD AED Monthly Checklist
Adopted Forms
AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
21SWI44-220 10 APRIL 2012                                                                        7


                                        Attachment 2
   RECOMMENDED LIST OF ADDITIONAL EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES TO BE
                     KEPT WITH THE PAD AED

This Attachment has a listing of the additional equipment and supplies to be kept with the PAD
AED.
A2.1. Nonlatex protective gloves
A2.2. CPR face mask or shield
A2.3. Disposable razors to dry shave a victim’s chest to allow proper electrode pad contact, if
required.
A2.4. Bandage scissors for clothing removal, as needed
A2.5. Spare electrode pads for AED
A2.6. Biohazard medical waste container or bags
A2.7. Absorbent towel
A2.8. Copy of event summary sheet, paper, and pen
A2.9. AED signage
 8                                                              21SWI44-220 10 APRIL 2012


                                         Attachment 3
                         TRAUMATIC STRESS RESPONSE (TSR)

A3.1. TSR is a comprehensive system of crisis interventions designed to assist individuals and
groups affected by traumatic events.
A3.2. Events that may precipitate a request for TSR services are as follows. Many types of
events have the potential to produce individual and community traumatic stress. Events include:
large-scale disasters (tornadoes, bombings, hurricanes, etc.) and small-scale disasters (suicide,
death or near-death of a coworker, workplace violence event, etc.). TSR services will be
provided after traumatic events. The goal is to assist those affected by traumatic events to cope
with the normal stress reaction in an effective manner. These actions are intended to minimize
the impact of exposure to these events and prevent or mitigate permanent disability, if possible.
A3.3. Procedures for requesting TSR services: TSR services can be reached by contacting the
Mental Health Clinic (556-7804) during duty hours, the unit 1st Sergeant or the 21 SW
Command Post (556-4555) after hours.
