BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          21ST SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 10-204
21ST SPACE WING
                                                                           16 DECEMBER 2010

                                                                                       Operations

                                                                 WING EXERCISE PROGRAM




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms/IMTs are available for downloading or ordering on
               the e-publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 21 SW/XPPE                                                           Certified by: 21 SW/XP
Supersedes: 21SWI10-204, 28 July 2003                                      (Nancy Bishop, D.M.)
                                                                                         Pages: 11


This instruction implements AFI 10-204, Readiness Exercises and After-Action Reporting
Program, and AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and
Operations. It establishes policy, assigns responsibilities, and prescribes procedures for exercise
participation in the 21st Space Wing (21 SW). It applies to all 21 SW units, as well as mission
partners on Peterson Air Force Base (PAFB), including Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve
units. Mission partners desiring notification or coordination of exercises will identify their
requirements to the Installation Exercise Director. Units will not supplement this instruction.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF IMT 847s from the fields through the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in the publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision
implements new criteria and requirements for the wing exercise program. It updates Exercise
Evaluator Team descriptors and member responsibilities. It outlines exercise phases and clarifies
exercise participation requirements.
 2                                                        21SWI10-204 16 DECEMBER 2010


1. Purpose, Objective, and Concept.
     1.1. Purpose. The 21 SW sponsors and participates in scheduled and short-notice exercises
     and drills to assess and improve unit readiness to meet peacetime and wartime missions. The
     21 SW and its subordinate units also participate in United States Strategic Command
     (USSTRATCOM), Air Force Space Command (AFSPC), and 14th Air Force (14 AF)
     sponsored exercises. Information specific to a given exercise will be distributed, as
     appropriate, prior to the start of each exercise (STARTEX).
     1.2. Objective. The 21 SW exercise program embodies the “exercise the way we fight”
     concept. Exercises are designed and planned to reflect real-world emergencies and
     deployments to the maximum extent possible. Emphasis is placed on maximum participation
     and reduced artificiality. Performance will be documented in the After Action Report (AAR)
     and provided as feedback to improve future performance. Failure to meet requirements of an
     Air Force Instruction (AFI), applicable Technical Order, AFSPC Checklist (AFSPCCL), or
     other governing guidance will be identified as a deficiency and reported to the appropriate
     unit commander for tracking and resolution. All exercised areas will be briefed and reported
     to wing leadership. Additionally, compliance inspections may occur while an exercise is
     being conducted and identified deficiencies may be documented in any resulting inspection
     report.
2. Type of Exercises.
     2.1. Higher Headquarters. The 21 SW is required to participate in command directed
     exercises as tasked in a Consolidated Tasking Order (CTO). Wing participation in HHQ
     exercises provides an opportunity to test wartime relationships among wings, 14 AF,
     USSTRATCOM, North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD), United States
     Northern Command (USNORTHCOM), and theater warfighters.
     2.2. Local Exercises. CONDOR CREST is a 21 SW sponsored exercise conducted
     quarterly or as directed by the wing commander.
        2.2.1. CONDOR CREST Phase I. Phase I exercises evaluate and measure the wing’s
        readiness and ability to execute its Fight-in-Place mission. These exercises include
        deployment processes, emergency management responses, and compliance with HHQ
        guidance.
        2.2.2. CONDOR CREST Phase II. Phase II exercises evaluate and measure the wing’s
        ability to deploy Unit Type Codes (UTC) to an Area of Responsibility (AOR), perform
        their Mission Capability Statement (MISCAP) requirements and evaluate warrior skills
        listed in AFPAM 10-100.
3. Exercise Evaluation Team Members and Responsibilities.
     3.1. The Exercise Evaluation Team (EET) is made up of the EET Chief, Exercise Directors
     (ED), Exercise Coordinators (EC), and Exercise Evaluators (EE). The EET is responsible to
     the 21 SW/CC for the exercise program. EET members must become familiar with Joint
     Master Scenario Events Listing (JMSEL) software. The JMSEL is an Access database
     application and outlines each event in a CONDOR CREST exercise. When developed,
     JMSELs will be marked “Unclassified//For Official Use Only (FOUO).” EET members will
     follow Operations Security (OPSEC) processes when developing and executing exercise
21SWI10-204 16 DECEMBER 2010                                                                      3


  scenarios. EET members will not disclose exercise scenario content and will refer questions
  on the scenario to the EET Chief or EDs. EET will abide by all security entry requirements
  and will be identified by blue EET vests during CONDOR CREST exercises.
  3.2. EET Chief. The EET Chief is appointed, in writing, by the 21 SW/CC and is overall
  responsible to the wing commander for the 21 SW exercise program. The EET Chief is the
  liaison between the HQ AFSPC Inspector General (IG), wing commander, EDs, ECs, and
  EEs for all exercises. The EET Chief is the final approval authority for all EET member
  appointments.
  3.3. Exercise Directors (ED). EDs are evaluators assigned to 21 SW Exercise Branch. EDs
  develop the wing exercise schedule, coordinate with 21 SW group and wing staff ECs/EEs
  on information required to construct exercise scenarios, ensure exercise scenarios follow a
  script, coordinate with external agencies on unified command exercises, and prepare the final
  exercise after action report. The ED can change or delete scenario inputs at any time to
  ensure exercise objectives are met and ensure mission accomplishment is not hampered by
  exercise scenarios. The EDs also represent the 21 SW at the annual and quarterly AFSPC
  Scheduling Resources and Process Team conference.
  3.4. Exercise Coordinators (EC). During the exercise planning phase, it is the ECs
  responsibility to develop exercise scenarios and oversee the development of squadron-level
  scenarios based upon wing objectives established by the EET Chief. ECs ensure objectives
  supported by appropriate legal or policy guidance are established and documented for each
  exercise event involving their group. Additionally, they ensure role player and SIMSWITCH
  requirements are identified for each event. ECs coordinate with unit EEs on exercise inputs
  and evaluation information needed to provide realism to exercise scenarios. They track EE
  appointment and training for all EEs within their group/staff agency. ECs also coordinate
  with their group commanders/staff agency to provide support with SIM SWITCH manning
  and role player support during an exercise. ECs will provide exercise briefings to their
  respective group commander/staff agency (as requested).
     3.4.1. ECs will meet the following minimum qualifications:
         3.4.1.1. ECs must be able to provide oversight to their group/staff level EEs. ECs
         should normally be the ranking members assigned to the EET from a group/staff
         agency.
         3.4.1.2. ECs provide a post exercise briefing to their respective group commander, or
         equivalent, and provide inputs to the ED for the official exercise report. These inputs
         include Strengths, Deficiencies, Recommended Improvement Areas, and professional
         performers observed during the exercise. They compile inputs from unit EEs on
         exercise evaluation information and supply this information to the EDs. ECs will
         assist in root cause analysis for their unit’s deficiencies and assist in the assignment of
         deficiency codes to each.
         3.4.1.3. ECs can change or delete exercise inputs at the unit or group level to meet
         exercise objectives and to aid in designing a realistic script any time prior to
         finalizing the script. After the EET Chief has declared the script final, the ECs will
         only delete events in coordination with the EET Chief.
4                                                          21SWI10-204 16 DECEMBER 2010


           3.4.1.4. 21 OG ECs will ensure all subordinate Geographically Separated Unit (GSU)
           EEs are provided exercise planning and execution guidance prior to STARTEX.
           3.4.1.5. ECs will be appointed, in writing, by the appropriate group commander or
           the Director of Staff using the appointment letter at Attachment 1.
    3.5. Exercise Evaluators. EEs are assigned to the squadrons/staff agency who aid in
    designing, conducting, and evaluating realistic exercise scenarios. EEs are responsible to the
    appropriate group/wing staff EC.
       3.5.1. EEs will meet the following minimum qualifications:
           3.5.1.1. Evaluators must be qualified/certified for the task they are evaluating. For
           example, in order to evaluate an Emergency Operations Center (EOC) response to a
           major accident, the person should be fully qualified as an EOC member prior to
           evaluating an exercise event.
           3.5.1.2. Evaluators must have experience in the task they are evaluating. The most
           experienced person at each position would be the first choice for selection to the EET.
           Personnel who have previously deployed to support an AEF tasking are preferred for
           evaluation of field exercise events.
           3.5.1.3. EEs will be appointed in writing by their unit commander using the
           appointment letter at Attachment 2.
           3.5.1.4. During the exercise planning phase, EEs support the ECs and EDs by
           providing realistic, credible, and detailed exercise events for their respective unit,
           ensuring the proper materials needed to present scenarios are available. EEs develop
           challenging unit-level exercise scenarios in conjunction with other functional areas.
           Additionally, they ensure role player and Simulation (SIM) SWITCH requirements
           are identified for each event.
           3.5.1.5. During an exercise, EEs are in the unit injecting unit-level exercise inputs
           and evaluating unit, crew, and individual performance. They remain on-scene to
           ensure that scenarios are clearly presented and kept within the scope of the script.
           EEs provide clarification of events, as needed.
           3.5.1.6. Post exercise EE support consists of providing an out-brief to the unit
           commander and reporting unit exercise results, as well as participating in post
           exercise analysis and identifying any observed problem areas. EEs will support root
           cause analysis and assist commanders in assigning deficiency codes to findings for
           their unit.
    3.6. EET Training. All members of the EET will complete training requirements prior to
    performing wing exercise evaluator duties IAW AFI 10-2501.
       3.6.1. There are two EET training requirements. First, all EET members must complete
       the following Advance Distributed Learning System computer based training (CBT):
       Exercise Evaluation Team (EET) training; Air Force Emergency Response Operations
       (AERO) Command and Control training. These CBTs must be accomplished prior to
       attending Local Procedures classroom training. Second, all EET members must attend
       EET Local Procedures classroom training. The classroom training covers installation
21SWI10-204 16 DECEMBER 2010                                                                     5


      specific criteria for wing exercise procedures, evaluator duties and responsibilities. EET
      classroom training is scheduled through EDs. All training is current for 20 months.
   3.7. EET Assessment Conduct. EET members will observe and document performance
   and task completion during exercise scenarios. The EET will use AFIs, and other applicable
   guidance to assess player performance. EET members will not lead or influence players
   through exercise scenarios. Player requests for clarification of exercise scenarios may be
   addressed but should be limited to course corrections that lead to exercise objectives.
   3.8. Trusted Agent (TA). TAs are unit members required to support a specific event within
   a CONDOR CREST exercise. They will be appointed in writing for each exercise by the
   appropriate group/staff agency EC using Attachment 3. TAs will not disclose exercise
   scenario content and will refer questions about scenarios to the EET Chief or EDs. Training
   on 21 SW/XP evaluation techniques will be conducted by the sponsoring EET member
   and/or EC.
   3.9. SIM SWITCH. A SIM SWITCH is set up at PAFB and GSUs (as necessary) to meet
   exercise objectives. SIM SWITCH personnel act as various agencies that are not exercise
   participants but would be contacted in response to presented scenarios. Additionally, the
   SIM SWITCH will inject inputs that would have originated from off-base or non
   participating agencies. SIM SWITCH phone numbers and locations will be provided in the
   exercise STARTEX message.
4. The Exercise Process.
   4.1. Planning. The EET Chief will conduct planning meetings in order to create challenging
   and realistic scenarios that support exercises IAW AFI 10-403, AFI 10-2501, AFI 10-204,
   AFI 90-201, and other applicable Air Force guidance. The EET Chief will ensure OPSEC
   and ORM are considered throughout the planning process. The EET will attend all planning
   meetings as directed by the EET Chief and incorporate the OPSEC and ORM processes into
   all planning scenarios.
   4.2. 21 SW Participation. Unless otherwise directed, all 21 SW units will participate in
   wing exercises. There are times when units may require an exemption or have mission-
   essential personnel that cannot take part in an exercise. The following procedures will be
   followed in these cases:
      4.2.1. Exemptions: If required, each unit assigned to the 21 SW will provide a letter,
      signed by the unit and group commander/Director of Staff, requesting exemption for
      personnel by name, to include military, civilian, and contractor personnel. Under some
      circumstances, it may not be feasible to list all contractor personnel assigned to a project.
      In this case, the letter will identify the prime and subcontractors who will be exempted, as
      well as the Quality Assurance Evaluator, for the contract. Units will forward original
      letters to 21 SW/XP NLT 15 duty days prior to the start of a scheduled exercise. Unit
      commanders will be notified when their request has been approved/disapproved by the 21
      SW/CC or Vice Commander (CV). Exempt personnel must carry a copy of their
      approved exemption letter at all times during the exercise. Exemption letters are valid for
      one exercise only. EET members may clarify exemptions during the exercise by
      contacting an ED or the SIM SWITCH. If an individual states he or she is exempt, but
      does not appear on a letter, EET members will use their judgment to resolve the situation.
6                                                        21SWI10-204 16 DECEMBER 2010


       EET members will document the incident, including the individual’s name and
       organization, and immediately notify the EET Chief.
    4.3. Exercise Uniform Requirements. The UOD during CONDOR CREST exercises is
    ABU, BDU, Flight Suit, Utility, or as otherwise directed by the 21 SW/CC.
    4.4. Exercise Duty Hours. Duty hours for a 21 SW CONDOR CREST exercise will be
    determined by the 21 SW/CC and outlined in each CONDOR CREST STARTEX message.
    Hours may include up to 24/7 operations. Members should expect recalls throughout the
    exercise. Recalls may be accomplished during a CONDOR CREST outside the stated
    STARTEX exercise duty hours.
    4.5. Exercise Simulations and Special Instructions (SPINS). Standard simulations listed
    in AFI 90-201 AFSPCSUP1 will be followed during all CONDOR CREST events. Other
    SPINS and Limiting Factors (LIMFACS) will be identified during exercise planning
    meetings and listed in the exercise STARTEX message.
    4.6. Mission Partner Participation.
       4.6.1. IAW AFI 10-2501, AFI 10-403, and other applicable guidance, mission partners
       will participate in installation exercises. Mission partners will identify an appropriate
       number of EET members to support the EET Chief with conducting exercises. Mission
       partner involvement in wing exercises will be documented in the appropriate CONDOR
       CREST AAR.
       4.6.2. Mission partners may request an exemption letter for their mission essential
       personnel IAW paragraph 4.2.1. Mission-essential members assigned to mission partners
       will carry a copy of this letter during exercises and will show the letter to EET upon
       request. Mission-essential is defined as an individual whose absence would cause
       mission failure. EET members may obtain name, rank, and unit information for
       verification.
    4.7. Off Base Community Participation. Any exercise event that may incorporate
    community involvement needs to be coordinated with the EET Chief. Community
    involvement is an important aspect of the 21 SW exercise program and is highly encouraged.
    To ensure emergency response actions are adequate for the local area and to align with the
    National Incident Management System (NIMS), Air Force Incident Management System
    (AFIMS), Memorandum of Agreements and Memorandum of Understandings with off base
    agencies, off base community participation should be tested in at least one CONDOR
    CREST exercise per Fiscal Year. Off base involvement in wing exercises will be
    documented in the appropriate CONDOR CREST AAR.
    4.8. After Action Report. An AAR will be created for each CONDOR CREST exercise.
    The AAR will contain, at a minimum, Strengths, Deficiencies, Recommended Improvement
    Areas (RIAs), and Professional Performers/Teams. Deficiencies will be tracked and resolved
    IAW 21SWI 90-201. All deficiencies will contain an Office of Primary Responsibility
    (OPR) and, if necessary, an Office of Collateral Responsibility (OCR). CONDOR CREST
    AARs will be distributed to group level workflow boxes NLT 30 duty days following the
    ENDEX of a CONDOR CREST exercise. When developed, AARs will be marked
    “Unclassified//For Official Use Only (FOUO).”
21SWI10-204 16 DECEMBER 2010                                                      7


   4.9. Wing Commander Brief. The 21 SW/CC will receive a briefing on Critical and
   Significant deficiencies reported in the AAR NLT 15 days following a CONDOR CREST
   ENDEX announcement. Group commanders will be afforded an opportunity to review
   deficiencies prior to the wing commander brief.
5. Prescribed and Adopted Forms:
   5.1. Prescribed Forms:
No forms prescribed.
   5.2. Adopted Forms:
AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                        STEPHEN N. WHITING
                                        Colonel, USAF
                                        Commander
 8                                                          21SWI10-204 16 DECEMBER 2010


                                           Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-204, PARTICIPATION IN JOINT AND NATIONAL EXERCISES, 21 April 2010
AFI 90-201, INSPECTOR GENERAL ACTIVITIES, 17 June 2009
AFI 10-403, DEPLOYMENT PLANNING AND EXECUTION, 13 January 2008
AFI 10-2501, AIR FORCE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT (EM) PROGRAM PLANNING AND
OPERATIONS, 24 January 2007
AFI 10-245, ANTITERRORISM (AT), 30 March 2009
21SW 10-2P, COMPREHENSIVE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN, 4 June 2008

Terms
Deficiencies—Deficiencies are listed in each After Action Report as one of three categories:
Critical—A deficiency that results or could result in mission failure or loss of life.
Significant—A deficiency that has significant mission impact or could cause injury to personnel.
Minor—A deficiency that is procedurally incorrect but has only modest mission impact or
produces a safety concern.
Deficiency Codes—Deficiency codes identify the root cause of a deficiency and are found in
AFI 90-201, Table 2.1.
Exercise Evaluation Team (EET)—The EET consists of the EET Chief, Exercise Directors,
Exercise Coordinators, Exercise Evaluators, and Trusted Agents (TA)
EET Chief—Appointed, in writing, by the wing commander and overall responsible for the
wing’s exercise program.
Exercise Coordinator (EC)—Appointed, in writing, by the appropriate group commander or
the director of staff. ECs oversee group and staff agency EEs.
Exercise Director (ED)—21 SW/XPPE staff members responsible to the EET Chief for exercise
program management.
Exercise Evaluator (EE)—Appointed, in writing, by the appropriate unit commander or
equivalent. EEs are the primary evaluators during a wing exercise.
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)—The OPR is overall unit responsible for deficiency
tracking and resolution IAW 21 SWI 90-201.
Office of Collateral Responsibility (OCR)—The OCR will assist the OPR with corrective
action until a deficiency is closed.
21SWI10-204 16 DECEMBER 2010                                                           9


Recommended Improvement Area—Trends or single incidents that impede efficient, effective,
and/or economical mission accomplishment and do not meet the criteria for a deficiency.
Trusted Agent—Personnel appointed, in writing, by the unit commander or 21 SW/XP who are
not permanent members of the 21 SW/EET but are required to support an exercise.
 10                                                      21SWI10-204 16 DECEMBER 2010


                                         Attachment 2
  21 SW SAMPLE APPOINTMENT LETTER FOR EXERCISE COORDINATOR OR
                           EVALUATOR

A2.1. This Attachment contains a sample of an appointment letter for exercise coordinator or
evaluator. Appointment letters must be on official 21 SW letterhead.

Figure A2.1. Sample Appointment Letter.
MEMORANDUM FOR 21 SW/XP

FROM: Group/Unit Commander
      Address line
      Peterson AFB CO 80914-XXXX

SUBJECT: Exercise Coordinator or Evaluator Appointment Letter

1. In our continuing efforts to improve the readiness of the 21st Space Wing and this
installation’s Emergency Management and deployment exercises, we have assigned the
following personnel to the Wing’s Exercise Evaluation Team to provide required expertise to
plan, execute, and evaluate Condor Crest exercises:

 Rank/Name             Phone        AERO CBT            EET CBT            Local Procedures
                                    dd-mmm-yy           dd-mmm-yy          dd-mmm-yy

2. Group Exercise Coordinators (EC) and Unit Exercise Evaluators (EE) will validate all
findings with the 21 SW Exercise Branch and unit leadership and provide findings in the
prescribed format, with references, by the validation deadline.

3. Security and access requirements can be coordinated with our security manager.

 Rank/Name               Office Symbol          Phone                   Fax


4. Questions concerning this appointment should be directed to ___________ at 556/554-
XXXX.


                                                   Name, Rank, USAF Title

cc:
Group Exercise Coordinator
Exercise Evaluator
21SWI10-204 16 DECEMBER 2010                                                                        11


                                          Attachment 3
          21 SW SAMPLE APPOINTMENT LETTER FOR TRUSTED AGENT

A3.1. This Attachment contains a sample of an appointment letter for Trusted Agent.
Appointment letters must be on official 21 SW letterhead.

Figure A3.1. Sample Appointment Letter.
MEMORANDUM FOR 21 SW/XP

FROM: Group/Unit Commander
      Address line
           Peterson AFB CO 80914-XXXX

SUBJECT: Trusted Agent Appointment Letter

1. In our continuing efforts to improve the readiness of the 21st Space Wing and this
installation’s Emergency Management and deployment exercises, we have assigned the
following personnel to assist the Wing’s exercise branch to provide subject matter expertise to
plan and conduct Condor Crest exercises.

  Rank/Name                              Unit                         Phone




2. Trusted Agents may be tasked by 21 SW Exercise Branch to assist in development of
realistic exercise scenarios concerning their area of expertise. All Trusted Agents will practice
OPSEC and safeguard all exercise information accordingly.

3. Questions concerning this appointment should be directed to ___________ at 556/554-
XXXX.




                                                               NAME, Rank, USAF Title

cc:
Group Exercise Coordinator
Individual
