                        DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                    21ST SPACE WING (AFSPC)




                                                                                 21SWGM36-02

                                                                                    17 June 2013

MEMORANDUM FOR 21 SW UNITS

FROM: 21 SW/CC
      175 East Stewart Avenue
      Peterson AFB CO 80914-1650

SUBJECT: 21st Space Wing Guidance Memorandum (GM) 21 SW 36-02, Fitness Assessment
         Program

1. By Order of the 21st Space Wing Commander, this is a 21st Space Wing Guidance
Memorandum immediately implementing AFI 36-2905, Fitness Program, and AFI 33-332, Air
Force Privacy Act Program. Compliance with this memorandum is mandatory. To the extent its
directions are inconsistent with other Air Force publications; the information herein prevails, in
accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.

2. The guidance can be found in the attachment.

3. The guidance in this memorandum becomes void after one year has elapsed from the date of
this memorandum, or upon incorporation of a 21 SW Instruction/Supplement, whichever is
earlier.

4. If you have any questions, please contact MSgt Jennifer Moss, (719) 556-4622 or DSN 834-
4622.




                                                    CHRIS D. CRAWFORD
                                                    Colonel, USAF
                                                    Commander
Attachment:
21 SW Guidance to 21 SWGM 36-02




                                  DOMINATE THE HIGH GROUND
                                          Attachment

                             21 SW Guidance to 21 SWGM36-02

1. Program Overview – The following guidance in this Instruction applies to the Peterson AFB
Fitness Assessment Cell (FAC) and personnel assigned to Peterson AFB when performing an
official Fitness Assessment (FA).
(21 SW)
1.1. Reserve personnel primary testing dates will be during UTA weekends. However, if
Reserve personnel elect, FAs can be scheduled and completed during the normal duty week on a
space available basis.
1.2. Authorized Personnel assessed at the Peterson AFB FAC – Air Force Military personnel
(Active, Reserve and Guard in active status) assigned or attached permanently to Peterson Air
Force Base or Cheyenne Mountain Air Force Station are given first priority to be tested at the
Peterson AFB FAC. Due to limited testing availability, military personnel TDY to Peterson AFB
fewer than 45 days and Air Reserve Component (ARC) members not in military duty status will
be tested on a space available basis.
1.3. Scheduling – All scheduling requests must come from the member’s Unit Fitness Program
Manager (UFPM). This includes any reschedules due to extenuating circumstances that prevent
start or completion of testing (i.e. individual ailment, etc).
1.4. Cancellation Policy - All cancellations must be coordinated through the member’s UFPM
24 hours in advance when possible. The FAC will notify the member’s Commander or
designated representative of any “no-show’s. FAs are mandatory appointments and personnel
must be prompt for their scheduled appointment. Members who arrive late will not be tested and
will be reported as a “no-Show”.


1.5. The Challenge Policy. FA scorecard mistakes should be brought to the attention of any
FAC staff member as soon as the mistake is identified. Errors in number counts by FAC staff or
designated counters must be resolved on the spot. FAC staff members have the final word and
will work to resolve each issue in a fair manner. For each FA, Airmen receive only one
opportunity to complete the fitness assessment components. Scores for all components are final.

1.6. If the member refuses to sign his/her scorecard, the FAC will annotate that the individual
refused to sign and the challenge/issue will be forwarded to the Unit Commander and UFPM.
Failure to sign the scorecard does not invalidate the test.

1.6.1. Abdominal Circumference Challenges. This type of challenge must be resolved on the
spot. The member may request to be measured by another member of the FAC staff in order to
validate the original taping and must be conducted before the muscular and aerobic components
of the FA.
2. Program Management

2.1. Specific policies and procedures for FAC testing are outlined in AFI 36-2905, Air Force
Fitness Program. This guidance memorandum is intended to be in addition to or for clarification;
it does not supersede any HHQ guidance/regulation.

2.2. Testing blocks and times: Will be established by the 21 FSS/FSV Flight Commander and
approved by the 21 FSS/CC. Testing times will be adequately publicized and tailored around
weather limitations.

2.4. The aerobic fitness component will be conducted at one of the following approved distance
courses (See Figure 1 for details)

Figure 1 Outdoor Circular Track and Indoor Circular Track
       - Outdoor Circular Track (Fitness Center Bldg 560) – 400 Meters
       - Indoor Circular Track (Fitness Center Bldg 560) – 440 Feet
2.4.1. Aerobic fitness component will be conducted outside unless inclement weather (lightning,
rain, snow, etc.) is in effect or if track conditions are poor and unsafe.

2.4.1.1. Indoor Track Priority: Official FAs always take precedence over other organized or
self-directed PT sessions. When conducting FAs all personnel not testing must clear the indoor
track until the FAC releases the track back to the Fitness Center.

2.4.1.1.1. Exception to 2.4.1.1.: Per AFI 36-2905, pacers may occupy the track at the same
time as testers provided no contact or assistance is provided. If a pacer is requested and cannot
be afforded due to indoor track safety requirements (no more than 10 personnel may be on the
track while an official test is being conducted) the tester must be afforded the option to
reschedule.

2.4.1.2. Outdoor Track Priority: When conducting official FAs lanes 1 through 2 will be
reserved for FA testing and may not be utilized by other personnel. Personnel not testing may
utilize the outside lane but may not interfere with testers in any way.

2.5. The muscular fitness components (push-ups and sit-ups) will be conducted at the Peterson
Fitness Center.

2.6. Augmentees: PTL Augmentees will be used to supplement the FAC. The FAC will be
augmented on a rotating schedule, developed locally by the 21 FSS/FSV Flight Commander and
approved by 21 FSS/CC.

3. Fitness Assessment Process

3.1. Testing procedures will be developed locally by the FAC and be publically posted. All
policies and procedures for Peterson AFB FAC testing will adhere to the guidelines set forth in
AFI 36-2905, Air Force Fitness Program and other governing regulations as applicable. All
procedures will be reviewed and approved by the 21 FSS/CC (May be delegated to 21 FSS/FSV
Flight Commander).

4. Exemptions

4.1. Commanders may grant composite exemptions for medical issues, pregnancy and
deployments (as prescribed by AFI 36-2905 and other guiding regulations). Per AFI, all such
composite exemptions must be approved by the Unit Commander. Additionally, for
record/tracking purposes, all exemptions should be in writing.

5. Assigning UFPMs

5.1. Units must appoint, in writing, a primary and alternate UFPM. The FAC will be provided an
updated copy of UFPM appointment letters as changes occur.
5.1.1. In order for UFPMs to properly manage their unit’s fitness program, the FAC will ensure
UFPMs have the appropriate AFFMS access to view their unit’s fitness status reports and update
education and training data.
6. Forms

6.1. Forms Prescribed. AF Form 108, Physical Fitness Education and Intervention Processing;
AF Form 422, Physical Profile Serial Report; AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; AF Form 469, Duty Limiting Condition Report; and other forms as prescribed by
AFI and guiding regulation.

6.1.1. The failure of command or command representatives to sign, annotate, or otherwise
complete the AF Form 108 or other prescribed forms in no way lessen the member’s overarching
responsibility for his/her own fitness and compliance with AF fitness standards.
