BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                            SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 10-2
21ST SPACE WING                                                                              8 APRIL 2008
                                                                          Certified Current 27 March 2012
                                                                                                Operations

                                                                            PROGRAM MANAGEMENT




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                       e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 21 SW/XP                                                       Certified by: 21 SW/XP (Ms. Bishop)
Supersedes 21SWI10-2, 8 July 2005                                                            Pages: 13

This Instruction defines a process used by 21st Space Wing (21 SW) Systems Managers to manage 21 SW
projects and programs. It implements space operations policies established by Air Force Policy Directive
10-12, Space, and establishes wing policies in support of MAJCOM efforts to organize, train and equip
the wing. It applies to any 21 SW unit activation, inactivation or move; acquisition or modification in
excess of $10M in any one-year or $50M over the life of the program, or as otherwise determined under
section 4 of this instruction. This operating instruction also applies to programs selected at the discretion
of the commander, vice commander or implementing agency, 21 SW/XP. The program management pro-
cess is a proactive method used by the wing to ensure programs are successfully completed in the most
efficient way possible. The process applies to all units under the operational command of the 21 SW or to
anyone wanting to reside at the 21 SW. Its purpose is to ensure program completion with minimal adverse
impact to operations while providing for the widest possible scope of involvement by all those who will
be affected by the program. The process includes coordination with higher headquarters agencies on
behalf of the wing, and coordination across the wing functional areas to ensure action items are tracked
and accomplished. The systems manager is responsible to wing CC/CV/XP. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the fields through the appropriate
functional’s chain of command." Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Man-
agement of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force, Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at “https://afrims.amc.af.mil”.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
The revision of this publication is to add Attachment 2 and Attachment 3 that outline the criteria the
21st SW will use to determine the need for an Operational Assessment and the criteria used for recom-
mending Operationally Accepting systems.
2                                                                            21SWI10-2 8 APRIL 2008


1. General: 21 SW is impacted by many programs. The program management process is a proactive
method used by the wing to ensure programs are successfully completed in the most efficient way possi-
ble. The wing Integrated Product Team (IPT) is based on a matrix concept, which causes minimal adverse
operations impact yet provides maximum input from all agencies involved with or affected by the pro-
gram.

2. The Objectives/Goal of this Instruction are:
    2.1. Objective: Provide senior leadership oversight and direction over all programs affecting the 21
    SW.
    2.2. Objective: Ensure program completion with minimal adverse impact to operations.
    2.3. Objective: Ensure program completion using the widest possible scope of wing expertise and
    involvement by all those who will be affected by the program.
    2.4. Goal: Establish a consistent and standardized process for managing all programs affecting the 21
    SW.

3. Responsibilities:
    3.1. 21 SW/CC/CV: Approves specific programs, as required, to be brought under this process; pro-
    vides senior input and/or direction to this process; directs transference of program responsibility, if
    required.
    3.2. 21 SW/XP: The wing-implementing agency.
       3.2.1. Recommends programs for this process.
       3.2.2. Is the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for the program management responsibilities
       until the implementation plan is rescinded for activations, inactivations, or moves; and through
       Operational Test & Evaluation (OT&E) for acquisitions, modifications, or upgrades, or longer, if
       required.
       3.2.3. Selects the systems manager from within XP.
       3.2.4. System Manager is the higher headquarter’s and the wing’s focal point for policies and
       staffing for all aspects of program management and coordination of all supporting documentation.
       3.2.5. Recommends transfer of program responsibility to appropriate group sometime between
       OT&E and IOC/Operational Acceptance declaration.
    3.3. Group Commanders (21 SW/DS, 21 OG/CC, 21 MSG/CC, 21 MDG/CC, 721 MSG/CC, and 821
    ABG/CC, as appropriate):
       3.3.1. Recommends programs to 21 SW/XP to be brought under this process, based on opera-
       tional impact.
       3.3.2. Accepts program management responsibility after successful completion of OT&E but
       prior to IOC or OA declarations. The receiving Group’s PM will obtain all program management
       tools and status from the 21 SW/XP PM upon program management transfers. Program manage-
       ment transfer will include a briefing on program status, category deficiencies, and areas of con-
       cern.
21SWI10-2 8 APRIL 2008                                                                                   3


   3.4. 21 SW Subordinate Units: Provide points of contact and operational expertise in accordance with
   group commander tasking and guidance.
   3.5. Systems Manager:
       3.5.1. Responsible to 21 SW/CC/CV/XP for management and integration of the program.
       3.5.2. Responsible for unit activations, inactivation’s, or moves; will provide the program man-
       agement until completion of the implementation plan.
       3.5.3. Responsible for acquisitions, modifications, and upgrades; will provide the program man-
       agement at least through successful completion of OT&E. After OT&E, but prior to IOC or OA,
       the PM will recommend program/system transference.
       3.5.4. Reports program status or issues to 21 SW/CC/CV/XP on a monthly or as needed basis.
       Systems managers will ensure status briefs are available for team leads’ review.
       3.5.5. Meets with team leads as needed on status of issues and has authority from 21 SW/CC/CV/
       XP to lead the wing effort to manage the program.
       3.5.6. Monitors the progress of the program and provides wing inputs to higher headquarters.
       3.5.7. Will use program management tools determined by 21 SW/CC/CV/XP as essential for stan-
       dardization and normalization of the management process, to streamline action item tracking,
       staffing, etc.
       3.5.8. Will continue to participate in working groups until IOC is declared.
   3.6. Team Leads: Team leads will be the PM’s primary points of contact and primary sources of infor-
   mation. Working under the direction of the systems manager, the team leads will establish and work
   the program issues within their functional areas. Team leads will attend meetings called by the PM or
   outside agencies. As appropriate, team leads will coordinate with 21 SW/XP and brief their group
   commanders.

4. Procedures:
   4.1. 21 SW/XP selects which programs should be brought into this program management process.
   Programs should be a unit activation, inactivation or move; an acquisition or modification in excess of
   $10 million in any one year or $50 million over the life of the program; force structure changes requir-
   ing an IPlan directed by higher headquarters or 21 SW leadership. Also, any program, at the discretion
   of the 21 SW commander, vice commander or implementing agency, may be brought into the program
   management process. For the purposes of this operating instruction, 21 SW/XP is the implementing
   agency. Projects not meeting the criteria to be governed by this operating instruction will be accom-
   plished through the configuration management or other appropriate process. Attachment 2 and
   Attachment 3 will be applied to all projects for applicability.
   4.2. 21 SW/CC/CV will resolve any dispute or disagreement regarding which wing organization shall
   manage a program.
   4.3. Upon assuming responsibility for a program, 21 SW/XP selects a systems manager. Systems
   managers will use current XP and 21 SW guidelines for program management, coordination and staff-
   ing.
4                                                                           21SWI10-2 8 APRIL 2008


    4.4. The systems manager will request that group commanders appoint appropriate team leads to
    implement a program within the 21 SW. The team leads will depend on the functional areas that are
    pertinent to the program. The systems manager will also request/identify primary points of contact for
    organizations outside 21 SW (e.g., 14 AF, HQ AFSPC, SMC, etc.), as necessary.
    4.5. To ensure a consolidated wing position is reached, 21 SW/XP will route project management
    documentation that crosses functional areas of responsibility through the appropriate group com-
    manders for coordination prior to seeking approval or signature from the 21 SW/CC/CV.

5. Reports:
    5.1. The 21 SW/CC/CV is briefed monthly or as needed. The status briefing will be tailored to the for-
    mat desired by the 21 SW/CC/CV. It will vary in detail based on what issues are most prominent for
    the program(s).



                                               JOHN W. RAYMOND, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander, 21st Space Wing
21SWI10-2 8 APRIL 2008                                                                                  5


                                             Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Air Force Instruction 33-104, Base-Level Planning and Implementation.
Air Force Instruction 99-103, Capabilities Based Test and Evaluation.
Air Force Instruction 10-601, Capabilities Based Requirement Development.
Air Force Policy Directive 10-12, Space.
Air Force Space Command Instruction 10-102, Air Force Space Command Concept Development.

Terms
Initial Operational Capability (IOC)—The first attainment of the capability to effectively employ a
weapon, item of equipment, or system of approved specific characteristics with the appropriate number,
type, and mix of trained and equipped personnel necessary to operate, maintain, and support the system.
It is normally identified in the Capability Development Document (CDD). NOTE: IOC should be
event-driven and not tied to a specific future date.
Operational Test & Evaluation (OT&E)—Test and evaluation conducted in as realistic an operational
environment as possible, to estimate the prospective system’s operational effectiveness and operational
suitability. In addition, operational test and evaluation provides information on organization, personnel
requirements, doctrine, and tactics. It may also provide data to support or verify material in operational
instructions, publications, and handbooks.
Implementation Plan (IPlan)—An IPlan is the wing’s response to tasks assigned by a higher
headquarters programming plan (PPlan) or programming message or at the 21 SW/CC’s or XP’s
direction. The IPlan delineates detailed responsibilities and tasks required for accomplishing force
structure changes. The IPlan is in the form of annexes and usually results in action items crossing
functional areas.
Systems Manager (SM)—the person responsible for management of a specific program. Coordinates
with higher headquarters agencies on behalf of the wing, and coordinates across the wing functional areas
to ensure action items are tracked and accomplished. The PM is responsible to wing CC/CV/XP.
Wing Integrated Product Team (IPT)—Consists of functional area experts to address specific concerns
of a program. The PM leads the logistics team.
Team Members—Primary points of contact (POCs) from the groups or squadrons who interface with the
systems manager and provide technical expertise to the program. Team members are usually the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) for planning annexes.
Modification—an alteration to a configuration item applicable to aircraft, missiles, support equipment,
ground stations software (imbedded) trainers, etc. As a minimum, the alteration changes the form, fit,
function or interface of the item. A weapon system is defined as a combination of elements that function
together to produce the capabilities required to fulfill a mission need, including hardware, equipment,
software, and all Integrated Logistics Support elements, but excluding construction or other
improvements to real property.
6                                                                       21SWI10-2 8 APRIL 2008


Operational Assessment—an assessment of the unit’s operations, training, standardization/evaluation,
and crew operations programs prior to IOC.
Operational Acceptance—Accept a new or upgraded system for operation.
21SWI10-2 8 APRIL 2008                                                                                     7


                                                        Attachment 2

INITIAL OPERATIONAL ASSESSMENT CRITERIA FOR NEW SYSTEMS AND UPGRADES
21st Operations Group (OG)


The criteria listed in table x.y. will be used to determine if an Initial Operational Assessment (IOA) needs
to be conducted on a new or upgraded system. If more than 50% of the answers are yes then the OG would
recommend to the 21 SW/CC to conduct an IOA.

                                                                    YES   NO   N/A

Is this is a new system/mission?

Is this a major upgrade or change to the system/mission?

If an Operational Test is being conducted on the system; is it an
evaluation?

Are Crew operations changing enough to require > 1 hour of
supplemental training?

Has the Graphical user interface changed?

Are Crew Operations changing enough to require new
evaluation products and special evals?

Are new operational T.O.s required?

Does the annual plan of instruction and training scenarios need
to be rewritten?
Is the cost of the upgrade > 10 million dollars?
Table x.y.



The criteria listed in table x.y. will be used to determine if an IOA needs to be conducted on a new or
upgraded system. If more than 50% of the answers are yes then the TBD would recommend to the 21 SW/
CC to conduct an IOA.
8                                                                                21SWI10-2 8 APRIL 2008



                                                                YES   NO   N/A

Have sustainment responsibilities changed?
Is the Maintenance Concept going to change?
Is the Logistic Concept going to change?
Will maintenance be documented differently?
Will new maintenance T.O.s be required?
Is there a disposition plan in place?
Is funding in place (Current FY & POM)?
Has a level 2 maintenance provider been identified? Will this
support be immediately available?
Table x.x
21SWI10-2 8 APRIL 2008                                                                                     9


                                              Attachment 3

     OPERATIONAL ACCEPTANCE CRITERIA FOR NEW SYSTEMS AND UPGRADES
The criteria listed in table x, y will be used to determine if the 21st Space Wing will recommend Opera-
tional Acceptance to 14th Air Force for new or upgraded systems.

If operations acceptance procedures are required to be conducted on behalf of maintenance concerns, Air
Force Maintenance Quality Control Checklist 200-4 (COMMUNICATIONS-ELECTRONICS ACCEP-
TANCE/REMOVAL PROCESS) will be assessed in it’s entirety for applicability (ref attachment x).

ITEM                   OPR                  ECD                         STATUS
Deficiencies           Unit/SPO/Responsible DD MMM YY
                       Testing Organization


Formal operational     Units/Responsible        DD MMM YY
testing                Testing Organization
(if required)

Operational            21 OGV/OSS               DD MMM YY
Assessment
(if required)

Documentation          Unit/SPO                 DD MMM YY



Training               Unit/SPO                 DD MMM YY



Maintenance            TBD                      DD MMM YY
Concepts


IA Accreditation       Unit/SPO                 DD MMM YY



Legacy Issues          N/A
10                                                                            21SWI10-2 8 APRIL 2008


21 OG must consider a recommendation to 21 SW not to operationally accept any new system or upgrade
that is answered with a NO in table x.x.

                                                             YES   NO   N/A
Has the system successfully passed operational testing or
Installation & Checkout Evaluation?
Has the site successfully passed the initial operational
assessment?
Has adequate operator training been accomplished?
Has the 90% or better T.O. Val-ver been accomplished?
Have the T.O.s been delivered to the site?
If Draft manual s, waiver per AFSPCI 10-1202?
If draft/final operational manuals, TCTO complete for
modification installation?
Is the ATO current?
Have manpower standard reapplication or change requests
been submitted due to workload change?
Has the system successfully passed IA testing if required?
Have the deficiencies been adequately dispositioned?
Has the required system requirement documentation been
updated?
Have AF forms 1067 been finalized with all required
approval signatures for new system or upgrade altering a
configured weapons system
Have all SCFs implemented been finalized and incorporated
properly into a version release?
Any manpower staffing required to operate new system or
upgraded not addressed in above 3 documents? (AF Form
1067 Blk 28 and Blk 39)

Table x.x.


TBD must consider recommendation to 21 SW not to operationally accept any new system or upgrade
that is answered with a NO in table x.x.
21SWI10-2 8 APRIL 2008                                                            11



                                                                 YES   NO   N/A
Has the IOC been complied with?
Are bench stock levels and spare parts adequate?
Have adequate maintenance training been accomplished?
Val/Ver of manuals 100%. Required signed AFTO Form 27
If Draft manuals, waiver per AFI 21-303?
If draft manuals, was O&M contacted and was it coordinated
with 21 CONS and 21 PMD for contractor distribution POC
of draft manuals?
If not draft/final manuals, TCTO complete for modification
installation?
Has the WUC been established in IMDS?
Has the SRD codes been established?
Is Sustainment in-place?
Is a disposition plan in place for the old equipment?
Have all applicable TCTO/AFCEMI modifications been
requisitioned, performed and documented within the
Maintenance Information system (MIS)?
Have TCTO series been placed on ID to ensure receipt of
future TCTOs?
Have required training products and task listings been
supplied to the maintainer?
If applicable, have Electronic Set Inventories (47x series)
been obtained and completed?
If applicable, has adequate supply support been established to
maintain equipment?
 - ISSL been supplied and integrated into the supply system?
 - Adjusted Stock Levels
 - Bench stock
 - Supply point
Has required support equipment (TMDE) been obtained and
calibration requirements established? With PMEL?
Has accountability been established for equipment that was
installed? (CA/CRL) Custodian Account & Custodian
Request Log
Has the installation activity provided annotated interim
CSIR?
Have all items from AFMQCC 200-1, C-E grounding
systems been completed?
Has the Equipment Inventory Listing (EIL) been updated to
reflect change of equipment (additions and deletions)?
Has automated/manual history (AFTO form 95) been
created?
12                                                                           21SWI10-2 8 APRIL 2008


Has the PMI schedule been updated to reflect change of
equipment (additions and deletions)?
Have the as-installed CSIR drawings been forwarded to the
STEM-B and Engineering Data Service Center (EDSC)?
Have manpower standard reapplication or change requests
been submitted due to workload change?
Have work center budget estimates been updated due to
workload change
Are items under warranty being tracked/processed?
Has a restoration priority been established?
Has the project file (including test data and forms) been
transferred to the CSIR file after the project is accepted and
AF form 1261 exception(s) cleared?
Table x.x.



If equipment is to be removed the following procedures in table y.y should be followed.

Was the removal coordinated with the STEM-B?
Have all planning documents (C4 Systems blueprint, CSIRs, etc) been
updated to reflect the removal of the system?
If applicable, have disposition instructions been obtained from depot Item
Manager (IM) prior to equipment turn in?
Have the proper condition tags bee filled out and attached to the removed
equipment, and shipping container?
Has the manual/automated history (AFTO form 95) AFTO 470 series, and
applicable records) been prepared and shipped with the removed item?
Has excess equipment (including TMDE) been processed for turn in?
Have manpower standard reapplication or change requests been submitted
due to workload change?
Have work center budget estimates been updated due to workload change?
Have work center budget estimates been updated due to workload change?
Have all applicable TCTO modification actions be documented in IMDS?
Have applicable TCTO series been removed from ID?
Has the Equipment Inventory Listing (EIL) been updated to reflect loss of
equipment?
Has the PMI schedule been update to reflect removal of equipment?
If applicable, has the supply support been adjusted due to equipment
removal
 - Bench stock
 - Supply point
 - Adjusted stock levels
 - Excess turn ins
21SWI10-2 8 APRIL 2008                                                      13


Has a transfer inspection (technical evaluation) been completed to assure
equipment is fully operational, technical order complete, and supporting
forms and documents are accurate and complete?
Have applicable projected formal training requirements been adjusted due
to equipment removal?
Has PMEL and the TMDE coordinator been notified of TMDE turned in?
Table y.y.
