BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          21ST SPACE WING ISTRUCTION 24-203
21ST SPACE WING
                                                                         31 DECEMBER 2009
                                                                Certified Current 9 April 2012
                                                                               Transportation

                                                       REUSABLE CONTAINER PROGRAM




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available for downloading on the e-Publishing website
               at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 21 LRS/LGRD                                                       Certified by: 21 LRS/CC
                                                           (Lieutenant Colonel James E. Smith)
                                                                                      Pages: 5 5


This instruction implements the Reusable Container Program depicted in AFI 24-203,
Preparation and Movement of Air Force Cargo, and outlines the responsibilities and procedures
for the management and operation of the Reusable Container Program at Peterson Air Force
Base, Colorado. This instruction applies to all personnel assigned or attached to the 21st Space
Wing, including Geographically Separated Units (GSU), contractors, and visiting personnel.
Applies to all units assigned to 21st Space Wing. This publication does not apply to Air Force
Reserve or Air National Guard units. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the fields through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at hhtps://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims. This instruction
may not be supplemented.
2                                                            21SWI24-203 31 DECEMBER 2009



                                             Chapter 1

                                       RESPONSIBILITIES

NOTE: The 21st Logistics Readiness Squadron maintains a reusable container program
through the contracted Surface Freight and Supply. All responsibilities and actions
referenced in this document will be conducted IAW the applicable contract.
1.1. The 21st Logistics Readiness Squadron will:
    1.1.1. Train all Unit Reusable Container Monitors and document training.
    1.1.2. Track reusable container usage/non-usage by organization.
    1.1.3. Conduct a semi-annual on-site inspection of reusable container storage areas and
    additional inspections when deemed necessary or if a unit does not meet the Wing standard.
    1.1.4. Convene a reusable container working group meeting at least annually (or as needed).
    The working group will be chaired by the Reusable Container Program Manager and consist of
    representatives from the major base shipping activities who initiate over ten shipments through
    the Traffic Management Flight each year (or generate container replacement requests for stored
    items), i.e., supply maintenance and security forces. The working groups objectives will be to
    coordinate actions, analyze budgetary and operational requirements, evaluate number of
    containers lost or destroyed and replacement costs, indications of negligence in discarding
    containers, number of excess reusable containers on-hand and address deficiencies and
    recommend corrective actions necessary of executing and effective program.
    1.1.5. Conduct staff assistance visits and training upon request from unit commanders or the
    Unit Reusable Container Monitor.
    1.1.6. Conduct staff assistance visits and training upon request from unit commanders or the
    Unit Reusable Container Monitor.
    1.1.7. Provide recommendations for the proper disposition of excess reusable containers and
    associated materials.
    1.1.8. Process and monitor fund reimbursements for replacement containers through the 21st
    Logistics Readiness Squadron resource advisor for those units defined as support agreements.
    1.1.9. Enforce the Wing minimum standard of 90 percent. If the monthly return rate is below 90
    percent, a letter signed by the Base Reusable Container Manager will be forwarded to the
    applicable unit commander for corrective action. This letter will summarize data collected from
    AF Form 451s’, Request for Packing Service, and will assist the organizations in developing
    corrective actions.
1.2. Unit Responsibilities. (For units that initiate over 10 shipments, or generate container
replacement requests for stored items, i.e., War Reserve Material assets):
    1.2.1. Unit commanders will appoint a primary and alternate Unit Reusable Container Monitor
    (units may appoint multiple alternates) to represent the unit on all matters pertaining to the Base
    Reusable Container Program.
    1.2.2. An updated Reusable Container Monitor appointment letter, signed by the unit
    commander, must be provided to the 21st Logistics Readiness Squadron, Deployment and
21SWI24-203 31 DECEMBER 2009                                                                       3


  Distribution Flight, (21 LRS/LGRD), within 10 days of any changes. Appointment letters must
  be on file and current.
  1.2.3. Ensure all cargo received is in the proper container or have this discrepancy annotated on
  the issue documented and maintained with the reusable container.
  1.2.4. Ensure all cargo turned in to base supply is in the proper container or has an AF Form 451
  (original plus 2 copies) attached with the paperwork for the item. The AF Form 451 will be
  signed by the Unit Reusable Container Monitor, alternate, or unit commander, and will contain a
  chargeable unit fund cite if applicable. If the AF Form 451 is marked “received in wrong
  container” then the DD Form 1348-1, SATS label, or Shipment Discrepancy Report (SDR) will
  be attached to the AF Form 451.
  1.2.5. Identify and maintain an active reusable container storage area. Storage area will be
  marked “REUSABLE CONTAINERS”.
  1.2.6. Report packaging improvements to the Base Reusable Container Manger (BCM) that will
  increase the efficiency of the Base Reusable Container Program.
  1.2.7. Protect all containers and packaging materials for container reuse. Ensure containers are
  free of safety hazards.
  1.2.8. Provide adequate facilities, equipment and materials to maintain containers for reuse.
  1.2.9. Provide documented training to assigned personnel on the importance of reusing
  containers and packaging materials.
  1.2.10. Attend BCM reusable container program meetings and training sessions.
  1.2.11. Train and appoint key personnel on the use and preparation of AF Form 451s. Units will
  appoint assigned personnel to provide this training. Develop a training plan tailored to the unit’s
  shipping practices. Training documentation will be maintained for review by BCM upon request.
  1.2.12. Monitor and account for and control reusable containers and materials.
4                                                            21SWI24-203 31 DECEMBER 2009


                                             Chapter 2

                                          PROCEDURES

2.1. Base Supply:
    2.1.1. The Receiving Section will ensure that items received are not separated from their
    respective containers.
    2.1.2. Storage and Issue will ensure the original container remains with the item(s) until it is
    issued to the receiving agency. When property requiring a Special Packing Instruction (SPI) is
    issued without the SPI container, the receiving agency will annotate the accompanying DD Form
    1348-1A, Issue Release/Receipt Document, or SATS label (or attached SDR, to indicate
    whether or not the property was issued in a reusable container. The using agency will retain the
    annotated DD Form 1348-1A (or SATS label) to validate future turn-in shipments of reparable
    assets without the proper container.
    2.1.3. The Freight Section will not accept an item for shipment needing a reusable container
    unless the item is accompanied by an AF Form 451 or proof that the item was received on base or
    issued to the unit without the correct container. Supply will attach a copy of the SF 364, Report
    of Discrepancy, to the item if it was received on base without the proper container or an AF
    Form 451 if an item was issued without the proper container.
    2.1.4. When an item is received in a container that is contractor packed, every effort should be
    made to return that item or its authorized substitute in the original container. Do not obliterate
    any markings on that container or any other container (i.e., ID, serviceable tag, packaging labels,
    etc.).
2.2. Other Units:
    2.2.1. On receipt of an item from base supply, make sure that the item is in the required
    container. Items received will stay in their containers until such time as required for bench check
    or inspection.
    2.2.2. When an item is removed from its container and put in use, the reusable container will be
    stored in the storage area along with the documentation identifying what item the container is for.
    Ensure all internal blocking, bracing and cushioning materials are placed in the container.
2.3. AF IMT 2519, All Purpose Checklist.
    2.3.1. Unit Reusable Container Monitors are to run Reusable Container checklist semi-annually,
    AF IMT 2519, staring each fiscal year, to ensure compliance. Once checklist is complete, Unit
    Reusable Container Monitors are to turn the checklist in to the Base Reusable Container Program
    Monitor.
2.4. Adopted Forms:
SF 364, Report of Discrepancy
DD Form 1348-1A, Issue Release/Receipt Document
AF Form 451, Request for Packing Service
AF IMT 2519, All Purpose Checklist

                                               JOHN W. RAYMOND, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander
21SWI24-203 31 DECEMBER 2009                                                                5


                                        Attachment 1
        SEMI-ANNUAL INSPECTION REUSABLE CONTAINER CHECKLIST

NOTE: All references are from SWI 24-203, REUSABLE CONTAINER PROGRAM, unless
otherwise noted.

Use AF IMT Form 2519 to complete the checklist.

NON-CRITICAL ITEMS

1. Is the reusable container monitor appointment letter on file and current? (para 1.2.2)
2. Is the reusable container monitor knowledgeable of the duties required in
administering the unit's reusable container program? (para 1.2.10)
3. Has the reusable container monitor been trained by transportation personnel? (para 1.1.1)
4. Is space available for the storage or reusable containers? (para 1.2.5)

5. Are containers stored in a secure area? (para 1.2.8)
6. Are containers free of safety hazards? (para 1.2.7)
7. Are holding areas clearly marked "REUSABLE CONTAINERS"? (para 1.2.5)
8. Are bench stock items stored with appropriated containers, or if removed from
containers, are the containers properly controlled? (para 2.2.2)

9. Is the reusable container area being inspected semi-annually? (para 2.2.3)
10. REMARKS:
