BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        21ST SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 32-2001
21ST SPACE WING
                                                                               1 MARCH 2010
                                                               Certified Current 12 March 2012
                                                                              Civil Engineering

                                                              FIRE EMERGENCY SERVICES




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 21 CES/CEF                                                       Certified by: 21 CES/CEF
Supersedes: AFI32-2001SWSUP1,                                              (CMSgt Roy Nelson)
            1 October 2000                                                             Pages: 12


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-20, Fire Emergency Services.
The direction contained establishes and assigns fire prevention and fire protection engineering
standards, policies, procedures, and responsibilities on Peterson Air Force Base (AFB). It
provides guidance to assist commanders in protecting property and personnel under their control.
This instruction applies to all personnel and activities occupying or utilizing property on
Peterson AFB, including tenant units, vendors, concessionaires, contractors, and their employees.
Should any existing contract requirement or statement of work conflict with guidance contained
in this instruction, a request to modify that provision to comply with this instruction shall be
forwarded to the Contracting Officer for inclusion in the next modification accomplished on the
contract. This publication applies to the US Air Force Reserve, Air National Guard, and Civil
Air Patrol. Refer recommended changes and conflicts between this and other publications to 21
CES/CEF, 580 Goodfellow St, Peterson AFB CO 80914, on Air Force (AF) Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. This
publication may not be supplemented.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This publication is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
2                                                               21SWI32-2001 1 MARCH 2010


1. Objective. The objective of the Fire Prevention Program is to prevent fires, facilitate early
intervention at fires that do occur, and ensure the safety of exposed personnel during fires. This
requires commanders’ support at all levels and the active participation of all personnel.
2. Responsibilities:
    2.1. Unit Commanders: Unit Commanders are responsible for overall fire safety within
    their unit. Unit Commanders will:
       2.1.1. Appoint a Facility Manager (FM) and alternate for each building, facility, or area
       within a facility under his or her jurisdiction.
       2.1.2. Conduct periodic reviews of the fire safety programs.
       2.1.3. Ensure all newly assigned personnel, both military and civilian, receive unit fire
       prevention and extinguisher training within 30 days of assignment.
       2.1.4. Develop an operating instruction for each facility under their jurisdiction for
       personnel to follow when fire is discovered. Instruction shall cover fire reporting,
       personnel evacuation, first-aid firefighting using fire extinguishers, closing doors, etc .
       Depending on type of activity, instructions also include such items as emergency removal
       of aircraft from hangars, protection of high value and critical items, fuel handling
       procedures, and the safe handling of classified material.
       2.1.5. Initiate appropriate administrative or disciplinary action against personnel who
       willfully damage or tamper with fire protection systems and devices, initiate false reports
       (telephonic or electronic), or fail to comply with the fire prevention policies or practices
       through misconduct, disregard for fire directives, or negligence.
       2.1.6. Ensure suspense dates are met with corrective actions documented on the AF
       Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report.
    2.2. Employee Supervisor: Employee supervisors at all levels are responsible for fire
    safety in their work areas and operations. Training requirements are outlined in AFOSH
    Standard 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard, Chapter 6. The
    Fire Prevention Office (21 CES/CEF) is available to assist in developing and customizing
    training, as well as providing this training upon request. Document this training, given
    within the first 30 days of assignment and annually thereafter, on the employee’s AF Form
    55, Employee Safety and Health Record, or other automated record.
    2.3. Facility Managers: Facility Managers are responsible to the unit commander for the
    fire-safe conditions of the facilities under their control. In addition to the requirements in
    AFPAM32-1125V1, Working In The Operations Management Field, Facility Managers will:
       2.3.1. Check all fire extinguishers, exit lights, and emergency lights on a monthly basis
       to ensure proper operating condition and document these inspections in the facility fire
       prevention folder, and on attached cards for extinguishers. Emergency lights and exit
       lights shall be tested for no less than 30 seconds once a month, and no less than 1 ½ hours
       once per year. Report all discrepancies either via telephone or on AF Form 332, Base
       Civil Engineer Work Request, to 21st Civil Engineer Squadron Customer Service for
       corrective action.
       2.3.2. Ensure “Emergency 911” labels are attached to every phone.
21SWI32-2001 1 MARCH 2010                                                                       3


      2.3.3. Ensure access to facilities and its secure areas for fire prevention personnel to
      perform scheduled inspections.
      2.3.4. Attend scheduled Facility Manager Training conducted by the 21st Civil Engineer
      Squadron and the Fire Prevention Office to ensure an efficient fire prevention program is
      in place.
      2.3.5. Direct facility evacuations and take a head count at the evacuation area, notifying
      the first arriving fire unit of any missing personnel and their last known location within
      the facility, and direct first-aid firefighting efforts until the fire department's arrival.
      Ensure personnel do not reenter the facility without the approval of the Senior Fire
      Official.
      2.3.6. Enforce designated smoking areas and ensure that noncombustible receptacles are
      provided and labeled to prevent misuse.
      2.3.7. Notify Fire Emergency Services when keys are changed so they may be added to
      the facility Knox Box.
      2.3.8. Conduct briefings, as required, to ensure all personnel within their facility are
      familiar with the facility fire prevention operating instruction, extinguisher locations and
      use, evacuation procedures, etc.
   2.4. Contractors and Concessionaires:
      2.4.1. Fire prevention responsibilities for contractors and concessionaires are the same as
      required for all Peterson AFB personnel.
      2.4.2. Contractors receive a briefing on fire prevention practices and are given brochures
      at the contractor’s pre-construction performance conferences.
      2.4.3. Concessionaires will be given a fire prevention briefing by the facility or building
      manager of the building where the concessionaire will be working.
3. Fire and Emergency Reporting and Evacuation Procedures:
   3.1. On-Base Reporting: The primary means of reporting a fire or emergency from any
   phone, including housing and cell phones, is by dialing 911. Installed fire alarm systems in
   buildings report to the Peterson Installation Control Center (PICC), but occupants should call
   911 to ensure notification and provide any additional pertinent information. Individuals
   discovering a fire, or evidence of a fire, regardless of how minor in nature or whether it has
   been extinguished, must report it. When a fire is discovered the primary objective is to begin
   evacuation by initiating the fire alarm system, and then notify the Fire Department.
   3.2. False Alarms: Willful misconduct or negligence involving fire prevention policies,
   reporting or causing a false alarm to be transmitted, tampering with or the misuse of fire
   protection systems or devices is subject to punishment under the Uniform Code of Military
   Justice. Civilian employees, contractors, etc., are subject to legal action under applicable
   federal and state laws.
   3.3. Fire Exit Drills: Fire exit drills are required to be conducted in all facilities, in
   intervals outlined in Table 1. Fire drills must encompass the entire facility. When more than
   one unit occupies one facility, these drills must be coordinated. In some facilities, such as
   places of public assembly, theater, club, etc. special training is required for employees only,
4                                                                21SWI32-2001 1 MARCH 2010


    and practice drills are required separately from fire exit drills. Workplace specific training is
    available from the Fire Prevention Office.

Table 1. Fire Evacuation Drill Schedules.
 Occupancy                           Frequency                           Notes
 Day Care Centers                    Monthly while in session            May be deferred one month
                                                                         due to inclement weather.
 Public Assemblies                   Semiannually                        Does not require evacuation-
 BX/Commissary                                                           -Employee focused
 Business/Industrial                 Annually                            All personnel must
                                                                         participate
 Note: The Installation Fire Chief or designated representative can, in the interest of life safety,
 conduct fire evacuation drills in any facility or area at his or her discretion.

4. General Fire Prevention Practices:
    4.1. Extension Cords: Extension cords shall not be used as a substitute for permanent
    wiring. They cannot be attached to structures, run through doors, doorways, windows, holes
    in walls, ceilings, etc. Extension cords shall not be arranged to run under rugs, carpet, or
    other items that will conceal damage and insulate conductors that may cause wires to
    overheat. Extension cords will be in serviceable condition and approved by a recognized
    testing agency or laboratory. Frayed, deteriorated, spliced, or otherwise degraded cords will
    not be used. Multi-outlet assemblies must have a built-in surge protector. The use of surge
    protectors and extension cords, in combination (daisy-chaining), is prohibited.
    4.2. Mechanical Rooms: Mechanical rooms, including communication rooms, shall not be
    used to store items other than those necessary for the function of installed equipment.
    Mechanical rooms shall not be used for general storage.
    4.3. Flammable Liquids: All flammable liquids will be stored in approved flammable
    storage cabinets or lockers unless the facility is specifically designed for flammable liquids
    storage. Flammable storage cabinets in places of public assembly shall not be located in areas
    readily accessible by the general public nor shall they be located near primary escape routes.
       4.3.1. Flammables must be kept in approved safety containers when in storage and
       dispensed only in areas where adequate ventilation is available.
       4.3.2. Gas powered equipment such as lawnmowers, motorcycles, etc., must not be
       stored in any building unless the building is designated as a garage or authorized vehicle
       storage area. Do not refuel gas powered engines while they are hot or inside a facility.
       4.3.3. Vats containing flammable or combustible solvents used for cleaning purposes
       must be equipped with a fusible link and self-closing lid.
       4.3.4. Flammable or combustible liquids must not be poured or drained into any
       manhole, sewer, drainage ditch, or any other location that could result in increased
       potential for fire or pollution of the environment.
       4.3.5. Maintenance must not be performed on gasoline trucks, storage devices and
       facilities, or tanks until drained, vented, and properly purged of flammable vapors. After
21SWI32-2001 1 MARCH 2010                                                                           5


       purging, work must not be started until an explosive test is performed and permit issued
       by Confined Space Entry Team, Bioenvironmental, Safety, and the Fire Department
   4.4. Welding, Cutting, and Brazing: Welding, cutting, or brazing will not be
   accomplished until a valid AF Form 592, USAF Welding, Cutting, and Brazing Permit, has
   been issued. The Fire Emergency Services will issue a welding, cutting, and brazing permit
   following an inspection of the area where the operation is to take place. In certain, limited
   circumstances, the permit may be issued for an extended period of time, generally not to
   exceed 30 days. Civil Engineer shops may be certified to issue routine welding permits.
   Certifications are valid for one year from date of issue and training is provided by
   appointment and can be scheduled by contacting fire prevention at 556-4242 or 556-7774.
   Permits are not required for authorized welding shops; shop supervisors will establish
   operating instructions for welding, cutting, and open flame work.
   4.5. Open Flame or Fires: No open fires such as campfires, bonfires, trash fires, vegetation
   fires, (regardless of size) are authorized on Peterson AFB.
   4.6. Space Heaters: Space heaters shall not be utilized to supplement existing climate
   control, unless necessary for bona fide safety/health. Facility manager shall contact Civil
   Engineering to address unacceptable climate control issues before space heaters are
   considered. If the Squadron Commander approves the use, the heater must:
       4.6.1. Be Underwriters Laboratory (UL-listed) electric space heater equipped with
       automatic shut-off device that will shut off the heater if it tips over.
       4.6.2. Have over-heat protection device and an automatic thermostat control.
       4.6.3. Maintain at least 18 inches clearance from any combustibles such as drapes,
       trashcans, or furniture.
       4.6.4. Plug directly into a wall receptacle; they may not be plugged into multiple outlet
       strips or an extension cord.
Note: Except in facilities under construction or renovation, the use of gas or oil-fired portable
heaters in any facility is prohibited.
   4.7. General Storage Practices: As a general rule, storage of items MUST provide for a
   minimum of 18 inches clearance between ceilings, lights, smoke or fire detection devices or
   appliances, circuit panels, and fire sprinkler heads. Combustible materials, supplies, gas
   powered equipment, flammable liquids, etc. will not be stored in Heating, Ventilation, Air
   Conditioning (HVAC), mechanical, electrical, or boiler rooms, nor in attics or under stairs
   unless specifically designed for that purpose.
   4.8. Candles and Other Types of Flame-Producing Devices: The use of open flame
   devices such as candles, liquid or solid fuel burners, incense and so forth, are prohibited in all
   base facilities to include dormitories and Temporary Lodging Facilities (unless specifically
   approved by the Fire Prevention Office for religious purposes).
   4.9. Fireworks: Fireworks are forbidden on Peterson AFB to include the housing area.
   4.10. Barbeque Grills: BBQ grills will not be used inside or within 10 feet of any facility
   or inside the fenced area of the flightline. Charcoal shall be thoroughly soaked before
   disposal. Gas grills will not be stored inside facilities.
6                                                               21SWI32-2001 1 MARCH 2010


    4.11. Cooking in Air Force Facilities: As a general practice, cooking is prohibited in all
    buildings except those areas specifically designated for kitchen use. Cooking must be
    supervised at all times. Coffee makers and microwave ovens are authorized for use.
       4.11.1. Areas, other than dwelling units, that are provided with a residential type range
       top cooking surface must be equipped with an approved residential range top
       extinguishing system. This system must be connected to the building fire alarm system
       and shut off fuel or power to the equipment.
       4.11.2. Toasters may only be operated in designated break room and kitchen areas.
       4.11.3. Coffee makers must be Underwriters Laboratory (UL) or Factory Mutual listed
       and placed on a noncombustible surface.
       4.11.4. The use of any type of hot plate, microwave convection oven, or noncommercial
       deep fat fryers are strictly prohibited. Turkey fryers or similar open flame cooking
       appliances shall not be operated indoors, on combustible decking, or within 10 feet of any
       structure.
    4.12. Fuel Spills: The Fire Emergency Services will be notified of all fuel spills. Fuel spills
    involving aircraft and associated equipment will follow guidelines in Technical Order 00-25-
    172, Ground Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding (ATOS)
    4.13. Smoking: Each facility may have a single outside designated smoking area and will
    provide approved smoking urns by each. Trash receptacles shall also be provided to preclude
    combining trash and discarded smoking materials. Further information is contained in
    AFOSH Standard 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard and AFI
    40-102, Tobacco Use in the Air Force.
       4.13.1. Smoking is forbidden on the flightline.
       4.13.2. Smoking, striking matches, or operating lighters are prohibited within 50 feet of:
           4.13.2.1. Hangars
           4.13.2.2. Paint and dope shops.
           4.13.2.3. Fuel or Petroleum, Oil, and Lubricant (POL) dispensing areas (100 feet).
           4.13.2.4. Vehicle maintenance or similar facilities of an extra hazardous nature. “No
           Smoking” signs must be conspicuously posted in all areas and buildings where
           smoking is prohibited.
    4.14. Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants are tested, maintained, and serviced by 21 CES/CEO.
       4.14.1. When fire hydrants are out of service, 21 CES/CEO will identify them with a
       metal or plastic placard no smaller than 12 inches in diameter with weatherproof white
       letters on a red background reading “OUT OF SERVICE.” Out of service conditions
       include water outages that cause fire hydrants to become non-operational.
       4.14.2. When fire hydrants are placed in or out of service, the PICC shall be notified
       immediately at 556-7354.
21SWI32-2001 1 MARCH 2010                                                                       7


     4.14.3. The use of fire hydrants for other than fire protection purposes shall be
     coordinated with the Fire Emergency Services. Such use shall not render the hydrant
     inoperable for fire protection purposes.
     4.14.4. There shall be no parking within 15 feet of fire hydrants.
  4.15. Fire Extinguishers: Fire extinguishers are placed in specific locations as required by
  national consensus standards. Building occupants or users will not relocate extinguishers
  without prior coordination with the Peterson Fire Prevention Office.
     4.15.1. Once installed, fire extinguishers become the responsibility of the unit to which
     they are assigned. These responsibilities include, but are not limited to:
         4.15.1.1. Performing visual inspections of extinguishers on a monthly basis.
         Document this inspection on the extinguisher tag.
         4.15.1.2. Ensuring extinguishers are visible and accessible for use at all times.
         4.15.1.3. Ensure extinguishers requiring maintenance, servicing, or those that have
         been damaged or discharged are reported to the Fire Prevention Office at 556-7774 or
         556-4242.
  4.16. Decorations and Furnishings: All special event decorations and furnishings must be
  noncombustible, fire retardant, or treated with fire retardant. Decorations, including curtains,
  drapes, etc., must not obstruct or hang from installed fire protection devices and must not
  block or otherwise obstruct egress routes or exits.
     4.16.1. Holiday tree lighting and wiring must bear the UL seal of approval and be in
     good condition. Outdoor lighting and extension cords used for that purpose will be
     weatherproof and will be specifically designed for use outdoors.
     4.16.2. Live holiday trees are not permitted on base with the exception of the privatized
     housing area. Artificial trees shall not obstruct egress to exits, must be kept away from
     sources of heat, and shall be certified as flame retardant by the manufacturer.
     4.16.3. Powered/lighted decorations should be unplugged when the facility or room is
     unoccupied.
     4.16.4. Combustible decorations, i.e., fishnets, parachutes, sheets, carpeting, curtains,
     camo netting etc., must not be placed on ceilings or walls.
  4.17. Occupant Load: The Fire Prevention Office will provide maximum occupant load
  information for any facility, upon request. In places of Public Assembly, the occupant load
  must be displayed near the exit of each room/area and be enforced by the facility manager. If
  it is anticipated that the occupant load will be exceeded for a special event, written approval
  from the Fire Chief must be obtained prior to the event. Written approval requests must
  include a floor plan (single line drawing) which includes the layout of the room for the event.
  4.18. Exit and Exit Access: Exit doors in facilities shall be kept unobstructed and unlocked
  at all times while the facility is occupied. Draperies, decorations, or placards will not block
  exit signs or doors.
     4.18.1. Exits and entryways will be kept free of snow and ice accumulation by the using
     organization.
8                                                               21SWI32-2001 1 MARCH 2010


       4.18.2. All emergency exit doors in places of Public Assembly and other facilities, as
       outlined in the Life Safety Code (LSC), will be equipped with panic hardware. No lock,
       padlock, hasp, bar, chain, or other devices will be installed or maintained on any exit
       door equipped with panic hardware.
       4.18.3. Panic hardware will be kept in good operating condition. The force required to
       fully open any door should not exceed 30 pounds.
       4.18.4. Fire rated doors will be kept closed at all times, with the exception of those
       equipped with magnetic releases. No doorstops or other non-approved devices will be
       installed on fire rated doors.
    4.19. Aircraft Hangars:
       4.19.1. Units with aircraft must develop contingency plans that address containing fire
       on and around aircraft and removal of aircraft.
       4.19.2. Gasoline engine powered maintenance equipment must not be positioned in
       hangars, nose docks, corrosion control, or fuel cell repair facilities at any time. (National
       Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 30, Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code)
       4.19.3. Fire lanes must be established in front of hangars and shop areas, and must be
       kept clear at all times. Lanes must be a minimum of 20 feet wide.
       4.19.4. Vehicles or equipment without approved spark arrestors must not be operated
       inside high hazard buildings such as hangars, etc.
    4.20. Housekeeping:
       4.20.1. Steel wool and rags, clean or soiled, must be stored in separate metal containers
       with self-closing lids when not in use. Containers must be labeled as to their contents.
       4.20.2. Rubbish and paper must not be allowed to accumulate inside or outside of
       facilities.
       4.20.3. Facilities such as carpenter shops and metal shops that are subject to excessive
       dust accumulation must be cleaned from ceiling to floor at regular intervals to reduce the
       possibility of dust explosions.
       4.20.4. Holes in walls must be promptly reported to Civil Engineer Squadron service call
       for repair to maintain the fire resistant integrity of the wall.
       4.20.5. Combustible materials must have a minimum clearance of at least six inches
       from steam pipes.
       4.20.6. Janitorial supplies and equipment rooms must be kept in order at all times. Mops
       and dust mops must be hung to prevent the head from resting on the floor.
    4.21. Storage of Propane Cylinders: Shall comply with NFPA 58, Liquified Petroleum
    Gas Code.
       4.21.1. Outside storage of cylinders awaiting use (including barbecues) shall be located
       at least 20 feet from any doorway or opening of a building. Cylinders larger than 1 lb.
       (small cylinder used for camping or soldering) shall not be stored indoors. Small
       cylinders shall not be stored near exits, stairways, or areas intended to be used for egress.
21SWI32-2001 1 MARCH 2010                                                                      9


      4.21.2. Cylinders shall be protected by either an enclosure or a lockable ventilated metal
      locker or rack that prevents tampering with valves and pilferage of the cylinder.
      4.21.3. Protection against vehicle impact shall be provided in accordance with good
      engineering practice where vehicle traffic normally is expected at the location.
      4.21.4. Storage locations shall be provided with a 20-lb B:C rated portable fire
      extinguisher. Extinguisher must be mounted within 30 feet of the storage area in
      accordance with NFPA 10, Portable Fire Extinguisher Standard.
      4.21.5. Cylinders in storage shall be located to minimize exposure to excessive
      temperature rise (+125F), physical damage, or tampering.
      4.21.6. Cylinders in storage shall be positioned such that the pressure relief valve is in
      direct communication with the vapor space of the cylinder.
      4.21.7. It is not permissible to store propane gas cylinders, or any other compressed gas
      cylinders, with flammable or combustible liquids, or within 20 feet of flammable
      materials.
      4.21.8. For further information regarding the safe storage and handling of compressed
      gas cylinders, see Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) [29CFR
      1910.101(b)] and Compressed Gas Association (CGA) Pamphlet P-1-1965, Safe
      Handling of Compressed Gases.
5. Peterson Privatized Housing and Temporary Lodging Facilities:
   5.1. Family Sponsors: Residents are responsible for fire prevention in their homes. They
   must ensure dependents are familiar with the fire prevention instructions outlined in this
   publication.
   5.2. Flammable Liquids: Gasoline and other flammable or combustible liquids may be
   stored in the shed or garage and will not be stored in the house. Storage of gasoline will be
   limited to 5 gallons and must be stored in an approved UL or Factory of Mutual (FM) safety
   container.
   5.3. Combustible Storage: Storage will be at least 36 inches from the furnace, water heater,
   and other heat-producing devices.
   5.4. Smoke and Carbon Monoxide Detectors: Detectors shall be inspected and tested at least
   monthly by the occupant. If the detector has batteries, they should be replaced at least
   annually.
   5.5. Cooking Safety: Cooking appliances will not be left unattended when in use. Lids
   should be readily available for the control of grease fires when cooking. Do not attempt to
   remove a burning pan from the stove. Place a lid on the pan, turn off the heat, then call the
   Fire Emergency Services at 911.
   5.6. Special Needs Family Members: It is the responsibility of the resident to notify the Fire
   Emergency Services (556-7354) of any family members who may require assistance or
   special needs in exiting the quarters during an emergency situation. The resident should
   notify the Fire Emergency Services immediately upon initial move in and again upon moving
   out of the home.
10                                                                21SWI32-2001 1 MARCH 2010


     5.7. Outside Open Flame Appliances: Outside open flame devices such as chimeneas, wood-
     burning stoves, etc., may be used, provided the device contains a spark-arresting device.
     These types of appliances must be positioned at least 10 feet from any structure and away
     from combustible items. During periods of high fire danger, residents shall discontinue use
     of these appliances.
6. Dormitories: The following are specific requirements for dorms in addition to the general
requirements in this document.
     6.1. Cooking Appliances: Cooking appliances in the dorm room are limited to coffee
     makers and microwave ovens. Toasters may be used in the kitchen area only.
     6.2. Decorations: Combustible materials such as parachutes, canopies, etc., will not be hung
     from the ceiling or walls.
     6.3. Extension Cords: Refer to paragraph 4.1., Extension Cords.
     6.4. Personal Appliances: Appliances with heating elements, such as clothes irons and
     hairdryers shall not be left unattended and will be disconnected from electrical outlets when
     not in use.
7. Places of Public Assembly (i. e., Clubs, Golf Course, Bowling Alley):
     7.1. Training: Managers will establish a training program designed for the specific facility.
     As a minimum, this training program shall be geared toward ensuring the employee
     understands their fire prevention duties and responsibilities, including use of fire
     extinguishers and installed fire suppression systems, use of installed fire evacuation systems,
     and employee responsibilities in case of fire. This training program must be developed to
     cover each functional area including kitchen workers, office workers, servers, and bartenders.
     All newly hired employees must receive training prior to starting their first shift, or on their
     first workday, whichever is most convenient. For additional information, refer to AFOSH
     Standard 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard, Chapter 6.
     7.2. Daily Closing Inspections: Facility managers, or their assistants designated in writing,
     shall perform daily closing inspections and document the results of the inspection in the
     facility fire prevention folder. A sample inspection checklist can be found at Attachment 1.
     7.3. Commercial Cooking: Commercial kitchens are defined as those that are used for the
     preparation of food for sale or those that are used on a regular basis for preparation of food
     for large groups. These kitchens have been identified by the Fire Emergency Services, and
     shall comply with the requirements listed below as well as the requirements in AFOSHSTD
     91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard, AFOSH Standard 91-300,
     Food Services Operations, and NFPA 96, Standard for Ventilation Control and Fire
     Protection of Commercial Cooking Operations.
        7.3.1. Food preparation or cooking that emits grease-laden vapors shall be protected with
        a hood and duct system that is equipped with an installed fire suppression system. The
        duct system will vent to the outside of the facility.
        7.3.2. Openings in hoods leading to the duct will be protected with filters that fit tightly.
        Cooking shall not be accomplished when these filters are not in place, or if the filters are
        not properly secured. A spare set of filters will be maintained on site.
21SWI32-2001 1 MARCH 2010                                                                   11


     7.3.3. Kitchen ranges, hoods, filters, and surroundings (areas below the filters) shall be
     cleaned at least daily or more often as needed.
     7.3.4. Cooking appliances must be completely aligned under hoods and suppression
     nozzle at all times while in operation. Hoods must overhang appliances 6 inches on all
     sides while appliances are being used.
     7.3.5. Thermostats on deep fat fryers will be tested at least annually. Tags or other
     appropriate documentation indicating the inspection results and date of inspection or test
     shall be maintained for each appliance tested.
     7.3.6. A suitable Class K fire extinguisher that complies with NFPA 10, Standard for
     Portable Fire Extinguishers, shall be provided in each cooking area.
     7.3.7. Once per year, or more often if necessary, all grease-producing cooking appliances
     shall be moved away from the wall and the area behind the appliances shall be
     thoroughly cleaned. If the appliances are gas-fed, coordination with the appropriate Civil
     Engineering shop is required for disconnecting and reconnecting the services.




                                          STEPHEN N. WHITING
                                          Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
12                                                              21SWI32-2001 1 MARCH 2010


                                          Attachment 1
                 SAMPLE FACILITY FIRE PREVENTION CHECKLIST

A1.1. Is training accomplished per the requirements of AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and
Environmental Safety, Fire Protection and Health Program?
A1.2. Are fire extinguishers visually inspected monthly to detect and correct discrepancies?
A1.3. Are all exits and exit accesses clear, unobstructed and properly marked?
A1.4. Are emergency lighting systems tested as required?
A1.5. Are mechanical rooms cleared of any items not necessary to the operation of the installed
equipment?
A1.6. Are storage rooms neat, clean and items stacked as required?
A1.7. Are flammable liquids stored in an approved flammable storage locker? Is the locker in an
approved location?
A1.8. Is storage kept at least 18” from lights and sprinkler heads?
A1.9. Are personnel who work in places of public assembly trained initially and annually
thereafter on their responsibilities for fire protection and prevention?
A1.10. Are all commercial cooking facilities provided with a system to remove smoke and
grease-laden vapors?
A1.11. Are grease ducts and grease removal systems protected by automatic fire suppression
systems?
A1.12. Are grease filters installed in all hoods and extraction systems?
A1.13. Are the filters, hoods and exposed surfaces cleaned at least daily, with thorough cleaning
of hoods and exhaust ducts at least biannually?
A1.14. Are deep fat fryers equipped with a primary thermostat of 400 degrees F and a secondary
thermostat of 475 degrees F?
A1.15. Are deep fat fryer thermostats tested annually and after any repairs?
A1.16. Has a written operating instruction been prepared that outlines responsibilities during a
fire that address fire reporting, fire extinguisher use, evacuation procedures, etc.?
