Administrative Changes to 21SWI35-101, Base Marquees

OPR: 21 SW/PA

References throughout to “signs” are hereby changed to marquees

Reference in Paragraph 4.3. to 21SW.PA@Peterson.af.mil is hereby changed to
21sw.pa@us.af.mil

4 October 2012
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        21ST SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 35-101
21ST SPACE WING
                                                                                14 JULY 2010

                                                                                Public Affairs

                                                                          BASE MARQUEES




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on the publication.

OPR: 21 SW/PAC                                                         Certified by: 21 SW/PA
Supersedes: 21SWI35-10102,                                     (Jeffrey B. Bohn, YC-02, DAF)
            19 October 2005                                                            Pages: 3


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 35-101. It provides guidance for
posting messages to the Base Marquees. It applies to all activities supported by the 21st Space
Wing Public Affairs, including Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard Units. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using AF IMT 847, Recommendation of Change of Publication; route AF
IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in the publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. This publication
may not be supplemented.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be reviewed in its entirety. Paragraph
5.5. was broken down to reflect a clearer description of what messages will be displayed on the
marquees.
1. RESPONSIBILITY. 21st Space Wing Public Affairs is the manager and point of contact for
the electronic marquee signs at the north, east, and west entry gates to Peterson AFB. Wing
Protocol, 21 SW/CCP, is the manager and point of contact for the electronic marquee sign at
Base Operations. These agencies are responsible for programming display messages for their
respective signs.
 2                                                                  21SWI35-101 14 JULY 2010


2. PURPOSE. First priority for the base marquee is to serve as an official avenue of
disseminating mission-essential information from Peterson leaders to the base population. A
secondary priority and purpose is to welcome distinguished visitors. Third would provide
Peterson with information on mission activity, and events that are pertinent to the majority of the
base. Messages that inform the base populace of official activities, advise personnel of
significant mission events, or caution personnel about weather or safety hazards are valid uses of
the signs. Fourth and last priority would be base and general interest announcements.
3. MESSAGE LIMITATIONS
     3.1. The computer is maintained in 21st Space Wing Public Affairs office. During non-duty
     hours, the Command Post has unrestricted access to update the signs for time-sensitive
     updates, such as FPCON/INFOCON, exercise changes, and weather warning messages.
     3.2. An official message displayed on the marquee is limited to one screen in order for it to
     be viewed in its entirety by passengers in passing cars and to allow more customers to have
     messages displayed and read on the same day. The marquee manager determines if a
     message should expand to two message boards to ensure understanding of the message. Two
     board messages are the exception and not the norm.
     3.3. Level One priority is given to FPCON, INFOCON, and weather warning messages.
     Level Two priority is given to messages for distinguished visitors and changes of command
     for group commanders and above. Level Three priority is given to organizational messages.
     Level Four priority is given to retirement messages; retirement requirements are listed in 5.2.
     3.4. Those messages designated as Priority One replace regularly scheduled messages.
     Priority one messages may be displayed for more than 2 days.
4. SCHEDULING THE ELECTRONIC MARQUEE
     4.1. Units/organizations wishing to have information posted on the marquee will submit
     their request in writing. If handwritten, the wording must be legible. Illegible requests will
     not be accepted. Information will not be taken over the phone.
     4.2. Requests must include the following information: name, date, time, and location of the
     event, dates the message is to be displayed, and a point-of-contact and phone number.
     4.3. Requests can be dropped off at Building 845 (21 SW Headquarters), Room 219; sent
     through base distribution to Stop 1294; faxed to 556-7848; or E-mailed to the 21 SW/PA
     office at 21SW.PA@Peterson.af.mil.
     4.4. Routine requests must arrive at Public Affairs no later than 2 duty days prior to the
     desired posting date. Signs are programmable weeks in advance, so requirements should be
     identified as soon as they are known. Priority one messages are exempt from this
     requirement.
     4.5. Each message is limited to three lines of about 13 characters and spaces per line. If the
     message will not fit on one screen as written by the requestor, the marquee manager has the
     authority to edit and/or reorganize to fit.
21SWI35-101 14 JULY 2010                                                                    3


5. MARQUEE PROHIBITIONS
  5.1. The marquee will not be used for items or services for sale, except for wing-level
  organizational clubs (i.e., Peterson Top Three) and other base-sanctioned fund raisers, such
  as the Air Force Assistance Fund and Combined Federal Campaign.
  5.2. Retirement messages will not be accepted for personnel in the grades below general
  officers, except for wing commanders, senior executive for civilians, and the position of
  command chief master sergeant for enlisted and their equivalents at the wing level.
  5.3. Commercial advertisements for events not sponsored by a Peterson AFB agency will not
  be accepted.
  5.4. Political messages will not be accepted.
  5.5. Personal congratulatory messages for promotions, etc., will not be accepted.
  5.6. Only national month-long observance messages will be posted; i.e., February is Black
  History Month.
  5.7. Messages for base service events; i.e., Club , Golf Course, etc., will be accepted on
  space available basis and programmed at the marquee manager’s discretion.
  5.8. Welcome messages will not be accepted for grades below Command Chief, Colonel,
  and/or GS-15.




                                           STEPHEN N. WHITING, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
