BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                             301ST FIGHTER WING
301ST FIGHTER WING                                                     INSTRUCTION 91-108

                                                                                22 JUNE 2010
                                                                 Certified Current 20 July 2012
                                                                                         Safety

                                                               HANGAR DOOR OPERATION

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 301 MXG/MXQ                                                    Certified by: 301 MXG/CC
                                                                         (Lt Col Max J. Stitzer)
                                                                                       Pages: 5


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 21-101_, Aircraft Equipment
Maintenance Management/Air Force Reserve Command Supplement (AFRCSUP) 1, AFOSH
Standard 91-100, Aircraft Flightline-Ground Operations and Activities, Air Force Occupational
and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection and Health (AFOSH) AFOSHSTD 91-501, Air Force
Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard. This instruction establishes responsibilities and
procedures for proper and safe hangar door operation for Hangars 1643, 1656, and 4146. This
instruction applies to all personnel assigned to the 301st Fighter Wing (301 FW). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the recommending office thru the 301FW
Publications/Forms Managers (301 CF/SCBP) to Higher Headquarters is necessary. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) at the Air Force (AF) Portal:
https://my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

1. Responsibilities. Flight chiefs/supervisors are responsible for ensuring compliance with this
instruction.
2. Procedures.
   2.1. This instruction contains all steps necessary for safe operation of designated hangar
   doors. NOTE: Each hangar type will have a separate and individual set of instructions
2                                                                  301FWI91-108 22 JUNE 2010


    displayed for the operation of its doors for hangars 1643 (aircraft maintenance hangar), 1656
    (fuel shop hangar), and 4146 (engine test cell).
    2.2. All personnel who operate hangar doors will receive annual, door-specific, on-the-job
    training (OJT) from a qualified trainer (minimum 5 skill level or civilian equivalent).
    Certification for maintenance personnel will be entered into the Integrated Maintenance Data
    System (IMDS). For all other personnel, squadron commanders will forward a letter to the
    301ST Maintenance Group Commander (301 MXG/CC), listing qualified and authorized
    door operators for each type of hangar door. In addition, the AF Form 55, Employee Safety
    and Health Record must list hangar doors as a work center safety hazard in block-6.
    2.3. Hangar doors will only be operated using the “two-person” concept, with the second
    person acting as a safety observer during operation. They will also act as a safety guard in
    the case of a door malfunction while the first person seeks assistance.
    2.4. Door wells and track areas will be visually inspected prior to opening to assure proper
    clearance of all equipment and other debris that could cause damage to government
    equipment and/or injury to personnel.
    2.5. The operator will assure that the alarm bells, buzzers, and if equipped, lights are
    operating before opening or closing the hangar doors.
    2.6. The operator is responsible for ensuring the hangar doors are open a minimum of 10 feet
    and the equipment entering/exiting the hangar has proper clearance.
    2.7. As applicable, the work center Supervisor/Facility Manager of each hangar will:
       2.7.1. Maintain the door operating instructions.
       2.7.2. Display a current set of operating instructions adjacent to control switch.
       2.7.3. Maintain legible identification stencils for all door control switches.
       2.7.4. Maintain all appropriate door markings in accordance AFOSHSTD 91-100,
       Aircraft Flight Line – Ground Operation & Activities and AFI 21-101/AFRC_SUP1,
       Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance and Management.
       2.7.5. Ensure the Maintenance Operation Center (MOC) is notified of all inoperative
       doors and measures taken to correct the problem.
    2.8. Hangar doors are to be locked out only by personnel qualified and certified in-
    accordance-with applicable directives.




                                              RICHARD W. SCOBEE, Colonel, USAFR
                                              Commander
301FWI91-108 22 JUNE 2010                                                                         3


                                          Attachment 1
            BUILDING 1643 HANGAR DOOR OPERATING INSTRUCTIONS

1. Prior to operation, ensure all personnel doors are closed and no persons or equipment are in
the path of door travel.
2. Depress open/close button. The warning horn should sound and the warning light should
illuminate. There is a 3-5 second delay before the door opens.
3. During door closing, if the door strikes an object, it will stop! You must reverse the travel by
depressing the open button and allowing the door to open slightly, and then place it back into the
closed mode.
4. During power failure, follow the procedures for hangar door manual operation.
HANGAR DOOR MANUAL OPERATION INSTRUCTIONS
1. Open the cabinet doors.
2. Unscrew the clutch handle bolt.
3. Move the clutch handle outboard until it aligns with the second bolt hole.
4. Secure bolt.
5. Move the door manually with at least two people minimum. A vehicle may be used with a
chain/tie-down strap with the eyebolt and attaching it to a vehicle.
UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES ARE YOU TO USE A VEHICLE OF ANY TYPE TO
PUSH DIRECTLY ON THE DOORS!
After power has been restored; reverse the above instruction. It may be necessary to apply
power by depressing an open/close button to disengage the clutch due to the electrical brake
holding it in place.
 4                                                                301FWI91-108 22 JUNE 2010


                                          Attachment 2
            BUILDING 1656 HANGAR DOOR OPERATING INSTRUCTIONS

1. Prior to operation, ensure all personnel doors are closed and no persons or equipment are in
the path of door travel.
2. Depress open/close button. The warning horn should sound and the warning light should
illuminate. There is a 3-5 second delay before the door opens.
3. During door closing, if the door strikes an object, it will stop! You must reverse the travel by
depressing the open button and allowing the door to open slightly, and then place it back into the
closed mode.
4. During power failure, follow the instructions for hangar door manual operation.
HANGAR DOOR MANUAL OPERATING INSTRUCTION
1. Open the cabinet doors.
2. Unscrew the clutch bolts.
3. Move the clutch outboard until it aligns with the second bolt hole.
4. Secure bolts.
5. Move the door manually with at least two people minimum. A vehicle may be used with a
chain/tie-down strap with the eyebolt and attaching it to a vehicle. UNDER NO
CIRCUMSTANCES ARE YOU TO USE A VEHICLE OF ANY TYPE TO PUSH DIRECTLY
ON THE DOORS!
After power has been restored, reverse the above instruction. It may be necessary to apply power
by depressing an open/close button to disengage the clutch due to the electrical brake holding it
in place.
301FWI91-108 22 JUNE 2010                                                                         5


                                          Attachment 3
            BUILDING 4146 HANGAR DOOR OPERATING INSTRUCTIONS

1. Prior to operation, ensure all personnel doors are closed and no persons or equipment are in
the path of door travel.
2. Depress open/close button. The warning horn should sound and the warning light should
illuminate. There is a 3-5 second delay before the door opens.
3. During door closing, if the door strikes an object, it will stop! You must reverse the travel by
depressing the open button and allowing the door to open slightly, and then place it back into the
closed mode.
4. During power failure, follow the instructions for hangar door manual operation.
HANGAR DOOR MANUAL OPERATING INSTRUCTION
1. Door drive clutch can be disengaged and the doors pushed by hand. Door tracks are fitted
with wedges, which lift door slightly. Lifting removes the drive wheel from the tracks.
2. Move the door manually with at least two people minimum. A vehicle may be used with a
chain/tie-down strap with the eyebolt and attaching it to a vehicle.
UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES ARE YOU TO USE A VEHICLE OF ANY TYPE TO
PUSH DIRECTLY ON THE DOORS!
After power has been restored; reverse the above instruction. It may be necessary to apply
power by depressing an open/close button to disengage the clutch due to the electrical brake
holding it in place.
