BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        301 FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION 44-101
301ST FIGHTER WING
                                                                                  22 JUNE 2010
                                                              Certified Current on 17 April 2014
                                                                                        Medical

                                                                AUTOMATED EXTERNAL
                                                        DEFIBRILLATION (AED) PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 301 AMDS/SGN                                                        Certified by: 301 AMDS
                                                                        (Col Richard M. Walters)
                                                                                          Pages: 7


This wing instruction was introduced by Headquarters, Air Force Reserve Command Vice
Commander (AFRC/CV) letter dated 28 May 1999 which provides guidelines and describes
oversight for the management and use of the Automated External Defibrillator (AED) equipment
at facilities under the 301st Fighter Wing (301 FW) span of control. No higher headquarters
instructions have been published as of this date. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the recommending office
thru the 301 FW Publications/Forms Managers (301 CF/SCBP) to Higher Headquarters is
necessary. Records created as a result of processes within this instruction will be maintained and
destroyed IAW Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and the Air Force Records
Information Management Systems (AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

1. General.
   1.1. Background: The American Heart Association estimates that approximately 220,000
   people die each year from sudden cardiac arrest (more than 600 deaths a day). About 75-80
   percent of these events occur beyond the grounds of a medical facility, and are due to a
   condition called ventricular fibrillation. “V-fib” results from disruption of the normal
   electrical impulses within the heart. When these impulses are out of synchronization, the
   heart’s ability to pump blood completely ceases, and every organ system of the body starves
   for oxygen. Brain cells begin to die almost immediately. For every minute that passes
   without defibrillation (shocking the heart), a victim’s chance of survival decreases by 7-10
   percent, and defibrillation is the only way to restore the heart’s ability to pump blood.
   Emergency medical service (ambulance) response times average about 12 minutes. If we
 2                                                                301FWI44-101 22 JUNE 2010


     relied on EMS, we would expect overall survival rates of fewer than 2 percent for victims of
     V-fib. A properly deployed AED program makes it possible for non-medical personnel to
     perform defibrillation for these victims. This capability greatly improves their chance of
     survival.
     1.2. Pre-requisites: 301 FW units which desire to participate in the 301 FW AED program
     (have an AED installed at their facility, or within a facility asset), must contact 301 FW AED
     Program Medical Director (see paragraph 2.3. below) by calling 817-782-7218 for a brief
     discussion regarding justification, logistical and training issues prior to ordering an AED
     unit. Additionally, when an AED unit approaches the end of its serviceable period (due for
     replacement), 301 FW AED Program Medical Director should be re-consulted to assess
     continued need. This approval practice helps ensure deployment of uniform AED models,
     training and maintenance protocols, and helps keep the 301 FW program manageable and
     effective.
        1.2.1. To help assess the unit’s need for an AED, the 301 FW AED Program Medical
        Director will need information regarding the unit’s general mission, approximate number
        of occupants or “customers” frequenting the building or area, and some approximation of
        cardiac event risk for that population (older people, occupational or environmental risks
        such as job tasks involving work with electricity, etc.).
     1.3. It is important to note that the participating 301 FW units are directly and solely
     responsible for their AED programs (purchasing, installing and user-level maintenance of
     equipment, personnel proficiency, designation of key personnel, etc). The 301st Medical
     Squadron (301 MDS) serves the units in a purely advisory capacity while providing global
     program oversight for 301 FW/CC.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. The 301 FW/CC. The wing commander has the overall responsibility for the AED
     program and directs the 301 MDS/CC to ensure proper medical objectives are maintained for
     the AED program.
     2.2. The 301 MDS/CC. The 301 MDS/CC is responsible to the 301 FW/CC for sustainment
     of the AED program. The 301 MDS/CC will ensure all medical objectives are maintained
     and provide professional guidance on program administration. The 301 MDS/CC will
     appoint in writing a Medical Director and Program Coordinator for the AED program.
     2.3. The 301 FW AED Program Medical Director. The Medical Director will be a
     credentialed medical provider proficient and current in Basic and Advanced Cardiac Life
     Support. The Medical Director is responsible for formulation of AED deployment strategies
     (where, how many), and has approval authority for AED deployment to a unit requesting this
     capability. Approval will be based on factors such as risk of the population frequenting the
     proposed location, and willingness of the proposed location’s command structure to commit
     to required training and testing. The Medical Director also provides oversight of the training
     and proficiency testing provided by the Program Coordinator. The Medical Director will
     review all event summary sheets within 5 business days of AED use (see paragraph 4.
     below).
     2.4. Program Coordinator. The Program Coordinator must be a Basic Life Support (BLS)
     Program Director (previously known as “Instructor Trainer”) and is responsible for
301FWI44-101 22 JUNE 2010                                                                     3


   monitoring 301 FW AED training and program compliance. The Program Coordinator will
   maintain a current roster of all primary and alternate site coordinators and ensure that they
   are conducting unit training according to Military Training Network (MTN) standards. The
   Program Coordinator will ensure AED proficiency (including adult CPR) at each location
   through periodic testing which will be coordinated with facility fire drills in an effort to
   minimize mission disruption. The Program Coordinator works in concert with the Medical
   Director to address medical oversight issues and any irregularities that arise.
   2.5. Site Coordinators. Units possessing an AED will have a primary and alternate Site
   Coordinator appointed in writing by the unit commander.
      2.5.1. Training requirements: Site Coordinators must successfully complete all training
      requirements as established by the Program Coordinator, and will be responsible for
      identifying and training all Targeted Responders (see paragraph 2.6.-2.6.2. below) within
      their unit.
      2.5.2. AED Unit Location and Marking. The Site Coordinator will be responsible for
      determining the placement of the AED unit (Program Coordinator can offer assistance),
      and ensuring that proper signs are posted directing rescuers to the AED unit. The
      location of the AED will also be marked on the facility’s fire evacuation plans.
      Attachment 1 contains a list of suggested additional equipment items to be kept with the
      AED. These items are not mandatory, but are strongly recommended for an effective,
      safe program.
      2.5.3. AED Unit Maintenance and Inspection. Site Coordinators will ensure all required
      inspections and maintenance actions are accomplished in accordance with the
      manufacturer’s manual. Monthly maintenance checks will be accomplished and
      documented on the form provided in Attachment 2 of this instruction.
   2.6. Targeted Responders. Targeted responders are personnel designated by the Site
   Coordinator as those likely to be in the vicinity of the AED unit when a victim is in need.
      2.6.1. Training Requirements. Targeted Responders will, as a minimum, successfully
      complete the American Heart Association (AHA) Heartsaver AED course and receive a
      certification card. Certification must be renewed every 2 years. Currency of the
      certifications is the responsibility of the Site Coordinator.
      2.6.2. Administrative Requirements. An Event Summary Sheet (Attachment 3) must be
      completed by the individual who used the AED on a victim. This form must forwarded
      to the Medical Director within 1 duty day of the event.
3. Maintenance.
   3.1. The AEDs are virtually maintenance free for up to five years. The site coordinator will
   perform and document monthly operational checks as recommended by the manufacturer’s
   guidelines. This test ensures the unit is operational and able to take a charge. The 301 MDS
   Biomedical Equipment personnel (4A2X1 or civilian equivalent) will be the point of contact
   for annual maintenance testing recommended by the manufacturer.
 4                                                               301FWI44-101 22 JUNE 2010


4. Actual Event Quality Assurance.
     4.1. The Medical Director or designee, with the assistance of the 301st Fighter Wing Staff
     Judge Advocate (301 FW/JA) or designee will review all event summary sheets within 5 duty
     days of the event to ensure quality of care complied with the local Standard of Care and any
     applicable Federal and Texas statutory requirements.




                                             RICHARD W. SCOBEE, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
301FWI44-101 22 JUNE 2010                                             5


                                        Attachment 1
                 ADDITIONAL RECOMMENDED EQUIPMENT LIST

Table A1.1. ADDITIONAL RECOMMENDED EQUIPMENT LIST.
   Non-latex protective gloves
   CPR face mask/shield
   Disposable razors to dry shave a victim’s chest area if required
   Bandage Scissors
   Spare battery and electrode pads
   Biohazard/medical waste container/bags
   Pad of paper and pens
   Absorbent towel
   Surface-Mounted AED Cabinet or Semi-Recessed AED Cabinet
   AED Location Wall Sign
6                                                                       301FWI44-101 22 JUNE 2010


                                           Attachment 2
     MONTHLY MAINTENANCE LOG FOR HEARTSTREAM DEFIBRILLATOR

Table A2.1. MONTHLY MAINTENANCE LOG FOR HEARTSTREAM
DEFIBRILLATOR.
 The purpose of this log is to verify the operational status of the Automated External
 Defibrillator.
          Item                                       Condition                                 OK   NOT
 Physical damage      No visible signs of damage such as cracks, dents or evidence of impact

 Flashing hourglass   Ensure flashing hourglass icon is visible through window

 Audible alarm        Unit should not be beeping or chirping

 Spare battery        Extra battery is in case and has not expired

 Two Sets AED pads    Check for package integrity and expiration date


 NOTE: If you encounter any trouble or have any questions, please contact the AED
 manufacturer.
 PAFB Index Number _____
        MONTH


 1                       9                              17                          25


 2                       10                             18                          26


 3                       11                             19                          27

 4                       12                             20                          28


 5                       13                             21                          29


 6                       14                             22                          30


 7                       15                             23                          31

 8                       16                             24
301FWI44-101 22 JUNE 2010                                                                       7


                                         Attachment 3
                                 EVENT SUMMARY SHEET

Table A3.1. EVENT SUMMARY SHEET.
Location of event
Date of event
Time of event
AED oversight physician
AED program coordinator
Victim’s name
Was the event witnessed or non-witnessed          Witnessed/Non-Witnessed
Name of trained rescuer(s)
Internal response plan activated                  YES/NO
Was 9-1-1 called                                  YES/NO
Was pulse taken at initial assessment             YES/NO
Was CPR given before the AED arrived              YES/NO
If yes, name(s) of CPR rescuer(s)
Were shocks given                                 YES/NO If yes…Total number of shocks ______
Did victim
Regain a pulse                                    YES/NO
Resume breathing                                  YES/NO
Regain consciousness                              YES/NO
Was the procedure for transferring patient care   YES/NO
to the emergency medical team executed
Comments/Problems encountered

Printed name of person completing                 Date:
                                                  Duty Phone:

Signature

NOTE: Fax the completed sheet to the 301st Medical Squadron Director at 817-782-3316.
