BY ORDER OF THE                                  301 FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION 21-128
301ST FIGHTER WING COMMANDER
                                                                                  22 JUNE 2010
                                                                   Certified Current 20 July 2012
                                                                                    Maintenance

                                                 HYDRAZINE RESPONSE AND HANDLING
                                                                     PROCEDURES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 301 MXG/MXMC                                                     Certified by: 301MXG/CC
                                                                          (Lt Col Max J. Stitzer)
                                                                                        Pages: 8


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space
Maintenance. It establishes proper maintenance actions following operation of the Emergency
Power Unit (EPU) or hydrazine (H-70) leak/spill mishaps involving 301st Fighter Wing (301
FW) F-16 aircraft and vehicles transporting hydrazine tanks. It applies to all personnel within
the 301st Maintenance Group (301 MXG), 301st Fighter Wing Safety (301 FW/SE), 301st
Bioenvironmental Engineering (301 MSG/BE), 301st Medical Squadron (301 MDS), Fire
Department (Navy) and Department of Defense (DoD) Security Police (301 MSG/SF). It also
implements AFI 21-101, AFRC Sup 1, Aircraft Equipment Maintenance Management; Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 91-201, Explosive Safety Standards; Air Force Occupational Safety and
Health Standards (AFOSHSTD) AFOSHSTD 91-66, General Industrial Operations;
AFOSHSTD 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program; AFOSHSTD 48-8, Controlling
Exposures to Hazardous Materials; and Technical Orders (T.O.) 1F-16C-2-49GS-00-1,
Emergency Power System; T.O.1F-16C-2-49JG-00-1, Emergency Power System; T.O.1F-16C-2-
49JG-00-2, Emergency Power System; T.O. 1F-16C-2-49JG-00-3, Emergency Power System;
and T.O. 6J14-4-11-2, Fuel Storage Tank. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the recommending office
thru the 301FW Publications/Forms Managers (301 CF/SCBP) to Higher Headquarters is
necessary. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located in Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) at the Air Force (AF)
Portal: https://my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm
 2                                                                 301FWI21-128 22 JUNE 2010


1. General.
     1.1. 301st Maintenance Group Commander (301 MXG/CC) will ensure compliance with this
     directive.
     1.2. Anytime an EPU has been activated in-flight or on the ground, the aircraft will be
     inspected for the presence of hydrazine (H-70) by the Fire Department and then by the
     Hydrazine Response Team. After initial inspection the aircraft will be moved to an
     authorized, isolated area with a clear zone of 50 feet around the aircraft. If a major spill is
     confirmed (more than one pint); a distance of 600 feet downwind and 50 feet upwind is
     required. If the spill is inside a hangar, evacuate the hangar to the required distances by
     using the "Giant Voice" or hangar alarms. Open all doors and suspend all maintenance
     activities. WARNING: Maintenance personnel should not attempt to contain or
     neutralize a leak/spill themselves since specialized protective equipment is required.
2. Hydrazine Protective Equipment Requirements:
     2.1. Requirements for Use: Chemical Protective Clothing (CPC) will be evaluated against
     the hazards involved and the final decision on selection of CPC will rest with
     Bioenvironmental Engineering and the Hydrazine Team Chief. Generally, the Hydrazine
     Response Team will utilize the highest protection (level-A equipment) available when
     initially mitigating an incident. Level B equipment does not provide the same level of
     personnel protection and will only be utilized after the team chief performs an operational
     risk assessment.
        2.1.1. During emergency response, after Fire Department confirmation of hydrazine,
        Level-A equipment will be required. This equipment consists of boots, gloves, Self
        Contained Breathing Apparatus (SCBA) and totally encapsulated vapor tight suit.
        2.1.2. During EPU disconnects, EPU purge, spill containment, or clean-up, Level-A or B
        equipment will be required if hydrazine is noted.
        2.1.3. During disconnect of a fired EPU, SCBA respiratory protection is required.
        2.1.4. All maintenance performed inside the hydrazine facility will require the use of
        level-A or level-B equipment if hydrazine is suspected or confirmed.
        2.1.5. During hydrazine storage facility inspection, personnel will be required to wear at
        a minimum; gloves, apron and an in-line supplied air respirator or assure the ventilation
        is adequate by opening at least two doors for cross ventilation.
     2.2. Training: Only personnel who are trained and task certified will wear CPC. All
     personnel who respond to hydrazine incidents and who are subject to wear level–A or level-B
     CPC are required to attend task certification training prior to job placement and must attend
     refresher training annually. Training will be given by 301 Maintenance Squadron (301
     MXS) fuel system technicians and documented in IMDS upon completion.
     2.3. Care of Protective Equipment:
        2.3.1. Totally encapsulating suits will require annual visual and pressure checks in
        accordance with manufacturing instructions. Suits will be decontaminated after each use.
        Because of the 480-minute usage time of the suit, the user will be required to document
301FWI21-128 22 JUNE 2010                                                                     3


       the date, time and name of wearer prior to storage. All Level-A suits will be serial
       number controlled.
       2.3.2. SCBA will be checked after each use, prior to use and will have a monthly
       inspection. Cylinders will never be stored with less than full pressure. Re-service as
       required.
   2.4. Eyeglasses with straps or temple bars that pass through the face piece to face seal on
   SCBA mask are prohibited. If eyeglasses are required, contact Medical Services.
3. Procedures for Personnel Contaminated with H-70:
   3.1. Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) will notify the Fire Department by calling 911.
   3.2. Personnel who have or may have inhaled H-70 MUST seek immediate medical
   attention.
   3.3. Personnel, who have had contact with hydrazine on their skin or clothing, will be
   evacuated from the spill area and proceed to the nearest source of water for decontamination.
   Medical attention will be sought as soon as possible.
   3.4. Contaminated clothing will be removed and the affected skin area will be flushed with
   large amounts of water for 15 minutes. The Hydrazine Response Team Chief will ensure the
   clothing is neutralized in accordance with T.O. 1F-16C-2-49GS-00-1.
   3.5. Eyes: Immediately flush with large amounts of water for a minimum of 15 minutes.
   Seek medical attention as soon as possible.
4. Fuel Shop Supervisor Responsibilities: The 301 MXS Fuel Shop Supervisor will ensure
assigned personnel have completed a pre-placement occupational physical examination and a
briefing on the health effects of H-70 prior to working with H-70. Ensure annual occupational
physicals for fuel systems repair personnel are scheduled and accomplished. Maintain at least
one H-70 kit (hydrazine response trailer) and the necessary technical data required for spill
management.
5. Hydrazine Response Team:
   5.1. The Hydrazine Response Team will consist of at least four individuals appointed by the
   301st Maintenance Squadron Commander (301 MXS/CC). The team will include two fully
   qualified Fuel System technicians and two additional team members or trained augmentees.
   The most senior of the Fuel Systems technicians on the team will be the Hydrazine Response
   Team Chief.
   5.2. A qualified Hydrazine Response Team will be on call via radio or telephone during
   normal duty hours. During non-duty hours the Base Fire Department (Host Navy) will be
   responsible for evacuation and containment of spills until a qualified team can be reached by
   telephone. A letter containing a list of personnel and their home telephone numbers to be
   contacted during off duty hours will be submitted by 301 MXS to the Base Fire Department
   (Host Navy) and MOC. This letter will be updated as changes occur.
   5.3. The Hydrazine Response Team will be responsible for detection, containment,
   neutralization, and clean up of any hydrazine spills, leaks or residues caused by EPU
   activation, providing the incident is within the organization's capabilities.
 4                                                                 301FWI21-128 22 JUNE 2010


        5.3.1. The Fuel System/Hydrazine Response Team will be responsible for all Level I
        (less than 1 pint) hydrazine incidents unless weather conditions or spill locations cause it
        to be beyond their capabilities. Examples are wet weather or when leaks are near storm
        drains.
        5.3.2. Spill containment and neutralization will be accomplished in accordance with T.O.
        1F-16C-2-49GS-00-1, using the two person concept with a two person back-up team
        standing no closer than 50 ft upwind of the site. The two working members will wear full
        protective clothing and SCBA.
        5.3.3. Whenever level-A equipment is required, two personnel (entrants) will be fully
        suited and an additional back-up team of two personnel will be half-suited in preparation
        for entry. The Base Fire Department EMS personnel will check vital signs on personnel
        pre and post entry of level-A suits. The Fire Department, Crash Recovery, and Support
        personnel will assist the Entry/Back-Up Team in donning CPC.
     5.4. When hydrazine is present, the Hydrazine Response Team will post signs indicating
     "KEEP OUT - Hydrazine Work in Progress." If spill, leak, or residue is in a hangar,
     adjoining offices within the cordon area (100 feet) will be evacuated. All office doors,
     including those outside the cordon area, must remain closed. When it is determined that a
     hydrazine leak is not present or the leak has been contained and neutralized and the aircraft is
     determined safe for maintenance, the aircraft will be moved to the designated fuel system
     maintenance "Safe" area for refurbishment and servicing of the Hydrazine System. The
     Hydrazine Response Team Chief will report to the On-Scene Commander before departing.
     5.5. Hydrazine Response Team Chief:
        5.5.1. The primary responsibility of the Hydrazine Response Team Chief is to take the
        Hydrazine Team into a hazardous environment, take appropriate action, and ensure the
        team is safely removed from the hazardous environment. The team chief ensures all
        proper equipment is on hand and all personal items are removed, tagged, and secured. He
        or she performs quality checks on SCBA and CPC between uses and records the serial
        numbers, time consumed and date of usage of the level-A hazard suits in a logbook.
        5.5.2. The H-70 Team Chief will notify MOC upon confirmation of any hydrazine leaks.
        5.5.3. The H-70 Team Chief will establish a safety area of 50 feet in all directions around
        the aircraft, with one entry point. Only persons authorized by the Team Chief will be
        allowed in this area.
        5.5.4. Because of the multiplicity of aircraft spill and leak situations which could occur,
        it is not possible to develop definite procedures for each possible situation. The
        Hydrazine Response Team Chief must assess each situation and add to or delete
        procedures using approved local checklists.
6. Base Fire Department (Host Navy):
     6.1. The Fire Department will:
        6.1.1. Be the on-scene-commander, anytime an EPU activation has occurred or is
        suspected.
        6.1.2. Perform decontamination duties as required.
301FWI21-128 22 JUNE 2010                                                                        5


      6.1.3. Establish communications with pilot; verify EPU selector switch is off. Chock left
      main tire only if hot brakes are not a factor.
      6.1.4. Visually inspect for the evidence of a leak from the EPU compartment drain and
      surrounding EPU area.
          6.1.4.1. If visual inspection indicates a leak, inform pilot to: notify control tower, go
          on 100 percent oxygen, and shut engine down. Assist pilot in cockpit egress, using
          portable oxygen bottle.
          6.1.4.2. If visual inspection indicates no leak, direct pilot to shut engine down, assist
          in normal pilot egress.
      6.1.5. Assist Hydrazine Response Team Entry/Back-Up Team in donning CPC.
      6.1.6. Determine if and when the initial Security Forces cordon will be adjusted.
   6.2. The on-scene-commander shall standby at the entry control point to facilitate
   communication with the Hydrazine Response Team Chief on aircraft status.
   6.3. After the Fire Department has rendered the aircraft safe; the aircraft will be turned over
   to the Hydrazine Response Team.
7. 301st Aircraft Maintenance Squadron (301 AMXS):
   7.1. Upon notification or discovery of an H-70 discharge, leak, or spill, the 301 AMXS
   Expediter will declare a ground emergency and notify the MOC of any EPU activations or
   suspected hydrazine spills. The expeditor will be the on-scene-commander until relieved by
   the fire department or a senior maintenance supervisor.
   7.2. Personnel suspecting or discovering H-70 leaks on aircraft/vehicles will immediately
   evacuate the area to a distance of 100 feet up-wind and notify 301 AMXS Expediter.
WARNING: Any leakage of a clear oily liquid or presence of ammonia odor will be treated
as a hydrazine leak. Personnel should never touch, smell, or taste liquid leaks.
   7.3. If the suspected spill occurred in a hangar, evacuate all personnel from the hangar and
   secure the area. Hangar doors will remain open, but all office doors should be closed.
   7.4. For suspected ground activations of the EPU with engine running, the aircraft will
   remain running until told to shut-down by emergency personnel.
      7.4.1. The crew chief on the affected aircraft will notify the pilot to go on 100% oxygen
      and then evacuate to 100 feet upwind and wait for emergency personnel to determine if
      exposure has occurred and provide decontamination and transportation to hospital if
      required.
      7.4.2. Crew chiefs on all remaining running aircraft will ensure that the EPU safety pin is
      installed and immediately shut down engines. The crew chiefs and pilots will then
      evacuate the ramp to a minimum of 100 feet upwind from the affected aircraft.
      7.4.3. If the -6 launch procedures are complete (i.e. crew chief is off headset and aircraft
      is ready to taxi), unaffected aircraft will immediately taxi. When aircraft have taxied,
      maintenance personnel will evacuate to at least 100 feet upwind or 300 feet downwind
 6                                                                   301FWI21-128 22 JUNE 2010


        from the affected aircraft, whichever they can reach without crossing through the affected
        area.
     7.5. F-16 aircraft recovered with a fired EPU will be positioned in the HOT BRAKE AREA
     ON ECHO TAXIWAY and the End Of Runway (EOR) CHECK AREA on the NORTH
     END OF RUNWAY. The Aircraft will be parked with the left wing into the wind if
     possible.
     7.6. If an activation or hydrazine spill occurs at EOR the crew chief will notify the pilot of
     activation and inform him or her to go on 100% oxygen. The crew chief will then evacuate
     all additional personnel at least 100 feet upwind.
8. Aircraft Pilot:
     8.1. The aircraft with the activated EPU will follow the -1 procedure for an activated EPU.
     8.2. For unaffected aircraft, pilots will be notified by UHF radio when a 301 FW aircraft has
     activated its EPU. Pilot will notify the crew chief that there is an activated EPU and direct
     him to install the EPU safety pin. After the safety pin is installed, the pilot will shut down
     the aircraft engine and crew chief and pilot will evacuate to a minimum of 100 feet upwind
     or 300 feet downwind from the affected aircraft. However, if the aircraft is ready to launch
     (i.e. crew chief is off headset and aircraft is ready to taxi), the pilot will immediately taxi to
     appropriate end-of-runway area or as directed by ground control.
     8.3. Aircraft returning from flight with an activated EPU will follow the appropriate -1
     procedure and recover in the designated aircraft recovery area. HOT BRAKE AREA on
     ECHO TAXIWAY and the End of Runway (EOR) CHECK AREA on the NORTH END OF
     RUNWAY.
     8.4. Any pilot experiencing EPU activation will fill out the pilots’ portion of the EPU
     Activation Checklist during debrief.
9. 301 Maintenance Operations Control (MOC). Upon notification of an in-flight, ground
firing or "Possible Hydrazine Leak" of the EPU, MOC will notify the Fuel Shop of a possible
EPU activation and dispatch the Fuel Shop, Hydrazine Response Team to the appropriate
recovery area. The team will maintain radio contact with MOC for wind direction. Accomplish
the Hydrazine Emergency Response checklist and notify the Quality Assurance Branch (301
MXG/MXQ) and the Command Post (301 FW/CP) that an inadvertent firing has occurred.
Ensure that pilots fill out the pilot’s portion of the EPU Activation Checklist during debrief.
10. Bioenvironmental Engineering (301 MSG/SGPB) will:
     10.1. Provide assistance in the selection of appropriate personal protective equipment.
     10.2. Assess any occupational exposures to hydrazine and brief Medical Services on
     incidents/accidents involving Hydrazine, via the 301FW Occupational Health Working
     Group (OHWG) or other means.
     10.3. Provide technical assistance in the neutralization and disposal of neutralized hydrazine.
     10.4. Be responsible for ensuring that all hydrazine has been completely neutralized and
     properly disposed of after clean-up operations.
301FWI21-128 22 JUNE 2010                                                                        7


11. Safety Officer (301 FW/SE) will: Observe from outside the cordon area and assist as
necessary to ensure that safe and accepted practices are adhered to throughout the course of the
emergency.
12. Medical Services (301 MDS/PES) will: Ensure all personnel assigned to                hydrazine
maintenance duties have pre-placement, annual and termination occupational health        physicals.
From these physicals, 301 MSG/SGPB will assess any occupational exposures to             hydrazine
maintenance personnel. Medical Services will review all incidents/accidents              involving
hydrazine to evaluate any needed follow-ups for exposed personnel.
13. EPU maintenance requirements:
   13.1. Building 1656 is the designated controlled area for EPU maintenance and servicing.
   Selection of this area was made with the coordination and approval of the Base
   Bioenvironmental Engineer. The following tasks shall be performed only in this area: EPU
   maintenance actions that include catalyst bed depth check/line purge (After EPU has been
   fired) and tank de-pressurization or removal and replacement.
   13.2. Routine EPU maintenance to include pre-phase EPU and monopropellant checks may
   be performed in a hangar or shelter. If the EPU has been fired, the monopropellant checks
   may be accomplished in a hangar or shelter, after the EPU tank de-pressurization and line
   purge is accomplished and when no hydrazine vapors are detectable. Ref: T.O. 1F-16C-
   49GS-00-1.
   13.3. All EPU disconnects and purges will be performed inside Building 1656 whenever any
   of the following conditions exists:
       13.3.1. Wind conditions are such as to cause any loss of liquid to be rapidly spread over
       a large area.
       13.3.2. Wet or rainy conditions exist which would make liquid hydrazine difficult to
       detect or clean up.
       13.3.3. Weather conditions are below 32 degrees Fahrenheit.
   13.4. All disconnects performed inside the facility will require maintenance personnel to
   perform the following:
       13.4.1. Notify MOC or the flight line expediter of the maintenance in progress.
       13.4.2. Clear all non-essential personnel from the building.
       13.4.3. Post warning signs and partially open doors to ensure adequate ventilation.
14. Hydrazine Procedures for Aircraft Deployment:
   14.1. A qualified H-70 response team with a complete spill kit will be sent with every F-16
   deployment going to any other than an established F-16 base, or as determined by 301
   MXG/CC.
   14.2. Immediately upon arrival at the deployment location, the senior 301 FW Maintenance
   Officer or NCO will make arrangements with the host base commander for a briefing of host
   base personnel on hydrazine and procedures for spills and leaks. Host Base Agencies that
   should be represented for the briefing include, as a minimum: Host Maintenance Officer,
 8                                                     301FWI21-128 22 JUNE 2010


     MOC, Quality Assurance Branch, Hospital, Base Fire Department, Base Disaster
     Preparedness, Base Safety, Bioenvironmental Engineering, and Security Police.
15. Prescribed forms: AF Form 847




                                      RICHARD W. SCOBEE, Col, USAFR
                                      Commander
