                301 FW Network Users
                Quick Reference Card
NETWORK USER “DOs and DON’Ts” All network users help ensure network
integrity by following the below “DOs and DON’Ts.” These are all common sense
items that, if adhered to, will assist in maintaining network security and help thwart
threat attempts by an unknown attacker.


01 Be aware of your surroundings and report suspicious behavior such as “shoulder
surfing” or unauthorized access to sensitive or classified information. Challenge
unknown personnel in your areas, especially when their behavior is questionable!
02 Never leave your computer unattended without using a password/pin-protected
screen saver, removing your common access card (CAC), or logging off the network
completely. Never leave your CAC unattended in your computer.
03 Protect your access to information from the insider threat: DO NOT share your
password/pin. DO NOT write your password/pin down so it can be accessed easily.
Remember, the first places an intruder will check for your password/pin are the most
common places people write them down: (1) on the back of the keyboards, (2) bottom
of the mouse, (3) posted on the wall, and (4) printed on a piece of paper laying in a
desk drawer.
04 Social engineering is a very large network threat. Social engineering can be
accomplished by email, telephone, or even in person. A very common attack is an
email asking you to test your password/pin for composition compliance by inserting it
in the space provided and pressing enter. There is no reason whatsoever for a network
user to provide his or her password/pin. No matter how official the email looks, no
matter who the individual says he or she is, and no matter who the individual is in your
office—NEVER give your password/pin to anyone for any reason. If you are aware of
any type of social engineering, immediately contact the Enterprise Service Desk
(ESD), communications focal point (CFP), or cyber security office (IAO).
05 Don’t download personal software, games, or programs from the internet
without obtaining formal software approval. Why? Some downloaded files may
contain malicious logic such as viruses or Trojan Horse programs. Report suspicious
computer behavior to the CFP or your IAO.
06 A common threat to our network is a distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack.
The most common DDoS attacks relate to email. Beware of email from unknown
sources or from known individuals but with unusual subjects forwarding an
attachment. Many DDoS attacks are triggered by an embedded script in the attachment
that goes to your address book and resends the same email, with attachment, to
everyone in your address book. If you receive such an email, immediately delete it and
notify the CFP or your IAO.
07 Other possible DDoS attacks relate to Internet hoaxes. These are warnings of new
viruses, moneymaking schemes, or chain letters. They all ask the users to forward the
message to friends in the name of a fictitious cause. These types of attacks only slow
down the Internet and email service for computer users. Do not respond to these
requests. Notify the CFP or your IAO.
08 Ensure you scan all removable media for viruses before accessing. Common
symptoms of viruses include: (1) slow performance, (2) files disappearing, (3) constant
computer error messages, (4) erratic flashing, or (5) constant email error messages.
Contact the CFP or your IAO if you experience any of these problems.
09 What do you do if you are sitting at your computer and suddenly the mouse cursor
moves around the screen, and files and programs are being accessed without you doing
anything? This could be a security incident—report it to the CFP or your IAO
immediately.
Points of Contact:
Enterprise Service Desk (ESD): DSN 945-2900 or (210) 925-2900
Client Support Technician (CST)/Communications Focal Point (CFP): 782-7181
Organizational Cyber Security Officer (formerly IAO):
Wing Cyber Security Office (formerly WIAO): 782-6901


301FWVA 33-101, 12 May 2014, Certified Current 25 September 2014
Supersedes: 301FWVA33-101, 22 June 2010
Prescribed by: AFI33-138
OPR: 301CS/SCO
301FW Network Users Quick Reference Guide
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on
the e- Publishing web site at www.e-Publishing.af.mil
               301 FW Network Users
               Quick Reference Card
VIRUS Reporting Procedures: If suspicious or unusual activities occur or there’s
a suspected virus, DO NOT answer any prompts or messages and complete the
following:
Item # Task:
01 Stop using the system.
02 DO NOT shut off the machine.
03 Isolate machine from network by unplugging the network cable at the back of the
computer.
04 Notify the CFP or your IAO immediately.
05 DO NOT attempt to run your AntiVirus client.



Classified Message Incident (CMI): If classified information is accidently placed
on your system or on the local area network, the incident is CLASSIFIED. DO
the following immediately:
Item # Task:
01 If received via email, document the sender, subject line, time received, any other
recipients, and attachment name if it exists. DO NOT disclose the subject line over
unsecured media.
02 If the document was printed, disconnect the printer and secure it with the computer.
03 If found on file servers or on the Web, document where you found it (for example,
file path or Web page).
04 Notify the CFP or your IAO in person immediately or via secure media (for
example, STE). If the CMI occurred on the local machine, physically guard the
machine.
05 Do not delete the message or file.
06 Isolate machine from network by unplugging the network cable at the back of the
computer.




DoD Information Assurance Awareness training is required annually:

Notes:
