BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  302 AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 21-103
302D AIRLIFT WING                                                                      5 JANUARY 2007
                                                                  Certified Current on 18 December 2012
                                                                                           Maintenance

                                                                        FOREIGN OBJECT DAMAGE/
                                                                          DEBRIS (FOD) PROGRAM



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 302 MXG/MXQ                                                                Certified by: 302 AW/CC
                                                                              (Brig Gen William P. Kane)
Supersedes 302AWI21-103, 1 April 2002                                                            Pages: 4

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, and
establishes operating procedures, identifies specific responsibilities for Foreign Object Damage/Debris
(FOD) inspections, and incident reporting. This publication also acts as supplemental information, along
with cited references, to form a comprehensive foreign object damage prevention program. This publica-
tion is consistent with Air Force Occupational Safety and Health (AFOSH) standards or Department of
Labor Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) standards. This instruction applies to all personnel
assigned to the 302d Airlift Wing (AW), Peterson AFB.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Authorities and references
have been updated. This revision also incorporates updates to General FOD Prevention Practices.


1. Responsibilities: All personnel will ensure compliance with this instruction so that every precaution is
taken to prevent FOD. Supervisors must ensure that newly assigned personnel whose duties take them on
the flight line receive the FOD Prevention Orientation/Familiarization briefing as part of their new-
comer’s in-processing. The Transportation FOD Prevention Officer/ Non-Commissioned Officer will
ensure the driver’s training program stresses the importance of FOD prevention when driving on the flight
line.

2. Procedures:
   2.1. Ensure this instruction receives widest dissemination throughout the 302d AW.
   2.2. The 302 Maintenance Group (MXG) FOD Committee will meet quarterly (monthly meetings are
   encouraged and will be scheduled within time constraints). If the 302d AW standards are exceeded,
   the FOD committee will hold emergency sessions until the issues are resolved.
2                                                                    302AWI21-103 5 JANUARY 2007


    2.3. Ensure publicity materials concerning FOD (i.e., posters, committee minutes, etc.) are given wid-
    est dissemination throughout the 302 AW.
    2.4. FOD walks around the aircraft will be accomplished by maintenance personnel daily. Flight line/
    ramp area walks will be completed as needed in addition to scheduled walks performed by Mainte-
    nance Group personnel during scheduled Unit Training Assembly (UTA). Other wing personnel are
    highly encouraged to attend. Section performing the walk and time will be published in the weekly
    flying schedule.
    2.5. All FOD incidents will be reported to and investigated by Maintenance Group Quality Assur-
    ance. This information will be up-channeled to the FOD committee and evaluated for seriousness and
    awareness/prevention.
    2.6. Wing activities discovering FOD to any aircraft/engine will report findings to MXG Quality
    Assurance and the Maintenance Officer/Supervisor. The aircraft will be impounded pending evalua-
    tion of damages. Maintenance/Operations actions will not be accomplished without the approval of
    the impounding official.
    2.7. All personnel will be constantly on alert for any form of FOD during all phases of work, passen-
    ger/cargo loading, and flight. Special attention will be given to small items of debris, such as safety
    wire, bolts, nuts, screws, etc. Loose materials will be placed in FOD containers during the normal
    course of job performance. After any job is completed, a final check of the entire work area will be
    made and all FOD removed.

3. General FOD Prevention Practices:
    3.1. Personnel will not wear hats within 25 feet of a running engine. Wear of the winter watch cap is
    authorized and may be worn during aircraft launch when using the following procedures:
    3.2. Ear defender/communication headset devices must be worn over the watch cap.
    3.3. Watch caps must be firmly set on individual’s head and pulled down over ears to prevent it from
    inadvertently coming off, thus posing a FOD hazard.
    3.4. Aircraft/weapon safety pins will not be placed on or left unsecured on aircraft parking ramps/
    movement areas at any time.
    3.5. Aircraft forms will not be left unsecured, at any time, on the ramp or any external portion of the
    aircraft.
    3.6. Refreshments (coffee, soda, etc.) may be consumed inside vehicles; however, empty containers
    must be properly disposed of. Glass bottles are prohibited on the flight line, with the exception of
    maintenance sampling kits.
    3.7. The military parking ramp will be swept with appropriate equipment. This function will be coor-
    dinated with the host wing 21 Space Wing (21SW) through the Maintenance Operations Center.
    3.8. When maintenance is performed forward of the upper and lower engine cowlings; a red X will be
    entered in the Air Force Technical Order (AFTO) Information Management Tool (IMT) 781A, Main-
    tenance Discrepancy and Work Document, for a thorough intake inspection. Only a qualified
    inspector’s signature is required to clear the inspection.
302AWI21-103 5 JANUARY 2007                                                                                 3


   3.9. A FOD inspection will be performed after any activity on the flight line or around aircraft (i.e.
   cargo loading, passenger pick-up/drop-off).
   3.10. Crew chiefs and all other maintenance personnel working in or around aircraft cockpits and
   flight decks will ensure the area is FOD free prior to flight, by policing up any small items of debris,
   such as pens, pen caps, pencils, erasers, hardware, etc. and placing them in a FOD container or in a
   proper storage compartment.

4. Flight line Vehicle FOD Prevention:
   4.1. Vehicle operators will inspect the vehicle interior, cargo bed, and tires prior to entering the flight
   line and remove all foreign material that could inadvertently fall on the ramp creating a FOD hazard.
   4.2. Government employees (military and civilian) will not use or possess (on their person) person-
   ally-owned tools while flying on wing-assigned aircraft or while working in any government mainte-
   nance facility. Contractors will comply with their contract concerning tool control and accountability.



                                                WILLIAM P.KANE, Brig Gen, USAFR
                                                Commander
4                                                                302AWI21-103 5 JANUARY 2007


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Air Force Instruction 21-101, Maintenance Management of Aircraft
Air Force Instruction 91-202, The Air Force Mishap Prevention Program
Air Force Instruction 91-204, Investigating and Reporting US Air Force Mishaps
Air Force Technical Order 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document
Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Standard 91-100, Aircraft Flight Line-Ground Operations &
Activities
Air Force Reserve Command Instruction 21-101, Aircraft Maintenance Guidance and Procedures
Technical Order 00-20-1, Preventative Maintenance Program General Policy Requirements and Proce-
dures.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
AFTO—Air Force Technical Order
AW—Airlift Wing
AWI—Airlift Wing Instruction
FOD—Foreign Object Damage/Debris
IMT—Information Management Tool
MXG—Maintenance Group
OSHA—Department of Labor Occupational Safety and Health Act
UTA—Unit Training Assembly
