BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         302 AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 36-801
302D AIRLIFT WING
                                                                            8 DECEMBER 2008
                                                                 Certified Current on 5 July 2012


                                                                                       Personnel

                                                        CIVILIAN TIME AND ATTENDANCE

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and form s are available on the e-P ublishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 302 AW/FM                            Certified by: 302 AW/CC (Col. James J. Muscatell Jr.)
                                                                                    Pages: 7

This instruction implements and complies with the requirements of Air Force Policy Directive
(AFPD) 36-8, Employee Benefits and Entitlements. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting inform ation. It esta blishes guidance and procedures to accurately
document time and attendance for all civilian e        mployees in conjunction with governing
directives to prevent excess and /or inappropriate dual compensation. It combines guidance from
AFMAN 36-8001, Reserve Personnel Participation and Training Procedures; AFI 36-807,
Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observances; AFI 36-815; Absence and
Leave. This instruction applies to all civilian and Air Reserve Technician (ART) employees of
the 302 Airlift W ing (AW) and establishes the responsibility and procedures for tim e and
attendance and audit processes. Refer reco        mmended changes and que stions about this
publication to the Offi ce of Pri mary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force For m 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form s 847 directly to the OPR at the
302AW/FM, Peterson AFB, CO. Ensure that a            ll records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are m aintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedul         e
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

1. Office of Primary Responsibility. The 302 AW/Financial Management (FM) is the Office
Primary Responsibility for time and attendance to include auditing.

2. Responsibilities:

2.1. 302D Wing Commander/Senior ART. The Wing Commander/Senior ART will ensure all
assigned personnel comply with this instruction. The Wing Commander/Senior ART is the
2                                                    302AWI36-801               8 DECEMBER 2008

waiver authority for deviations from this instruction. Waivers will be documented and kept on
file with the OPR for this instruction.

2.1.1. The Wing Commander/Senior ART will appoint, in writing, a Time and Attendance OPR
for the Wing who will be responsible for training the workforce on proper leave accounting for
all civilian employees and will ensure audits are conducted and the results reported to the Wing
Commander/Senior ART.

2.2. Employee. Employees are responsible for requesting prior supervisor approval for all
exceptions to the normal civilian duty day. Unless covered by written Wing policy, the
following forms, when applicable, will be submitted to their supervisor for approval. Employee
will provide the completed forms to their timekeeper with the bi-weekly timecard.

2.2.1. AF Form 938, Request and Authorization for Active Duty Training/Active Duty
Tour.

2.2.2. OPM 71, Request for Leave or Approved Absence. If required by supervisor the OPM
71 will be used for requesting/authorizing all leave request. Attach the OPM 71 to the timecard
when given to unit timekeeper.

2.2.3. AF Form 40A, Record of Individual Inactive Duty Training.

2.2.4. Work Schedule Change Request. This form is use to request any change to an employee’s
work schedule.

2.2.5. AF Form 428, Request for Overtime, Holiday Premium Pay, and Compensatory
Time.

2.2.6. Additional supporting documentation, as appropriate, i.e., court leave certificate of
attendance, medical certifications.

2.3. Timekeeper. Timekeepers are responsible for maintenance of time and attendance
accounting. They will coordinate with the supervisors and employees to ensure accurate and
timely documentation.

2.3.1. Records all exceptions to employees’ scheduled tours of duty on a daily basis, i.e., leave,
overtime, compensatory time, premium pay (night differential, Sunday premium, holiday pay).

2.3.2. Ensure copies of all supporting documentation are on file, to include required statements,
certifications, and signatures/initials.

2.4. Supervisor. Supervisors are responsible for time and attendance management of assigned
employees; to include scheduling, tracking and documenting of assigned work. Supervisors will
normally have direct personal knowledge of employee’s work schedule and will verify actual
hours worked. Supervisors at all levels must work closely with timekeepers to ensure accuracy
of time and attendance accounting on a daily basis.
302AWI36-801       8 DECEMBER 2008                                                         3

2.4.1. Approves the employee’s work schedule.

2.4.2. Authorizes all types of leave.

2.4.3. Submits overtime requests through the Group Commander, Financial Management to the
Wing Commander/Senior ART for approval.

2.4.4. Monitors overtime/compensatory time earned. Supervisors will receive bi-weekly reports
from Financial Management.

2.4.5. Ensures time and attendance folders are created and maintained for employees to include
copies of all applicable supporting documentation. (Refer to this instruction, Para 5).

2.4.6. Reviews and certifies time and attendance reports. NOTE: In the absence of the
immediate supervisor, the next level supervisor will perform this function.

2.5. Certifying Official. Verifies military duty performance and/or civilian time and
attendance.

2.6. Squadron Senior ART. Appoint, in writing, primary and alternate timekeepers for their
areas.

2.7. Wing Time and Attendance OPR. Responsible for training the workforce on proper leave
and accounting and premium pay procedures and will ensure audits are conducted and the results
reported to the commander quarterly.

2.8. Commanders. Will ensure audits are conducted within the time limits set by the Wing
OPR and results sent in time to be consolidated into a quarterly report. Commanders should take
appropriate action through proper channels if any adverse trends are identified in the audits.

3. Work Schedule Policy. The following outlines policy guidance to all work schedules.
Allowable work band for Monday through Friday is 0600-1800, subject to supervisory approval
and missions requirements. Core hours for the wing are 0900-1500.

3.1. Alternate Work Schedule. In addition to the standard 8-hour day 40-hours a week and 80-
hours biweekly schedule, 302 AW mission requirements allow supervisors to offer 302 AW
civilian employees the option of one of three alternate work schedule: (1) the 5/4 – 9
Compressed Work Schedule (CWS); (2) the Flexible Work Schedule (FWS) or (3) the Gliding
Schedule. Each employee will discuss with his/her supervisor the type of work schedule suitable
to the work environment.

3.1.1. Compressed Work Schedule. The tour of duty for employees under the CWS program
is defined by a fixed schedule as approved by the supervisor. The CWS, also known as the 5/4 –
9 plan, consists of working eight 9 hour days, one 8 hour day and one Scheduled Day Off (SDO)
for a total of 80 hours in a bi-weekly pay period. There are no provisions for employee
flexibility in reporting or quitting times. Credit hours are not earned under the CWS program.
4                                                     302AWI36-801              8 DECEMBER 2008

Under this option, the SDO must be approved by the supervisor and is not necessarily Monday or
Friday. Employees cannot change their SDO without supervisor pre-approval and submission of
a new work schedule change letter.

3.1.2. Flexible Work Schedule (FWS). Flexible work schedule; in which an employee is
allowed to select starting and stopping times within the flexible hours. Once selected, the hours
are fixed until the agency provides an opportunity to select different starting and stopping times.

3.1.3. The Gliding Schedule. The employee has a basic work requirement of 8 hours each day
and a 40 hour work week. The employee may select a starting and stopping time each day, and
may change starting and stopping times daily within the established flexible hours with pre-
coordination from the supervisor. Hours in excess of 40 hours in a week will be coordinated
with the supervisor and should be reported as credit hours. Adjusting start and stop times must
permit performance of the eight-hour duty period plus the applicable lunch period while covering
the core hours.

3.2. Rules Governing Alternative Work Schedule. A basic premise of the AWS program is
that there will be no negative impact on work productivity or increased costs of operation.

3.2.1. Supervisors at all levels are authorized, not directed, to approve alternative work
schedules within their areas.

3.2.2. Work centers will be manned during prime customer service hours as established and /or
published by the work center supervisor.

3.2.3. Full-time employees will be scheduled to work eighty (80) hours.

3.2.4. Employees desiring to use annual leave, Leave With Out Pay (LWOP), sick leave, credit
hours, or compensatory time off for an entire work shift will be charged the amount of time equal
to the alternative work shift that was scheduled for that day, e.g., if alternative work shift
schedule was nine hours and employee requested sick leave, the employee is charged for nine
hours of sick leave.

3.2.5. Only FWS employees may earn credit hours. They are worked at the option of the
employee when the supervisor recognizes a valid need for work to be performed outside the
employee’s basic work requirement. They are distinguished from overtime hours in that they are
not officially ordered and approved in advance by management. Employees may request to earn
credit hours. An employee’s right to use earned credit hours is subject to supervisor approval.
There is no limit on the number of credit hours that may be earned during a pay period.
However, a full time employee cannot carry forward more than 24 hours from one pay period to
another. Both the employee and the supervisor must closely monitor the credit hour balance to
preclude losses. If not closely monitored and a work requirement exists, it may be necessary for
the supervisor to approve compensatory time in lieu of credit hours to avoid loss.
302AWI36-801      8 DECEMBER 2008                                                              5

3.3. Procedures for Implementing Alternative Work Schedule. Employees interested in
participating in the AWS program must submit a written request to their supervisor outlining
their tour of duty hours.

3.3.2. Alternative work schedules must be requested and approved in writing no later than
termination of the work shift Wednesday, prior to the start of the affected bi-weekly work period.
After an alternative work schedule has been approved, it remains in effect until a new schedule is
requested and approved. Normally, changes to an approved alternative work schedule cannot be
made for the current bi-weekly work period. Mission requirements or emergency situations may
require exceptions to these procedures.

3.3.3. Approved alternative work schedules will be filed in the Time and Attendance folder and
copy returned to the employee. (Refer to this instruction Para. 5)

3.3.4. Employee integrity and a relationship of trust between the employee and the supervisor
are the keystones of a successful AWS program. If a documented pattern of duty absence or
credit hour/leave abuse on the part of an employee is established, the supervisor may remove the
employee from the program and return them to their pre-AWS work schedule.

3.4. Lunch Period. The lunch period must be at least 30 minutes in length and is to be
observed during the midday time frame between 1100 and 1300 hours. It is inappropriate to
schedule and take a lunch period at the beginning or end of the civilian workday. There is an
authorized deviation from the 30 minutes lunch period when the lunch period is consumed in
flight, an on the job lunch period not to exceed 20 minute lunch period is permitted. The
requirement to establish and take a lunch period may not be waived solely on the basis of an
aircrew member flying an AFTP, short duration mission or performing an AGTP/RMP; nor may
it be waived for other ground personnel supporting such missions.

4. Internal Controls and Processes. The purpose of internal audits is to ensure compliance
with established procedures, as well as identify inappropriate compensation and time and
attendance accounting errors.

5. Member’s Time and Attendance Folders. Timekeeps will a standard six part folder for
each ART/Civilian (name only on the outside of the folder) that will contain the following in pay
period order:

5.1. Timecard for each pay period with copies of all supporting documentation (military
documents, AF Form 428s, work schedule changes, leave requests if required, DD Form 1610,
Request and Authorization for TDY Travel of DoD Personnel, DD Form 1610, Request and
Authorization for TDY Travel of DoD Personnel.

5.1.1. Timecards for each quarter will be in a separate section of the six-part folder. The two
remaining sections of the folder may contain other local information as considered necessary by
the units.
6                                                   302AWI36-801              8 DECEMBER 2008

5.1.2. Timekeepers are responsible for maintaining the six-part folders as prescribed above for
six years IAW Records and Disposition Schedule T65-22 R 03.00.
6. Adopted Forms: AF Form 938, Request and Authorization for Active Duty Training/Active
Duty Tour. OPM 71, Request for Leave or Approved Absence, and AF Form 40A, Record of
Individual Inactive Duty Training, and AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication.



                                                      JAMES J. MUSCATELL JR. Col, USAFR
                                                      Commander
302AWI36-801     8 DECEMBER 2008                                                        7


                                       Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observances; 21 June 1999
AFI 36-815; Absence and Leave. 5 September 2002
AFMAN 36-8001, Reserve Personnel Participation and Training Procedures; 22 January 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFI—Air Force Instruction
ART—Air Reserve Technician
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AW—Airlift Wing
AWS—Alternate Work Schedule
CC—Commander
CWS—Compressed Work Schedule
FM—Financial Management
LWOP—Leave Without Pay
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SDO—Scheduled Day Off
