BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   302 AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 90-201
302D AIRLIFT WING                                                                     5 NOVEMBER 2006
                                                                          Certified Current on 16 July 2012
                                                                                    Specialty Management

                                                                        SELF-INSPECTION PROGRAM




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                        www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 302d AW/CCX                                                                Certified by: 302d AW/CC
                                                                               (Col James J. Muscatell, Jr.)
                                                                                                  Pages: 8

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-2, Inspector General - The Inspection
System. It establishes a Self-Inspection Program (SIP) for the 302d Airlift Wing (AW). It outlines respon-
sibilities, establishes time tables for conducting the inspections, provides guidance in the organization and
content of the self-inspection books, contains procedures for disseminating cross-feed and inspection
reports from other units, and provides for the reporting of discrepancies to supervisors and commanders
for assistance with corrective actions. It applies to all 302d AW self-inspection managers and monitors.
NOTE: The 302d Aeromedical Staging Squadron will establish their self-inspection/cross feed programs
as directed by their inspecting commands, but will record status according to this instruction.


1. General Philosophy.
   1.1. The purpose of this instruction is to provide a systematic reporting procedure that will enable
   commanders and supervisors to identify, track and resolve anticipated or actual problem areas. This
   systematic system identifies the utilization of a computer-based tracking system located on the local
   area network (LAN) server and an effective communication process through command channels to
   ensure compliance of Common-Core Criteria elements. Computer technology will be used to provide
   immediate update information to commanders, supervisors, and self-inspection monitors to identify
   and correct deficiencies before they become detrimental to mission accomplishment. To achieve this,
   the SIP highlights trouble areas to get managerial attention before these areas become problems.

2. Establishing the Self-Inspection Program.
   2.1. The wing commander will designate a Wing Self-Inspection monitor. The appointment letter will
   be kept on file in the wing SIP book and copies will be forwarded to 22nd Air Force.
   2.2. Group commanders, squadron commanders and section chiefs will appoint functional area SIP
   managers to conduct the program in their organization.
2                                                                   302AWI90-201 5 NOVEMBER 2006


    2.3. A copy of the functional area manager appointment letter will be kept in the respective SIP book.
    The Wing SIP monitor will maintain a file of all appointment letters or group POC letter.
    2.4. The wing monitor provides cross-feed reports to group and staff agency SIP monitors via the 302
    AW LAN, Q: drive / AW / CTELL folder. Reports from other units, best practices, special interest
    items, etc., can also be found in this folder. Group functional managers act as the primary focal point
    for the SIP for all their subordinate units and are directly responsible for the quality of these programs.
    They will ensure assigned units accomplish a semi-annual self-inspection of each functional area,
    work center, and additional duty by 31 January and 31 July. They will also ensure responsible agen-
    cies open noted discrepancies in the self-inspection tracking system (SITS) program, and monitor the
    estimated completion date, as needed. Monitors are also responsible for pulling information off the
    local area network for their programs and consolidation.

3. Requirements.
    3.1. The Wing Self-Inspection Program Monitor will:
       3.1.1. Ensure the Self-Inspection Program meets directive compliance and communicates
       changes or unique inspection program elements.
       3.1.2. Ensure each Group establishes an effective process for tracking and closure of discrepan-
       cies identified by internally developed checklists, NAF Staff Assistance Visits, operational readi-
       ness inspection (ORIs), Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Unit Compliance Inspections
       (UCI) and Special Interest Items (SIIs).
       3.1.3. Ensure that each group monitor receives and has established a process for ensuring the
       Inspector General (IG) Crossfeed, Inspection reports and SIIs are being reviewed for compliance
       by the squadron, flight, or work center monitors. Each of these items will be posted in the Q:AW/
       CTELL folder.
       3.1.4. Communicate through the use of e-mail or other fast media-providing data as to changes or
       unique program elements or related information on the AFRC/IG Web pages.
       3.1.5. Provide training and assistance as requested by a group, squadron, flight, or work center
       monitor.
    3.2. Group Self-Inspection Monitors will:
       3.2.1. Provide group appointment letter to the Wing Self-Inspection Monitor.
       3.2.2. Maintain the group’s self-inspection logbook in accordance with (IAW) the procedures out-
       lined in this instruction.
       3.2.3. Notify the appropriate group commander of discrepancies identified by subordinate organi-
       zations which require assistance.
    3.3. Squadron, Flight, or Work Center Self-Inspection Monitors will:
       3.3.1. Notify the appropriate squadron commander or superintendent of discrepancies identified
       by subordinate work centers which require management assistance.
       3.3.2. Maintain a self-inspection logbook or automated system which contains checklists, SIIs
       and discrepancy log. Submit any changes/revisions to the Group Self-Inspection Monitor.
302AWI90-201 5 NOVEMBER 2006                                                                                   3


4. SITS Program.
   4.1. SITS stands for Self-Inspection Tracking System. SITS is an automated database system that was
   written using Microsoft Access '97. It was originally designed to track Self-Inspection write-ups
   within individual units. The program, program manual and additional information is located on the
   302d AW LAN, Q: AW/CTELL folder. Each group commander is responsible for items tracked in
   their databases. Each Friday before the unit training assembly, group commanders will have at their
   disposal a list of self-inspection write-ups for their group that are still open, a list of write-ups that are
   past due the estimated completion date, and a list of discrepancies that are due the following month.
   Only the wing commander or group commanders (or their designatees) can close a discrepancy item.
   Group, squadron, flight, or work center monitors may request an item be reviewed by the wing or
   group commander for possible closure.

5. Self-Inspection Books.
   5.1. This section describes the content and format of self-inspection books. Not every functional area
   requiring a self-inspection is required to have a separate book. Multiple areas with their associated
   checklists and discrepancy/follow-up logs may be kept in the same binder. Individual commanders
   and section chiefs will determine which functional areas may share a common self-inspection book.
   This decision should be based on the amount of cross-feed maintained for each functional area, the
   number of people requiring access to the book, the number and size of checklists in each area, and the
   physical proximity of each functional area.
   5.2. The following is a list of sections in each self-inspection book. It gives a brief explanation of the
   contents of each section and the Air Force Records Management System (AFRIMS) records disposi-
   tion schedule. A printed reference copy of 302 AWI 90-201, Self Inspection Program, will be main-
   tained in the front of each SIP book.
       5.2.1. CONTENTS:
           5.2.1.1. Section One - Delegations/Designations of Authority and Additional Duty Assign-
           ments (Table (T) 037-15, Rule(R)19). Current copies of all letters of appointment for the
           self-inspection program and a copy of the wing self-inspection instruction.
           5.2.1.2. Section Two - Inspected Activities Inspection Reports (T 090-02, R03). 302 AW
           EORI/UCI reports and any inspection done by an outside agency. Answerable discrepancies
           from formal inspections must be maintained until the next like inspection report is received.
           Reports with no discrepancies in your functional area are not required. Entire reports or the
           portion pertaining to your area may be maintained if desired.
           5.2.1.3. Section Three - Information Copies of Other Unit Inspections for Self-Inspection/
           Assessment (T 090-02, R04). Portions of other units’ inspection reports should be maintained
           until your functional area can be updated to prevent the 302d AW receiving similar discrepan-
           cies. Procedures from favorable reports should be incorporated into your program.
           5.2.1.4. Section Four - Special Interest Items Inspection Files (T 090-02, R05). A copy of the
           applicable Air Mobility Command (AMC), AFRC and 22 Air Force (AF) listings of SII will
           be maintained by all units. Current SIIs will be maintained by the office of primary responsi-
           bility (OPR).
4                                                                   302AWI90-201 5 NOVEMBER 2006


           5.2.1.5. Section Five - Inspection Checklists (T 090-02, R10). Record copies of AFRC com-
           mon core checklists, AMC inspection guides and locally generated checklists will be main-
           tained here. Some AMC inspection guides are not applicable to AFRC, but may be used for
           reference. Locally generated checklist (if used) may incorporate applicable portions of the
           common core checklist and/or AMC inspection guides as well as any other items the func-
           tional area manager wants to monitor.
           5.2.1.6. Section Six - Internal Inspections/ Self-Inspection Checklists/Inventories (Not Cov-
           ered Elsewhere) (T 037-15, R31). Working copies of self-inspection checklists from the latest
           semi-annual self-inspection are kept in this section. All discrepancies will be logged into the
           applicable SITS program. Discrepancies found on formal inspections will be kept in the SITS
           database and will be maintained and reviewed semiannually until the next similar inspection.
           In addition, any miscellaneous information pertaining to self-inspections may be kept in this
           section.
           5.2.1.7. Section Seven - SITS program guide book.

6. Conducting Self-Inspections.
    6.1. Semi-annual Self Inspections (SIs) will include a complete review of all checklists and review of
    all commanders programs, Fraud, Waste and Abuse and SIIs. Commanders may direct a SI at any
    time, especially if a higher headquarters inspection or assessment is imminent. Record identified dis-
    crepancies in the appropriate Wing SITS program located on the Q: drive, (cross-tell folder) and
    review and update the status of any previously opened discrepancies. When completing a SI, remem-
    ber the following points:
       6.1.1. Start early. Give yourself and your functional area monitors plenty of time to complete the
       tasks. Don’t wait until the January or July unit training assembly (UTA) to start your SI.
       6.1.2. Be objective, not subjective in your evaluation. In order for a SI to be successful, units must
       objectively evaluate their operations. The program is designed to self-identify areas requiring
       attention or corrective action.
       6.1.3. Thoroughly evaluate deficiencies and corrective actions. This means you may have to do a
       little research to find the true cause of the problem. Look at instructions, plans, directives, histori-
       cal records, reports and trends. It may be a simple problem that can be corrected with minimum
       effort. Or, it may be a little problem that upon further investigation shows signs of more severe
       deficiencies in the organization. In either case, look at all possible causes and potential solutions.
       Make sure proposed solutions will correct the deficiencies.
       6.1.4. Give realistic estimated completion dates and corrective actions. Don’t write yourself up
       and give yourself six months or a year to correct a simple deficiency. If it is something that can be
       easily fixed, give yourself a month or two to correct it. If you have a complex problem involving
       training quotas, funding, equipment, etc., you will want to give your organization plenty of time to
       correct it.
       6.1.5. Review previous SI reports to update discrepancies. Make sure previously identified defi-
       ciencies are updated during the semi-annual SI. This includes higher headquarters and self-identi-
       fied deficiencies.
302AWI90-201 5 NOVEMBER 2006                                                                            5


       6.1.6. If discrepancies are identified and corrected on the spot, identifying them in the SITS pro-
       gram is not required.
   6.2. Unit SIP monitors will complete SIs on a semi-annual basis. SIs will be completed in January and
   July of each year. Unit SIP monitors will ensure functional area monitors in their units complete the
   semi-annual inspections in a timely manner so as to complete the entire unit by the January and July
   deadline. For large units, this may mean they have to start their semi-annual SIs a few months prior to
   the semi-annual deadlines.
   6.3. The report for the semi-annual self-inspection must be completed and received by Wing
   self-inspection monitor by Saturday of the regularly scheduled February and July UTAs. If your report
   goes through several levels of supervision before reaching the using self-inspection monitor, the
   inspection may need to be initiated one or two months prior to the deadline.
   6.4. Review locally generated checklists and update, if necessary, each time a self-inspection is con-
   ducted. Identify problems/discrepancies and enter information unto the SITS program and establish a
   reasonable estimated completion date (ECD). Periodically, take follow-up action and review the ECD
   (update, if necessary).

7. Completing a Self Inspection Report.
   7.1. Once you have reviewed cross-feed reports, the TIG Brief, Best Practices, and other applicable
   material, and completed an objective unit SI, you are now ready to complete your SI Report. The
   report serves to compile the findings of your SI and properly document findings. The report will doc-
   ument the results of the semi-annual SI. Included in the report are the number of discrepancies in the
   current and previous report, percentage of change from the previous report, average number of dis-
   crepancies per area, discrepancies which will most impact unit readiness and discrepancies which
   would result in a repeat finding and the status of SIIs.
   7.2. The report should be signed by the unit SI Monitor and sent to the Group SIP Manager by the sus-
   pense date. Group SIP Manager should review reports with group commanders. Group commanders
   will prepare a letter of assurance that the semi-annual self-inspection has been completed, and forward
   the letter to the Wing SIP Manager. From the individual group reports in the SITS program, the Wing
   SIP Manager will compile the overall wing report that is forwarded to the 302 AW/ commander (CC)
   and 302 AW/vice commander (CV) for review and approval.

8. Special Interest Items (SIIs).
   8.1. SIIs are specific programs or procedures that have been identified by the IG as requiring special
   attention. SIIs normally run for a period of approximately two years, but may be extended at the dis-
   cretion of the IG. The source of SIIs are often findings in inspections, audits or investigations from
   agencies such as the IG, General Accounting Office (GAO), Office of the Secretary of Defense or
   Congress. Each SII will have a specific purpose, background, action required, reply instructions,
   inspection period and headquarters point of contact.
   8.2. SIIs are normally received in the 302 AW via the LAN. Other SIIs may come through normal dis-
   tribution or message traffic. SIIs are also available at the AFRC IG Home Page.
6                                                                302AWI90-201 5 NOVEMBER 2006


9. TIG Brief.
    9.1. The TIG Brief is a publication written and published by the Air Force IG. The TIG Brief is a
    bimonthly magazine. It can be accessed on the internet at: https://www-4afia.kirtland.af.mil/TIG-
    BRIEF/TIG-BRIEF-INDEX.htm
    9.2. The purpose of this publication is to provide valuable, current information on trends and issues
    affecting Air Force personnel and organizations. Close scrutiny of these publications by commanders,
    supervisors and SI Monitors is encouraged because they give organizations first-hand information on
    trends, issues and problems that the IG considers important. By reviewing the publication and acting
    upon the trends and issues, organizations will be better prepared for the IG inspection.
    9.3. Other self-inspection subjects, special interest items and checklists originate from a number of
    sources. Some used frequently by the 302 AW include:
       9.3.1. wwwmil.afrc.af.mil/HQ/IG/igi/sii.html
       9.3.2. wwwmil.afrc.af.mil/ims
       9.3.3. wwwmil.afrc.af.mil/22AF/checklists

10. Discrepancies. Discrepancies found during the process of self-inspection (includes routine business)
or review of cross-feed materials will be reported via SITS. Unit monitors are responsible for loading the
discrepancies into SITS and annotating the follow-up actions in a timely manner. Unit and group com-
manders will review SITS on a regular basis to review their applicable discrepancies.



                                               JAMES J. MUSCATELL, JR., Col, USAFR
                                               Commander
302AWI90-201 5 NOVEMBER 2006                                     7


                                          Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 90-2, Inspector General - The Inspection System
302 AWI 90-201, Self Inspection Program

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Management System
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AW—Airlift Wing
AWI—Airlift Wing Instruction
CC—Commander
CV—Vice Commander
ECD—Estimated Completion Date
GAO—General Accounting Office
IAW—In Accordance With
IG—Inspector General
LAN—Local Area Network
ORI—Operational readiness inspection
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
R—Rule
SI—Self Inspections
SII—Special Interest Items
SIP—Self-Inspection Program
SITS—Self-inspection tracking system
T—Table
UCI—Unit Compliance Inspections
UTA—Unit Training Assembly
8                                                           302AWI90-201 5 NOVEMBER 2006


Terms
AMC—Air Mobility Command. AMC is the current parent major command for the 302d Airlift Wing.
AFI—Air Force Instruction. AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities, replaced AFR 123-1, The
Inspection System as the governing directive for the Air Force inspection system.
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command.
AW—Airlift Wing.
CAR—Customer Account Representative. The CAR in each unit is responsible for ordering publications
such as regulations and periodicals.
CCP—Air Force office symbol for Protocol. AW/CCP is responsible for the day-to-day management of
the 302 AW Self-Inspection Program.
