BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          302 AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 31-401
302D AIRLIFT WING
                                                                                   19 JUNE 2014

                                                                                          Security

                                                302D AIRLIFT WING SECURITY PROGRAM




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this instruction. This instruction
               may be released to DoD civilian, contractors, and military members
               assigned to the 302 AW. Refer other requests for this document to 302
               AW/PA.


OPR: 302 AW/SFO                                                         Certified by: 302 AW/CC
                                                                        (Col Jack H. Pittman, Jr.)
                                                                                        Pages: 14
Supersedes:    302AWI31-401,
               3 February 2007


This instruction implements DoD Manual 5200.01, DoD Information Security Manual, Volumes
1-4, Air Force Instruction (AFI) 31-401, Information Security Program Management, AFI31-
406, Applying North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Protection Standards, AFI31-501,
Personnel Security Program Management, AFI31-601, Industrial Security Program
Management, and AFI16-701, Special Access Program. It establishes policies and procedures
governing the security program within the 302d Airlift Wing (AW). It defines individual roles in
program management and assigns specific responsibilities to functional managers. The program
is designed to provide increased security awareness and education to all personnel responsible
for safeguarding Air Force operations and sensitive national defense information at all times and
under all circumstances. It applies to all military, civilian, and contractor personnel assigned to
the 302d Airlift Wing. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) or any updated statement provided by the AF Records Management
office (SAF/CIO A6P). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command.
 2                                                               302AWI31-401 19 JUNE 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been substantially revised to reflect updates referenced in AFI 31-401 and
DoDM 5200.01,Volumes 1-4, Change 2. SAF/AAZ officially instructed implementation of all 4
volumes of DoDM 5200.01 as included in AFGM2 to AFI 31-401. Revisions made to this
instruction redefine, clarify and outline roles and responsibilities for security operations within
302 AW.
1. Background/Overview. This Air Wing Instruction (AWI) serves as an overall 302 AW
procedure for Security operations. The goal of this program is to comply with regulations and
produce an effective wing security plan. This AWI does not contain all Information Security
guidance but rather is a conduit for general Security Operations. For complete Security guidance
refer to the Glossary of References at the end of this AWI
2. Policy. It is 302 AW policy to train and assist personnel on how to identify, safeguard, store,
transmit, derive, downgrade, declassify, mark, reproduce, and destroy classified information and
material consistent with national policy. This general policy statement also applies to
unclassified controlled information under the purview of relevant statutes, regulations,
instructions, and directives.
3. Responsibilities, Authorities, and Accountability.
     3.1. Each group, squadron, and detachment commander will appoint in writing a primary
     and alternate unit security manager (USM), to ensure compliance with security directives for
     the protection of classified material. The original memorandum of appointment will be sent
     to the 302d Security Forces Squadron Information Security staff. This memorandum will
     help identify a single point of contact within each organization for security matters.
        3.1.1. Ensure primary and alternate unit security managers receive training for their
        assigned security programs and duties within 90 days of appointment in accordance with
        (IAW) AFI31-401.
        3.1.2. Delegate, via appointment letter, NATO access granting authority to the unit
        security managers.
        3.1.3. Designate, in writing, equipment and personnel approved for classified
        reproduction.
        3.1.4. Follow security incident provision in paragraph 2.8 when appropriate.
     3.2. Wing Security Manager Responsibilities. Review and update this instruction every four
     years.
     3.3. Unit Security Manager Duties for Information Security, Personnel Security and
     Industrial Security Programs.
        3.3.1. The Unit Security Manager will personally implement and oversee all elements of
        an effective security program addressing Information, Personnel, Industrial, resources
        security working directly with the 21SW/IP office for guidance and oversight.
        3.3.2. Provide advice and assistance to the commanders and unit personnel on security
        related issues and ensure compliance with security directives.
302AWI31-401 19 JUNE 2014                                                                      3


     3.3.3. Ensure a copy of the wing instruction for security guidance is implemented and
     followed, and electronic or hard copies of applicable instructions, as stated in
     introduction paragraph of this instruction, are accessible.
     3.3.4. Ensure unit personnel receive initial and annual refresher training IAW AFI31-
     401.
     3.3.5. Conduct semi annual internal self-inspections IAW 21SW/IP Peterson AFB
     Security Manager Self Inspection Guide checklists.
     3.3.6. Attend scheduled security manager's meetings or ensure a unit representative
     attends.
     3.3.7. Assist and provide guidance to those involved in security incidents (i.e, inquiry/
     investigating official, and appointing authority). Monitor security incidents from
     initiation to closing, ensuring the timely reporting of the incident and submission of
     reports.
     3.3.8. Develop local Emergency Protection Plan for classified with unit commanders and
     post in classified working and storage areas.
     3.3.9. Ensure each Commanders Support Staff / Mail handlers are aware of provision of
     paragraph 2.2.6 of this instruction.
     3.3.10. Assist Unit Security Managers with base coordination updating security
     clearances.
     3.3.11. Coordinate change requests to the Unit Manning Document (UMD) relating to
     Security Access Requirement (SAR CODE).
     3.3.12. Brief personnel and maintain AF IMT 2583 in the security manager’s files on
     each individual requiring NATO access. Individuals must be debriefed by the unit
     security manager by completing the AF IMT 2587, Security Termination Statement,
     when access is no longer needed (i.e., permanent change of station (PCS)/ permanent
     change of assignment (PCA)/temporary duty (TDY) 90 days or more).
     3.3.13. Complete AF IMT 2587 for every military or civilian member retiring or
     separating from the service. Additionally, civilian employees with special access
     terminating employment for more than 60 days need to complete AF IMT 2587.
     3.3.14. Issue Courier Authorization Letters.
     3.3.15. Maintain documentation identified in self inspection checklist.
     3.3.16. Ensure this program governs the protection of classified defense information in
     the hands of government contractors doing business with the government.
     3.3.17. Request and receive Joint Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS) visit
     authorization requests for all industrial contractors working within the unit and provide
     clearance verifications.
     3.3.18. Maintain liaison with all contractors, field representatives and the base industrial
     security personnel providing security support as required.
     3.3.19. Maintain a security manager’s handbook.
 4                                                                 302AWI31-401 19 JUNE 2014


     3.4. Security incident investigator responsibilities are briefed by the 21SW/IP office.
        3.4.1. Ensure investigator attends training, writes investigation report IAW paragraph
        2.8, brief commander (CC); forwards report to 21SW/IP.
4. Procedures.
     4.1. Storage, handling, and transmission of classified material. Classified material will be
     received, handled, stored, and transmitted IAW DoD 5200.1-R and AFI31-401. 21SW/IP
     will provide guidance and approval for all vault and secure room approval.
        4.1.1. Security    Containers/Vaults/Sensitive    Compartmented       Information      Facility
        (SCIF)s.
            4.1.1.1. Incoming classified material will be stored in a General Services
            Administration (GSA) approved security container, secure room or a Class A/B vault
            or vault type room that meets the standards established by the head of the DoD
            Component concerned.
            4.1.1.2. Every security container must have a primary and alternate safe custodian
            appointed in writing and forwarded to the unit security manager.
            4.1.1.3. All security containers must be assigned an identification number.
            4.1.1.4. Security containers/vault custodians must insure inspections of the container
            IAW Technical Order (TO) 00-20F-2, Inspection and Preventive Maintenance
            Procedures for Classified Storage Containers, to ensure it is authorized for storage of
            classified. Document the inspection on an Air Force Technical Order (AFTO) IMT
            36, Maintenance Record for Security Type Equipment. Only GSA certified
            locksmiths may accomplish a Preventive Maintenance Inspection (PMI). Security
            containers and secure rooms are required to be inspected every 2 years and vaults
            every 5 years.
            4.1.1.5. Personnel opening/closing containers/vaults or secure rooms will use the
            Standard Form (SF) 702, Security Container Check Sheet. If evidence of tampering
            is identified and the container has Communication Security (COMSEC) material, the
            COMSEC custodian will be notified. If Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI)
            material is involved, the local Special Security Office (SSO) will be notified. For all
            other incident related occurrences contact the 21SW/IP office.
            4.1.1.6. Unescorted access to a secure room will be controlled and limited to
            personnel cleared for access. Additionally, personnel must have a need-to-know to
            perform official duties. Positive identification will be made for an individual
            requesting access. If the individual is not cleared, but has a valid reason for entry, the
            area will be sanitized and personnel within the area will be made aware of their
            presence. To sanitize the area before un-cleared personnel enter, remove all classified
            material from immediate or open view and do not discuss classified information.
            4.1.1.7. Each individual authorized access to any secure room is responsible for
            knowing and understanding procedures for accessing and securing these areas. Once
            opened, the vault or secure room must be manned at all times or be secured. Each
            secure room will maintain a Security Instruction. This instruction should be
302AWI31-401 19 JUNE 2014                                                                      5


        reviewed annually for all personnel working in the area or identified on the Entry
        Authorization List (EAL).
        4.1.1.8. Combinations to containers/vaults/secure rooms will be given only to those
        personnel requiring access on a regular basis. Custodians will notify authorized
        personnel of changes. The stored combination will be kept in a sealed Standard Form
        (SF) 700, Security Container Information Form, and marked with the appropriate
        office symbol, safe number, and stamped with the highest classification stored within
        the container/secure room.
        4.1.1.9. Combinations to containers/vaults/secure rooms will be changed when
        approved personnel PCS, PCA, separate, retire, a compromise has occurred, or when
        an individual no longer require access, when maintenance is performed, or at least
        annually if the container or secure room contains NATO Secret material.
        4.1.1.10. Resource Modification/Relocation. When physical security properties of
        the secure room (i.e., floors, walls, ceilings, doors, etc.,) are modified or when
        resources being protected are relocated, 21SW/IP must have prior notification, in
        writing.
  4.2. Handling.
     4.2.1. Individuals are authorized to review, handle, receive and process classified
     information equal only up to their clearance level.
     4.2.2. All personnel who handle or process classified material are responsible for
     providing protection and accountability for the material at all times. Always keep
     classified material under your control and protect documents with cover sheets.
     4.2.3. All computer products created on accredited systems will be classified at their
     appropriate security level until reclassified or declassified by the Original Classification
     Authority (OCA). Products will be accounted for, controlled, marked and protected in
     accordance with the assigned classification. Working papers containing classified
     information shall be dated when created and annotated with the organization, office
     symbol, and phone number of the originator. Working papers will be destroyed when no
     longer needed or when the document is 180 days old.
     4.2.4. Magnetic media will be marked, stored and handled IAW AFI31-401, chapter 4.
     4.2.5. When loaning out classified material within or outside the organization, use an AF
     Form 614, Charge Out Record or an AF Form 310, to establish a suspense for returning
     material.
     4.2.6. All registered mail will be treated and protected as classified until the
     classification of the contents can be verified.
     4.2.7. Classified material will not be taken to an individual’s private residence or
     temporary quarters.
     4.2.8. Marking “Derivatively Classified” Documents. Derivative classification is the act
     of incorporating, paraphrasing, restating, or generating in new form, information that is
     already classified, and marking the newly developed material consistent with the
     markings of the source information. As with documents created by original classifiers,
6                                                                   302AWI31-401 19 JUNE 2014


       each derivative document must have portion markings and overall classification
       markings. Identify the source used as the basis for classification on the “Derived from”
       line of the derivative document. The “Declassify on” line of the source document is
       carried forward to the “Declassify on” line of the derivative document.
    4.3. Reproducing classified material. Classified reproduction should be kept to the
    minimum required to accomplish the mission. All copies are subject to the same controls and
    safeguards as the original document. Contact unit security manager for additional guidance.
       4.3.1. Portions of documents and materials that contain Top Secret information shall not
       be reproduced without the consent of the originator or higher authority. Record the
       number of copies reproduced and the identity of each recipient on the original document.
       The Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) must be notified when copies are destroyed.
       4.3.2. Equipment identified for classified reproduction must be approved by the
       21SW/IP.
       4.3.3. Marking Equipment. The following statement should be posted when copier has
       been approved for classified reproduction: “THIS EQUIPMENT AUTHORIZED FOR
       REPRODUCTION OF CLASSIFIED MATERIAL”. The following statement should be
       posted when the copier has NOT been approved for classified reproduction: “STOP, DO
       NOT USE THIS MACHINE FOR CLASSIFIED REPRODUCTION”.
    4.4. Hand-carrying Classified Material. Classified material may be removed from the unit
    only in the performance of official duties. The provisions of DoD 5200.1-R/AFI31-401,
    chapter 6, apply for transmitting/transporting classified information. Individuals authorized
    to hand-carry classified material shall be fully briefed of these provisions. Whenever
    classified information is transported outside the work area, it shall be enclosed in a sealed
    envelope, double wrapped folder, or other closed container (locked briefcase) to prevent loss
    or observation. Furthermore, you must have official written authorizations signed by the
    commander: a Designation of Official Courier Memorandum and an Exemption Notice (both
    the memorandum and the exemption notice must be in English and the language of any
    country the personnel will have opportunity to enter; i.e., Poland or France for temporary
    duty (TDY) purposes). Additionally, consideration must be given to mode of transportation,
    time sensitivity, authorized storage availability at the destination, transfer or accountability at
    destination, or method of returning material. Contact the security office for instructions. Use
    the following guidance for hand-carrying classified material:
       4.4.1. On Base, with no entry/exit inspection points. Verbal authorization from the unit
       commander is required for hand-carrying classified information between buildings or
       areas within the confines of the installation.
       4.4.2. On base, with entry/exit inspection points. Verbal authorization from the unit
       commander is required for hand-carrying classified information between buildings or
       areas within the confines of the installation.
       4.4.3. Outside your duty location. When hand-carrying any classified information
       outside the confines of your duty location you must have an official courier
       memorandum, and an exemption notice.
302AWI31-401 19 JUNE 2014                                                                     7


     4.4.4. Commercial. Hand-carrying classified material on a commercial aircraft will not
     be done unless under emergency situations. All requirements to carry on commercial
     aircraft must be approved by the Wing commander, providing all requirements are met
     IAW AFI31-501, DOD 5200.1-R, paragraph 7-302(e). If travel involves passage through
     an inspection point where classified may be subject to examination by non-DoD
     personnel or involves overnight stopovers, contact the unit security manager for proper
     procedures.
  4.5. Mailing.
     4.5.1. Secret. The AF IMT 310, Document Receipt and Destruction Certificate, is
     required. Contact unit security manager for proper procedures.
     4.5.2. Confidential. The AF IMT 310, Document Receipt and Destruction Certificate, is
     required. Contact unit security manager for proper procedures.
  4.6. Foreign Travel Policy.
     4.6.1. Each unit member is responsible for maintaining a list of their foreign travel. This
     information will be used when completing clearance updates.
     4.6.2. Members who have access to SCI information must submit any anticipated leisure
     travel to foreign countries to the unit security manager, or report any travels within 3-
     days upon return. The security manager will ensure personnel receive proper briefings if
     threat conditions exist in the areas of travel. Individuals will report contacts of a
     suspicious nature to their supervisor, security manager or local OSI upon return.
  4.7. Disposal of Classified.
     4.7.1. Classified material will be destroyed as soon as it has served its purpose and shall
     be destroyed by an NSA approved crosscut shredder. Destruction of classified material
     and documentation of destruction will be accomplished as follows:
         4.7.1.1. Top Secret. Two people with appropriate clearance must be present and a
         destruction certificate must be completed. Use the AF IMT 143, with two signatures
         and maintain in accordance with the records disposition schedule in
         https://afrims.amc.af.mil.
         4.7.1.2. Secret and Confidential. IAW AFI31-401, paragraph 5.29.2.2. A record of
         destruction is not required but an appropriately cleared person must be involved in the
         destruction process. No destruction certificate is required. Maintain in accordance
         with the records disposition schedule in https://afrims.amc.af.mil.
         4.7.1.3. IAW AFI31-406, paragraph 5.12.2. NATO Secret requires a destruction
         certificate with two signatures. AF IMT 310 can be used for the destruction
         certificate. File destruction certificate in IAW AFMAN 37-139. Maintain in
         accordance with the records disposition schedule in https://afrims.amc.af.mil.
     4.7.2. Classified magnetic media will be properly protected and stored until degaussed.
     Destruction records are not required.
     4.7.3. Annual Clean-Out Day. The unit training assembly (UTA) of June is the wing
     clean-out day. IAW AFI31-401 this day is designated to purge and maintain in
8                                                               302AWI31-401 19 JUNE 2014


    accordance with the records disposition schedule in https://afrims.amc.af.mil. Normal
    documentation is required.
    4.7.4. Emergency destruction or relocation of classified material will be done by
    personnel IAW Emergency Protection Plans for the vault, container or secure room
    which holds the classified material.
       4.7.4.1. Procedures for Non-hostile Emergencies.
           4.7.4.1.1. Time and circumstances permitting immediately return classified
           material to its storage container and secure it.
           4.7.4.1.2. If immediate evacuation of the area is required (fire, bomb threat, etc.),
           take any classified material you have with you when departing. Then contact
           your supervisor for assistance in securing it. At no time, risk your life or safety to
           protect classified material. If there is too much to remove, to secure safely or
           quickly, leave it. Personnel who have been trained and pre-instructed to prevent
           the removal of classified material will be placed around the affected area to
           protected classified materials and reduce casualty risk. When you’re safe, notify
           your supervisor or commander of the location of the material.
           4.7.4.1.3. If it is anticipated that classified material would be jeopardized if left in
           place, and there is sufficient time, take it to the Base Command Post, 21st Mission
           Support Squadron, Director of Information management (21 MSS/MSI), Building
           862 for safekeeping. The 21st Communications Squadron (CS), Building 1038, is
           an alternate location. If you need to move an entire storage container, contact
           Security Forces to obtain a secure area.
       4.7.4.2. Procedures for Hostile Emergencies. The installation commander or senior
       on-scene commander will decide whether to move materials to vaults, remove
       materials from vaults, remove materials from the installation, or destroy all classified
       materials.
           4.7.4.2.1. Storage vaults are located in the Base Post Office, building 1460.
           4.7.4.2.2. Evacuation of materials will be by ground movement to the North
           American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD)/Cheyenne Mountain
           Complex (NCMC) tunnel or by air movement as directed by the commander. Use
           escorts, marshalling area guards, etc. as directed.
           4.7.4.2.3. Approved methods of destruction are by NSA approved crosscut
           shredding.
              4.7.4.2.3.1. Destruction of top secret information must be witnessed by 2
              appropriately cleared personnel and documentation is required for the
              destruction. Documentation must be completed on an AF IMT 310.
              4.7.4.2.3.2. Primary Emergency Method. Time permitting; take materials to
              the Base Destruction Facility, building 600. This facility is controlled by 21
              MSS/MSI, building 862.
              4.7.4.2.3.3. Alternate emergency method. Use only if the base facility is not
              available in time to be used. Burn classified documents at the southwest end
302AWI31-401 19 JUNE 2014                                                                      9


                 of building 895 using metal trashcans or other suitable containers. Separate
                 and crumple pages before burning, and insure complete destruction before
                 leaving area. If other approved methods of destruction are available they may
                 be used in lieu of burning. However, the destruction personnel must ensure
                 the information is properly destroyed before departing the area.
             4.7.4.2.4. Procedures for COMSEC material. Refer to DOD 5200.1-R and
             AFI31-401, chapter 5 for procedures used to report any mission, compromised, or
             destroyed classified material.
  4.8. Security Incidents. A security incident may result in damage to our national security.
  Security incidents are normally caused by a violation of established procedures for handling,
  storing, transferring, or accounting of classified information. In the event of a violation and
  the material discovered is classified, secure it immediately and report the incident to the
  supervisor, security manager or commander.
     4.8.1. Conducting inquiries or investigations. A preliminary inquiry is conducted
     whenever a security incident involving classified information occurs. The categories of
     security incidents are:
         4.8.1.1. COMPROMISE: The disclosure of classified information to persons not
         authorized.
         4.8.1.2. POTENTIAL COMPROMISE: When an investigating official concludes
         that a compromise probably occurred as a result of the security incident.
         4.8.1.3. SECURITY INFRACTION: An incident that involves the misuse or
         improper handling of classified material, but does not fall into the categories of
         compromise, probable compromise, or inadvertent access.
     4.8.2. Once the group/squadron or detachment commander gains knowledge of a security
     incident, he/she is responsible for initiating a preliminary inquiry under DoD 5200.1-R
     and AFI31-401, chapter 9. The commander will ensure:
         4.8.2.1. The incident is reported to 21SW/IP within one duty day.
         4.8.2.2. A preliminary inquiry officer (IO) is appointed in writing. Security managers
         will not be appointed. A field grade officer, MSgt, or general schedule (GS)-09 or
         above will be appointed. Individuals appointed should be of a higher grade than the
         person suspected of causing the incident. The individual appointed should not be
         from the same office in which the incident occurred.
         4.8.2.3. The report will be completed within 10 duty days from the date of
         appointment or request an extension in writing and must be submitted to the
         commander.
     4.8.3. Duties of the preliminary inquiry officer.
         4.8.3.1. The IO must contact 21SW/IP for a briefing for technical guidance in
         conducting the inquiry.
         4.8.3.2. Consider the circumstances surrounding the incident and assign a category
         for the incident.
10                                                             302AWI31-401 19 JUNE 2014


         4.8.3.3. Question personnel involved.     Identify person(s), acts, conditions which
         caused the incident.
         4.8.3.4. Complete report and have the security manager review the report. The
         investigating officer then forwards the report to 21SW/IP.
     4.8.4. Duties of the security manager for security incidents.
         4.8.4.1. Assist and provide guidance to those involved in the security incident (i.e.,
         inquiry/investigation official and appointing authority).
         4.8.4.2. Be familiar with directives concerning security incidents.
         4.8.4.3. Ensure security incidents are reported to the 21SW/IP within one duty day of
         discovery.
         4.8.4.4. Monitor security incident from appointment to closing.
  4.9. Security Awareness. A good security education program is the key to attaining a solid
  security program. It is imperative training be taken seriously and be accomplished in a
  manner that stresses the importance of security.
     4.9.1. Each unit security manager will ensure all military, GS civilians, and contractors
     receive the required quarterly security awareness training IAW AFI31-401, chapter 7.
     4.9.2. Supervisors will verify newcomer’s security clearances through the unit security
     manager prior to allowing them to perform any function involving access to classified
     information. Supervisors will brief all incoming personnel on security requirements and
     practices within their work center. Supervisors will ensure all newcomers report to the
     unit security manager within 30 duty days of arrival for security in-processing.
  4.10. Security Inspections. Security self-inspections will be conducted on a semi-annual
  basis. The self-inspection official will be appointed in writing by the commander. Security
  managers will not inspect their own programs.
     4.10.1. Forward inspection results in memorandum format, endorsed by the commander
     to the unit security manager. Security manager will follow-up on any items needing
     correction or completion.
  4.11. End of Day Procedures. End-of-day security checks must be documented on a SF
  701, Activity Security Checklist. Each work area shall establish that the last person leaving
  the work area will ensure all items listed on the SF 701 are checked and signed off. The SF
  701 should be posted near the exit of the room being checked.
     4.11.1. Checks should include rooms and areas where classified material can be viewed,
     stored, processed, copied, printed or faxed to ensure all material is properly removed and
     secured.
     4.11.2. Ensure individuals with at least a Secret clearance perform end-of-day checks
     and lockup if classified in the area.
     4.11.3. If the work center has security containers (safes, vault doors, open storage areas)
     include them on the SF 701 checklist to ensure they are secured. Ensure all windows and
     doors are locked and all appliances are turned off. All personnel must check their desk
302AWI31-401 19 JUNE 2014                                                                  11


     and surrounding area for classified material that may have inadvertently been discarded
     or misplaced during the day.
     4.11.4. Individuals working or entering the facility after normal duty hours perform
     another end of day check prior to leaving the facility. This check will also be annotated
     on the SF 701.
  4.12. Secure Telephone Equipment (STE) cards.
     4.12.1. The terminal is treated as an unclassified, high value item when the Crypto
     Ignition Key (CIK)/STE card is not inserted. When a CIK/card is inserted into the
     terminal, the unit must not be left unattended. Unless the STE is located in an area
     operational 24-hours a day, the CIK/card must be removed and properly secured at the
     close of each business day.
     4.12.2. Storage of CIK/STE. IAW AFI AFI33-201V9, Operational Instructions For
     Secure Voice Devices, when the key is stored in the same room as the terminal, store the
     CIK/card in a GSA-approved security container. If a security container is not available
     store the CIK/card in a locked cabinet or desk, provided the door to the room containing
     the STE is locked.




                                          JACK H. PITTMAN, JR., Col, USAFR
                                          Commander
 12                                                          302AWI31-401 19 JUNE 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ACRONYMNS, AND DEFINITIONS

References
DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program
DoDM 5200.01, Implementation memorandum, DoD Information Security Program
DoDM 5200.01, Vol 1, Overview, Classification, and Declassification
DoDM 5200.01, Vol 2, Marking of Classified Information
DoDM 5200.01, Vol 3, Protection of Classified Information
DoDM 5200.01, Vol 4, Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI)
AFI 16-701, Special Access Program
AFI31-401, Information Security Program Management
AFI 31-406, Applying Treaty Organization (NATO) Protection Standards
AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management
AFI 31-601, Industrial Security Program Management
AFI AFI33-201V9, Operational Instructions For Secure Voice Devices
TO 00-20F-2, Inspection and Preventive Maintenance Procedures for Classified Storage
Containers
Forms/IMT Adopted
AF IMT 2583, Request for Personnel Security Action
AF IMT 2587, Security Termination Statement
AF Form 614, Charge Out Record
AF IMT 310, Document Receipt and Destruction Certificate
AF IMT 143, Top Secret Register Page
AF IMT 1565, Entry, Receipt and Destruction Certificate
AFTO IMT 36, Maintenance Record for Security Type Equipment
DD Form 1879, Security Investigation, DOD Request For Personnel
SF 700, Security Container Information Form
SF 701, Activity Security Checklist.
SF 702, Security Container Check Sheet

Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFGM2—Air Force Guidance Memorandum 2
302AWI31-401 19 JUNE 2014                                                 13


AFI—Air Force Instructions
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFTO—Air Force Technical Order
ASCAS—Automated Security Clearance Approval System
AW—Airlift Wing
CC—Commander
CF—Communications Flight
CIK—Crypto Ignition Key
COMSEC—Communications Security
CS—Communications Squadron
DD—Department of Defense
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDM—Department of Defense Manual
DoDSI—Department of Defense Security Institute
EPSQ—Electronic Personnel Security Questionnaire
GS—General Schedule
GSA—General Services Administration
IAW—In Accordance With
IMT—Information Management Tool
IO—Inquiry Officer
ISPM—Security Program Manager
JPAS—Joint Personnel Adjudication System
MSI—Director of Information management
MSS—Mission Support Squadron
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NCMC—North American Aerospace Defense Command/Cheyenne Mountain Complex
NORAD—North American Aerospace Defense Command
NET—Network
OCA—Original Classification Authority
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PCA—Permanent Change of Assignment
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
 14                                                             302AWI31-401 19 JUNE 2014


SCIF—Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility
SC—Superintendent
SCI—Sensitive Compartmented Information
SAR CODE—Security Access Requirement
SF—Standard Form
SFAI—Information Security Staff
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
SPACLAN—Space Command Local Area Network
SCO—Special Security Office
STE—Secure Telephone Equipment
TDY—Temporary Duty
TO—Technical Order
UMD—Unit Manning Document
USM—Unit Security Managers
UTA—Unit Training Assembly

Terms
COMPROMISE—The disclosure of classified information to persons not authorized.
POTENTIAL COMPROMISE—When an investigating official concludes that a compromise
probably occurred as a result of the security incident.
SECURITY INFRACTION—An incident that involves the misuse or improper handling of
classified material, but does not fall into the categories of compromise, probable compromise, or
inadvertent access.
