BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                302 AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 91-301
302D AIRLIFT WING                                                                         7 JUNE 2001
                                                                     Certified Current on 25 June 1012
                                                                                                 Safety

                                                      OPERATIONS DURING SEVERE WEATHER




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 302 AW/SE (Lt Col Russell McKeel)               Certified by: 302 AW/CC (Col Richard R. Moss)
Supersedes 302 AWI 91-102, 25 Mar 96                                                        Pages: 3
                                                                          Distribution: F: 10 AF/SE

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 91-3, Occupational Safety and Health.
This instruction provides guidance for outside operations when severe weather may threaten personal
safety. It is applicable to all personnel of the 302 Airlift Wing at Peterson AFB CO.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision changes the title and concept from OPERATIONS DURING LIGHTNING ADVISORIES
to OPERATIONS DURING SEVERE WEATHER. Weather parameters are added. Definitions are
expanded. Operational Risk Management (ORM) is emphasized. A bar ( | ) indicates a revision from the
previous edition.


1. Definitions:
   1.1. Severe Weather. Includes, but not limited to, the following hazards: lightning, high winds, wind
   chill, significant ice or snow accumulation, blowing snow, conditions conducive to heat stress, fog,
   and hail.
   1.2. Lightning Watch. An advisory issued by 21 OSS/OGSW, Weather Office, indicating a potential
   lightning hazard. A lightning watch will be issued in accordance with Peterson Air Force Base Host/
   Tenant Support Agreement has potential of closing to within 5 nautical miles within 30 minutes.
   1.3. Lightning Warning. A Meteorological Watch Advisory issued by 21 OSS/OGSW, Weather
   Office, indicating the presence of lightning within 5 nautical miles.
   1.4. Wind Chill: The compounding of temperature and wind that results in a lower, effective temper-
   ature.
   1.5. Essential: A designation made by a supervisor or commander that denotes high mission impor-
   tance and an unacceptable consequences with its delay or cancellation. “Essential” may designate an
   entire mission or an isolated task.
2                                                                          302AWI91-301 7 JUNE 2001


2. Concept:
Operational Risk Management will be employed when operating during severe weather. This instruction
offers only general guidelines. ORM may suggest working under conditions that were once prohibited or
ceasing work even though specific parameters are not exceeded. For example, it may be of less risk for an
aircrew to land and park during a lightning warning than to stay airborne. Similarly, the compounding
hazards of low temperature, wind, and blowing snow could easily exceed acceptable risk even though no
one criterion is exceeded.

3. Severe Weather Parameters: Generally accepted parameters for severe weather phenomena and
guides for making operational decisions include:
    3.1. Lightning Watch and Warnings
    3.2. Wind chill at or below 25 degrees Fahrenheit
    3.3. Wind velocity from 30 to 50 knots depending on activity
    3.4. High heat and humidity
    3.5. Hail ¾ inch or greater
    3.6. Tornadoes

4. Notification Procedures:
    4.1. The base weather station will notify the 302 AW Command Post (CP) and the 731 Airlift Squad-
    ron (AS) planning room with severe weather information. The CP will then notify, by the most expe-
    ditious means available, all units which having personnel outside. The same procedure will be used
    when the severe weather abates. Agencies to be notified include:
       4.1.1. Dispatch/Debrief Section (DDS) who will then notify the Flight Line Supervisor.
       4.1.2. Supervisor of Flying (SOF) and Ramp Coordinator, who will then notify all aircrew.
       4.1.3. Airborne aircraft that would be affected.
       4.1.4. The 39 Aerial Port Squadron (APS).
       4.1.5. The 302 Civil Engineering Squadron (CES).
       4.1.6. The 302 Security Police Squadron (SPS) during Unit Training Assembly (UTA).
       4.1.7. It is incumbent upon those units not listed above, to notify the appropriate agency when
       operating outside. They will then receive severe weather information.
       4.1.8. Supervisors will normally direct all outside operations to cease and all personnel to seek
       shelter. A hardened facility is needed for tornadoes while aircraft and enclosed vehicles with metal
       tops and bodies may suffice with lightning. Upon notification that severe weather is no longer a
       factor, outside operations may resume.
       4.1.9. All work with flares and chaff will cease upon receipt of lightning Warning or Watch.

5. Mission Essential Activities. Since most all of our operations are training and accomplished during
peacetime, an ‘essential’ designation should be rare. However, missions or tasks may be deemed ‘essen-
tial’ and require accepting a risk associated with severe weather. Decisions to accept such a risk cannot be
302AWI91-301 7 JUNE 2001                                                                                  3


made lightly and must incorporate ORM. When any severe weather parameter is exceeded, compelling
cause to continue must be present. All activities will then be conducted to expose the fewest people to
risk, all prudent control measures must be implemented, and the risk must be accepted at the appropriate
level.
   5.1. When actual security operations (as opposed to training) is required, posting may continue during
   severe weather. Guards should be protected with shelters/vehicles if at all possible.
   5.2. When known, essential missions should be identified during operations and maintenance coordi-
   nation meeting. The 731st Local Operating Procedures and/or the Aircrew Flimsy will provide flight
   crew guidelines to enhance their safety during severe weather.

6. Ground Activities. When severe weather conditions are present (paragraph 3.), outdoor activities will
normally cease and shelter will be sought. The Production Superintendent, Supervisor of Flying (SOF), or
other appropriate supervisor shall determine the degree of endangerment and then weigh those risks when
the mission is essential.
   6.1. The Expediter and the SOF will notify personnel on the flight line when severe weather is antic-
   ipated. An air horn blast means that immediate compliance is required and shelter should be sought.
   The same significance is implicit with the base siren. The expediter will notify the Dispatch/Debrief
   section when the flight line has been cleared and all personnel are accounted for.
   6.2. Marshalling and other associated tasks of aircraft launch and recovery will not normally be per-
   formed until hazardous conditions pass. Aircrew should then exercise extreme caution.

7. Safety. At no time shall an individual be required to place himself/herself in jeopardy to continue other
than essential operations. It is incumbent upon all personnel to ensure the safety of themselves and their
fellow workers.



                                                     RICHARD R. MOSS, Colonel, USAFR
                                                     Commander
