BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                             302 AW VISUAL AID 91-202
302D AIRLIFT WING (AFRC)                                                                           10 July 2013
                                                                                                         Safety




                                                                          COMMANDER’S SAFETY VISION

                                                  •    Every military member and civilian employee must
                                                       make a personal commitment to promote safety on and
                                                       off base.

                                                  •    Ground, Weapons, and Flight Safety are integral parts
                                                       of day-to-day activities and must be integrated into
                                                       every task on and off duty.

                                                  •    Risk Management (RM) is a valuable tool that will be
                                                       utilized at all levels to ensure everyone’s mission is
                                                       accomplished with the least possible risk with optimum
                                                       results.

                                                  •    Leadership at every level is an important component of
                                                       every Safety Program.

                                                  •    Individual accountability is critical to mishap
                                                       prevention; on and off-duty.
Colonel Jack H. Pittman, Jr., Col, USAFR
Commander, 302d Airlift Wing

1. The mission of the 302d Airlift Wing (AW) and its assigned units is to obtain and maintain a combat capability to
support national defense needs worldwide or “Citizen Airmen providing superior global reach.”

2. To accomplish this mission, it is imperative that we preserve the indispensable combination of well-maintained
equipment and highly qualified personnel.

3. Each and every injury, whether that of a supervisor or trainee, compromises our ability to perform our mission.
The pain and heartache of a disabling injury or loss of life cannot be measured – and must be avoided.

4. Commanders, supervisors and individuals at all levels must be aware of the serious impact accident losses have
on the ability of the wing to achieve its objectives. No other program receives more attention from as many people as
that of mishap prevention. It affects all our endeavors and must be an active ingredient – an integral part – of all our
activities.

5. The philosophies and requirements spelled out in safety directives are applicable at all echelons and must be
followed – will be followed – in this wing. The concepts and principles of safety management are sound and realistic
and will be aggressively adhered to in the interest of furthering the effective accomplishment of this wing’s mission.

OPR: 302AW/SEG
Supersedes 302AWVA 91-202, 30 NOVEMBER 2011
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing
website at www.e-publishing.af.mil
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
