BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    305TH AIR MOBILITY WING
305TH AIR MOBILITY WING                                           INSTRUCTION 10-2501

                                                                          18 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                 Operations

                                               CONTROL CENTER & ACCOUNTABILITY
                                                                    GUIDELINES



            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 305 AMW/XP                                                  Certified by: 305 AMW/CC
                                                             (Col Richard E. Williamson, Jr.)
                                                                                   Pages: 12



This instruction provides guidance for the 305th Air Mobility Wing (305 AMW) concerning
control center operations, to include recall and Air Force Personnel and Accountability
Assessment System (AFPAAS) events. Guidance includes overall control center structure,
responsibilities, requirements, operations, information flow, and communication methods. All
pertinent AFIs and Joint Base publications have been considered and referenced. This
publication does not apply to Air National Guard or Reserve Units.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained In Accordance With (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

1. Wing Control Center Structure.
   1.1. The purpose of the 305 AMW control centers is to provide a 24-hour point of contact
   for gathering and disseminating organizational information during emergencies, times of
   heightened alert, or when directed by wing leadership.
 2                                                      305AMWI10-2501 18 AUGUST 2014


     1.2. The 305 AMW includes a wing control center (WCC), two group control centers
     (GCCs), and unit control centers (UCCs) for each squadron. Generally, the WCC function is
     performed by a command post (CP); however, due to the installation’s joint-base structure,
     the CP is aligned under the 87 ABW. The WCC was established to allow the 305 AMW/CC
     to maintain contact with GCC/UCCs and is staffed and managed by 305 AMW/XP.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. Wing control center will:
        2.1.1. Be manned by 305 AMW/XP who will ensure adequate staffing when activated by
        wing commander.
        2.1.2. Ensure wing leadership is kept updated with any important information concerning
        the wing.
        2.1.3. Serve as AFPAAS Commanding Officer Representative (COR) personnel for the
        305 AMW and ensure accuracy of the wing COR appointment letter.
        2.1.4. Request updated control center and AFPAAS appointment letters from GCCs and
        UCCs biannually. Ensure appointment letters are posted on the 305 AMW/XP
        SharePoint website.
        2.1.5. Conduct annual Staff Assistance Visits (SAV) of GCCs and UCCs.
        2.1.6. Utilize GCC and UCC appointment letters to maintain the “305 AMW Control
        Center Contact Information Roster” and distribute via 305 AMW/XP SharePoint.
     2.2. Group control centers will:
        2.2.1. Ensure group leadership is updated with any important information concerning the
        group. This should involve coordination with group leadership to determine type and
        frequency of updates.
        2.2.2. Ensure GCC appointment letter is updated and sent to 305 AMW/XP as changes
        occur, but no less than annually.
        2.2.3. Ensure GCC AFPAAS appointment letter is updated and sent to both Installation
        Personnel Readiness (IPR) and 305 AMW/XP as changes occur, but no less than annually
        (see AFPAAS paragraph 7.6 below for more IPR contact information).
        2.2.4. Ensure current “305 AMW Control Center Contact Information Roster” is
        maintained within GCC binder.
        2.2.5. Send after-hours on-call GCC contact information to WCC and update with any
        changes.
     2.3. Unit control centers will:
        2.3.1. Ensure squadron leadership is updated with any information concerning the unit.
        This should involve coordination with squadron leadership to determine type and
        frequency of updates.
        2.3.2. Ensure UCC appointment letter is updated and sent to 305 AMW/XP as changes
        occur, but no less than annually.
305AMWI10-2501 18 AUGUST 2014                                                                  3


      2.3.3. Ensure UCC AFPAAS appointment letter is updated and sent to both IPR and 305
      AMW/XP as changes occur, but no less than annually (see AFPAAS paragraph 7.6 below
      for more IPR contact information).
      2.3.4. Ensure appointment letters include adequate contact information for after-hours
      control center activation. Examples may include unit schedulers, ADOs, and/or civilians
      on the appointment letter. UCCs will coordinate directly with GCCs to ensure capability
      for after-hours and weekend activation.
3. Control Center Activation/Deactivation.
   3.1. Normally, wing leadership directs the WCC to initiate activation of the GCC/UCCs;
   however, leadership may also directly activate the GCC/UCCs themselves. The WCC will
   not activate control centers without wing leadership approval. Any time the Crisis Action
   Team (CAT) is activated all control centers should also expect activation. All commanders
   are afforded the opportunity to self-activate their control centers; however, group and wing
   leadership will also be notified.
   3.2. The WCC will normally be activated verbally by wing leadership. GCC/UCCs will
   receive activation through telephone notification. Email will be used as a backup notification
   method only if telephone is not available; in this case, the telephone will be used as soon as
   possible. A positive response is required in any situation where email is used.
   3.3. Weekend and after-hour control center activation will utilize on-call rosters. Wing
   leadership will initiate the activation process either by contacting the 305 AMW/XP chief or
   designated XP officer, or contacting group leadership directly and instructing activation of
   respective GCC/UCCs.
      3.3.1. GCCs will provide on-call schedules or appointment letters to respective group
      leadership, 87 ABW/CP, and 305 AMW/XP with personnel assigned for weekend and
      after-hour situations along with pertinent cell phone numbers. GCCs will ensure all
      parties are notified of any changes to these documents. The frequency that GCCs submit
      on-call schedules will depend on how often on-call personnel change.
      3.3.2. UCCs will ensure the GCC has accurate after-hour activation information. This
      may include adding ADOs, unit schedulers, and civilians on appointment letters.
   3.4. Deactivation of control centers will come from a higher echelon control center or
   appropriate wing/group leadership.
   3.5. Any non-standard method of activation or deactivation must be verified with normal
   GCC/WCC sources or group/wing leadership.
4. Information Flow.
   4.1. Normal information flow will be from wing leadership and/or CAT directly to WCC.
   WCCs will confirm all communication and send to GCCs via email and/or phone. Any
   information received directly by GCCs should be verified before passing to UCCs (for
   example, any CATGRAM instructions).
   4.2. During activation it is imperative both GCCs and UCCs notify and communicate with
   their respective commanders. Additionally, throughout operations all control centers will
   maintain communication with commanders to pass important messages or notifications. All
 4                                                       305AMWI10-2501 18 AUGUST 2014


     changes to requirements affecting the unit require the GCC/UCC to notify and coordinate
     with the unit commander via telephone or email (i.e. control center activation/deactivation
     and Force Protection Condition (FPCON) changes/checklist completion).
     4.3. UCCs will use their GCC as a primary point of contact and should expect all
     information to flow through them. Questions and concerns shall be directed first to the GCC
     and then elevated to the WCC if necessary, followed by 305 AMW leadership.
     4.4. The normal flow of information to 87 XP and the CAT will be through the WCC.
     UCCs will complete tasks and notify their GCC; GCCs will notify the WCC, and the WCC
     will pass up wing-wide completion of the task.
5. Requirements for Control Centers.
     5.1. Personnel Requirements.
        5.1.1. JB MDL GCC/UCCs are trained by the 87 ABW Office of Emergency
        Management (OEM) through unit Emergency Preparedness Liaisons (EPLs).
        GCC/UCCs will follow guidance provided by OEM, in addition to guidance within this
        OI; coordinate with 305 AMW/XP in the event of disagreement. 305 AMW/XP will
        provide annual GCC/UCC SAVs to ensure adequate contact information is maintained.
        5.1.2. All personnel designated to participate in any control center operations must be
        properly trained IAW guidance provided to the unit EPL. This training includes initial
        and recurring hands-on training with OEM.
        5.1.3. Publications providing guidance include: AFI 10-2501, AFI 10-2502, JB MDL
        Instruction 10-2501, and various PowerPoint presentations created by 87 ABW/OEM (all
        of these publications can be found through the unit EPL who has access to the OEM
        SharePoint).
        5.1.4. All control center personnel must also be familiar with the JB MDL Basic Unit
        Supplement (BUS) and JB MDL Installation Emergency Management Plan (IEMP) 10-2
        (both can be provided by the unit EPL and/or found on 305 AMW/XP SharePoint).
        These documents describe how the installation postures and reacts to various emergency
        situations. Minimum areas of knowledge within the JB MDL BUS include: plan
        summary, control center operations, and the communications notifications section.
        5.1.5. Additionally, all UCC personnel must have a working knowledge of the additional
        duty positions assigned within their unit and where these appointment letters can be
        found (usually maintained on their unit SharePoint site). Examples are EPLs and Anti-
        Terrorism Officers (ATOs).
        5.1.6. There is no specific requirement for the number of personnel assigned to a UCC,
        unless otherwise specified by OEM. There must be adequate and properly trained
        manning to perform all functions of the UCC and additional personnel to serve as runners
        or recorders.
        5.1.7. Certain events may require 24-hour UCC manning which will require shift work to
        support continuous operations for the duration of the requirement.
        5.1.8. It is acceptable to have a squadron’s UCC co-located with the deployment control
        center (DCC), as long as there is sufficient manning to operate both functions.
305AMWI10-2501 18 AUGUST 2014                                                                5


  5.2. Equipment Requirements. Required control center equipment will be IAW JB MDL
  Instruction 10-2501 and OEM guidance. At a minimum, each control center must possess:
  current on-base grid maps, control center checklists, computers, telephones, and the control
  center binder (see binder guidance section).
  5.3. Location Requirements.
     5.3.1. IAW JBMDL Evacuation and Shelter-In-Place Guide, all control centers should
     identify an alternate location which is a minimum of 2000 feet from primary control
     center location. This will ensure a single event will not place the alternate inside a
     hazardous cordon. The alternate location should have sufficient equipment and supplies
     to operate without loss of continuity.
     5.3.2. Both the primary and alternate locations will be given to 305 AMW/XP for
     annotation on the “305 AMW Control Center Contact Information Roster.” Any changes
     to location or contact information will be forwarded to 305 AMW/XP.
  5.4. Appointment Letters.
     5.4.1. WCC/GCC/UCC appointment letters will be updated as personnel change, but no
     less than once annually. Both GCCs and UCCs will maintain updated letters, ensure all
     personnel on the letter are properly trained, and forward all letters to 305 AMW/XP.
     5.4.2. An example appointment letter will be maintained on the 305 AMW/XP
     SharePoint; letters will not contain PII.
     5.4.3. All WCC/GCC/UCC appointment letters will be posted on the 305 AMW/XP
     SharePoint.
  5.5. Checklists.
     5.5.1. Control centers are required to maintain unit-specific checklists for activation,
     operations, deactivation and relocation/evacuation. These checklists may be combined.
     5.5.2. Several checklists are maintained on the 305 AMW/XP SharePoint, including the
     WCC activation/operations/deactivation checklist and an example GCC/UCC checklist.
     5.5.3. CAT checklists are to be used within the CAT only.
     5.5.4. GCC/UCC checklists will be reviewed during WCC annual SAVs.
  5.6. Binders.
     5.6.1. Control center binders may be separate or combined with unit EPL binders.
     5.6.2. Units must maintain paper control center binders in case of power failure,
     computer failure, relocation, or required use by untrained personnel. Electronic tablets
     are acceptable after approval from the WCC.
     5.6.3. Binder contents will be IAW OEM guidance, with the following additional items:
         5.6.3.1. Most recent printed copy of the “305 AMW Control Center Contact
         Information Roster.”
         5.6.3.2. Control center appointment letter.
         5.6.3.3. AFPAAS COR appointment letter and AFPAAS training materials.
 6                                                        305AMWI10-2501 18 AUGUST 2014


        5.6.4. Due to frequently changing personnel and potential TDYs or deployments, all
        units must make the UCC binder location widely known among those personnel most
        likely to be available at all times (commander, deputies, schedulers, and ops officers).
        This binder should provide the ability for any person in the unit with limited knowledge
        to follow the activation checklist and contact appropriate personnel based on the “305
        AMW Control Center Contact Information Roster.”
6. Communication Methods.
     6.1. General Guidelines.
        6.1.1. Most control center communications will be through email or telephone; however,
        other occasional methods will include: SharePoint, Defense Connect Online (DCO), Land
        Mobile Radios (LMRs), and face-to-face.
        6.1.2. All control center contact information will be maintained in the “305 AMW
        Control Center Contact Information Roster.”
            6.1.2.1. This document will be the central source of contact information for all
            personnel involved with the 305 AMW control center program.
            6.1.2.2. Information included will be: control center locations, personnel assigned
            along with normal duty phone and cell phone numbers, and phone numbers for the
            actual control center rooms.
            6.1.2.3. This document will be For Official Use Only (FOUO) and will also contain
            Personally Identifiable Information (PII); therefore, the electronic version will be
            password protected on the SharePoint website. The password will be: 305amw.
        6.1.3. The WCC will maintain the current list on 305 AMW/XP SharePoint and ensure it
        is updated semi-annually. GCC/UCCs may be solicited for assistance in updating this
        roster with personal contact information. Applicable sections of the updated contact list
        will be verified for accuracy by GCC/UCCs.
     6.2. SharePoint.
        6.2.1. Pertinent documents can be found on both the 305 AMW/XP and 87 ABW/XP
        SharePoint websites at the following links:
            6.2.1.1. https://eim.amc.af.mil/org/305xp/WCC/default.aspx
            6.2.1.2. https://eim.amc.af.mil/org/87abw/87abwxp/default.aspx
        6.2.2. Plans and documents that require distribution may be either emailed or posted on
        one of the SharePoint websites. All installation-wide plans may be found on the 87 ABW
        SharePoint website.
     6.3. Phone Communications.
        6.3.1. It is imperative that accurate cell phone, normal desk number, and control center
        room phone numbers are maintained on the contact roster; therefore, any inaccuracies
        must be highlighted to 305 AMW/XP. This is important in order to ensure efficient
        activation of control centers (after-hours activations require use of cell phone numbers vs.
        office phone numbers).
305AMWI10-2501 18 AUGUST 2014                                                                7


     6.3.2. Communication with personnel in the CAT can be difficult due to potential on-
     going situation briefings. The CAT admin numbers should be attempted first; however, a
     full listing of numbers can be found in the JB MDL BUS.
  6.4. Email.
     6.4.1. Email communication with the WCC should be addressed to the 305 AMW/XP
     org box.
     6.4.2. WCC primary method of email communication with the Maintenance Group
     (MXG) GCC will be through individual accounts due to minimal staffing and in-frequent
     changes.
     6.4.3. WCC primary method of email communication with the OG GCC will be through
     the GCC org box: 305 OSS/OST; 305oss.ost@us.af.mil. This is due to a higher rate of
     turnover in this office.
     6.4.4. All email traffic containing FOUO or PII shall be digitally signed and encrypted.
     In situations when encrypted emails are required, they will be sent to personal email
     accounts due to inability to view in org accounts.
  6.5. DCO.
     6.5.1. The 305 AMW WCC has a DCO setup for situations with extended or complicated
     control center operations in order to provide live and constant chat capability. Not all
     control center activations require use of the DCO, and there may be cases where it is only
     used for a portion of the event. The WCC will notify GCCs when DCO will be utilized.
     GCCs may request DCO use if desired.
     6.5.2. The type of event will determine who will participate in the DCO. Most events
     will only include 305 AMW WCC, GCC, and UCCs; however, 305 AMW leadership
     may also participate if necessary.
     6.5.3. DCO will not be used in lieu of all direct email/phone communication between the
     WCC and the GCCs.
     6.5.4. The link to the 305 AMW WCC DCO is: https://connect.dco.dod.mil/mcguirewcc/
     6.5.5. The preferred method of logging in to the DCO session is as a guest, in order to
     properly identify personnel within the chat room. More secure conduits will be addressed
     on an as needed basis depending on the control center situation (SIPR, runners…etc.).
     6.5.6. Guests will identify themselves as: control center type / organization / rank and
     name (Ex: WCC/305 XP/Capt John Doe). This method will simplify communication
     within the DCO.
  6.6. LMRs.
     6.6.1. Not every situation requires the usage of LMRs. For extended control center
     activations, the WCC has LMRs that can be distributed to UCCs. The WCC will direct
     GCCs to have UCC personnel pick up LMRs from the WCC when the event dictates.
        6.6.1.1. UCC personnel will sign out the LMR and be responsible for returning at the
        end of the event.
 8                                                        305AMWI10-2501 18 AUGUST 2014


            6.6.1.2. GCCs have access to their own LMRs that may be used to communicate with
            the WCC during any activation.
        6.6.2. The primary channel used for 305 AMW control center LMRs is #14: 305
        AMW/IG. Currently there could be several organizations on this channel, including 87
        XP and 305 AMW/IG. The WCC will communicate if a different frequency will be used.
7. Control Center Operations.
     7.1. Event Logs.
        7.1.1. Event logs are required for tracking all control center operations. These event logs
        can be tracked on paper or electronically, but should be stored electronically to enable
        distribution after the event. The WCC, GCCs, or IG may request event logs after any
        event/exercise.
        7.1.2. The standard event log is the AF Form 4377, which can be found on e-publishing
        or the 305 AMW/XP SharePoint.
     7.2. Shelter in Place (SIP) Situations.
        7.2.1. SIP room requirements will be IAW JB MDL OEM guidance.
        7.2.2. SIP checklist accomplishment and personnel safety should be the number one
        priority when directed to SIP.
        7.2.3. In situations where the unit SIP location is co-located with the UCC, the control
        center checklists may be initiated after all SIP checklists are accomplished and when no
        evacuations have been ordered. SIP rooms are designed to provide shelter for several
        hours at a minimum if required; therefore, there could be excess time in which control
        center operations may be completed.
        7.2.4. Control center personnel will coordinate with unit EPLs for SIP location and
        communication capabilities; as well as ability to incorporate control center operations if
        necessary (i.e. computer and telephone capabilities within SIP rooms).
        7.2.5. Unit SIP locations and telephone numbers will be maintained on the 305 AMW
        Control Center Contact Information Roster.
     7.3. Lockdown Situations. Proper lockdown procedures are always the top priority in
     lockdown situations. Control center operations should only be initiated after complying with
     proper lockdown protocol.
     7.4. FPCON Changes.
        7.4.1. FPCON changes are typically passed down through CAT messages to the
        WCC/GCCs and then to the UCCs.
        7.4.2. Upon receipt of FPCON change notification, control centers will work with unit
        ATOs to ensure FPCON checklists are accomplished.
        7.4.3. UCCs will notify unit leadership and GCCs of FPCON checklist completion.
        GCCs will notify the WCC in turn.
        7.4.4. Control centers will coordinate with unit ATOs to maintain unit AT action sets
        within the control center binder in the event that ATOs are unavailable.
305AMWI10-2501 18 AUGUST 2014                                                                  9


  7.5. Accountability/Recall Operations.
     7.5.1. Wing leadership may direct either accountability in response to an event, and/or
     some form of a recall.
     7.5.2. Recall options are maintained in the JB MDL BUS Communications section and
     consist of several different pyramid recall procedures.
     7.5.3. All accountabilities and recalls are different and will specify if any of the
     following individuals are not to be contacted: dependents and/or personnel in crew-rest,
     performing shift work, on leave, or on TDY.
     7.5.4. All control centers will ensure positive visual or verbal accountability for all
     applicable personnel. Voicemail messages, text messages, and any sightings before the
     accountability time do not constitute contact.
     7.5.5. Accountability spreadsheets are maintained by the WCC; they will be distributed
     as necessary during events and remain posted on the 305 AMW/XP SharePoint.
     7.5.6. UCCs will account for all individuals on their alpha roster, while referencing the
     unit recall roster. UCC accountability will include those individuals on-loan; whereas
     attached individuals will be accounted for by their organization. Additionally, UCCs will
     account for civilians within the unit by utilizing recall rosters and organizational charts.
     GCCs will submit group accountability numbers, including group staff, to the WCC.
     WCC will submit overall 305 AMW accountability to include both groups and wing staff
     personnel.
     7.5.7. KC-10 FTU students will be accounted for by their alpha roster unit. Units will
     verify crew rest requirements with the FTU for these students.
     7.5.8. Accountability timeline goals will be IAW the JB MDL BUS, but desired NLT 3
     hours from directed accountability time, with hourly status updates.
  7.6. AFPAAS.
     7.6.1. AFPAAS is an application used to account for and assess the needs of Air Force
     members and their families following a catastrophic event. The program is run by the
     AFPC Operations Center Personnel Readiness Cell (PRC) at the Air Force level, and by
     IPR at the base level.
     7.6.2. Control center personnel are tasked with serving as CORs for their unit
     commanders.
        7.6.2.1. The main purpose of a COR is to have administrative rights over AFPAAS
        accounts for those individuals under the same Personal Accounting System Code
        (PASCODE) or under subordinate PASCODEs.
        7.6.2.2. CORs have the ability to account for individuals within AFPAAS who are
        within the Geographical Area of Interest (GAOI), and perform a “needs assessment”
        for that person if necessary.
     7.6.3. Control center personnel become CORs by completing the AFPAAS COR
     appointment letter, signed by their commander, and submitting to IPR (phone number:
     609-754-6878; email: 87 FSS/PRU).
10                                                     305AMWI10-2501 18 AUGUST 2014


     7.6.4. The most critical aspect in an efficient accountability process is that each unit has
     correct AFPAAS COR rights and that they have access to the training guides provided by
     AFPC.
     7.6.5. There is no automatic maintenance of a unit’s COR list. It must be updated when
     personnel leave the unit or begin working in the control center.
     7.6.6. In any situations where units do not have COR rights, the GCC will be responsible
     for communicating with the unit to determine status of affected individuals and updating
     AFPAAS accordingly.
     7.6.7. All WCC/GCC/UCC personnel will maintain COR status and have a basic
     understanding of AFPAAS, as well as how to complete an accountability event.
     7.6.8. GCC/UCCs will send updated AFPAAS appointment letters to 305 AMW/XP as
     changes are made and as updates to the control center appointment letters are made.
     AFPAAS CORs are not limited to only control center personnel. GCC/UCCs should
     ensure that after-hours/weekend accountability situations are considered by placing
     additional personnel on the appointment letters (schedulers, ADOs, DOs…etc.).
     Squadron commanders should also be placed on the appointment letter to ensure IPR
     grants sufficient access for them to monitor an AFPAAS event.
     7.6.9. AFPAAS training is accomplished by reviewing PowerPoint slides created by
     AFPC and provided by IPR. All control center binders should include copies of these
     training materials, or instructions on where they are stored electronically, in order to
     allow quick just-in-time refresher information during AFPAAS events.
     7.6.10. During AFPAAS events, 87 ABW/IPR will be available for questions; units will
     attempt to address issues with GCCs first, followed by the WCC, and finally by IPR
     (phone number: 609-754-6878; email: 87 FSS/PRU).
     7.6.11. Responsibilities during an AFPAAS event include but are not limited to:
        7.6.11.1. UCCs: Determine affected individuals within AFPAAS, conduct
        accountability, and either have individuals update their AFPAAS account or update it
        for those personnel. UCCs will update GCCs and unit commanders throughout the
        event.
        7.6.11.2. GCCs: Determine which units within group have affected individuals and
        assist with accountability. Ensure affected units have CORs available and, if not,
        serve as the COR for that unit. GCCs will also serve as the COR for group staff.
        7.6.11.3. WCC: Determine which units within the wing have affected individuals and
        assist with accountability. WCC will answer questions that GCCs have or direct them
        to IPR for clarification. The WCC will also serve as the COR for wing staff and
        assist the GCCs as necessary with accountability requirements.




                                           RICHARD E. WILLIAMSON JR., Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander, 305th Air Mobility Wing
305AMWI10-2501 18 AUGUST 2014                                                          11


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations, 24
Jan 2007
AFI 10-2501 AMC Supplement, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning
and Operations, 02 May 2014
AFMAN 10-2502, Air Force Incident Management System (AFIMS) Standards and
Procedures,25 Sep 2009
JB MDL INSTRUCTION 10-2501, Office Of Emergency Management (OEM), 14 Jan 2014
- Installation Emergency Management Plan (IEMP) 10-2
- BUS, Basic Unit Supplement
- Unit Emergency Preparedness Liaison (EPL) Handbook
- Office of Emergency Management Evacuation and Shelter-In-Place Guide
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPAAS—- Air Force Personnel Accountability and Assessment System
AMC—- Air Mobility Command
AMCI—- Air Mobility Command Instruction
ATO—- Anti-Terrorism Officer
BUS—- Basic Unit Supplement
CAT—- Crisis Action Team
COR—- Commanding Officer Representative
DCC—- Deployment Control Center
DCO—- Direct Connect Online
EPL—- Emergency Preparedness Liaison
FPCON—- Force Protection Condition
FOUO—- For Official Use Only
GAOI—- Geographical Area of Interest
GCC—- Group Control Center
 12                                         305AMWI10-2501 18 AUGUST 2014


IMT—- Information Management Tool
IPR—- Installation Personnel Readiness
LMR—- Land Mobile Radio
OEM—- Office of Emergency Management
OPR—- Office of Primary Responsibility
PASCODE—- Personal Accounting System Code
PRC—- Personnel Readiness Cell
SAV—- Staff Assistance Visit
SIP—- Shelter-In-Place
UCC—- Unit Control Center
WCC—- Wing Control Center
