BY ORDER OF THE                                    307TH BOMB WING INSTRUCTION 21-124
307TH BOMB WING COMMANDER
                                                                                 28 AUGUST 2013

                                                                                      Maintenance

                                                    FOREIGN OBJECT DAMAGE (FOD) AND
                                                    DROPPED OBJECT PREVENTION (DOP)
                                                                         PROGRAMS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 307 MXG/MXQ                                                        Certified by: 307 MXG/CC
                                                                         (Lt Col, Kenneth N. Rose)
                                                                                           Pages: 8




This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space
Maintenance. This instruction provides guidance for areas of responsibilities and general
procedures for Foreign Object Damage (FOD) control, and dropped objects, in accordance with
Air Force Instruction (AFI) 21-101, Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Supplement (SUP),
Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, and AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated
Occupational Safety Instruction. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847’s from the field through the
AFRC publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

This is the initial publication and should be reviewed in its entirety to ensure compliance.


1. Responsibilities.
   1.1. The Maintenance Group Commander, Maintenance Officers, Superintendents,
   Supervisors, and all other personnel are responsible for compliance with this instruction. It is
   the responsibility of all maintenance personnel to comply with all written guidance to ensure
 2                                                           307BWI21-124 28 AUGUST 2013


     all required repairs, inspections, and documentation are completed in a safe, timely and
     effective manner. Ensure the most current publication is used.
     1.2. The vice Wing Commander (CV) is the FOD Prevention Program Manager outlined in
     AFI 21-101. In his absence the Maintenance Group (MXG) commander will assume the
     responsibilities of the FOD Prevention Manager.
     1.3. The Wing FOD monitor will be located in the Quality Assurance (QA) office. The
     minimum responsibilities are as outlined in AFI 21-101.
        1.3.1. The wing FOD monitor will review for accuracy and recommend changes as
        necessary, to the FOD prevention training that is to be conducted during wing in-
        processing.
     1.4. The Maintenance Squadron (MXS) Commander and Aircraft Maintenance Squadron
     (AMXS) commander will appoint a full time noncommissioned officer (NCO), or higher, as
     the FOD monitor for their respective squadron. The minimum responsibilities of the
     squadron FOD monitor are as follows:
     1.5. Ensure FOD containers are available and used in all maintenance production areas.
        1.5.1. Ensure FOD containers are installed and clearly marked on all vehicles operated
        on the flight line.
        1.5.2. Disseminate FOD awareness and information throughout areas of responsibility.
        1.5.3. Assist the wing FOD monitor in all FOD/ Dropped Object Prevention (DOP)
        investigations.
2. Foreign Object Damage Program.
     2.1. FOD walks will be conducted as follows:
        2.1.1. Organized FOD walks will be conducted weekly. Supervisors will ensure all
        available maintenance group personnel participate in FOD walks. FOD walks may be
        increased as deemed necessary by maintenance supervision.
        2.1.2. Maintenance technicians will conduct a daily FOD inspection of aircraft parking
        areas. FOD inspections shall be conducted prior to aircraft taxi and before aircraft
        recovery. Maintenance supervisors or the wing FOD monitor can call for an organized
        FOD walk when required.
        2.1.3. The 307 AMXS Superintendent/Expeditors are responsible for ensuring host base
        facilities and the B-52 aircraft flightline parking areas for the 307 BW assigned aircraft
        are cleaned after use. The current flightline FOD walk areas of responsibility are as
        follows: from the taxiway centerline between U and V row all the way to Z row. Areas of
        responsibility will also include the parking apron adjacent to the southeast corner of
        Hangar 1 and the vehicle parking area east of Hangar 1 adjacent to Flightline Road.
        2.1.4. The 307 MXS Superintendent is responsible for all 307 MXS shops. This includes
        the B-52 Fuel Cell hangar, B-52 Phase Dock and occupied work areas (including the area
        in the two-bay hangar being utilized by B-52 Phase), conventional weapons storage area,
        Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) storage yard and building 6850 (AGE Hangar).
        FOD walks will be conducted daily in all MXS work bay facilities.
307BWI21-124 28 AUGUST 2013                                                                      3


3. General Procedures.
   3.1. All FOD incidents, including bird strikes, will be reported the Maintenance Operations
   Center (MOC). MOC will then notify QA. QA will report FOD incidents IAW AFI 21-101.
   3.2. Any engine which experiences internal FOD damage will be reported to Wing Safety
   and QA. If the engine is installed on an aircraft at the time the damage is discovered, the
   aircraft will be impounded immediately. If the engine is not installed at the time the damage
   is discovered, only the engine will be impounded. Impoundment of the aircraft from which
   the uninstalled engine was removed will be at the discretion of MXG/CC. When an engine is
   removed due to FOD damage caused by an internal failure a Product Quality Deficiency
   Report (PQDR) will be submitted through the Joint Deficiency Reporting System (JDRS).
   The PQDR will be initiated by the work center finding the damage and will be forwarded to
   QA for inclusion in the FOD report.
   3.3. All lost or dropped tools/objects will be reported to MOC and QA if items are not
   recovered within two hours from the time the item was discovered missing. If the potential
   exists that a lost item is on an aircraft that is about to fly or is already flying, MOC, QA and
   Supervisor of Flying (SOF) will be notified immediately upon discovery of the missing item.
   3.4. When a suspected or confirmed bird strike is discovered, enter the appropriate red
   symbol in the aircraft Air Force Technical Order (AFTO) Form 781A and contact MOC.
      3.4.1. Bird/wildlife pieces/parts will be retained in a zip lock bag by appropriate
      maintenance work center and turned over to QA.
   3.5. The Production Supervisor or Flightline Expediter will contact MOC if a requirement
   for ramp sweeping exists. Ramp sweepers are scheduled to sweep the 307th Bomb Wing
   (BW) aircraft parking ramp on Thursdays. If sweepers are not observed, contact MOC. MOC
   will then contact necessary base personnel to schedule a sweeper.
      3.5.1. AMXS supervision will ensure that FOD Bosses are used as required on assigned
      sections of flightline.
      3.5.2. Flightline supervisors will monitor and ensure grounding points are vacuumed as
      required.
   3.6. Hats may be worn on the flight line, taxiway and runway at Barksdale Air Force Base
   (BAFB). Hats must be free of all metal and/or removable objects. Hats will be removed and
   secured within 50 feet of operating engines as outlined in applicable Mission Design Series
   (MDS) Technical Orders. Exceptions: Cold weather headgear that snap, button or Velcro can
   be worn as long as it is securely fastened.
   3.7. Breakaway line badge lanyards are required for wear around the neck, providing the
   badge is clipped to the outer upper garment. Badges will be removed when entering intakes
   and/or exhausts or when within the danger areas of running engines.
   3.8. If a vehicle has driven off the paved surface or over damaged areas of the ramp, a FOD
   check of tires must be accomplished immediately upon returning to the paved surface.
   3.9. Pintle hooks will be closed with lock pin installed when not in use. Pins will be secured
   to vehicle or support equipment by means of a chain or wire rope.
 4                                                             307BWI21-124 28 AUGUST 2013


     3.10. A red X for a FOD inspection will be entered in the AFTO 781A and in Integrated
     Mission Data System (IMDS) when engine intakes or exhausts are entered for maintenance
     related processes.
     3.11. Parts/screw bags will be used and attached to any part or panel removed from an
     aircraft. Loose hardware will be accurately annotated on the parts bag tag, along with the
     aircraft tail number. Hinged panels will be inspected to ensure all fasteners are accounted for.
     3.12. All FOD found on aircraft returning from depot maintenance will be photographed
     prior to removal from the aircraft, turned over to QA, and reported in the JDRS system as an
     aircraft acceptance deficiency.
     3.13. Anytime an aircraft is not being readied for flight, engines are not being operated, or
     an engine is removed from an aircraft, i.e. Follow on Mission (FOM), transporting, storage,
     troubleshooting, etc; the intake(s), exhaust(s), electrical connections, fuel lines, hydraulic
     lines, oil lines, and port openings will be covered to prevent inadvertent Foreign Object (FO)
     ingestion.
     3.14. Crew compartment areas are to be considered FOD critical areas. Before entering the
     crew compartment, maintenance personnel must account for all items being taken into this
     area. Only the items necessary to complete the maintenance action should be taken into the
     crew compartment area. Upon completion, the technician performing the task must complete
     a FOD check of the crew compartment area and ensure all tools, equipment, and hardware
     (safety wire, nuts, washers, etc.) are accounted for.
     3.15. Maintenance personnel will ensure that aircraft cockpits/crew stations are FOD free
     prior to aircrew arrival.
4. FOD Meetings.
     4.1. The 307th Wing (WG)/CV or MXG/Commander (CC) may increase FOD meeting
     intervals when deemed necessary to increase FOD awareness or when Wing FOD rate
     exceeds the AFRC established standard.
     4.2. The MXG/CC will chair the FOD meetings in the absence of the WG/CV.
5. FOD Prevention Recognition Program.
     5.1. The purpose of the Wing’s FOD Prevention Recognition Program is to recognize
     personnel for their participation in the prevention of FOD and to promote FOD prevention
     awareness.
     5.2. Supervisors shall nominate individuals who have demonstrated sound leadership in the
     area of FOD prevention. Nominations are to be submitted to the Wing FOD monitor located
     in the QA office the Friday prior to the Quarterly FOD Meeting.
     5.3. As a minimum the following criteria will be used to select award winners:
        5.3.1. Maximum participation in FOD walks.
        5.3.2. Identifications of potential FOD hazard(s) and submission of recommended
        corrective action(s).
        5.3.3. Assisting in FOD investigations to determine the cause of mishaps as needed.
307BWI21-124 28 AUGUST 2013                                                                      5


6. Dropped Object Prevention Program (DOPP). Definition: A dropped object (DO) is any
aircraft part, component, surface, or other item lost during aircrew operations, unless
intentionally jettisoned from engine start to engine shutdown.
7. Responsibilities.
   7.1. The WG/CV serves as the DOP Program Manager as outlined in AFI 21-101. In his
   absence the MXG/CC will assume the responsibilities of the DOP Program Manager.
   7.2. The WG/CV will appoint the Wing DOP Program Monitor who will reside in the QA
   office.
   7.3. Supervisors and the Wing DOP Program Monitor will investigate each dropped object.
   Every effort will be made to determine the precise cause to ensure a positive corrective
   action is accomplished.
   7.4. Maintenance personnel will ensure doors, cowlings, and panels fit properly with special
   emphasis on the condition and serviceability of all fasteners, nut-plates, and latching devices.
   Special attention must be given to “last-minute” maintenance actions. This will be
   accomplished by performing a panel inspection with the criteria identified in a local work-
   card.
   7.5. Upon discovery of a dropped object, by aircrew or maintenance personnel, report
   findings to the MOC. MOC will then notify wing safety and QA to have a DO report
   initiated.
   7.6. MOC and QA must be notified in the event that the dropped object is recovered.
8. Documentation/Inspections.
   8.1. In his absence the MXG commander will assume the responsibilities of the FOD
   Prevention Manager. The wing FOD monitor will review for accuracy and recommend
   changes as necessary, to the FOD prevention training that is to be conducted during wing in-
   processing.
   8.2. All dropped objects will be documented on aircraft the AFTO Form 781A and in IMDS
   with the appropriate red symbol.




                                             JONATHAN M. ELLIS, Col, USAFR
                                             Commander
 6                                                       307BWI21-124 28 AUGUST 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 FEB 2003
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 JUL 2010
AFI 21-101_AFRCSUP, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 13 JAN 2011
AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction, 15 JUN 2012
AFMAN33-363, Management of Records, 1 MAR 2008
LWC-307MXG-10-4, B-52H Dropped Object Prevention Inspection, 21 AUG 2012
Adopted Forms
AFTO Form 781A, Arms Aircrew/Mission Flight Data Document
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFTO—Air Force Technical Order
AGE—Aerospace Ground Equipment
AMXS—Aircraft Maintenance Squadron
BAFB—Barksdale Air Force Base
BW—Bomb Wing
CC—Commander
CV—Vice Wing Commander
DO—Dropped Object
DOP—Dropped Object Prevention
DOPP—Dropped Object Prevention Program
FOD—Foreign Object Damage
FO—Foreign Object
FOM—Facilitate Other Maintenance
IMDS—Integrated Maintenance Data System
JDRS—Joint Deficiency Reporting System
307BWI21-124 28 AUGUST 2013                                     7


MDS—Mission Design Series
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
MXG—Maintenance Group
MXS—Maintenance Squadron
NCO—Noncommissioned Officer
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PQDR—Product Quality Deficiency Report QA – Quality Assurance
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SOF—Supervisor of Flying
WG—Wing
 8                                    307BWI21-124 28 AUGUST 2013


                       Attachment 2
                        FIGURE

Figure A2.1. Figure.
