BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   309TH MAINTENANCE WING
309TH MAINTENANCE WING                                             INSTRUCTION 64-101

                                                                         20 OCTOBER 2011

                                                                                 Contracting

                                                          CONTRACTOR PERFORMANCE
                                                           ASSESSMENT REPORT (CPAR)

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 309 MXW/OBC                                                  Certified by: 309 MXW/OB
                                                                          (Mr. Bernard Josten)
                                                                                     Pages: 7


This 309th Maintenance Wing (309 MXW) instruction defines policies, procedures, and
responsibilities applicable to the development, coordination, and approval of Contractor
Performance Assessment Report (CPARs) for the 309 MXW. This instruction applies to all
military and civilian personnel in the 309 MXW; including 309th Aerospace Maintenance and
Regeneration Group. This is a new document and must be completely reviewed. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air
Force Information Management Tool (AF IMT) 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF IMTs 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command.

1. General Information. The requirement for preparing CPARs is identified in the Federal
Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Part 42.15, Contractor Performance Information, located at
http://farsite.hill.af.mil/vffara.htm. The Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting
System (CPARS) is a paperless contracting initiative developed by the Navy. The use of this
system is directed by the Department of Defense (DoD). The website for CPARS is
http://www.cpars.csd.disa.mil/. The primary purpose of CPARS is to ensure that accurate data
on contractor performance is current, and available for use in source-selections through the
Performance Informational Retrieval System. Performance assessments will be used as a
resource in awarding best value contracts and orders to contractors that consistently provide
 2                                                      309MXWI64-101 20 OCTOBER 2011


quality, on-time products and services, within cost constraints that conform to contractual
requirements. CPARS can be used to effectively communicate contractor strengths and
weaknesses to source selection officials. Senior DoD and contractor officials, may also use
information derived from CPARS for other management purposes consistent with DoD guidance
and policy. The CPAR assesses a contractor’s performance during a specified period of time
beginning from contract award. A CPAR shall be accomplished on all contracting actions that
meet applicable dollar thresholds.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. The contracting office will provide notification of all newly awarded contracts to the
     309 MXW CPAR focal point at the time of contract distribution, in order to identify and
     track contracts requiring CPARs.
     2.2. The 309 MXW CPAR Focal Point will:
        2.2.1. Act as the single focal point for CPARs within the 309 MXW. The CPAR focal
        point will grant access (user ID’s and passwords) for CPARS to appropriate personnel.
        2.2.2. Monitor 309 MXW contracts to ensure CPARs are accomplished on all contracts
        requiring CPARs. Track and monitor all CPAR suspense/milestones, and will notify the
        applicable group commander of any reports more than 30 days overdue. CPAR
        requirements will be tracked in the program management office database.
        2.2.3. Provide the assessing official representative (AOR) a 45-60-day notice, prior to
        the end of the rating period, to begin drafting the CPAR in CPARS, and inform the AOR
        of the due date.
        2.2.4. Meet with the AOR and provide guidance, training, and assistance as needed with
        preparation of a CPAR. The CPAR focal point will ensure the CPAR is written and
        processed in compliance with the DoD CPARS Policy Guide located at
        http://www.cpars.csd.disa.mil/cparsfiles/pdfs/DoD-CPARS-Guide.pdf, and make
        certain narratives meet rating criteria.
        2.2.5. Review and coordinate on all CPARs, and ensure they are processed properly and
        completely through the entire system.
        2.2.6. Review all documentation pertaining to negative ratings; to ensure contractor non-
        performance is documented completely, and feedback is provided to the contractor.
        2.2.7. Facilitate CPAR protests and ensure timelines are met.
     2.3. The AOR will:
        2.3.1. Prepare CPARs with correct and valid information, and submit into CPARS within
        timelines provided by the CPAR focal point. A working document draft can be created in
        the CPARS, and finalized just prior to submission.
        2.3.2. Work closely with the CPAR focal point, to ensure CPARs are properly processed
        and completed.
        2.3.3. Obtain necessary coordination/approvals, and also coordinate with the CPAR focal
        point prior to official validation in CPARS.
309MXWI64-101 20 OCTOBER 2011                                                                 3


       2.3.4. For 309 MXW-level contracts, the applicable group AOR will be responsible to
       ensure CPARs are input for their delivery orders.
   2.4. The Assessing Official (AO) will:
       2.4.1. Review all CPARs prior to validating and forwarding to the contractor
       representative (CR), or the reviewing official (RO).
       2.4.2. Complete all CPARs when returned from the CR, or the RO.
       2.4.3. Provide direction to the AOR, and the CPAR focal point in the event of significant
       disagreements between the AOR and the CR. NOTE: If requested by the CR, within 7
       days of receipt of the CPAR, the AO will facilitate a meeting to discuss CPAR ratings.
       2.4.4. Forward CPARs to the RO if required.
3. Procedures.
   3.1. The CPAR focal point will meet with the AOR 45-60 days prior to the end of the rating
   period, to discuss CPAR processes and timelines. After coordinating with their chain of
   command, the AOR will submit a draft CPAR into CPARS, and then notify the CPAR focal
   point that it is ready for review. The CPAR focal point will review the CPAR for proper
   format, clarification, and will ensure narratives match CPAR rating criteria.
   3.2. After the AO has approved the CPAR, the AO will officially validate and send the
   CPAR via CPARS to the CR for review and comments. The CR has 30 days to respond.
   3.3. Once the CR has returned the CPAR and concurred with the ratings, the AO will
   validate and complete the CPAR. If the CR non-concurs, the AO will assess the comments
   from the CR and determine if the CPAR should be adjusted. If no adjustment needs to be
   made, the AO will forward to the RO for review.
   3.4. The AOR will provide the RO the necessary details, history, and documentation needed
   to analyze and understand the reasons for non-concurrence. The RO will review and
   determine if the CPAR should be changed, or remain as stated, hold a meeting with AO and
   CR if necessary, and then validate to finalize in CPARS.
4. Training.
   4.1. CPARS training can be found at the CPARS website http://www.cpars.csd.disa.mil/.
   There are two types of CPARS training; both of which are on-line.
       4.1.1. The practice system is an application that allows users to experience the
       functionality of CPARS, prior to entering real data in the production database.
       4.1.2. Web based training is the other type of online training for CPARS. This is an
       interactive online classroom that delivers live training via telephone and computer link.
       There are several courses available from an overview, to narrative writing. Course
       summaries and schedules can be viewed at the CPARS website. Students can also sign
       up for training classes at the website.
4.2. //www.cpars.csd.disa.mil/cparsfiles/pdfs/CPARS_User_Manual.pdf, provides working-
level procedures for entering, updating, revising, and viewing information in the CPARS
Automated Information System. The user manual translates business process requirements into
detailed step-by-step procedures, for individuals utilizing the automated CPARS process.
 4                                                       309MXWI64-101 20 OCTOBER 2011


5. Policies.
     5.1. The 309 MXW Business Office has a CPAR focal point that will assist with all CPARs.
     Each CPAR shall be prepared IAW the DoD CPARS Policy Guide. The type of acquisition
     and dollar thresholds that determine if a CPAR is required are:
        5.1.1. Systems (includes new development and major mods) >$5M (total contract cost);
        5.1.2. Operations Support (spares and repairs on existing systems) >$5M (total contract
        cost);
        5.1.3. Services >$1M (total contract cost);
        5.1.4. Information Technology >$1M (total contract cost).
5.2. A CPAR can be accomplished on any contract, for any amount, at the discretion of the
government.
     5.3. The DoD CPARS Policy Guide mandates that a CPAR is accomplished within 120 days
     after the end of the rating period. In order to consistently meet that time frame, Ogden Air
     Logistics Center (OO-ALC) Contracting Directorate has established a 90-day goal to
     accomplish all CPARs; making a CPAR due 90 days after the end of the rating period.
     Rating periods are normally on an annual basis beginning at contract award. The first CPAR
     is the initial report; all subsequent reports are called intermediate reports; upon contract
     completion a final report is written. NOTE: The OO-ALC CPAR focal point reports all
     CPARs that are 30 days or more overdue to the OO-ALC Commander on a quarterly basis.
        5.3.1. All CPAR information shall be transmitted/handled IAW source selection
        sensitive data guidelines. CPARs will be identified as ―Source Selection Sensitive‖, and
        may not be released without prior approval from the CPAR focal point, and must contain
        the legend ―FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY – SOURCE SELECTION INFORMATION‖.
     5.4. The CPAR assesses a contractor’s performance and provides a record, both positive and
     negative, on a given contract during a specific period of time. Each assessment must be
     based on objective facts, and be supported by program and contract management data such
     as: cost performance reports, customer complaints, quality reviews, technical interchange
     meetings, financial solvency assessments, production management reviews, contractor
     operations reviews, functional performance evaluations, award fee determinations, and
     earned contract incentives. CPARs are not cumulative; they assess only performance
     occurring after the prior assessment period.
     5.5. It’s important to document information during the year that will be pertinent to the
     CPAR. Information may include: status reports, monthly certificates of service, award fee
     evaluations, program reviews, and earned contract incentives.
     5.6. The RO only reviews CPARs that are greater than $100M (total contact cost), CPARs
     that are returned from the CR with a non-concurrence, or that have significant differences,
     disagreements, or if the contractor does not respond. CPARs greater than $100M must be
     approved by the RO, prior to being officially sent to the contractor. If a disagreement is
     anticipated, the AO and RO must be notified in writing, prior to officially submitting to the
     contractor through CPARS.
309MXWI64-101 20 OCTOBER 2011                                                            5


  5.7. It is highly encouraged by DoD to share draft CPARs with the contractor, prior to
  formal submission. This promotes dialog/communication, and many times alleviates CPAR
  protests. CPAR ratings should not be a surprise if there is a good government/contractor
  relationship, and in most cases through discussion, ratings, and narratives can be agreed
  upon. This practice is mandatory in the 309 MXW.
  5.8. Final CPARs are maintained in the Past Performance Information Retrieval System for
  3 years after the contract terminates.




                                         ALLAN E. DAY, Col, USAF
                                         Commander, 309th Maintenance Wing
 6                                                      309MXWI64-101 20 OCTOBER 2011


                                         Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCE AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
User Manual, Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS), January 2011
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Part 42.15, Contractor Performance Information, March
2005
DoD, Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS) Policy Guide, October
2010
Prescribed Forms
There are no forms prescribed in this publication.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF IMT—Air Force Information Management Tool
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AO—Assessing Official
AOR—Assessing Official Representative
CPAR—Contractor Performance Assessment Report
CPARS—Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System
CR—Contractor Representative
DoD—Department of Defense
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
IAW—In Accordance With
OO—ALC – Ogden Air Logistics Center
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RO—Reviewing Official
309 MXW—Maintenance Wing

Terms
CPAR:—A document required by the FAR, that accurately provides contractor past
performance history to source selection officials. The document should be an objective report of
performance, during a specific period of time, measured against contract requirements.
CPARS:—Mandatory system used to record and transmit CPARs.
309MXWI64-101 20 OCTOBER 2011                                                                7


FAR:—The regulation for use by federal executive agencies for acquisition of supplies, and
services with appropriated funds. The FAR is supplemented by DoD and Military Departments.
Wing CPAR Focal Point:—An individual within the 309 MXW Business Office, whose
responsibility is to monitor CPAR requirements and the CPAR process. This person will provide
guidance, training to the 309 MXW personnel, and ensure CPARs are completed on all contracts
as required, in a timely manner, and in compliance with DoD regulations.
Assessing Official Representative (AOR): The working—level program manager, or
personnel who has submitted the requirement to contracting, and is responsible for managing the
program on a daily basis. The AOR in coordination with quality assurance personnel, rates the
contractor’s performance in the CPAR, and provides narratives to support ratings.
Assessing Official (AO):—The 309 MXW Group Commanders, or otherwise delegated
individuals responsible for execution of programs within the group.
Contractor Representative (CR):—The person designated by the contractor who officially
reviews and provides comments on the CPAR.
Reviewing Official (RO): A senior—level manager, who is at least one level above the AO.
The 309 MXW Commander/Director is the RO for all CPARs with AO at the group level. The
Hill AFB Executive Director is the RO for all CPARs, when the 309 MXW
Commander/Director, or equivalent is the AO.
