BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                       309TH MAINTENANCE WING
309TH MAINTENANCE WING                                                 INSTRUCTION 64-102

                                                                             8 FEBRUARY 2012

                                                                                      Contracting

                                                           WIDE AREA WORKFLOW (WAWF)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 309 MXW/OBC                                                      Certified by: 309 MXW/OB
                                                                              (Mr. Bernard Josten)
                                                                                         Pages: 5


This 309th Maintenance Wing (309 MXW) instruction defines procedures and responsibilities
applicable to the review, validation and receipt of wide area workflow (WAWF) receiving
reports within the 309 MXW on contracts at Hill Air Force Base, Utah. This instruction applies
to all military and civilian personnel in the 309 MXW. This is a new document and must be
completely reviewed. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.           Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the Air Force Information Management Tool (AF IMT) 847, Recommendation for Change
of Publication; route AF IMTs 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command.

1. General Information. WAWF is a secure web-based system for electronic invoicing, receipt
and acceptance of contracted goods and services. WAWF creates a virtual folder to combine the
three documents required to pay a vendor the contract, the invoice, and the receiving report. The
WAWF application enables electronic form submission of invoices, government inspections and
acceptance of documents in order to support the Department of Defense (DoD) goal of moving
to a paperless acquisition process. It also provides the technology for government contractors
and authorized DoD personnel to generate, capture, and process receipt and payment-related
documentation via interactive web-based applications. Authorized DoD users are notified of
pending actions by e-mail, and are presented with a collection of documents required to process
the contracting or financial action. It uses public key infrastructure to electronically bind the
digital signature to provide non-refutable proof that the user (electronically) signed the document
 2                                                        309MXWI64-102 8 FEBRUARY 2012


and its content. WAWF is the system that allows DoD to reach its e-invoicing goals and reduce
interest penalties due to lost or misplaced documents.
2. Responsibilities/Procedures.
     2.1. WAWF Acceptor Appointment:
        2.1.1. WAWF acceptance will be restricted only to those individuals who have been
        properly identified as WAWF acceptors in purchase requests and related contracts.
        WAWF acceptors should only accept contractor invoices for payment when the following
        occurs:
            2.1.1.1. Familiar with the contracts from which the invoices are generated;
            2.1.1.2. Satisfied the billed amounts are appropriate;
            2.1.1.3. Have adequate supporting documentation (i.e., man-hours, monthly
            summary reports, etc.).
        2.1.2. Supervisors of all individuals functioning as WAWF primary/alternate acceptors
        will assure:
            2.1.2.1. Acceptors are formally appointed through properly completed and
            coordinated appointment letters (attachment 2) for specific contracted services, with
            a period of performance greater than 6 months for which they are responsible.
               2.1.2.1.1. Completed appointment letters are retained in the WAWF acceptors
               and applicable management official’s files.
               2.1.2.1.2. Copies of the completed appointment letters are forwarded to
               applicable contracting officer and the 309 MXW Acquisition Management
               Support Office (309 MXW/OBC) WAWF focal point.
            2.1.2.2. All assignments of primary and alternate acceptors are kept current for all
            Department of Defense Activity Address Code (DoDAACs).
     2.2. The vendor, upon delivering goods or services according to contract terms, submits an
     invoice and receiving report in WAWF.
     2.3. The 309 MXW WAWF Acceptor:
        2.3.1. Receives email notification from the WAWF system regarding the vendor’s
        submission of invoice and receiving report, or does periodic research by DoDAAC for
        receiving reports awaiting action.
        2.3.2. Accesses the WAWF system under Acceptor – Receiving Report. The receiving
        report (i.e., shipment number) is located under the government tab acceptance folder
        ‘Ship To’ DoDAAC.
        2.3.3. Verifies contract and invoice data are correct by clicking on shipment number.
        Compares contract and contract mods, receiving reports, contract line item number,
        quantity, accounting classification reference number, unit of issue, and funds availability
        to ensure the information submitted is accurate.
309MXWI64-102 8 FEBRUARY 2012                                                               3


       2.3.4. Obtains verification of receipt of goods/service when acceptor is not the direct
       customer. Verifies the customer has received the goods/services according to what was
       invoiced, and the contract terms.
       2.3.5. Completes acceptance/rejection of receiving reports in WAWF within the
       acceptance folder.
           2.3.5.1. Uploads customer verification documentation (i.e., email, signed tracking
           sheet, etc.).
           2.3.5.2. Accepts or rejects the claim within 7-calendar days of invoice receipt (3-
           calendar days for construction invoices). Documents all rejections and reasons for
           the rejections under the Acceptor – Receiving Report Misc tab, and emails the group
           administrator that action has been completed at Hill.WAWF.Helpdesk@hill.af.mil.
       2.3.6. Ensures accepted claims are complete. NOTE: Rejected claims must repeat the
       steps identified above after resubmission.
3. Training.
   3.1. WAWF training can be found at the WAWF website https://wawf.eb.mil/. This web-
   based training (WBT) course provides a first look at the WAWF system. It’s an overview of
   the different areas of WAWF. The WBT site contains demos for navigating, creating, and
   working different types of documents in the WAWF system.
   3.2. The DoD also provides a Hands-On Practice System Site, which is a mirror-image of
   the real WAWF system. Users can practice what you learned in this course by creating or
   taking action on example receipts and acceptance documents. The link to this training is
   provided on the WAWF training website referenced in paragraph 3.1
4. Policies.
   4.1. The       309       MXW         Acquisition    Management     Support    Office
   (https://org.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/309MXW/OBC/default.aspx), and the 75th Comptroller
   Squadron/Financial       Management      Accounting    Section   (75    CPTS/FMAS)
   (Hill.WAWF.Helpdesk@hill.af.mil) have WAWF focal points that are available to assist
   with WAWF procedures. The WAWF program office help desk email address is
   cscassig@csd.disa.mil, phone (866)-618-5988.
   4.2. The       Prompt         Payment        Account         is       accessible       at
   http://comptroller.defense.gov/fmr/10/10_07.pdf, and the DoD Financial Management
   Regulation which is accessible at http://comptroller.defense.gov/fmr/, are the governing
   policies for WAWF.




                                           ALLAN E. DAY, Col, USAF
                                           Commander, 309th Maintenance Wing
 4                                                    309MXWI64-102 8 FEBRUARY 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCE AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DoD Financial Management Regulation, 7 September 2011
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF IMT—Air Force Information Management Tool
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDAAC—Department of Defense Activity Address Code
IAW—In Accordance With
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
WAWF—Wide Area Workflow
WBT—Web-Based Training
75 CPTS/FMAS—Comptroller Squadron/Financial Management Accounting Section
309 MXW—Maintenance Wing
309 MXW/OBC—Acquisition Management Support Office
309MXWI64-102 8 FEBRUARY 2012                       5


                                   Attachment 2
                        SAMPLE APPOINTMENT LETTER

Figure A2.1. Sample Appointment Letter
