Administrative Changes to 309MXWMAN63-501, Aerospace Maintenance Quality System
(AMQS)

OPR: OO-ALC/EN

References to 309th Maintenance Wing (309 MXW) should be changed to Ogden Air Logistics
Complex (OO-ALC) throughout the publication.

References to wing should be changed to complex throughout the document, with the exception
to 75th Air Base Wing in paragraph 6.3.1.

References to Ogden Air Logistics Center should be changed to Ogden Air Logistics Complex.

15 April 2014
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        309TH MAINTENANCE WING MANUAL
OGDEN AIR LOGISTICS COMPLEX                                               63-501

                                                                        26 JANUARY 2012
                                              Incorporating Through Change 2, 9 January 2014

                                                                                Acquisition

                                                 AEROSPACE MAINTENANCE QUALITY
                                                                  SYSTEM (AMQS)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: OO-ALC/QPQ                                                  Certified by: 309 MXW/EN
                                                                          (Mr. Jim Diamond)
Supersedes:   309MXWGM63-02,                                                       Pages: 42
              10 August 2011


This manual establishes the policies and requirements that define the Ogden Air Logistics
Complex (OO-ALC) quality management system AMQS. The AMQS supports the
requirements of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 21-101 Air Force Materiel Command Supplement
(AFMCSUP) OO-ALC Guidance Memorandum (GM) 2, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance
Management; Air Force Materiel Command Instruction (AFMCI) 63-501, AFMC Quality
Assurance; Aerospace Standard AS9100C, Quality Management Systems - Requirements for
Aviation, Space and Defense Organizations; Aerospace Standard AS9110B, Quality
Management Systems - Requirements for Aviation Maintenance Organizations, and International
Standard ISO 9001, Quality Management Systems - Requirements. This manual is structured in
the same manner as the AS9100C/AS9110B standards for ease of cross reference and
compatibility with the standards’ requirements. This document also supports requirements
mandated by numerous other Air Force (AF) and Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) policies
and directives that are critical to depot maintenance and the OO-ALC mission. The AMQS is
applicable to all organic, contract and Depot Maintenance Inter-service Support Agreement
(DMISA) maintenance workloads, and applies to all OO-ALC organizations and personnel
whose functions and activities have an impact on the quality, cost, and schedule of products
produced. Internal and higher authority directives relevant to this manual are listed in
Attachment 1. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.         Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
 2                                                                       309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012


using the Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847
from the field through the chain of command of all groups affected by proposed changes.

This manual incorporates the requirements of ISO9001:2008. It is written to establish the policy
changes necessary to comply with AS9100C and AS9110B requirements. As such, it must be
read in its entirety.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change (1) changes references from AS9110A to AS9110B, (2) removes a
paragraph that referred to requirements that no longer exist in the organization, (3) addresses
supplier created records, and (4) updates the corrective/preventive action process.

       1.     Introduction: ...........................................................................................................    2
       2.     Normative Reference: ............................................................................................            5
       3.     Terms and Definitions: ..........................................................................................            5
       4.     AMQS: ...................................................................................................................    5
       5.     LEADERSHIP RESPONSIBILITY: .....................................................................                             6
Figure 1.1.   Safety/Quality Policy .............................................................................................          7
       6.     RESOURCE MANAGEMENT: ............................................................................                            9
       7.     Product Realization: ...............................................................................................        12
       8.     Measurement, Analysis and Improvement: ...........................................................                          20

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                            28

Attachment 2—309 MXW OPERATING SYSTEM MODEL                                                                                               37

Attachment 3—309 MXW MACRO BUSINESS MAP                                                                                                   38

Attachment 4—309 MXW PROCESS FLOW WITH AS9100C REQUIREMENTS                                                                               39

Attachment 5—AFSO21 8-STEP PROBLEM SOLVING OODA LOOP (A3)                                                                                 40

Attachment 6—CORRECTIVE/PREVENTIVE ACTION FLOW                                                                                            41

Attachment 7—A3 FLOW AND INTERACTION DIAGRAM                                                                                              42


1. Introduction: Hill AFB is an AFMC base located in Northern Utah. Hill AFB is home to
many operational and support missions with the Ogden Air Logistics Center (OO-ALC) serving
as the host organization. As a component of OO-ALC, the 309 MXW provides depot repair,
modification, and maintenance for the Department of Defense (DoD) aircraft, and the
intercontinental ballistic missiles. The wing also overhauls and repairs landing gear, wheels and
brakes for AF aircraft, rocket motors, air munitions and guided bombs, photonic equipment,
training devices, electronics, avionics, instruments, hydraulics, power systems, software, and
other aerospace related components. The 309 MXW employs its AMQS to establish and
309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012                                                                   3


maintain a standardized approach to achieve excellence in supporting the maintenance mission
through a focus on process certification, process surveillance, and configuration management.
The AMQS drives and requires leadership involvement and engagement at all levels to ensure its
success. The AMQS enables our organization to perform aerospace maintenance with defined,
controlled, and repeatable processes using a systems approach developed by the wing.
   1.1. Scope: The 309 MXW is organized in a hierarchical structure composed of seven
   groups providing support to wing customers, and a support staff that includes engineering,
   quality, personnel, finance, and business development offices.         All functions and
   organizations directly align to the 309 MXW, thereby reporting directly to the 309 MXW
   Commander (CC) and Vice Director (DV). This structure, lines of authority, and
   communication ensures all management system related issues are appropriately addressed.
   The following describes each group’s mission and responsibilities:
       1.1.1. The 309th Aircraft Maintenance Group (309 AMXG): Executes and delivers
       programmed depot maintenance packages, fighter aircraft modifications, and overhauls
       military aircraft as directed. In addition, provides military expeditionary depot
       maintenance and aircraft battle damage repair capabilities.
       1.1.2. The 309th Missile Maintenance Group (309 MMXG): Depot repair, overhaul and
       maintenance of tractors and trailers, missiles, target boosters, radomes and shelters,
       propulsion system rocket engine, storage of missiles, propellant testing, and strategic
       missile integrated complex (SMIC) verification.
       1.1.3. The 309th Electronics Maintenance Group (309 EMXG): Provides repair,
       overhaul, and modification for electronics, avionics, radar, navigational, laser guidance
       systems, instrumentation, photonics, airborne and ground generators, and electrical
       systems and components. Supports programmed depot maintenance and modification of
       aircraft weapons systems and worldwide re-supply support for component parts. The 309
       EMXG is designated the technical source of repair for the AF Metrology and Calibration
       (AFMETCAL) program on assigned systems and components, and manages the Support
       Center Pacific (SCP), Kadena, Air Base, Japan.
       1.1.4. The 309th Software Maintenance Group (309 SMXG): Designs and develops
       software in support of sustainment of operational flight programs, automatic test
       equipment, mission planning software, space and C3I systems, and other weapons
       systems. The 309 SMXG develops engineering test stands and other hardware necessary
       for use in the development and test of software.
       1.1.5. The 309th Maintenance Support Group (309 MXSG): Performs maintenance of
       industrial plant equipment and facilities, lifting devices, and real property. Manages the
       wing tool control program. Supports facility engineering for all 309 MXW facilities.
       Provides scientific and engineer support, non-destructive testing, first article testing, and
       material/chemical property analysis for customers across 309 MXW, DoD, and other
       United States Government activities worldwide.
       1.1.6. The 309th Commodities Maintenance Group (309 CMXG):                    Provides
       maintenance, repair, manufacturing and modification of landing gear, wheels and brakes;
       hydraulics, pneudraulics and armament power systems, gas turbine engines, auxiliary
       power units, secondary power units, fuel accessories and controls, aircraft structures,
4                                                  309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012


       advanced composites, and local manufacturing. The 309 CMXG is designated as the
       technical repair center for landing gear, wheels and brakes, hydraulics and pneudraulics
       and composites.
       1.1.7. The 309th Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Group (309 AMARG):
       Provides depot regeneration, modification and maintenance for the Phantom (F-4),
       Fighting Falcon (F-16), Thunderbolt (A-10), Hercules (C-130), and Orion (P-3) aircraft,
       and the tooling to support these aircraft. Occupying 2,600 acres (4 square miles) of
       desert southeast of Tucson, Arizona, 309 AMARG manages an inventory of more than
       4,400 aircraft, 32 aerospace vehicles, and 350,000 line items of aircraft production
       tooling. In addition to the historic storage and disposition mission, the centers highly
       skilled workforce regenerates aircraft, returning them to flying status or preparing them
       for overland shipment. The 309 AMARG team also reclaims hundreds of millions of
       dollars worth of parts to support global war-fighting operations.
       1.1.8. The 309th Business Operations (309 MXW/OB): Provides oversight of depot
       maintenance policies and procedures; Depot Maintenance Activity Group (DMAG)
       financial matters; contract management; manpower determination; workload
       requirements, execution & production; partnering; new workload activation; strategic
       plans and analysis; and special studies that relate to industrial/production operations.
       Responsible for balance of skills through career and workforce development. Provides
       material, planning, scheduling, and base engine management support functions. Liaises
       with the center training office on maintenance training matters as applicable. Provides
       contract services for the wing.
       1.1.9. The 309th Engineering (309 MXW/EN): Senior engineer responsible for science
       and engineering support, and expertise on technical aspects of organic DMAG
       operations. Ensures chief engineers and scientists assigned to each group execute their
       responsibilities appropriately. Serves as the wing functional guardian for all scientists,
       engineers, and engineering technicians to include professional development,
       establishment of career paths, and proper technical skills mix. Serves as the wing focal
       point for technology insertion activities.
       1.1.10. The 309th Quality Program (QP) Office (309 MXW/QP): The wing focal point
       for quality assurance programs and environmental, safety and occupational health
       (ESOH) activities to assist the production groups in achieving technical and process
       compliance in their products and services.
    1.2. Application: There is an exclusion to AS9100C and AS9110B taken by the OO-ALC.
    The following information is provided to clarify applicable activities.
       1.2.1. The 309 MXW has neither responsibility nor authority to select, approve, or re-
       approve suppliers. These activities are conducted by various AF organizations outside of
       the 309 MXW control, which include but are not limited to the contracting directorate
       and the Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA). This exclusion does not affect
       the organization’s ability or responsibility to provide products that meet customer and/or
       regulatory requirements (see paragraph 7.4.2.).
309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012                                                                5


2. Normative Reference:
   2.1. Glossary of References and Supporting Information is found in Attachment 1 to this
   document.
3. Terms and Definitions:
   3.1. Throughout the text of this manual, wherever the term “product” occurs, it can also
   mean “service.”
   3.2. Terms and Definitions are found in Attachment 1 to this document.
4. AMQS:
   4.1. General Requirements:
      4.1.1. The 309 MXW establishes, documents, implements and maintains a management
      system, and continually improves its effectiveness IAW requirements outlined in DoD,
      AF, and AFMC governing documents.
      4.1.2. Management system approvals, certificates, ratings, licenses, and permits required
      by applicable statutory, regulatory and customer requirements are maintained by the
      applicable wing/group functional offices.
      4.1.3. Direction and guidance for determining the processes of the management system,
      their sequence, interaction, criteria for effective control and operation, are found in the
      primary governing documents for maintenance management. Guidance for ensuring the
      availability of resources, and the information to support, monitor, measure, and analyze
      the wing’s processes are also found in the primary governing documents.
      4.1.4. A depiction of the process interaction within the management system is shown in
      309 MXW Process Flow with reflecting current AS9100/AS9110 requirements
      (Attachment 4), and the 309 MXW Macro Business Map (Attachment 3).
      4.1.5. Outsourced processes affecting product conformity are controlled and managed
      through the AF contracting process.
   4.2. Documentation Requirements:
      4.2.1. General: The wing has established a documented safety/quality policy statement
      and safety/quality goals and objectives. References to the documented procedures and
      records required by the current revision of applicable aerospace standards are found in
      the appropriate sections of this manual. Documents and records needed by the wing to
      ensure effective planning, operation, and control of its processes are located in the
      affected work areas.
          4.2.1.1. Personnel have access to management system documentation and procedures
          through hardcopies and/or the use of electronic media located on AF, command,
          wing, and local intranet web pages. Personnel verify currency of regulatory
          documents prior to use.
          4.2.1.2. The primary governing documents for documentation requirements are
          AFI21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management; AFI21-
          101_AFMCSUP, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management; AFI21-102,
          Depot Maintenance Management; AFI33-360, Publications and Forms Management;
6                                                  309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012


          AFMCI21-156, Operational Work loading, Planning and Scheduling Control;
          AFMCI63-501; Technical Order (TO) 00-5-1, Air Force Technical Order System; TO
          00-20-1, Airspace Equipment Maintenance Inspection, Documentation, Policy and
          Procedures; and AFMCI 21-127 Depot Maintenance Plant Management.
       4.2.2. Quality Manual: This document serves as the 309 MXW’s management system
       quality manual.
       4.2.3. Control of Documents:
          4.2.3.1. Documents required by the management system are controlled. Documented
          procedures exist for approval of documents prior to issue, review, updating,
          identification of changes, current revision status, and the means to prevent unintended
          use of obsolete documents. Relevant versions of documents including those of
          external origin are available in the areas requiring their use. Complex, group, and
          squadron publications and forms program managers review and coordinate
          publication requirements for locally developed documents. Documented procedures
          exist for reporting incomplete, ambiguous, or incorrect technical data to the customer
          or author.
          4.2.3.2. The primary governing documents for control of documents are AFI33-360;
          TO 00-5-1; TO 00-5-3, AF Technical Order Life Cycle Management; TO 00-20-1;
          309MXWI91-201, Explosive Safety Program Plan; AFMAN91-201, Explosives
          Safety Standards; HILLAFBI99-103, OO-ALC Test and Evaluation (T&E) Process;
          and AFI21-101_AFMCSUP_309MXWGM21-03.
       4.2.4. Control of Records:
          4.2.4.1. AF-level procedures are followed for the control, identification, storage,
          protection, retrieval, retention, and disposition of records. Records are maintained to
          provide traceability and demonstrate conformance to Quality Management System
          (QMS) requirements.
          4.2.4.2. Records created by and/or retained by suppliers through contracts and
          partnerships are controlled and retained IAW Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)
          Volume I, Part 4.805, Storage, Handling, Disposal of Contract Files, and the AF
          records management program, unless otherwise stipulated within an applicable
          partnership agreement, implementation agreement, performance work statement,
          statement of work, or standard work package.
          4.2.4.3. The primary governing documents for the control of records, if not stipulated
          within contractual agreements, are AFI33-322, Records Management Program;
          AFI33-360; AFI33-364, Records Disposition – Procedures and Responsibilities; and
          AFMAN33-363.
5. LEADERSHIP RESPONSIBILITY:
    5.1. Leadership Commitment:
       5.1.1. Senior leadership will provide evidence of their commitment to implementation
       and improvement of the management system’s effectiveness by communicating the
       importance of meeting customer, statutory and regulatory requirements; establishing the
309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012                                                                           7


        wing safety/quality policy statement; establishing safety/quality goals and objectives;
        conducting management reviews; and ensuring required resources are available.
        5.1.2. Leadership at all levels will promote a culture of communication, teamwork,
        integrity, and trust in its people; to ensure that personnel have the capability and
        resources to produce products of the highest quality. Continuous process improvement
        (CPI) is achieved through the encouragement and support of the workforce suggestions,
        management response to corrective and preventative actions, audit results, customer
        complaints, baseline compliance improvement event (BCIEs), and management reviews.
    5.2. Customer Focus:
        5.2.1. Senior leadership ensures customer expectations and requirements are met through
        strict adherence to technical data and contractual requirements with the intent of
        enhancing customer satisfaction. Senior leadership ensures product conformity and on-
        time delivery performance metrics are reviewed and measured during Program
        Management Review (PMRs), and Quality Management Review (QMRs), and
        appropriate correction, corrective or preventative actions are taken if planned results are
        not or will not be achieved.
    5.3. Wing Safety/Quality Policy Statement: (see Figure 1.1)

Figure 1.1. Safety/Quality Policy
  The 309 MXW will create/sustain an environment and employ processes that ensure personnel safety,
while creating quality products and services. We will also ensure our products fully conform to all safety
   specifications provided by our customers. These efforts will enable us to consistently produce high
quality products to fill warfighter requirements on time, at the best value, while continually improving our
                              Aerospace Maintenance Quality System (AMQS).
        5.3.1. Senior leadership has developed this policy statement and ensures that it is
        appropriate to the purpose of the wing’s mission; that it includes a commitment to
        comply with requirements and continually improve the effectiveness of the management
        system. It provides a framework for establishing and reviewing the 309 MXW
        safety/quality goals and objectives and is communicated and understood throughout the
        wing. This policy statement is periodically reviewed for suitability during the wing’s
        strategic planning sessions.
            5.3.2. Wing, group, and squadron commanders/directors will communicate the
            safety/quality policy statement across the wing and may use visual aids, briefings,
            meetings, e-mail, bulletins, and any other methods. Leadership will ensure personnel
            are aware of the relevance and importance of their activities, and how they contribute
            to the overall wing objectives.
        5.3.3. Group directors will provide an individual whose primary responsibilities are to
        assist wing, group, and squadron leadership with ensuring all management system
        requirements are effectively implemented and conform to the requirements of this
        manual, working in tandem with the wing AMQS program office.
        5.3.4. (DELETED)
8                                                   309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012


    5.4. Planning:
       5.4.1. 309 MXW Safety/Quality Goals and Objectives:
           5.4.1.1. The wing workloading/production office maintains current copies of the
           quality goals and objectives, including product safety and personnel safety objectives.
           The objectives are organized into four categories: people, process, performance, and
           resources. Senior leadership will ensure the objectives are measurable, established at
           relevant functional levels, and are consistent with the wing’s safety/quality policy
           statement. The measurable results will be reviewed and documented during
           scheduled management meetings (e.g., PMR, strategic offsite).
       5.4.2. Management System Planning: The wing’s management system is defined in
       DoD and AF requirements. When changes are mandated affecting the management
       system, senior leadership will ensure the integrity of the management system through
       planning and phased implementation. Strategic planning sessions such as monthly
       strategic meetings and quarterly off-site meetings are the primary means for management
       system planning. Management system integrity is maintained when changes occur by
       adherence to higher headquarters regulatory requirements.
       5.4.3. Safety Objectives:
           5.4.3.1. See paragraph 5.4.1.2.
    5.5. Responsibility, Authority and Communication:
       5.5.1. Senior leadership will utilize this manual, job descriptions, management meetings,
       organizational charts, and other procedures/documents to define and communicate the
       responsibilities and authorities within the wing. The 309 MXW Operating System Model
       (Attachment 2) illustrates the organizational structure in regards to general reporting and
       areas of responsibility.
           5.5.1.1. Accountable Executive Manager: The 309 MXW Business Office Chief
           serves as the accountable executive manager, who ensures that all necessary resources
           are obtained to complete and finance any required maintenance IAW all organization,
           customer and authority requirements.
           5.5.1.2. Maintenance Manager: Each group commander/director serves as a
           maintenance manager, who is responsible for assuring that all maintenance required is
           carried out IAW all wing, customer, and authority requirements.
       5.5.2. Management Representative: The OO-ALC Technical Director serves as the
       management representative, who irrespective of other responsibilities, has the
       responsibility and authority to ensure processes needed for the management system are
       established, implemented and maintained. Reports to senior leadership on the
       performance of the management system, and any need for improvement. Ensures the
       promotion of awareness of customer requirements throughout the Complex; and the
       organizational freedom and unrestricted access to senior leadership to resolve quality
       management system and safety issues.
       5.5.3. Internal Communication: Leadership will ensure appropriate and effective
       communication processes are established and maintained.          The established
       communication process allows information to flow upwards, downwards, and laterally.
309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012                                                               9


     The following communication methods used are, but are not limited to, production
     meetings, weekly management meetings, director calls, town hall meetings, newsletters,
     e-mails, memos, intranet sites, and SharePoint sites.
  5.6. Management Reviews:
     5.6.1. General: Senior leadership will review the management system, according to the
     management review battle rhythm to determine adequacy and effectiveness of the
     management system. The management review battle rhythm is organized by four main
     categories: people, process, performance, and resources. Management reviews consist of
     the strategic planning off-sites, wing staff meetings, QMR, PMR, configuration
     management board, etc. During management review meetings, senior leadership will
     determine opportunities for improvement and the need for changes to the management
     system. This will include a periodic review of the suitability, adequacy, and effectiveness
     of the 309 MXW Safety/Quality Policy Statement, and safety/quality goals and
     objectives. Management system reviews are used to assess the health and well-being of
     various aspects of the management system and associated processes.
         5.6.1.1. Senior leadership will address the various functions of the management
         system (e.g., setting and monitoring business and improvement goals, risk
         management, authorization of projects and initiatives, commitment of resources,
         approval of production process improvement plans, transformation efforts, approval
         of the costs and schedules for improvement projects, and resource allocations).
     5.6.2. Management Review Inputs:
         5.6.2.1. Inputs must include results of audits, customer satisfaction, process
         performance (e.g., squadron inspection program [SQIP], quality assurance [QA],
         BCIE, PMR), status of corrective action request (CARs) and preventive action
         request (PARs), follow-up actions from previous reviews, changes affecting the
         management system, product safety, recommendations for improvement, and requests
         for corrective actions from authorities and customers. Inputs also include the
         achievement, adequacy, and effectiveness of the personnel training program, and
         higher authority requirement changes impacting the Complex.
     5.6.3. Management Review Output:
         5.6.3.1. Decisions and actions will relate to improvement of the effectiveness of the
         management system and its processes, improvements of products related to customer
         requirements, and the resources needed. Senior leadership’s decisions and actions
         will be documented and tracked. Records may include briefing slides, minutes,
         rosters, and/or actions. Copies of records are found on the wing’s SharePoint site to
         provide a history. These decisions and outputs result in the continual improvement of
         the overall management system.
  5.7. Safety Policy Statement:
     5.7.1. See paragraph 5.3.
6. RESOURCE MANAGEMENT:
  6.1. Provision of Resources:
10                                               309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012


     6.1.1. Leadership, at all appropriate levels, determines and provides resources needed to
     implement and maintain the management system and enhance customer satisfaction by
     meeting requirements, and continually improving effectiveness. The availability of tools,
     technical data, facilities, materials, and personnel are assessed to ensure the safe
     completion of maintenance activities.
     6.1.2. The primary governing documents for provision of resources are AFMCI21-129,
     Depot Maintenance Management, Depot Repair Enhancement Process (DREP);
     AFMCI21-130, Depot Maintenance Materiel Control; AFMCI21-156; AFMCI63-1201,
     Implementing Operational Safety Suitability and Effectiveness (OSS&E) and Life Cycle
     Systems Engineering (LCSE); and HILLAFBI65-602, Resource Management System
     (RMS).
  6.2. Human Resources:
     6.2.1. Personnel performing work effecting conformity to product requirements both
     directly and indirectly, are required to be competent on the basis of appropriate
     education, training, skills, and experience. Appropriate qualifications/certifications are
     acquired and maintained IAW AF requirements.
     6.2.2. Competence Training and Awareness:
        6.2.2.1. The Production Acceptance Certification (PAC)/Electronic Training Record
        (ETR) outlines the specific training and necessary competency requirements for
        personnel performing work affecting product conformity. These requirements are
        determined based on regulatory requirements, such as Occupational Safety and
        Health Administration (OSHA) standards, AF Occupational Safety & Health
        (AFOSH) standards, AF instructions, technical data, the applicable workload, job
        series, and level of experience for the work being performed. The Complex’s
        maintenance training program and subsequent courses communicate these
        requirements and qualify personnel for competency through the use of on-the-job
        training (OJT), structured on-the-job training (SOJT), and formal classroom training.
        The training program includes initial and recurring training. Managers and
        supervisors evaluate subordinate’s job performance following formal training, OJT,
        SOJT, and developmental assignments for effectiveness. Supervisors and managers
        are responsible for initial certification, decertification and recertification.
        Certification requires completion of all necessary training and proficiency
        demonstration to a qualified trainer. Once certified, employees are competent to
        perform maintenance operations without oversight. Employees can be decertified for
        administrative or workmanship reasons. Recertification may require re-training and
        always requires a proficiency demonstration. Certified employees are also subject to
        personnel evaluation (PEs) conducted by QA and qualifying officials, in order to
        evaluate competency and maintain certifications. Employees, supervisors, managers,
        and the Complex maintenance training flight evaluate training curriculum continually,
        and as a minimum, a formal evaluation is completed triennially.
        6.2.2.2. Personnel must obtain and maintain certification on workloads and tasks as
        required by governing authorities. Non-certified personnel are provided qualification
        training, and must demonstrate skill and proficiency for certification; prior to
        performing unsupervised maintenance services. Training monitors use TSS to
309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012                                                             11


         schedule personnel for initial and recurring training based on their specific civilian
         training plan (CTP) for procedures, changes to authority requirements, technical
         knowledge, and human factors. Additionally, TSS tracks the accomplishment of
         training for future metrics. The TSS-Production Acceptance Certification (PAC)
         System is the primary system used to manage the results and records of training, and
         evaluation of competency of tasks performed. Training/qualification requirements
         are identified and applied in the ETR.
         6.2.2.3. Through various briefings such as commander/director calls and shop
         meetings, personnel are made aware of the relevance and importance of their
         activities and how they contribute to the achievement of the quality objectives.
         6.2.2.4. The primary governing documents for competence training and awareness
         are AFI21-101_AFMCSUP; AFI36-401, Employee Training and Development;
         AFI36-2232_AFMCSUP, Maintenance Training; AFMCI36-201, Education and
         Training; AFMC Policy Directive (PD) 36-2, Education and Training; AFMCI90-
         102, Wellness of the Force; AFI 21-123, Air Force Repair Enhancement Program
         (AFREP); and Air Force Handbook (AFH) 36-2235V1, Information for Designers of
         Instructional Systems – ISD Executive Summary for Commanders and Managers.
  6.3. Infrastructure:
     6.3.1. OO-ALC reviews customer and authority requirements to ensure provision and
     maintenance of the necessary onsite resources and infrastructure to support production
     objectives, and maintain product conformance.            309 MXSG performs on-site
     maintenance of industrial facilities, equipment, lifting devices, and real property. The
     Complex utilizes support services provided by the 75th Air Base Wing to include
     utilities, computer hardware and software, and communication media (i.e. phones, e-mail,
     and internet access). When the customer requests maintenance, repair, or overhaul
     services away from our primary fixed location, the Complex ensures suitable facilities are
     available according to the applicable technical data.
     6.3.2. The primary governing documents for infrastructure are AFI32-1024, Standard
     Facility Requirements; AFH32-1084, Facility Requirements; AFMCI21-127, Depot
     Maintenance Plant Management; AFMCI21-127_HILLSUP, Depot Maintenance Plant
     Management; AFMCI21-156; and 309 MXW Instruction (MXWI) 21-110, Depot
     Facility Management.
  6.4. Work Environment:
     6.4.1. Technical data defines the requirements for managing those elements of the work
     environment needed to achieve conformity to product requirements. A work hazard
     analysis is completed for all new and existing workloads. In the event there is
     insufficient or missing data contained in the technical data, a job safety analysis is
     accomplished to determine proper safety and personal protective equipment (PPE)
     requirements for dealing with the workload. Factors that could affect employee
     performance are considered in addition to the technical data requirements. Some factors
     considered are lighting, work area ergonomics, temperature, humidity, stress, inadequate
     training, personal life problems, fatigue, and complacency.
 12                                                 309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012


7. Product Realization:
   7.1. Planning of Product Realization:
      7.1.1. The wing plans and develops the processes needed for product realization based
      on product quality objectives and requirements. The wing will determine the processes,
      documents, and resources specific to the product. Monitoring and verification activities,
      inspection and test criteria and activities, and/or validation (prior to delivery) are used to
      ensure that products meet the customers’ design and functionality requirements.
      Planning also considers identification of resources to support the operation and
      maintenance of the product. Planning provides appropriate and suitable records to
      demonstrate that the product (or service) has met specified requirements. Planning also
      takes into consideration all applicable customer specifications addressing safety
      requirements of the product.
          7.1.1.1. The primary governing documents for planning of product realization are
          AFI21-101_AFMCSUP; AFI21-101_AFMCSUP_309MXWGM21-03; AFMCI21-
          105, Depot Maintenance Work Measurement; AFMCI21-130; AFMCI21-127;
          AFMCI21-127_HILLSUP; AFMCI21-129; AFMCI21-156; TO 00-5-1; TO 00-5-3;
          and TO 00-5-15, Air Force Time Compliance Technical Order Process. NOTE: For
          309 SMXG only: Project Planning Policy and Project Planning Process.
      7.1.2. Project Management (AS9100C/AS9110A Clause 7.1.1):
          7.1.2.1. The 309 MXW plans and manages product realization in a structured and
          controlled manner to meet requirements at accepted risk, and within resource and
          schedule constraints. The process for planning and managing product realization in a
          controlled manner is broken down into 3 stages. Stages 1 and 2 describe the System
          Program Office (SPO) and the Global Logistics Support Center (GLSC) roles and
          responsibilities for defining requirements and reviewing supportability for product
          realization. In Stage 3, the 309 MXW works directly with the SPO and GLSC to
          review the requirements, conduct a pre-production planning team (PPPT) meeting,
          and translate the workload into people, material, and/or service requirements. The
          309 MXW then validates part supportability, shop capacity, and work scope planning
          prior to conducting a production planning team (PPT) meeting. As we move from
          project planning to project management, product realization is managed through the
          daily execution management plan, daily team meetings, leadership monitoring
          execution to the plan, the use of over and above recover plans (if applicable), weekly
          production meetings, monthly team reviews (squadron review), squadron corporate
          board meetings (squadron to group review), and the AMQS/CPI rack and stack.
          7.1.2.2. The primary governing documents for project management are AFMCI21-
          156, AFI21-101_AFMCSUP, and AFI21-101_AFMCSUP_309MXWGM21-03.
          NOTE: For 309 SMXG only: Integrated Project Plan (IPP).
      7.1.3. Risk Management (AS9100C/AS9110A Clause 7.1.2):
          7.1.3.1. Risk management is a continuous, forward-looking process that is part of
          project management and addresses issues that could endanger achievement of critical
          objectives. Risk management is used to identify potential problems before they
          occur. Risk handling activities are planned and invoked as needed across the life of
309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012                                                           13


         the product or project to mitigate adverse impacts on achieving objectives. A
         continuous risk management approach effectively anticipates and mitigates risks that
         can have a critical impact The processes for assignment of responsibility and
         managing risk are contained in governing AFIs and are controlled and mitigated
         through CPI efforts throughout product realization.
         7.1.3.2. The primary governing documents for risk management are AFI90-901,
         Operational Risk Management; Air Force Pamphlet (AFPAM) 90-902, Operational
         Risk Management (ORM) Guidelines and Tools; and AFMCI21-129. NOTE: For
         309 SMXG only: Risk Management Policy, Risk Management Process, Planning
         Template and Risk Management Tool.
     7.1.4. Product Configuration Management (AS9100C/AS9110A Clause 7.1.3.):
         7.1.4.1. Configuration management for end-items resides with the engineering
         authority and is conveyed to the 309 MXW through official technical data. With the
         exception of 309 SMXG and 309 MXSG, the groups are a source of repair,
         modification, or overhaul. The 309 MXW does not establish the configuration of
         end-items; however, integrity of the product configuration is maintained by adhering
         to AF Configuration Management policy and procedures set by the weapons system
         engineering authority, and appropriate weapon systems technical data.
         7.1.4.2. Pre-production or non-configured items accepted into the AF inventory will
         be operated and maintained according to the latest technical data developed (TOs,
         commercial-off-the-shelf [COTS] manuals, process orders, contractor data, etc.),
         which is compatible with the specified equipment. Approved technical data is the
         only authorized source of specifications used to perform work or to develop local
         instructions to accomplish technical requirements.
         7.1.4.3. For changes to maintenance processes refer to paragraph 7.5.1.2.
         7.1.4.4. The primary governing documents for configuration management are
         AFMCI21-156; AFI21-101_AFMCSUP; AFI21-101_AFMCSUP_309MXWGM21-
         03; AFMCI63-501; Military Handbook (MIL-HDBK) 61A, Configuration
         Management Guidance; EIA-649-B, Configuration Management Standard; and ISO
         10007, Quality Management Systems – Guidelines for Configuration Management.
     7.1.5. Control of Work Transfers (AS9100C/AS9110A Clause 7.1.4):
         7.1.5.1. Work temporarily conducted outside OO-ALC facilities may be coordinated
         with the customer prior to transferring the work. The workcenter transferring the
         work maintains verification the supplier’s work was performed IAW customer
         requirements.
  7.2. Customer-Related Processes:
     7.2.1. Determination of Requirements Related to the Product:
         7.2.1.1. Customer requirements are determined from technical data, contractual
         requirements, workload planning, AFMC, OO-ALC, and 309 MXW policies and
         procedures. Contract requirements and other interests as defined by the customer are
         negotiated and funded through the system program managers (e.g., Memorandum of
         Understanding [MOU], Memorandum of Agreement [MOA], and service-level
14                                              309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012


        agreements). Requirements are reviewed at levels appropriate to the group, or
        elevated to a higher level if necessary.
        7.2.1.2. Tasks related to identifying requirements related to the product are based on
        requirements specified by the customer (including the requirements for delivery and
        post-delivery); derived requirements not specified by the customer, but necessary for
        intended use if known; obligations applicable to product (including regulatory and
        statutory requirements); any additional requirements considered necessary on the
        work being performed.
     7.2.2. Review of Requirements Related to the Product:
        7.2.2.1. Senior leadership ensures depot level maintenance requirements are
        evaluated and scheduled for accomplishment. Requirements can be generated from
        customer supplied technical data, work specifications, pre-quotation activities (i.e.,
        rough order of magnitudes, statements of work, etc.), and with coordination or input
        from representatives directly involved in the workload (production, production
        planning, process engineering, program management, risk management, contracting,
        quality assurance, purchasing, scheduling and inventory management, and/or control
        functions and other functions as required).          Requirements differing from
        considerations appearing in the customers’ offer are resolved prior to contract
        implementation.
        7.2.2.2. The capability to fulfill customer requirements is determined by the group
        responsible for meeting those requirements, or delegated to a squadron within the
        group having sufficient technical knowledge to determine capabilities and evaluate
        anticipated risks associated with the workload.
        7.2.2.3. Where the customer’s statement of requirements is incomplete, the
        requirements are established from available technical data and confirmed before
        acceptance. This information is entered into internally generated work control
        document (WCDs), work authorization document (WADs), process orders, and/or
        project plans.
        7.2.2.4. Where product requirements are changed, the wing ensures relevant
        documents are amended, and relevant personnel are made aware of the changed
        requirements.  This includes customers or regulatory agencies per contract
        requirements.
        7.2.2.5. Results of the reviews, pertinent related correspondence, and necessary
        follow-up actions are recorded on WCDs, process orders, project definitions, etc.
        7.2.2.6. The primary governing documents for review of requirements related to the
        product are AFI21-101_AFMCSUP_309MXWGM21-03, and AFMCMAN21-1, Air
        Force Materiel Command Technical Order System Procedures.
     7.2.3. Customer Communication:
        7.2.3.1. The 309 MXW implements effective arrangements for communicating with
        customers in relationship to product information, inquiries, orders, contracts or
        amended requirements, and feedback including customer complaints. Some methods
309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012                                                              15


         in place include the internet, 24-hour contact points, customer service offices,
         program and weapon system reviews, and deficiency report action offices.
         7.2.3.2. The primary governing document for customer communication is AFMCI21-
         129.
  7.3. Product Design and Development:
     7.3.1. Product design and development is only accomplished in 309 SMXG, and uses a
     system which implements the best practices from Capability Maturity Model Integration
     (CMMI), Guidelines for Process Integration and Product Improvement, the requirements
     from AS9100C, AS9110B, as well as customer requirements in conjunction with
     applicable AF, OO-ALC, and group requirements.
     7.3.2. Projects compose their defined process by selecting one of 309 SMXG pre-
     approved lifecycles, the applicable standard support process (SSP), and one of the
     squadron’s standard engineering process (SEPs). As a result, the project’s defined
     process encompasses the entire lifecycle starting with project planning, required inputs
     and outputs, reviews, verification, validation, testing, required documentation, and design
     and development change control.
     7.3.3. The primary 309 SMXG and squadron level documents for design and
     development are 309 SMXG policy for engineering development and support project
     management, the project process guide (PPG), and 309 SMXG and squadron level
     processes and templates.
  7.4. Purchasing:
     7.4.1. Purchasing Process:
         7.4.1.1. A partial exclusion to AS9100C and AS9110B for the OO-ALC is required
         for supplier selection because the OO-ALC has no responsibility or authority to
         qualify or select suppliers. Excluding the requirements for selecting suppliers does
         not affect the OO-ALC’s ability or responsibility to provide products that meet both
         customer and applicable regulatory requirements.
         7.4.1.2. Parts, services and materials used for depot repair, overhaul, modification,
         and maintenance within the wing are purchased through the Federal Supply System or
         predetermined sources.
     7.4.2. Purchasing Information:       The Complex ensures purchasing information
     (requisitions) clearly describe the products to be procured. Typically, the minimum
     information provided includes a clear description of the product and/or part number. The
     Complex ensures adequacy of specified purchase requirements prior to their
     communication to the outsource supplier.
     7.4.3. Verification of Purchased Product:
         7.4.3.1. The wing ensures the product received meets requested requirements. This
         is accomplished primarily through a review of required documentation and product
         received. This may include tests, review and verification of part numbers, kit
         numbers and national stock numbers of the product received. Product is not used
         until it has been verified as meeting requirements.
16                                               309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012


         7.4.3.2. Currently, no provisions for the wing are made to allow for on-site
         verification or customer verification at the supplier’s premises. Where the contract
         specifies and reserves the right to verify that the subcontracted product conforms to
         specified requirements, the customer or the customer’s representative is afforded the
         right to verify the conformance at the suppliers premises, or at 309 MXW premises.
         7.4.3.3. Verification and approval of supplier’s product by a customer does not
         absolve the wing of the responsibility to provide acceptable product, nor does it
         preclude subsequent rejection by the customer.
     7.4.4. The primary governing documents for purchasing are AFI64-117, Air Force
     Government-Wide Purchase Card (GPC) Program; AFMCI65-101, Depot Maintenance
     Accounting and Production System-Financial Policy and Procedures for Organic Depot
     Maintenance; AFMCI21-130; and appropriate Federal Acquisition Regulations.
  7.5. Production and Service Provision:
     7.5.1. Control of Production and Service Provision: Senior leadership ensures all
     production and service is carried out under controlled conditions. WADs, TOs,
     engineering drawings, process orders, and COTS manuals describe product
     characteristics, special processes, criteria for workmanship, suitable tools, Test,
     Measurement and Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE), inspection/verification criteria,
     prevention, detection and removal of foreign object debris (FOD), control of utilities and
     supplies (e.g., compressed air, chemicals, proper lighting, work environment). Technical
     data libraries (e.g., Automated Technology Information Management System [ATIMS],
     Enhanced Technical Information Management System [ETIMS], Process Order
     Development and Display System [PODDS], and Joint Engineering Data Management
     Information and Control System [JEDMICS]) make available current work instructions at
     point of use. WCDs/WADs account for all assets/end items during maintenance, provide
     record of compliance to customer and regulatory requirements, identify in-process
     inspection points, and provide record of accomplishment of all maintenance tasks.
         7.5.1.1. New Maintenance Process Verification:
            7.5.1.1.1. Depot activation processes are designed, qualified, approved, and
            documented IAW AF source of repair assignment (SORA) to ensure capabilities
            in performing maintenance, and compliance with established AF and customer
            requirements. Headquarters AFMC determines the source of repair. The system
            or component program managers prepare and submit the SORA to headquarters
            AFMC. SORAs assigned to the wing are processed through the depot activation
            office.
            7.5.1.1.2. A representative item from the first production run of a new part or
            assembly will be used to verify that the production processes, production
            documentation and tooling are capable of producing parts and assemblies that
            meet requirements. This process shall be repeated when changes occur that
            invalidate the original results (e.g., engineering changes, manufacturing process
            changes, tooling changes).
            7.5.1.1.3. The primary documents governing new maintenance process
            verification are AFI63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management;
309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012                                                        17


          and 309MXWI21-111, Depot Activation.
       7.5.1.2. Control of Maintenance Process Changes:
          7.5.1.2.1. Wing personnel utilize the AFMC Form 202, Nonconforming
          Technical Assistance Request and Reply, process to control and document
          changes affecting maintenance processes, equipment, tools, and/or software
          programs. Only the weapon system cognizant engineering authority is identified
          and authorized to approve changes to maintenance processes and product
          specifications. Wing and/or group process engineers must assess the results of
          process changes to confirm the desired effect has been achieved, without adverse
          affects to product conformity. Group process engineers are identified as the
          change approval authority for wing developed process orders.
          7.5.1.2.2. The primary documents governing the control of maintenance process
          changes are AFMCMAN21-1, and AFI21-101_AFMCSUP_309MXWGM21-03.
       7.5.1.3. Control of Maintenance Equipment, Tools and Programs:
          7.5.1.3.1. Production/maintenance equipment, tools and software programs are
          validated prior to use, and maintained and inspected periodically according to
          established procedures and the appropriate TO for the equipment in use.
          Automated Test Equipment (ATE) has daily confidence tests plus a calibration
          test that is run at scheduled intervals listed in the applicable calibration and
          measurement summary (CMS). Validation prior to production use includes
          verification of the ATE.
          7.5.1.3.2. Storage requirements, including periodic preservation/condition
          checks, are defined for production/maintenance equipment or tooling in storage.
          7.5.1.3.3. The primary documents governing the control of maintenance
          equipment, tools and programs are AFMCI21-127; TO 00-20-1; TO 00-20-3,
          Maintenance Process of Reparable Property and the Repair Cycle Asset Control
          System; TO 00-20-14, AF Metrology and Calibration Program; TO 34-1-3,
          Inspection and Maintenance of Machinery and Shop Equipment; TO 1-1A-15,
          General Maintenance Instructions for Support Equipment (SE); AFI21-
          101_AFMCSUP_309MXWGM21-03; and AFMCI21-120, Organic Depot Field
          Teams.
       7.5.1.4. Post Delivery Support:
          7.5.1.4.1. Post delivery support can include, when applicable, collection and
          analysis of in-services data, and investigation and report of defect information
          using the Joint Deficiency Reporting System (JDRS). Defect trends are presented
          and reviewed in QMR meetings and, as needed, discussed with command
          headquarters. Deficiency report (DRs) are used to identify problems after
          delivery. Each DR is thoroughly investigated to determine the cause of the
          problem and appropriate corrections and corrective actions are accomplished. All
          off-site work is accomplished IAW applicable technical data.
          7.5.1.4.2. The primary governing documents for post delivery support are AFI21-
          101_AFMCSUP_309MXWGM21-03;                   AFMCI63-510_HILLAFBSUP_I,
18                                               309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012


            Deficiency Reporting, Investigation and Resolution; TO 00-25-107, Maintenance
            Assistance; TO 00-25-108, Depot Support Communications - Electronics (C-E);
            TO 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting Investigation and Resolution; TO 00-
            5-3; and AFMCMAN21-1.
     7.5.2. Validation of Special Processes for Production and Service Provision:
        7.5.2.1. Wing and group leadership shall ensure validation of any processes where
        the resulting output cannot be verified through subsequent monitoring and
        measurement. This includes any processes where deficiencies become apparent only
        after the product is in use, or the service has been delivered. These processes are
        often referred to as special processes. Special processes may include welding,
        soldering, adhesive bonding, heat treatment, corrosion control/protective coatings,
        nondestructive testing (NDI), and destructive testing. The wing uses certified
        operators, materials, equipment, and/or continuous monitoring and control of process
        parameters as directed by technical data to ensure that specified requirements are met.
        This includes qualification and approval of special processes prior to use and control
        of significant operations and parameters of special processes IAW technical data.
        Records of validation and revalidation are maintained in various information systems
        such as Quality Information Management Standard System (QIMSS) and
        Maintenance 1.
        7.5.2.2. The governing documents are dependent on the special process. Some
        examples are TO 33B-1-1, Nondestructive Inspection Methods, Basic Theory, and TO
        33B-1-2, Nondestructive Inspection - General Procedures and Process Controls, for
        NDI processes; TO 00-25-234, General Shop Practice Requirements for the Repair,
        Maintenance, and Test of Electrical Equipment, for soldering; and TO 00-25-252,
        Intermediate Maintenance and Depot Level Maintenance Instructions - Aeronautical
        Equipment Welding, for welding.
     7.5.3. Identification and Traceability:
        7.5.3.1. All production must follow established procedures such as the 00 series TOs
        for serialized items to identify material/products from receipt and during all phases of
        production, delivery and installation.        The Complex maintains and ensures
        identification of the configuration of the product, in order to identify any differences
        between the actual configuration and the approved configuration. All personnel have
        an inherent responsibility to ensure both the accountability and control of supply
        items and components, and to ensure this information is tracked accurately.
        7.5.3.2. The wing also identifies the status of product with respect to monitoring and
        measurement requirements through the use of WCDs/WADs.
        7.5.3.3. When acceptance authority media are used (i.e., stamps, signatures,
        passwords, etc.), the wing maintains control through documented procedures IAW
        AFI21-101_AFMCSUP_309MXWGM21-03.
        7.5.3.4. Depending on the level of traceability required by contract, regulations or
        other established requirements, the management information systems (e.g., Planned
        Depot Maintenance Scheduling System [PDMSS], Inventory Tracking System [ITS],
        Maintenance Overhauls and Repair Impresa System [IMPRESA], Electronic
309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012                                                             19


        Facilities and Equipment Maintenance System [eFEMS]), and material control
        procedures provide the identification.
     7.5.4. Customer Property:
        7.5.4.1. Contractor or government furnished equipment (GFE) provided for
        workloads consist of parts or components, materials and equipment, to include:
        Industrial plant equipment (IPE) or modification kits supplied from other services or
        customers on a contract or DMISA workload. If these items are required by the
        workload or contract agreement to be segregated from AF stock, procedures are
        developed or revised (as necessary) to ensure the specified requirements are met. For
        the purpose of contract or partnering workloads, components are considered customer
        property. They are identified, verified, protected, and safeguarded from damage, loss
        or deterioration IAW AFMCI21-130; AFMAN23-220, Reports of Survey for Air
        Force Property; AFI23-111, Management of Government Property in Possession of
        the Air Force; and AFMAN23-110 Vol. 2, Part 13, Chapter 8, Equipment
        Management.
        7.5.4.2. Nonconformities discovered during the maintenance process or those
        organically caused, will be processed as rework or condemned. When customer
        furnished material is found damaged, malfunctioning or otherwise unsuitable for use,
        the appropriate customer representative is notified for resolution, including financial
        accountability and records maintained. This procedure is performed according to the
        guidance contained in the contract and/or applicable directives.
        7.5.4.3. GFE and IPE items are managed at the appropriate levels throughout the
        wing by equipment custodians. Their responsibilities include monitoring, tracking
        and periodically inventorying all assigned equipment.
     7.5.5. Preservation of Product:
        7.5.5.1. The wing ensures preservation of the conformity of product during internal
        processing. Production groups have established and maintained procedures for
        preservation including handling, storage, packaging, preservation, and delivery to the
        intended destination in order to maintain conformity to requirements. To prevent
        unintended use, items intended for maintenance use are segregated from items not
        intended for maintenance. These procedures are developed, implemented, and
        maintained at the production group level.
        7.5.5.2. Preservation of products includes provisions for cleaning, prevention,
        detection and removal of foreign objects, special handling for sensitive products,
        marking and labeling including safety warnings, shelf life control and stock rotation,
        and special handing for hazardous materials.
        7.5.5.3. The primary governing documents for the preservation of product are AFI21-
        101_AFMCSUP_309MXWGM21-03; AFI24-210_IP, Package of Hazardous
        Material; AFMCI21-117, Corrosion Control and Prevention Program and Marking
        of Aerospace Equipment; AFMCI24-201, AFMC Packaging and Materials Handling
        Policies and Procedures; AFMCI21-130; and applicable TOs.
 20                                                309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012


   7.6. Control of Monitoring and Measuring Equipment:
      7.6.1. Control of monitoring and measuring equipment is accomplished through the AF
      Metrology and Calibration Program, which is responsible for the recall, tracking,
      scheduling and calibration of AF TMDE. The Precision Measurement Equipment
      Laboratory (PMEL) manages the wing’s calibration program. Configuration control of
      computer software used in monitoring and measuring specified requirements is
      accomplished through the Automated Computer Program Identification Number System
      (ACPINS). A documented risk assessment and product recall procedure has been
      established for TMDE found inoperative or out of tolerance during calibration.
      7.6.2. The primary governing documents for control of monitoring and measuring
      equipment are AFI21-101_AFMCSUP; AFI21-101_AFMCSUP_309MXWGM21-03;
      AFI21-113, Air Force Metrology and Calibration (AFMETCAL) Management; TO 00-5-
      16, Software Managers and Users Manual for the USAF Automated Computer Program
      Identification Number System (ACPINS); TO 00-20-14; TO 33-1-27, Logistic Support of
      Precision Measurement Equipment; TO 33K-1-100-1, Calibration Procedure for
      Maintenance Data Collection Codes and Calibration Measurement Summaries; TO 33K-
      1-100-2, TMDE Calibration Interval Technical Order and Work Unit Code Reference
      Guide; and/or applicable CMS.
8. Measurement, Analysis and Improvement:
   8.1. The 309 MXW uses multiple internal/external audit sources.              Maintenance
   Standardization Evaluation Program (MSEP) and DRs are used for demonstrating conformity
   to product requirements. Results of these audits are recorded/tracked in QIMSS and JDRS.
   Higher headquarters conducts Unit Compliance Inspection (UCIs) and Logistics Compliance
   Assessment Program (LCAP) inspections to provide an external review of our processes. All
   nonconformances are compiled into a single repository to enable holistic review and
   response. Nonconformities are trended using the data, information, knowledge, and wisdom
   (DIKW) hierarchy and referred to leadership for review during PMRs and QMRs.
   Leadership bases their decisions on factual data and determines what, if any, actions are
   required. Data analysis and follow-up inspections validate effectiveness of corrective and
   preventive actions and conformance with the management system.
   8.2. Monitoring and Measurement:
      8.2.1. Customer Satisfaction:
          8.2.1.1. DREP meetings are used to discuss the top 10 problem items determined
          using the EXPRESS Data Toolkit Supportability Summary Report. The review will
          consist of the items with the highest sort value that have failed. Additional items that
          cannot be produced may be added to the list. Additional items could include mission
          incapable (MICAP) parts status, delivery constraints, quarterly demand rate (QDR),
          repair objectives, AFMC Forms 202, action items, and issues impeding production.
          In addition to the top 10 problem items, the meeting will also include a status of parts
          driving items in an awaiting parts status (AWP) and all hangar queens compiled by
          production element. Production history and customer demand rates are used as a
          measure of customer satisfaction. Analysis of this data is reviewed by leadership to
          make effective decisions for short-term results and drive process changes for long-
309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012                                                          21


        term correction of problems. Decisions to change or update management system
        processes will be consistent with the OO-ALC safety/quality policy and objectives.
        Customer driven performance measures are one of the key tenets of DREP.
        Maintenance standardization is required to ensure greater effectiveness, improved
        quality and provide a single face to our customers.
        8.2.1.2. The primary governing documents for monitoring and measurement of
        customer satisfaction are TO 00-35D-54, AFMCI21-129, and AFMCI21-127.
     8.2.2. Internal Audit (IA):
        8.2.2.1. The IA program establishes, by unbiased means, factual information on the
        quality of the OO-ALC’s execution. These audits ensure the management system is
        effectively implemented, maintained and conforms to the requirements established by
        the AF, AFMC, OO-ALC instructions, and the AS9100C and AS9110B standards.
        Senior leadership will utilize results of audits in management reviews to assess the
        efficiency, effectiveness, conformance and compliance, and apply necessary actions
        and resources to continually improve the management system and enhance customer
        satisfaction.
        8.2.2.2. The IA program consists of various inspection programs specific to the
        portion of the management system under review (e.g., QP, SQIP, safety,
        environmental, and management system audits). Process review (PRs), BCIEs,
        quality verification inspection (QVIs), PEs, and routine inspection list (RILs) are
        examples of the methods used to evaluate the product and processes. When process
        nonconformities occur, effects to related product and processes are evaluated.
        Internal system auditors assess the management processes for compliance and
        effectiveness, and report to wing leadership for necessary actions. The documented
        procedures governing each inspection/audit type, records, and methods for
        monitoring and measuring are defined in the applicable DoD, AF, AFMC, wing, or
        group instructions. These instructions include procedures to define responsibilities
        and requirements for planning/conducting audits, establishing/maintaining records,
        and reporting results.
        8.2.2.3. The primary governing documents for IAs are AFI90-201_AFMCSUP,
        Inspector General Activities; AFI21-101_AFMCSUP_309MXWGM21-03; and
        AFI90-803, Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Compliance Assessment
        and Management Program.
     8.2.3. Monitoring and Measurement of Processes:
        8.2.3.1. The Complex monitors and measures processes using suitable methods such
        as PRs, MSEP, SQIP, process metrics, and system audits to confirm the ability of the
        processes to achieve planned results. When planned results are not achieved,
        correction and corrective action shall be taken as appropriate. A function of the
        corrective/preventive action process’ containment activities evaluates similar
        processes/products for possible safety or reliability issues.
        8.2.3.2. The primary governing documents for monitoring and measurement of
        processes    are   AFI21-101_AFMCSUP_309MXWGM21-03           and    AFI90-
        201_AFMCSUP.
22                                               309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012


     8.2.4. Monitoring and Measurement of Product:
         8.2.4.1. The 309 MXW monitors and measures the characteristics of products to
         verify that product requirements have been met and is carried out at appropriate
         stages of the product realization process, IAW the appropriate technical data. The
         technical data provides the criteria for acceptance or rejection. The WCDs/WADs
         identify the sequence of measurement and testing operations, provides a record of
         measurement results, and identifies which operations require secondary approval.
         The WCDs/WADs are the objective evidence and records that all maintenance,
         customer, and product requirements have been met, and indicates the personnel
         authorized to release the product to the customer.
         8.2.4.2. The primary governing documents for monitoring and measurement of
         product are AFMCI21-156 and AFI21-101_AFMCSUP_309MXWGM21-03.
  8.3. Control of Nonconforming Product:
     8.3.1. Products that do not conform to requirements are identified and controlled to
     prevent their unintended use or delivery. Necessary actions are taken to contain the
     effect of the nonconformity on other processes and products. Non-conforming product is
     defined as any component, material, part, sub-assembly or product in which one or more
     characteristics that does not conform to the requirements in the specifications, drawing,
     technical data, applicable product description or contract requirement. The term
     “nonconforming product” includes nonconforming product returned from a customer and
     may include intellectual product or property. Nonconforming product is identified as, but
     not limited to: scrap material, condemned, due-in from maintenance (DIFM), and
     unserviceable. The documented procedures define the responsibility and authority for the
     review, reporting, records management, disposition of nonconforming product, and the
     processes for approving personnel making these decisions. These procedures are
     included in the applicable DoD, AF, AFMC, wing or group instructions.
     8.3.2. The primary governing documents for control of nonconforming product are
     309MXWI23-103, Scrap Material Reclamation Function (SMRF); 309MXWI23-102,
     Depot Maintenance Activity Group (DMAG) Owned Material Management; TO 00-35D-
     54; and AFMCI21-130.
  8.4. Analysis of Data:
     8.4.1. Data is collected from AF maintenance information systems and databases by
     analysts assigned to their associated areas of the management system to assess suitability
     and effectiveness. Senior leadership reviews data and recommendations provided to
     determine where continual improvement can be made. Systems used to collect data for
     analysis include, but are not limited to, JDRS, QIMSS, and Maintenance 1 database.
     Data collected reflecting human factors are obtained through the use of polls, conducted
     periodically by an independent organization, which is analyzed and assessed in
     management reviews. The 309 MXW Work Force Council provides a conduit that
     allows the work force to communicate their suggested improvements and have those
     ideas addressed and resolved by senior leadership.
     8.4.2. Suppliers’ regulated data may be gathered, reviewed, analyzed, and controlled by
     outside sources (such as DCMA, program offices and base contracting).
309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012                                                              23


     8.4.3. The primary governing documents for analysis of data are AFI21-101_AFMCSUP
     and TO 00-35D-54.
  8.5. Improvement:
     8.5.1. Continual Improvement: Improvement activities take place through the use and
     application of the AMQS quality policy, wing goals, internal and external audit results,
     data analysis, corrective and preventive actions, AF Smart Operations for the 21st
     Century (AFSO21) events, and management reviews.              The implementation of
     improvement activities is monitored and evaluated for effectiveness through IAs and
     management reviews. 309 SMXG utilizes the CMMI for Development for Continual
     Process Improvement and the Standard CMMI Appraisal Method for Process
     Improvement (SCAMPI) methodology for appraisals.
        8.5.1.1. The primary governing documents for continual improvement are AFI20-
        111, Logistics Compliance Assessment Program (LCAP); AFI21-101_AFMCSUP;
        AFI21-101_AFMCSUP_309MXWGM21-03; the Air Force Smart Operations for the
        21st Century Playbook; AFMCI63-510_HILLAFBSUP; HILLAFBMAN63-501;
        AFMCI90-104, Implementing AFSO21 Initiatives; AFI33-114, Software
        Management; and AFI33-114_AFMCSUP_1, Software Management Procedures.
     8.5.2. Corrective Action Process:        The following establishes policies, guidance,
     procedures, and responsibilities for operation of the corrective action process. The intent
     of this process is to eliminate the causes of nonconformities. The appropriate level vice
     commander/deputy director is the designated owner for the corrective action process.
     The process owner for each corrective action request (CAR) is the appropriate level of
     leadership who can approve changes to the affected process/product.
        8.5.2.1. Objective: To establish the corrective action process for all levels of the
        OO-ALC. NOTE: Any deviation from this instruction requires a documented
        process that fully complies with current AS9100 and AS9110 standards.
        8.5.2.2. Scope: All OO-ALC organizations.
        8.5.2.3. Responsibilities:
            8.5.2.3.1. Leadership.
                8.5.2.3.1.1. Assigns an individual to serve as the corrective/preventive action
                coordinator (C/PAC) at the appropriate level.
                8.5.2.3.1.2. Directs necessary correction and containment activities.
                8.5.2.3.1.3. Initiates the CAR.
                8.5.2.3.1.4. Appoints team lead (TL) and identifies subject matter expert(s)
                (SME) to work CAR. Ensures team has skill set to complete the AFSO21 8-
                step OODA Loop process (A3) (Attachment 5) successfully. If the team does
                not have necessary skillset, leadership will assign the necessary subject matter
                experts or ensures the team lead and/or team is trained in the 8-step
                methodology.
                8.5.2.3.1.5. Approves/disapproves proposed corrective action plan (CAP).
24                                        309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012


        8.5.2.3.1.6. Ensures the CAP is implemented by specified date.
        8.5.2.3.1.7. Approves/disapproves verification results and authorizes closure
        of CAR if approved.
        8.5.2.3.1.8. Monitors and evaluates the corrective action process for
        effectiveness through monthly management reviews. The reviews must
        include the following minimum information for each open CAR:
          8.5.2.3.1.8.1. Days open
          8.5.2.3.1.8.2. Current OODA Loop step
          8.5.2.3.1.8.3. CAP timelines/milestones
              8.5.2.3.1.8.3.1. Status of timelines/milestones completion
              8.5.2.3.1.8.3.2. Changes to timelines/milestones
     8.5.2.3.2. C/PAC:
        8.5.2.3.2.1. Inputs CAR in Maintenance 1 (MX1) database.
        8.5.2.3.2.2. Verifies MX1 is updated throughout the life of the CAR.
        8.5.2.3.2.3. Attends initial CAR meeting as needed.
        8.5.2.3.2.4. Tracks and monitors CAR activity and provides CAR progress
        updates to leadership.
        8.5.2.3.2.5. Ensures each documented step of the OODA Loop is
        accomplished IAW AFSO21 8-step methodology. When a problem is
        identified, escalates the issue to leadership for resolution.
        8.5.2.3.2.6. Closes CAR in MX1 database after leadership approval.
        8.5.2.3.2.7. DELETED.
     8.5.2.3.3. TL:
        8.5.2.3.3.1. Assembles team and schedules initial meeting.
        8.5.2.3.3.2. Guides the team through the AFSO21 8-Step OODA Loop
        process (A3) (Attachment 5) and requests, as needed, a facilitator
        knowledgeable in problem solving for consultation and assistance. A3 flow
        and interaction diagram (Attachment 7) shows the interaction of the OODA
        Loop steps.
        8.5.2.3.3.3. Organizes, coordinates meeting times and locations.
        8.5.2.3.3.4. Sets team agenda including frequency of meetings.
        8.5.2.3.3.5. Ensures MX1 is updated with the relevant documents, collected
        data, records, and reports needed or generated by the team.
        8.5.2.3.3.6. Provides status of team’s activities to C/PAC and briefs
        leadership when requested.
        8.5.2.3.3.7. If a scribe is not used, assumes scribe duties/responsibilities.
309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012                                                            25


             8.5.2.3.3.8. Remains as TL until the CAR is closed in MX1.
          8.5.2.3.4. Scribe:
             8.5.2.3.4.1. Maintains records of attendance, takes meeting minutes, collects
             and consolidates team activities for inclusion into the A3 (Attachment 5).
             8.5.2.3.4.2. If necessary, forwards records and information to C/PAC for
             entry into MX1.
             8.5.2.3.4.3. DELETED.
          8.5.2.3.5. Corrective/Preventive Action Flow (Attachment 6):
             8.5.2.3.5.1. A CAR is initiated if a nonconformance is identified from the
             OO-ALC internal audit, 2d Party audit, 3d Party audit, management review
             output, or customer request. NOTE: Nonconformities identified during QA
             inspections are not part of the corrective action process; refer to paragraph
             8.5.2.3.7.
             8.5.2.3.5.2. C/PAC enters CAR in MX1.
             8.5.2.3.5.3. Leadership assigns TL and identifies potential SMEs.
             8.5.2.3.5.4. TL holds initial team meeting, and assigns scribe (if used).
             8.5.2.3.5.5. Throughout the process, the TL routinely updates MX1 to reflect
             current state of implementation status and verification results.
             8.5.2.3.5.6. The corrective action team determines root cause utilizing
             AFSO21 tools. From the analysis of collected data, the team develops the
             CAP recommendations (Attachment 5, steps 1-5, and a verification of
             effectiveness plan [step 7]). Development of the CAP is the team’s first
             tracked milestone. The CAP must include estimated completion dates for
             each action associated with steps 6 and 7.
               8.5.2.3.5.6.1. As a step for each CAR, the corrective action team must
               determine if additional nonconforming product exists based on the causes of
               the nonconformities. If further action is required, the team defines the area
               of scope and the specific action.
               8.5.2.3.5.6.2. When the results of causal analysis determine a supplier is
               responsible for the root cause, a flow down of the corrective action to the
               responsible supplier is initiated.
               8.5.2.3.5.6.3. Based on the results of the causal analysis, the need for action
               based on human factors is evaluated to ensure the nonconformities do not
               recur.
             8.5.2.3.5.7. The corrective action team develops the CAP as expeditiously as
             possible based on the complexity of the CAR.
             8.5.2.3.5.8. Using an A3, the TL provides CAP recommendations to
             leadership for approval/disapproval.
               8.5.2.3.5.8.1. If disapproved, the CAP is returned to the corrective action
26                                       309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012


          team for additional analysis and development of an updated plan.
        8.5.2.3.5.9. If approved, the TL ensures implementation of the recommended
        CAP.
        8.5.2.3.5.10. After all corrective actions are implemented, the TL ensures
        verification of effectiveness is accomplished.
        8.5.2.3.5.11. The TL provides leadership with an update regarding
        effectiveness.
        8.5.2.3.5.12. Leadership agrees/disagrees with effectiveness.
          8.5.2.3.5.12.1. If leadership disagrees with the effectiveness, the TL ensures
          validation is accomplished. NOTE: It may be necessary to return to a
          previous step in the process.
          8.5.2.3.5.12.2. If leadership agrees with the effectiveness, the TL will
          complete step 8.
        8.5.2.3.5.13. The TL provides leadership an update and requests approval for
        closure.
          8.5.2.3.5.13.1. If leadership disapproves closure, the TL will re-accomplish
          step 8.
          8.5.2.3.5.13.2. If leadership approves closure, the TL updates MX1.
        8.5.2.3.5.14. The C/PAC closes the CAR in the MX1.
     8.5.2.3.6. DELETED.
        8.5.2.3.6.1. DELETED.
        8.5.2.3.6.2. DELETED.
        8.5.2.3.6.3. DELETED.
        8.5.2.3.6.4. DELETED.
        8.5.2.3.6.5. DELETED.
        8.5.2.3.6.6. DELETED.
        8.5.2.3.6.7. DELETED.
        8.5.2.3.6.8. DELETED.
        8.5.2.3.6.9. DELETED.
        8.5.2.3.6.10. DELETED.
        8.5.2.3.6.11. DELETED.
     8.5.2.3.7. Quality Assurance Inspections:      Records of quality assurance
     inspections are maintained in the QIMSS database.
        8.5.2.3.7.1. In those areas where quality assurance inspections with findings
        result in the generation of an AFMC Form 343, Quality Assurance
        Assessment, the answer to the nonconformance is considered a remedial
309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012                                                            27


                correction; that is to say, the incident identified may or may not require a
                complete AFSO21 8-Step OODA Loop process. The process owner
                determines if the issue requires a complete 8-step OODA Loop based on the
                complexity and scope of the cause.
                8.5.2.3.7.2. Recipient of the AFMC Form 343 with findings will conduct a
                causal analysis (i.e. 5-Why process as a minimum, which is documented on
                the AFMC Form 343) and develop a corrective action plan based on the
                analysis appropriate to the effects of the nonconformance encountered.
                Response given to correct the nonconformance must have a record of actions
                taken. Records shall remain legible, readily identifiable and retrievable.
     8.5.3. Preventive Action Process: This section establishes policies, guidance, procedures
     and responsibilities for operation of the preventive action process. The intent of this
     process is to eliminate the causes of potential nonconformities by making improvements
     to the processes within the management system. NOTE: Examples of preventive action
     opportunities include risk management, error proofing, failure mode and effect analysis
     (FMEA), and information on product problems reported by external sources.
        8.5.3.1. Objective: To establish the preventive action process for all levels of the
        OO-ALC. NOTE: Any deviation from this instruction requires a documented
        process that fully complies with current AS9100 and AS9110 standards.
        8.5.3.2. Scope: All OO-ALC organizations.
        8.5.3.3. The OO-ALC determines actions to eliminate the causes of potential
        nonconformities in order to prevent their occurrence. Preventive actions are
        appropriate to the effects of the potential problems. The preventive action process is
        identical to the corrective action process.




                                          HERMAN J. RAIFF, GS-15, DAF
                                          Vice Director, Ogden Air Logistics Complex
 28                                              309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFH 32-1084, Facility Requirements, 01 September 1996
AFH 36-2235V1, Information for Designers of Instructional Systems – ISD Executive Summary
for Commanders and Managers, 02 September 2002
AFI 20-111, Logistics Compliance Assessment Program (LCAP), 19 April 2011
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 July 2010
AFI 21-101_AFMCSUP, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 14 December 2007
AFI 21-101_AFMCSUP_309MXWGM21-03, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance
Management, 24 August 2011
AFI 21-102, Depot Maintenance Management, 19 July 1994
AFI 21-113, Air Force Metrology and Calibration (AFMETCAL) Management, 23 March 2011
AFI 21-123, Air Force Repair Enhancement Program (AFREP), 03 October 2002
AFI 23-111, Management of Government Property in Possession of the Air Force, 07 January
2011
AFI 24-210_IP, Package of Hazardous Material, 22 October 2007
AFI 32-1024, Standard Facility Requirements, 14 July 2011
AFI 33-322, Records Management Program, 07 October 2003
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006
AFI 33-364, Records Disposition - Procedures and Responsibilities, 22 December 2006
AFI 36-2232_AFMCSUP, Maintenance Training, 13 December 2010
AFI 36-401, Employee Training and Development, 28 Jun 2002
AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 08 April 2009
AFI 63-1201, Life Cycle Systems Engineering, 23 July 2007
AFI 64-117, Air Force Government-Wide Purchase Card (GPC) Program, 31 January 2006
AFI 90-201_AFMCSUP, Inspector General Activities, 16 July 2010
AFI 90-803, Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Compliance Assessment and
Management Program, 24 March 2010
AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management, 01 April 2000
AFMAN 23-110 Vol. 2, Part 13, Chapter 8, Equipment Management, 01 April 2009
AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, 01 July 1996
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012                                                            29


AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards, 12 January 2011
AFMCI 21-105, Depot Maintenance Work Measurement, 30 April 2008
AFMCI 21-117, Corrosion Control and Prevention Program and Marking of Aerospace
Equipment, 12 October 2010
AFMCI 21-120, Organic Depot Field Teams, 02 May 1996
AFMCI 21-127, Depot Maintenance Plant Management, 23 Jun 2005
AFMCI 21-127_HILLSUP, Depot Maintenance Plant Management, 15 October 2008
AFMCI 21-129, Depot Maintenance Management, Depot Repair Enhancement Process (DREP),
09 March 2001
AFMCI 21-130, Depot Maintenance Materiel Control, 15 November 2007
AFMCI 21-156, Operational Workloading, Planning and Scheduling Control, 25 August 2004
AFMCI 24-201, AFMC Packaging and Materials Handling Policies and Procedures, 14 April
2004
AFMCI 36-201, Education and Training, 10 July 2003
AFMCI 63-501, AFMC Quality Assurance, 14 December 2001
AFMCI 63-510_HILLAFBSUP, Deficiency Reporting, Investigation and Resolution, 01
November 2007
AFMCI 63-1201, Implementing Operational Safety Suitability and Effectiveness (OSS&E) and
Life Cycle Systems Engineering (LCSE), 14 October 2009
AFMCI 64-110, First Article Management, 29 April 1997
AFMCI 65-101, Depot Maintenance Accounting and Production System - Financial Policy and
Procedures for Organic Depot Maintenance, 28 March 2006
AFMCI 90-102, Wellness of the Force, 04 Aug 2009
AFMCI 90-104, Implementing AFSO21 Initiatives, 29 September 2008
AFMCMAN 21-1, Air Force Materiel Command Technical Order System Procedures, 15
January 2005
AFMCPD 36-2, Education and Training, 09 August 2000
AFPAM 90-902, Operational Risk Management (ORM) Guidelines and Tools, 14 December
2000
AFPD 63-1/AFPD 20-1, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 03 April 2009
Air Force Smart Operations for the 21st Century Playbook, October 2009
AS9100C, Quality Management Systems -Requirements for Aviation, Space and Defense
Organizations, January 2009
AS9110A, Quality Maintenance Systems - Requirements for Aviation Maintenance
Organizations, June 2009
 30                                              309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012


CMMI, Guidelines for Process Integration and Product Improvement, 01 November 2010
EIA-649-B, Configuration Management Standard, 01 April 2011
HILLAFBMAN 63-501, Quality Management System, 14 May 2009
HILLAFBI 65-602, Resource Management System (RMS), 25 March 2010
HILLAFBI 99-103, OO-ALC Test and Evaluation (T&E) Process, 16 February 2010
ISO 10007, Quality Management Systems – Guidelines for Configuration Management, 15 June
2003
ISO 9001, Quality Management Systems – Requirements, 15 November 2008
MIL-HDBK-61A, Configuration Management Guidance, 07 February 2001
TO 00-5-1, AF Technical Order System, 01 May 2011
TO 00-5-3, AF Technical Order Life Cycle Management, 01 May 2011
TO 00-5-15, Air Force Time Compliance Technical Order Process, 01 January 2010
TO 00-5-16, Software Managers and Users Manual for the USAF Automated Computer
Program Identification Number System (ACPINS), 01 January 2009
TO 00-20-1, Airspace Equipment Maintenance Inspection, Documentation, Policy and
Procedures, 15 June 2011
TO 00-20-14, AF Metrology and Calibration Program, 30 June 2009
TO 00-25-107, Maintenance Assistance, 15 July 2009
TO 00-25-108, Depot Support Communications - Electronics (C-E), 13 March 2009
TO 00-25-234, General Shop Practice Requirements for the Repair, Maintenance, and Test of
Electrical Equipment, 14 September 2009
TO 00-25-252, Intermediate Maintenance and Depot Level Maintenance Instructions -
Aeronautical Equipment Welding, 15 April 2011
TO 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting, Investigation, and Resolution, 01 October 2009
TO 1-1A-15, General Maintenance Instructions for Support Equipment (SE), 20 May 2011
TO 33-1-27, Logistic Support of Precision Measurement Equipment, 30 November 1998
TO 33B-1-1, Nondestructive Inspection Methods, Basic Theory, 15 September 2010
TO 33B-1-2, Nondestructive Inspection - General Procedures and Process Controls, 01 January
2011
TO 33K-1-100-1, Calibration Procedure of Maintenance Data Collection Codes and
Calibration Measurement Summaries, 30 November 2010
TO 33K-1-100-2, TMDE Calibration Notes, Calibration Interval, Technical Order, and Work
Unit Code Reference Guide, 30 November 2010
TO 34-1-3, Inspection and Maintenance of Machinery and Shop Equipment, 11 September 2006
309 MXWI 21-110, Depot Facility Maintenance, 05 May 2011
309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012                                                      31


309 MXWI 21-111, Depot Activation, Pending Publication
309 MXWI 23-102, Depot Maintenance Activity Group (DMAG) Owned Material Management,
23 July 2010
309 MXWI 23-103, Scrap Material Reclamation Function (SMRF), 03 February 2011
309MXWI 91-201, Explosive Safety Program Plan, 03 November 2010
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AFMC Form 202, Nonconforming Technical Assistance Request and Reply, 22 March 2006
AFMC Form 343, Quality Assurance Assessment, 28 June 2007
AFTO Form 22, Technical Manual (TM) Change Recommendation and Reply, 29 September
2011
AFTO Form 252, Technical Order Publication Change Request, 26 August 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACPINS—Automated Computer Program Identification Number System
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFH—Air Force Handbook
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AF IMT—Air Force Information Management Tool
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFMCI—Air Force Materiel Command Instruction
AFMCSUP—Air Force Materiel Command Supplement
AFMETCAL—Air Force Metrology and Calibration
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety & Health
AFPAM—Air Force Pamphlet
AFSO21—Air Force Smart Operations for the 21st Century
AFTO—Air Force Technical Order
AMQS—Aerospace Maintenance Quality System
ATE—Automated Test Equipment
ATIMS—Automated Technology Information Management System
AWP—Awaiting Parts
BCIE—Baseline Compliance Improvement Event
 32                                          309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012


C/PAC—Corrective/Preventive Action Coordinator
CAP—Corrective Action Plan
CAR—Corrective Action Request
CC—Commander
CMMI—Capability Maturity Model Integration
CMS—Calibration and Measurement Summary
COTS—Commercial-Off-the-Shelf
CPI—Continuous Process Improvement
CTP—Civilian Training Plan
DCMA—Defense Contract Management Agency
DIKW—Data, Information, Knowledge, and Wisdom
DIFM—Due-In from Maintenance
DMAG—Depot Maintenance Activity Group
DMISA—Depot Maintenance Inter-service Support Agreement
DoD—Department of Defense
DR—Deficiency Report
DREP—Depot Repair Enhancement Process
DV—Vice Director
eFEMS—Electronic Facilities and Equipment Maintenance System
ESOH—Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health
ETIMS—Enhanced Technical Information Management System
ETR—Electronic Training Record
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
FMEA—Failure Mode and Effect Analysis
FOD—Foreign Object Debris
GFE—Government Furnished Equipment
GLSC—Global Logistics Support Center
GM—Guidance Memorandum
IA—Internal Audit
IAW—In Accordance With
IMPRESA—Maintenance Overhaul and Repair Impresa System
IPE—Industrial Plant Equipment
309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012                                            33


IPP—Integrated Project Plan
ITS—Inventory Tracking System
JDRS—Joint Deficiency Reporting System
JEDMICS—Joint Engineering Data Management Information and Control System
LCAP—Logistics Compliance Assessment Program
MICAP—Mission Incapable
MIL-HDBK—Military Handbook
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
MSEP—Maintenance Standardization Evaluation Program
MX1—Maintenance 1
MXWI—Maintenance Wing Instruction
NDI—Nondestructive Inspection
OJT—On-the-Job Training
OO- ALC—Ogden Air Logistics Center
OODA—Observe Orient Decide Act
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
PAC—Production Acceptance Certification
PAR—Preventive Action Request
PD—Policy Directive
PDMSS—Planned Depot Maintenance Scheduling System
PE—Personnel Evaluations
PMEL—Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratory
PMR—Program Management Review
PODDS—Process Order Development and Display System
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
PPG—Project Process Guide
PPPT—Pre-production Planning Team
PPT—Production Planning Team
PR—Process Review
QA—Quality Assurance
 34                                         309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012


QDR—Quarterly Demand Rate
QIMSS—Quality Information Management Standard System
QMR—Quality Management Review
QMS—Quality Management System
QP—Quality Program
QVI—Quality Verification Inspection
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RIL—Routine Inspection List
RMS—Resource Management System
SCAMPI—Standard CMMI Appraisal Method for Process Improvement
SCP—Support Center Pacific
SEP—Standard Engineering Process
SME—Subject Matter Expert
SMIC—Strategic Missile Integrated Complex
SOJT—Structured On-the-Job Training
SORA—Source of Repair Assignment
SPO—System Program Office
SQIP—Squadron Inspection Program
SSP—Standard Support Processes
TL—Team Lead
TMDE—Test Measurement and Diagnostic Equipment
TO—Technical Order
TSS—Training Scheduling System
UCI—Unit Compliance Inspection
WAD—Work Authorization Document
WCD—Work Control Document
309 AMARG—Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Group
309 AMXG—Aircraft Maintenance Group
309 CMXG—Commodities Maintenance Group
309 EMXG—Electronics Maintenance Group
309 MMXG—Missile Maintenance Group
309 MXSG—Maintenance Support Group
309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012                                                             35


309 SMXG—Software Maintenance Group
309 MXW—Maintenance Wing
309 MXW/OB—Business Operations
309 MXW/EN—Engineering
309 MXW/QP—Quality Program

Terms
AMQS— 309 MXW quality management system that establishes and maintains a standardized
approach to achieve excellence in supporting the maintenance mission through a focus on
process certification, process surveillance, and configuration management. AMQS drives and
requires leadership involvement and engagement at all levels to ensure its success. AMQS
enables our organization to perform aerospace maintenance with defined, controlled, and
repeatable processes, using a systems approach developed by the wing.
Causal Analysis—A structured evaluation method for identifying root causes of an unwanted
outcome and the effective actions to prevent recurrence. Root cause analysis should continue
until organizational factors have been identified or until research of the causal factors are
exhausted.
Configuration Management— The method to ensure specifications and resulting products are
consistent and equal and ensures product integrity is maintained.
Containment— Action to control and mitigate the impact of a nonconformity and protect the
operation (stop the problem from getting worse); includes correction, immediate corrective
action, immediate communication, and verification that the nonconforming situation does not
further degrade.
Correction— Immediate action(s) taken to eliminate a detected nonconformity.
Corrective Action— Action to eliminate the causes of nonconformities in order to prevent
recurrence.
Leadership— Supervisors at all levels of the organization to include senior leadership.
Maintenance 1— A database owned by the 309 MXW for capturing, managing and recording
the results of squadron self-inspections, corrective actions, and preventive actions.
Memorandum of Agreement (MOA), Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)— Document
stating requirements, deliverables and expectations agreed upon by two or more organizations.
Nonconformity— A finding that states the non-fulfillment of a requirement pertaining to policy,
process and/or product.
Opportunities for Improvement— An observation which documents a case, in which a
reviewed organization is progressing with regard to a change or improvement, but has not fully
implemented the improvement; a suggestion for improvement; a suggestion for sharing best
practices.
Plan— How an organization intends to accomplish, deliver or produce their objective.
Policy:—Document that states management’s overall intentions to fulfill requirements.
 36                                                309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012


Preventive Action— Preventive actions are steps that are taken to remove the causes of
potential nonconformities or potential situations that are undesirable. The preventive action
process is designed to prevent the occurrence of nonconformities or situations that do not yet
exist. It tries to prevent occurrence by eliminating causes. While corrective actions prevent
recurrence, preventive actions prevent occurrence. Both types of actions are intended to prevent
nonconformities. Preventive actions address potential problems, ones that haven't yet occurred.
In general, the preventive action process can be thought of as a risk analysis process.
Procedures— Specified way to perform an activity.
Record— Project artifact, (proof of compliance).
Remedial Correction— An action taken to alleviate the symptoms of existing nonconformities
or any other undesirable situation.
Root Cause Analysis— DELETED.
Rough Order of Magnitude— Preliminary cost and schedule estimate given to the customer for
a proposed workload.
Senior Leadership— Senior leadership is comprised of the 309 MXW CC and DV, group
commanders/directors, group vice commanders/deputy directors, and wing staff office
directors/chiefs.
Technical Data:—This definition includes engineering data, source data and TO data (for
example, schematic diagrams, flow diagrams, manufacturer handbooks, manuscripts of operation
and maintenance instructions, preliminary TOs, commercial technical manuals, research and
development technical manuals, and other system or equipment operation and maintenance
procedures developed under AFMC or other acquisition agency directions during the system
acquisition phase).
309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012                      37


                                 Attachment 2
                    309 MXW OPERATING SYSTEM MODEL

Figure A2.1. 309 MXW Operating System Model
 38                                       309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012


                                 Attachment 3
                      309 MXW MACRO BUSINESS MAP

Figure A3.1. 309 MXW Macro Business Map
309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012                               39


                                 Attachment 4
          309 MXW PROCESS FLOW WITH AS9100C REQUIREMENTS

Figure A4.1. 309 MXW Process Flow With AS9100C Requirements
 40                                       309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012


                                  Attachment 5
             AFSO21 8-STEP PROBLEM SOLVING OODA LOOP (A3)

Figure A5.1. AFSO21 8-Step Problem Solving OODA Loop (A3)
309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012                                                                                                           41


                                                              Attachment 6
                                   CORRECTIVE/PREVENTIVE ACTION FLOW

Figure A6.1. Corrective/Preventive Action Flow.
                                                                                                                           Version 3.0
                                                                                                                           12/5/2013
                                   Corrective/Preventive Action Process

         CAR/PAR Requests
          3rd party finding
                                                           Request                                 Leadership
          2nd party finding
                                                         entered into                    Reviews requests and decides if
        Internal audit finding
                                                            MX1                                     CAR/PAR
      Customer request for CAR
       Management directed




                                                            CPAC                                            CPAC
                  Leadership
                                               Document leadership decision to not                   Document correction.
              Is request to be a        No         open as CAR/PAR in MX1                           Document containment if
                  CAR/PAR?
                                                           (Note 1)                                       applicable



              Yes
                                                                                    Team Lead
                                                    Team lead
   CPAC                                                                    Develops correct action plan
                         Leadership                 Documents                                                     Leadership
   Opens                                                                    Perform OODA Loop 1-5.
                    Assigns team lead &           correction and                                               Reviews corrective
 CAR/PAR in                                                                  (Step 5 to include step 7
                      assembles team              containment if                                                  action plan
    MX1                                                                         validation criteria)
                                                    applicable
                                                                                 (Notes 2, 3 & 4)


                                   No


                                                                                               No

                                                                 Team Lead
          Leadership                  Team Lead
                                                              Completes OODA                Leadership             Leadership
            IS CAP                    Completes
          approved?
                             Yes    OODA loop step
                                                               loop step 7 and                Reviews             Determines is
                                                                  validates                effectiveness            effective?
           (Note 5)                  6 implement
                                                                effectiveness


                                                                    Yes


           Team Lead                           Leadership
                                                                                 Leadership                        CPAC
      Responsible for and                Reviews standardization
     completes OODA loop                and determines closure of
                                                                                 Decision to         Yes          Closes
                                                                                   close?                     CAR/PAR in MX1
       step 8 standardize                       CAR/PAR


                                                 No
 Note 1: Even if CAR/PAR is not initiated, the nonconformance decision and supporting data is still entered into the MX1 database as an
 historical record of the event.
 Note 2: Evaluate the need for action based on human factors to ensure nonconformances do not recur. Document evaluation in block
 4 of MX1.
 Note 3: Determine if additional nonconforming product or processes exist, based on causes identified. Document results in MX1.
 Note 4: If RCA determines a supplier is responsible for the NC, flow down corrective action to supplier. Document in MX1.
 Note 5: Leadership is responsible to ensure Corrective Action is taken in a timely manner. Inactive CARs will be briefed to leadership
 by C/PAC for remedial action. Document in MX1.
 42                                            309MXWMAN63-501 26 JANUARY 2012


                                   Attachment 7
                    A3 FLOW AND INTERACTION DIAGRAM

Figure A7.1. A3 Flow and Interaction Diagram
