BY ORDER OF THECOMMANDER                                   30TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 33-102
30TH SPACE WING                                                                    28 FEBRUARY 1999
                                                                     Certified Current 16 January 2013
                                                                      Communications and Information

                                                                RADIO FREQUENCY MANAGEMENT




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE : This publication is available digitally on the30th Space Wing WWW site at: http://
vepdl.vafb.af.mil. If you lack access, contact your Publishing Office.


OPR: 30 MXS/MXRS (Mr. C. A. Jordan)                       Certified by: 30 MXS/MXR (Mr. R. Sproston)
Supersedes 30SWI33-102, 15 Sep 94.                                                          Pages: 4
                                                                                     Distribution: F

This instruction establishes policy and procedures, and defines responsibilities for radio frequency man-
agement at Vandenberg Air Force Base (AFB). It includes, but is not limited to, the functions of fre-
quency procurement, assignment, control, protection, coordination, scheduling, monitoring, and
reporting. This instruction implements AFI 33-118 and AFMAN 33-120, Radio Frequency Spectrum
Management , and applies to military and non-military activities using and operating electromagnetic
radiating equipment of any type on Vandenberg AFB. It also applies to electromagnetic receiving sys-
tems requiring frequency protection for successful operation. Attachment 1 is a Glossary of Terms.
The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1974 as amended in 1996 and AFI 37-160, Volume 8, The Air Force
Publications and Forms Management - Developing and Processing Forms, affects this publication.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
The revision of this publication is to meet the format standards required by the Air Force. No content
material has changed. Some required format changes have been made to allow for the conversion pro-
cess.



1. Air Force Policy. The radio frequency (RF) spectrum is a limited natural resource vital to the support
of military operations. The intensive requirements being placed on this resource require effective man-
agement at all command levels to ensure radio frequencies can be provided to meet essential mission
requirements. AFI 33-118 and AFMAN 33-120 provides information, instructions, and directions for the
implementation of a frequency management program to ensure effective and efficient use of those limited
radio frequencies are available.

2. Responsibilities. The RF management task at Vandenberg AFB is very critical due to the types of sat-
ellite and missile support activities. The task is complicated by constantly changing RF requirements, the
use of sensitive receivers, reception of critical data, and joint use of most frequencies between many unre-
2                                                                   30SWI33-102 28 FEBRUARY 1999

lated agencies and programs. The 30 SW Commander, as host, is the final authority for all matters that
deal with radio frequency use on this base. The 30 SW Frequency Manager will:
    2.1. Provide RF management support for all base activities. Such support includes frequency plan-
    ning, frequency compatibility analysis, frequency assignment, inter-agency coordination, frequency
    guidance, RF measurements, real-time RF surveillance and control, and RF interference resolution.
    2.2. Present problems, involving tenant activities that cannot be mutually resolved at the working
    level, to the 30 SW Commander for resolution.

3. Procedures:
    3.1. Frequency Allocation. Any base activity planning to procure or develop a new system involv-
    ing transmission or reception of RF energy, or planning to change the RF characteristics of an existing
    RF system, must include the frequency manager in the initial planning phase. This ensures that any
    new equipment is compatible in the Vandenberg AFB or California environment, and conforms with
    Department of Defense (DoD), national, and international regulations and agreements. If the involved
    equipment has not been approved for use within DoD, the frequency manager provides assistance in
    the development and processing of DD Form 1494, Application for Frequency Allocation. "Nor-
    mal" lead-time is one year prior to the need date.
    3.2. Frequency Procurement. Any activity having a requirement for a new RF assignment, or
    requiring modifications to an existing one, must contact the frequency manager. The frequency man-
    ager provides assistance in specific frequency selections to ensure compatibility prior to drafting and
    processing a formal RF application. In some cases, the frequency manager can issue local assign-
    ments. This expedited procedure is based on authority that has been issued to the frequency manager
    by HQ USAF and CINCPAC.
    3.3. Frequency Assignment. The frequency requirements at Vandenberg AFB are complex, diverse,
    always changing, and involve varied commands and agencies who are supporting programs and tests
    that are unrelated to each other. All activities operating electromagnetic systems must have a radio
    frequency authorization, issued by the frequency manager. Any command, agency, business, or visit-
    ing unit who holds or receives a RF assignment document from their respective DoD frequency man-
    agement agency command or the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) must send that
    document to the 30 SW frequency manager for validation, and subsequent issuance of a radio fre-
    quency authorization.
    3.4. Frequency Scheduling. All RF usage at Vandenberg AFB, open or closed loop radiation, is sub-
    ject to scheduling unless otherwise specified by the radio frequency authorization. Frequency require-
    ments for scheduled numbered range tests and operations are automatically authorized when the test
    is included in the official range schedule, and the applicable operations directive (OD) specifies those
    frequencies authorized for use during the particular test or operation.
       3.4.1. To schedule an operation, range users contact the 30th Range Squadron Scheduling Flight
       (30 RANS/ DOS), 816 13th Street, Vandenberg AFB, CA 93437-5233, and provide their fore-
       casted radio frequency requirements.
       3.4.2. 30 RANS/DOS coordinates those requirements with the Frequency Control and Analysis
       Center (FCAC) to confirm frequency compatibility, and to determine any restrictions that may be
       necessary to prevent conflicts with other users. Confirmation of scheduled time, along with radi-
       ation restrictions, if any, are passed to the range user by 30 MXS/MXRS.
30SWI33-102 28 FEBRUARY 1999                                                                          3

     3.4.3. Operators should use certified closed circuit systems for testing as much as possible to
     reduce frequency sharing and frequency scheduling problems.
  3.5. Frequency Coordination. Any activity anticipating a need for coordination with a non-range
  agency concerning RF matters must contact the 30 SW Frequency Manager. The frequency manager
  provides or performs all such coordination necessary to prevent or resolve frequency problems. This
  focal point for base internal or external frequency coordination is mandatory and is the only way of
  ensuring appropriate technical responses, preventing redundant or conflicting positions, and maintain-
  ing good relationships and credibility.
  3.6. Frequency Interference Reporting.
     3.6.1. 30 SW and Vandenberg AFB tenant units report all radio frequency interference (RFI) to
     the 30 RANS Frequency Control and Analysis Center (FCAC); currently available 24-hour day,
     7-day week, at building 7011, Room 302, telephone extension 6-9247/3246. Secure telephone
     (STU-III) is available to the SECRET level. INTERFERENCE is by definition not hostile. MEA-
     CONING, INTRUSION, and JAMMING are considered FOREIGN and HOSTILE and will be
     reported to the FCAC via the most appropriate secure media; i.e., STU-III, courier, or AUTODIN
     Message. For the purposes of this instruction, any of the aforementioned acts; although suspected
     or ultimately determined to be of domestic origin (whether foreign or not) are still considered
     HOSTILE and will be reported via classified media.
     3.6.2. The FCAC will report all hostile, suspected hostile, and unknown (probable hostile) RFI to
     the 30 SW Command Post (CP); telephone extension 6-9961, via a SECRET level STU-III, and
     initiate the MIJI FEEDER report.
     3.6.3. Within 24 hours of the initial report a SECRET MIJI FEEDER in SARAH-LITE message
     format will be hand-carried to the CP by the frequency manager or his representative. The CP will
     send the message either by SARAH-LITE or SECURE TELEFACSIMILE COPIER to the
     AFSPC Space Operations Center (AFSPOC).
     3.6.4. Routine or "non-hostile" (blue on blue) interference will not be reported beyond the FCAC.
     Exceptions will be those incidents determined by the frequency manager or wing command post
     to be of informational value to the wing or command staff.
     3.6.5. Unresolved interference from other DoD service or interbase activities; and encroachment
     by U.S. civilian (Federal Communications Commission licensed) or foreign civil systems will also
     be reported to HQ AFSPC for coordination with HQ Air Force, the Office of the Secretary of
     Defense, or the U. S. Department of State (as applicable).
  3.7. Cease Transmission Order. All operators of RF transmitters (government, non-government,
  private, commercial); operating under 30 SW authority must cease RF transmission immediately
  when specifically directed to do so by the frequency manager or the FCAC. Such actions may be nec-
  essary to resolve interference or radiation hazard problems. Prompt compliance with a "Cease Trans-
  mission" order is a condition for continued authorization to conduct business on or within 30 SW
  assets or facilities.



                                       PAUL W. CURTIS, Colonel, USAF
                                       Commander, 30 LG
4                                                             30SWI33-102 28 FEBRUARY 1999

                                          Attachment 1

                                    GLOSSARY OF TERMS

Terms
Electromagnetic Equipment -—Electronic systems, equipment, and devices capable of radiating RF
energy, or are dependent on the reception of RF energy to successfully perform their function.
Frequency Allocation -—Designation of a portion of the RF spectrum to accommodate operations of
electromagnetic equipment (usually developmental; not a "license" to operate).
Frequency Assignment -—Designation of specific frequency, group of frequencies, or frequency band
for operational or test purposes ("the license").
Frequency Manager -—Person designated by the 30th Space Wing (30 SW) Commander who exercises
frequency management for, and in coordination with, all units on Vandenberg AFB and other 30 SW
operating locations.
Frequency Procurement -—Obtaining an RF authorization from higher headquarters to operate a RF
device (usually a transmitter).
Frequency Scheduling -—The means by which frequency assignments are approved for use during
specific time periods. Required for most range or missile systems and not for ground communications
systems.
Radio Frequency (RF) -—Includes the electromagnetic spectrum from 3 KHz to 300 GHz.
