AC-1 to 30SWI 32-702, Environmental Management Air Emission Inventories, 30 October
1998

OPR: 3 0 CES/CEVCC (MSgt. G. Collins) should be changed to 30 CES/CEAN.

Certified by: 30 CEC/CEV (Lt. Col. S.W. Westfall) should be changed to 30 MSG/CC (Col
Richard N. Wright).

Reference to AFI 32-7040, Air Quality Compliance should be changed to Air Quality
Compliance and Resource Management, in introductory paragraph, third sentence.

References to 30 CES/CEV should be changed to 30 CES/CEAN throughout the publication.

Reference to Environmental Management Flight (30 CES/CEV) should be changed to Natural
Resources Management Element (30 CES/CEAN) in paragraph 1.2.

Reference to HazMart (30 SUPF/LGS) should be changed to HazMart (30 LRS/LGRMH) in
paragraph 1.3.

References to 30 CES/CEVCC should be changed to 30 CES/CEAN in paragraph 3.2.4.

References to 30 CES/CEOE should be changed to 30 CES/CEOI in paragraphs 3.2.5.1 and
3.3.4.3.

Reference to signature block: STEVEN C BOYCE, Colonel, USAF, Commander, 30 Civil
Engineering Squadron should be changed to DAVID C. PIECH, Lt Col, USAF, Commander,
30th Civil Engineer Squadron.

In Attachment 1: Reference to 30th CES/CEV – 30th Civil Engineering Squadron
Environmental Section should be changed to 30 CES/CEAN – 30th Civil Engineer Squadron
Natural Resources Management Element.

Reference to 30th CES/CEOE – 30th Civil Engineering Squadron Maintenance Engineering
Section should be changed to 30 CES/CEOI – 30th Civil Engineer Squadron Infrastructure
Systems Element.

Reference to 30th CES/CEOF – 30th Civil Engineering Squadron Facility Maintenance Section
should be changed to 30 CES/CEOF – 30th Civil Engineer Squadron Facility Systems Element.

Reference to 30 CES/CEV should be changed to 30 CES/CEAN in General Instruction portion of
prescribed Form 152.

Reference to base Environmental Management Office should be changed to 30 CES/CEAN (Air
Quality) in Section VI of prescribed Form 156.

28 April 2009
BY ORDER OF THE                                             30th SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 32-702
COMMANDER 30TH SPACE WING                                                             30 OCTOBER 1998
                                                                        Certified Current 26 October 2011
                                                                                        Civil Engineering

                                                             ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AIR
                                                                      EMISSION INVENTORIES


                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE : This publication is available digitally on the30th Space Wing WWW site at: http://
vepdl.vafb.af.mil. If you lack access, contact your Publishing Office.


OPR: 30 CES/CEVCC (MSgt. G.Collins)                  Certified by: 30 CEC/CEV (Lt. Col. S. W. Westfall)
                                                                                             Pages: 10
                                                                                        Distribution: F

This instruction establishes policies and procedures, and defines responsibilities for air emission manage-
ment at Vandenberg Air Force Base (AFB) and at other sites owned and operated by the 30th Space Wing
(30 SW). It includes, but is not limited to, annual inventories of air pollution sources; record keeping and
reporting of process variables, and reporting deadlines. This instruction implements AFI 32-7040, Air
Quality Compliance, and applies to military and non-military activities that conduct operations resulting
in air emissions. Attachment 1 explains abbreviations and Acronyms used. The Paperwork Reduction
Act of 1974 as amended in 1996 and AFI 37-160, Volume 8, The Air Force Publications and Forms Man-
agement—Developing and Processing Forms, affects this publication.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
The revision of this publication is to meet the format standards required by the Air Force. No content
material has changed. Some required format changes have been made to allow for the conversion pro-
cess.



1. Responsibilities:
   1.1. Unit Commanders, Directors of Staff, and Contractors:
       1.1.1. Unit commanders (host and tenant), directors of staff offices, and contractors shall appoint,
       in writing, Environmental Managers (EMs) to maintain an accurate and up-to-date inventory of
       equipment and materials identified in this instruction. Appointment letters shall be submitted to
       30 CES/CEV. Organizations will appoint more than one EM depending on span of control limita-
       tions. Organizations that do not conduct operations identified in this instruction are not required
       to appoint an EM.
   1.2. Environmental Management Flight (30 CES/CEV):
2                                                                     30SWI32702 30 OCTOBER 1998

       1.2.1. Operates and maintains source and emission inventories for Vandenberg AFB and other
       sites owned or operated by the 30th Space Wing in accordance to AFI 32-7040.
       1.2.2. Administers inventory accounts with the assistance of EMs. Provides inventory listings to
       EMs for annual certifications.
       1.2.3. Collects operational information (e.g., operating hours, fuel usage, material usage, etc.)
       maintained by operators/users. Enters operational information into the air emission database.
       1.2.4. Calculates an emission of air contaminates based on operational information and equip-
       ment specifications. Enters emission information into the air emissions database.
    1.3. HazMart (30 SUPF/LGS):
       1.3.1. Provides Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) information, materials usage information,
       and shop information to 30 CES/CEV on a monthly basis.
    1.4. Environmental Managers (EMs):
       1.4.1. Maintain accurate and up-to-date inventories of equipment and Reactive Organic Com-
       pound (ROC) -containing materials that are subject to this instruction. Equipment inventories
       shall be maintained in Source Inventory (SI) Accounts administered by 30 CES/CEV.
       1.4.2. Ensure equipment operators and users of ROC-containing materials are maintaining the
       recordkeeping logs required under this instruction. Collects recordkeeping forms at the end of the
       calendar year and submits them to 30 CES/CEV.

2. Source Inventory (SI) Accounts. The EMs will maintain a complete and accurate inventory of all
applicable sources of air pollution used by personnel within their functional area(s) of responsibility.
Applicable sources of air pollution are defined in Section 3 of this instruction. Inventories shall be main-
tained in SI Accounts administered by 30 CES/CEV. EMs shall make any additions, deletions or modifi-
cations to their account according to the procedures specified below.
    2.1. Adding Equipment. To add equipment to a SI Account, the responsible EM shall complete the
    applicable SI Profiling Form and submit it to 30 CES/CEV. Equipment will be entered into a SI
    Account prior to its initial use or operation. The following SI Profiling Forms shall be used to add
    equipment to SI Accounts:


30 SW Form 154, Abrasive Blasting Equipment
30 SW Form 155, Boilers and Hot Water Heaters
30 SW Form 156, Internal Combustion Engines
30 SW Form 157, Air Quality Source Profiling Internal Combustion Engine
30 SW Form 158, Degreasers
30 SW Form 159, General Emission Units
30 SW Form 160, Fuel Storage Tanks

    2.2. Deleting Equipment. EMs shall delete from their SI Account any item that has been discontin-
    ued or removed from service. Delete equipment from the inventory, the responsible EM shall notify
    30 CES/CEV and request the item to be removed from their SI Account. Requests to delete items
30SWI32702 30 OCTOBER 1998                                                                              3

   from SI Accounts shall be submitted no later than 5 days prior to the equipment being removed from
   service.
   2.3. Modifying Equipment. EMs shall identify to 30 CES/CEV any substantive modifications made
   to equipment 5 days prior to the modification. A substantive modification is any modification that
   results in a change in the equipment specifications, as identified on the applicable SI Profiling Form.
   Notification shall be made to 30 CES/CEV at least 120 days prior to the modification of equipment,
   which has an APCD permit.
   2.4. Transferring Items. To transfer equipment from one SI Account to another SI Account, the
   responsible EMs shall notify 30 CES/CEV 5 days prior to the equipment transfer.
   2.5. Annual Certifications. EMs shall certify by letter on an annual basis that their SI Account is
   accurate and complete. The certifications are due do later than 15 days following the end of the cal-
   endar year.

3. Source Requirements:
   3.1. Internal Combustion Engines:
      3.1.1. Applicability. The requirements identified in this section apply to all stationary and porta-
      ble internal combustion engines operated on Vandenberg AFB or other sites owned or operated by
      the 30th Space Wing.
      3.1.2. Exemptions. Any internal combustion engine that meets at least one of the following con-
      ditions is exempt from the requirements identified in this section:
          3.1.2.1. Engines with a maximum rated brake horsepower of 20 or less are exempt.
          3.1.2.2. Engines used to propel motor vehicles, marine vessels, aircraft, aerospace vehicles,
          rail car movers, and construction equipment are exempt.
          3.1.2.3. Auxiliary power units used on aircraft are exempt.
          3.1.2.4. Lawn mowers and other lawn-care equipment are exempt.
      3.1.3. SI Accounts. EMs shall maintain an accurate and up-to-date inventory of all engines that
      are subject to this section. Inventories shall be maintained in SI Accounts in accordance with the
      provisions of Section 2.
      3.1.4. Record Keeping and Reporting. Anyone that operates an engine at Vandenberg AFB shall
      maintain records in accordance with the most current Fuel Use Monitoring Plan (FUMP) and the
      recordkeeping and reporting requirements specified below. Recordkeeping and reporting shall be
      the responsibility of engine operators and EMs. Note: All record keeping and reporting shall be
      in compliance with all federal, state and local regulations.
          3.1.4.1. Operating Hours. Anyone that operates an engine shall monitor and record engine
          operating hours. Acceptable methods of monitoring engine operating hours include (1) record-
          ing hour meter readings at regular intervals and (2) estimating and recording operating hours
          on a daily basis. Engine operating hours shall be totaled for each month of the year. Engine
          operators will use the fuel service logs 1 and 2 in the FUMP to record engine operating hours.
          3.1.4.2. Fuel Use. Anyone that operates an engine shall monitor and record engine fuel con-
          sumption. Acceptable methods of monitoring engine fuel consumption include (1) recording
4                                                                    30SWI32702 30 OCTOBER 1998

          fuel meter readings at regular intervals and (2) recording the amount of fuel dispensed into the
          engine’s fuel tank when it is refueled. Engine operators are to use the fuel service logs contin-
          ued in the FUMP to record engine fuel consumption.
          3.1.4.3. Annual Report At the end of each calendar year, EMs and engine operators shall
          compile all recordkeeping logs maintained pursuant to this section and submit them to 30
          CES/CEV. Annual reports are due no later than 15 days following the end of each calendar
          year.
    3.2. Boilers and Hot Water Heaters:
       3.2.1. Applicability. The requirements identified in this section apply to all fuel-fired boilers and
       hot water heaters (referred to hereafter as combustion units) operated on Vandenberg AFB or other
       sites owned or operated by the 30th Space Wing.
       3.2.2. Exemptions. Any combustion unit located in the residential housing area of an installation
       is exempt from the requirements identified in this section.
       3.2.3. Emission Standards. Except units that are part of a system that was installed or designed
       prior to the date of this instruction, all boilers shall meet the emission standards specified below
       (these standards do not apply to hot water heaters):
          3.2.3.1. Boilers having a maximum heat input of less than 2 million BTUs/hr shall meet the
          following emission standards:
          Carbon Monoxide - 200 ppmv @ 3% O2
          Oxides of Nitrogen - 50 ppmv @ 3% O2
          3.2.3.2. Boilers having a maximum heat input of equal to or greater than 2 million BTUs/hr,
          but less than 5 million BTUs/hr shall meet the following emission standards:
          Carbon Monoxide - 100 ppmv @ 3% O2
          Oxides of Nitrogen - 30 ppmv @ 3% O2
          3.2.3.3. Boilers having a maximum heat input equal to or greater than 5 million BTUs/hr shall
          meet the following emission standards:
          Carbon Monoxide - 50 ppmv @ 3% O2
          Oxides of Nitrogen - 15 ppmv @ 3% O2
       3.2.4. SI Accounts. EMs shall maintain an accurate and up-to-date inventory of all combustion
       units that are subject to this section. Inventories shall be maintained in SI Accounts in accordance
       with the provisions of Section 2. EMs must coordinate, with 30 CES/CEVCC all changes or mod-
       ifications to combustion units, including decommissioning/deactivation.
       3.2.5. Record Keeping and Reporting. The following recordkeeping and reporting requirements
       apply to combustion units located at Vandenberg AFB. Note: All record keeping and reporting
       shall be in compliance with all federal, state and local regulations.
          3.2.5.1. Natural Gas. On a quarterly basis, 30 CES/CEOE and 30 CES/CEOF shall provide
          30 CES/CEV with Vandenberg AFB natural gas fuel consumption information. Quarterly
          reports shall include, but are not limited to, the amount of fuel consumed at all metering loca-
          tions used by the natural gas utility company.
30SWI32702 30 OCTOBER 1998                                                                             5

        3.2.5.2. Propane: See Natural Gas. Paragraph 3.2.4.1.
  3.3. Fuel Storage Tanks:
     3.3.1. Applicability. The requirements identified in this section apply to all fuel storage tanks
     located at Vandenberg AFB or other sites owned or operated by the 30th Space Wing.
     3.3.2. Exemptions. Any fuel storage tank that meets at least one of the following conditions is
     exempt from the requirements identified in this section:
        3.3.2.1. Fuel storage tanks having a capacity of 55 gallons or less are exempt. Fuel storage
        tanks located on motor vehicles, cargo vessels, and portable equipment are exempt.
        3.3.2.2. Abandoned fuel storage tanks provided they contain no fuel.
     3.3.3. SI Accounts. EMs shall maintain an accurate and up-to-date inventory of all fuel storage
     tanks that are subject to this section. Inventories shall be maintained in SI Accounts in accordance
     with the provisions of Section 2.
     3.3.4. Record Keeping and Reporting. The recordkeeping and reporting requirements specified
     below apply to tanks located at Vandenberg AFB. Note: All record keeping and reporting shall be
     in compliance with all federal, state and local regulations.
        3.3.4.1. Fuel Deliveries. EMs and operators of fuel storage tanks shall maintain records on all
        fuel deliveries, including the amount of fuel delivered, the date it was delivered, and the tank
        location.
        3.3.4.2. Higher Heating Value and Sulfur content. EMs and operators of fuel storage tanks
        shall obtain manufacturer or supplier documentation on the fuel’s higher heating value and
        sulfur content. This documentation is required on an annual basis.
        3.3.4.3. Centrally Managed Fuels. On a quarterly basis, 30 CES/CEOE shall provide 30 CES/
        CEV with propane fuel delivery information supplied under the respective service contract.
        Propane delivery information shall include the amount of propane delivered, the date it was
        delivered, and the delivery location.
        3.3.4.4. Reporting. EMs and operators of fuel storage tanks shall compile all recordkeeping
        logs maintained pursuant to this section and submit them to 30 CES/CEV. Unless otherwise
        specified, reports shall be submitted to 30 CES/CEV no later than 15 days following the end of
        each calendar year.
  3.4. Abrasive Blasting Equipment:
     3.4.1. Applicability. The requirements identified in this section apply to all abrasive blasting
     equipment operated at Vandenberg AFB and other sites owned or operated by the 30th Space
     Wing.
     3.4.2. Exemptions: None.
     3.4.3. SI Accounts. EMs shall maintain an accurate and up-to-date inventory of all abrasive blast-
     ing equipment that is subject to this section. Inventories shall be maintained in SI Accounts in
     accordance with the provisions of Section 2.
     3.4.4. Record Keeping and Reporting. The recordkeeping and reporting requirements specified
     below apply to abrasive blasting equipment operated at Vandenberg AFB and other sites owned or
6                                                                    30SWI32702 30 OCTOBER 1998

       operated by the 30 Space Wing. All recordkeeping and reporting shall be the responsibility of
       EMs and operators of abrasive blasting equipment. Note: All recordkeeping and reporting shall
       be in compliance with all federal, state and local regulations.
          3.4.4.1. Record Keeping. Operators of abrasive blasting equipment shall track the type and
          quantities of abrasive blasting materials used during each calendar year using 30 SW Form
          152, Air Quality Recordkeeping Abrasive Blasting.
          3.4.4.2. Reporting. EMs and operators of abrasive blasting equipment shall compile all
          recordkeeping logs maintained pursuant to this section and submit them to 30 CES/CEV no
          later than 15 days following the end of each calendar year.
    3.5. Degreasers:
       3.5.1. Applicability. The requirements identified in this section apply to all degreasing equipment
       including parts washers that use ROC solvents used at Vandenberg AFB or other sites owned or
       operated by the 30th Space Wing.
       3.5.2. Exemptions: None.
       3.5.3. SI Accounts. EMs shall maintain an accurate and up-to-date inventory of all degreasers
       that are subject to this section. Inventories shall be maintained in SI Accounts in accordance with
       the provisions of Section 2.
       3.5.4. Recordkeeping and Reporting. EMs and users of degreasing equipment shall comply with
       the recordkeeping and reporting requirements specified in Section 4 for ROC-containing materi-
       als. Note: All record keeping and reporting shall be in compliance with all federal, state and local
       regulations.
    3.6. Explosive Ordnance.
       3.6.1. Applicability. The requirements identified in this section apply to explosive ordnance
       operations at Vandenberg AFB and other sites owned or operated by the 30th Space Wing.
       3.6.2. Exemptions: None.
       3.6.3. SI Accounts. EMs shall maintain an accurate and up-to-date inventory of all explosive ord-
       nance operations that are subject to this section. Inventories shall be maintained in SI Accounts in
       accordance with the provisions of Section 2.
       3.6.4. Record Keeping and Reporting. The recordkeeping and reporting requirements specified
       below apply to explosive ordnance operations at Vandenberg AFB. All recordkeeping and report-
       ing shall be the responsibility of EMs and individuals that conduct explosive ordnance operations.
       Note: All recordkeeping and reporting shall be in compliance with all federal, state and local reg-
       ulations.
          3.6.4.1. Recordkeeping. Responsible individuals shall maintain records on all explosive ord-
          nance events. Recordkeeping shall include the date that the detonation occurred, the type of
          explosive detonated, and the amount detonated. Records shall be maintained using 30 SW
          Form 161, Air Quality Source Recordkeeping Explosive Ordnance Disposal.
          3.6.4.2. Reporting. EMs and individuals that conduct explosive ordnance operations shall
          compile all recordkeeping logs maintained pursuant to this section and submit them to 30
          CES/CEV no later than 15 days following the end of each calendar year.
30SWI32702 30 OCTOBER 1998                                                                                7

4. ROC-Containing Materials:
   4.1. HazMart Materials:
      4.1.1. Applicability. The requirements identified in this section apply to hazardous materials
      tracked by the Vandenberg AFB HazMart.
      4.1.2. Exemptions: None.
      4.1.3. Material ROC and Density. The determination, verification, and tracking of product den-
      sity and ROC content shall be the joint responsibility of 30 CES/CEV and HazMart. HazMart
      shall provide 30 CES/CEV with MSDS information on all new hazardous materials, as specified
      below in Paragraph 4.1.4. 30 CES/CEV shall review the MSDS information and determine the
      density and ROC content of each product and forward this information back to HazMart for entry
      into the hazardous material information management system. Material density and ROC content
      shall be assessed on a monthly basis for all new materials that are received by HazMart.
      4.1.4. Reports:
         4.1.4.1. MSDS Report. HazMart shall provide 30 CES/CEV with MSDS information on all
         new products received on a monthly basis. The MSDS Report shall include the MSDS identi-
         fication number, the date of the MSDS, the product name, the manufacturer, the product NSN,
         the product density (if available), the product ROC content (if available), the CAS numbers of
         all constituents, and the percent content of all constituents. The MSDS Report shall be pro-
         vided in to 30 CES/CEV, in electronic format, within 14 days following the end of each calen-
         dar month.
         4.1.4.2. Material Usage Report. HazMart shall provide 30 CES/CEV with material usage
         information for each shop on a monthly basis. The Material Usage Report shall include the
         MSDS identification number, the amount of each product used, and a description on how each
         product was used. The report shall be provided to 30 CES/CEV, in electronic format, within
         14 days following the end of each calendar quarter.
         4.1.4.3. Shop Report. HazMart shall provide 30 CES/CEV with updated information on the
         shops that are enrolled with the HazMart. The Shop Report shall include all shop codes, the
         corresponding shop name, and the name and telephone number of the shop point of contact.
         The shop listing shall be provided to 30 CES/CEV, in electronic format, on a quarterly basis.
   4.2. Non-HazMart Materials:
      4.2.1. Applicability. The requirements identified in this section apply to all ROC-containing
      materials used at Vandenberg AFB or other sites owned or operated by the 30th Space Wing. Spe-
      cifically, the requirements identified in this section apply to the following eight source categories:
         4.2.1.1. General Surface Coatings. A General Surface Coating is any paint, stain, shellac,
         varnish, wood preservative, sealer, primer, curing compound, reducer, thinner, or any other
         surface coating material applied to any non-architectural substrate. Surface coatings applied
         to metal parts and products, motor vehicles, mobile equipment, aerospace vehicles, and wood
         products, are examples of a General Surface Coating. General Surface Coatings are always
         applied in conjunction with a paint booth and requires an APCD permit. Painting outside a
         permitted booth is allowed but requires APCD approval.
         4.2.1.2. Architectural Surface Coatings. An Architectural Surface Coating is any paint, stain,
8                                                                 30SWI32702 30 OCTOBER 1998

       shellac, varnish, wood preservative, sealer, primer, curing compound, reducer, thinner, or any
       other surface coating material applied to an architectural structure. Surface coatings applied to
       buildings, towers, aboveground tanks, roads, and parking lots are examples of Architectural
       Surface Coatings. The use of Architectural Surface Coatings does not require an APCD per-
       mit.
       4.2.1.3. Miscellaneous Products. A Miscellaneous Product is any ROC-containing material
       that is not a surface coating or a solvent. Glues, adhesives, herbicides, and pesticides are
       examples of Miscellaneous Products.
       4.2.1.4. Solvent Cleaning. Solvent Cleaning is any operation where a solvent is applied to a
       surface, usually by rag or sponge, for the purpose of removing dirt and contaminates.
       4.2.1.5. Solvent Batch Processes. A Solvent Batch Process is any operation that uses of sol-
       vents for any purpose other than solvent cleaning and degreasing. Film processing, electro-
       lytic plating, and chromate conversion coating operations are examples of Solvent Batch
       Processes.
       4.2.1.6. Degreasers. A Degreaser is defined as any piece of equipment designed to hold or
       dispense a solvent for the purpose of cleaning parts including parts washers.
       4.2.1.7. Cutback Asphalt. A Cutback Asphalt is any paving grade asphalt liquefied with a
       petroleum distillate. Cutback Asphalts are typically classified as rapid cure, medium cure, or
       slow cure.
       4.2.1.8. Emulsified Asphalt. An Emulsified Asphalt is any asphalt liquefied with water con-
       taining an emulsifier. The two most common types of emulsions are anionic and cationic.
    4.2.2. Exemptions. Materials that do not contain ROC's are exempt. The following ROC-contain-
    ing materials are exempt from the requirements identified in this section:
       4.2.2.1. Materials tracked by the Vandenberg AFB HazMart are exempt.
       4.2.2.2. Office supplies, such as white-out, white board cleaner, contact cement, and magic
       markers are exempt.
       4.2.2.3. Janitorial cleaning products are exempt.
       4.2.2.4. Materials that are stored, but not used at Vandenberg AFB or other sites owned or
       operated by the 30th Space Wing are exempt.
    4.2.3. MSDS Repository. 30 CES/CEV shall administer a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS)
    Repository for all ROC-containing materials subject to this section. Only those ROC-containing
    materials that have been entered into the MSDS Repository are authorized to be utilized on Van-
    denberg AFB and all other sites owned and operated by the 30th Space Wing. Items cannot be uti-
    lized prior to obtaining authorization from the repository.
       4.2.3.1. Establishment of Accounts. EMs shall establish a MSDS Repository Account by let-
       ter with 30 CES/CEV for all ROC-containing materials that are used by individuals within the
       EMs functional area of responsibility. To establish an MSDS Repository Account, the EMs
       shall submit to 30 CES/CEV the MSDS's of all ROC-containing materials subject to this sec-
       tion.
       4.2.3.2. Upkeep of Accounts. EMs shall submit to 30 CES/CEV the MSDS's of all new mate-
30SWI32702 30 OCTOBER 1998                                                                                 9

        rials, as they are obtained. On an annual basis, 30 CES/CEV shall provide EMs with a listing
        of all materials that have been entered into their MSDS Repository Account. Within 30 days
        of receiving the MSDS Repository Account Listing, EMs shall submit to 30 CES/CEV any
        new MSDS's that do not appear on the listing and request they be added to their account.
     4.2.4. Record Keeping and Reporting. EMs and users of ROC-containing materials shall comply
     with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements specified below. 30 SW Form 153 Air Quality
     Recordkeeping ROC-Containing Materials, shall be used for ROC- containing materials
     recordkeeping. Note: All record keeping and reporting shall be in compliance with all federal,
     state and local regulations.
        4.2.4.1. Quantities Used. Users of ROC-containing materials shall monitor and record the
        quantities of materials used. Acceptable methods of monitoring material usage include (1)
        maintaining purchase records and (2) estimating and recording material usage on a daily basis.
        Usage information shall be monitored and recorded separately for each of the source catego-
        ries identified above in Paragraph 4.2.1. Material usage shall be totaled on a calendar year
        basis.
        4.2.4.2. ROC Data. Users of ROC-containing materials shall maintain records on the ROC
        content of their materials. ROC data shall be maintained by either (1) recording the ROC con-
        tent of the material in units of pounds per gallon (lbs/gal) or grams per liter (g/l), or (2) record-
        ing the percentage (by weight) of ROC contained in the material and recording the material
        density or specific gravity.
        4.2.4.3. Annual Report. At the end of each calendar year, EMS and users of ROC-containing
        materials shall review all recordkeeping logs maintained pursuant to this section and submit a
        summary of material ROC and usage information to 30 CES/CEV. Unless otherwise approved
        by 30 CES/CEV, material ROC and usage information shall be reported using the forms iden-
        tified below. Annual reports are due no later than 30 days following the end of each calendar
        year.
  4.3. Forms Prescribed. 30 SW Form 152, Air Quality Recordkeeping Abrasive Blasting, 153,
  Air Quality Recordkeeping ROC-Containing Materials, 154, Air Quality Source Profiling
  Abrasive Blasting Equipment, 155, Air Quality Source Profiling Boilers and Hot Water Heaters,
  156, Air Quality Source Profiling Internal Combustion Engine, 157, Air Quality Source Profil-
  ing Fuel Storage Tanks, 158, Air Quality Source Profiling Degreasers, 159, Air Quality Source
  Profiling General Emission Source, 160, Air Quality Source Recordkeeping Fuel Storage Tanks,
  and 161, Air Quality Source Recordkeeping Explosive Ordnance Disposal.



                                        STEVEN C BOYCE, Colonel, USAF
                                        Commander, 30 Civil Engineering Squadron
10                                                          30SWI32702 30 OCTOBER 1998

                                          Attachment 1

            GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Abbreviations and Acronyms
APCD—Air Pollution Control District
BTU/HR—British Thermal Units per hour
CARB—California Air Resources Board
Combustion Units—Fuel fired boilers and hot water heaters
EMs—Environmental Managers
FUMP—Fuel Use Monitoring Plan
HAZMART—Hazardous Materials
MSDS—Material Safety Data Sheets
ROC—Reactive Organic Compound
SI—Source Inventory accounts
VOC—Volatile Organic Compound
30—th CES/CEV—30th Civil Engineering Squadron Environmental Section
30—th CES/CEOE—30th Civil Engineering Squadron Maintenance Engineering Section
30—th CES/CEOF—30th Civil Engineering Squadron Facility Maintenance Section
