BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 30TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 13-210
30TH SPACE WING                                                                      2 OCTOBER 2006
                                                                     Certified Current 23 AUGUST 2011
                                                                  Space, Missile, Command and Control

                                                               EVACUATING OR SHELTERING OF
                                                             PERSONNEL ON OFFSHORE OIL RIGS



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 2 ROPS/DON                                        Certified by: 30 OG/CC (Col John W. Raymond)
Supersedes 30SWI91-105, 30 October 1998                                                     Pages: 8

This instruction implements and extends guidance from AFI 13-201, Air Force Airspace Management.
This instruction establishes 30th Space Wing (30 SW) responsibilities and procedures related to evacuat-
ing or sheltering personnel on offshore oil rigs near Vandenberg Air Force Base (VAFB) during missile
or space launch operations. This instruction pertains to any platforms west of 120 degrees 15 minutes lon-
gitude. It applies to all personnel and agencies involved in the evacuation and sheltering of offshore per-
sonnel. Additionally, it applies to the Range Technical Service Contractor (RTSC) to the extent specified
in the current RTSC’s contract which will, in the event of conflict, take precedence over this instruction.
Finally, Attachment 2 is a Sample Notification Memorandum for the Minerals Management Service.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this instruction to 2 ROPS/DON, 1602 California, Blvd
Suite 146 VAFB CA 93437-5233 using AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publications.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and dis-
posed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://
afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision incorporates the following changes: Throughout the document, 30 RANS has been changed
to 2 ROPS; 30 SW/XPRO has been changed to 30 SW/CCH; DOUN has been changed to DON; DOUS
has been changed to DOS; “lessor” has been changed to “leaser;” 30 SW/SE has been changed to 30 SW/
SEL; a comma has been added after “notices” (paragraph 2.); the last sentence has been changed to better
reflect the section within safety that interfaces with 2 ROPS/DON; “30 SW Commander” has been
changed to “30 SW/CC” (paragraph 3.1.); “at all times” has been added; “in the Safety Office (30 SW/
SE), 806 13th Street, Suite 207, Vandenberg AFB CA 93437-5233, for review and reference” has been
changed to “2 ROPS/DON”; parenthesis have been removed from last sentence (paragraph 3.2.2.);
reworded with no content change (paragraph 3.3.); “Aeronautical control Officer (ACO)” has been
changed to “Aerospace Control Officer (ACO)”(paragraph 3.4.1.); “Frontier Control” has been capital-
ized, “the” has been removed before MMS (paragraph 3.4.2.); “are” has been changed to “is” (paragraph
2                                                                     30SWI13-210 2 OCTOBER 2006


3.5.); a comma has been added after “sensitive” (paragraph 4.1.); “required” has been removed (paragraph
5.1.); “Follow the current operating instructions” has been removed (paragraph 5.2.2.); the following
paragraphs have been rearranged (paragraphs 6.1.4., 6.1.5., and 6.1.6.); paragraph has been reworded
(paragraph 6.2.1.); “the” has been removed (paragraph 6.2.2.); paragraph has been reworded (paragraph
6.2.3.); requirement for verbal notification has been added; “(see paragraph 2.3. above)” has been
removed (paragraph 6.3.3.); paragraph reworded and office of responsibility has changed (paragraph
6.3.4.); The Range Operations Flight (30 RANS/DOU) will: has been changed to The Aerospace Control
Officer (ACO) will (paragraph 6.4.); “and the launch operation Range Operations Commander (ROC)”
has been added ( paragraph 6.4.1.); Approval authority has been updated; 30 CES/CEBD has been
changed to 30 CES/CEX (paragraph 6.4.3.); AFI 13-201 has been added as a reference Attachment 1;
Frontier Control definition has been reworded; name and location of control center has been updated
Attachment 1; and a complete revision of Attachment 2. A bar (|) indicates a revision from the previous
edition.


1. Responsibilities:
    1.1. The Commander, 30th Space Wing, ensures acceptable range safety is consistent with opera-
    tional requirements and directs temporary suspension of offshore operations and evacuation of oil
    rigs.
    1.2. The Operations Security (OPSEC) Office (30 SW/CCH) is responsible for security, operational
    procedures, and instructions.
    1.3. The Staff Judge Advocate (30 SW/JA) recommends enforcement actions.
    1.4. The Commander, 2d Range Operations Squadron (2 ROPS/CC) is responsible for:
       1.4.1. Issuing notices to evacuate offshore oil rigs.
       1.4.2. Ensuring the range is clear during scheduled launch operations.
       1.4.3. Coordinating safety plans and procedures with affected agencies.
       1.4.4. Recommending enforcement actions.
    1.5. The Command Post (30 SW/CP) is responsible for notifying affected platforms of accidental
    spills of toxic propellants.

2. Safety Policy Reference. The Chief of Safety (30 SW/SE) and the 2 ROPS/CC will coordinate safety
plans and procedures with other agencies within potentially affected areas and issue notices, as required.
The 30 SW/SE and 2 ROPS/CC have delegated this authority to the Launch Safety office (30 SW/SEL)
and the Airspace and Offshore Management Flight (2 ROPS/DON).

3. General Provisions. Because of the inherent danger in ballistic and space launch operations, reason-
able precaution must be taken to minimize risk to life and property. Therefore, a systematic procedure has
been developed which permits the 30 SW to perform its operational mission and provides protection for
personnel and equipment on offshore oil rigs. This procedure involves evacuating or sheltering, commu-
nications, notification and enforcement authority for all personnel on offshore oil rigs.
    3.1. Oil Rig Stipulations. Each offshore oil rig operates on a specific parcel of offshore, submerged
    land, leased to an oil company by either the state or federal government. Certain leases contain stipu-
30SWI13-210 2 OCTOBER 2006                                                                               3


  lations that provide for the lessee to operate and not interfere with Department of Defense (DoD) test
  operations. These stipulations require the temporary suspension of operations (oil drilling), including
  evacuating or sheltering personnel, when directed by the 30 SW/CC. Other provisions in the lease
  stipulations provide for controlling small boat and helicopter traffic to and from the oil rigs and for
  controlling electromagnetic radiation from the oil rig at all times. At least one channel of communica-
  tions is allowed to continue operating on the oil rig. A separate stipulation provides a "Hold Harmless"
  condition for the Air Force. Copies of the specific stipulations are available from 2 ROPS/DON.
  3.2. Platform Compliance. Because the location of rigs in areas near to launch trajectories causes a
  concern for public safety, 30 SW/SEL and 2 ROPS/DON will establish initial contact and coordinate
  with the state or federal government (leaser) and the oil company (lessee) during launch operations to
  ensure compliance with lease stipulations.
     3.2.1. After the oil company lessee occupies the lease area with a drill ship or platform, 2 ROPS/
     DON maintains a current forecast of planned movements and effects the condition necessary to
     ensure a clear range during scheduled launch operations.
     3.2.2. If an oil company lessee does not comply with a lease stipulation (i.e., refuses to evacuate,
     fails to comply with "take cover" instructions, etc.), 2 ROPS/DON will advise 30 SW/SEL and 2
     ROPS/CC. In appropriate cases, 2 ROPS/DON and 30 SW Staff Judge Advocate (30 SW/JA) will
     recommend enforcement actions. This enforcement action may include contacting the Regional
     director of the Minerals Management Service (MMS), Department of Interior.
  3.3. Shelter or Evacuation Notices. MMS will be provided three separate notices concerning the
  requirement to shelter or evacuate during an operation. Each notice will be verbal, either by radio or
  by telephone. The first notice will be confirmed via memorandum (see Attachment 2), and will be
  given 10 to 15 days before the operation, advising the oil rig operator to prepare for possible shelter-
  ing or evacuation. The second notice will be provided the day before (24-36 hours) the operation con-
  firming the requirement to shelter or to evacuate. The third notice will be from Frontier Control, and
  serve as final notice before, during, and after securing the operation. Additional notices will be sent,
  as required, for schedule changes.
  3.4. Potential Toxic Footprints.
     3.4.1. Platforms may be at risk from toxic vapor clouds as a result of a fuel loading operation, a
     nominal flight, or a catastrophic abort of a launch vehicle. For launch operations, if this potential
     is determined to apply to the platform(s), the MMS will receive the following notice from 2
     ROPS/DON concerning the potential need to shelter personnel: "An operation is scheduled for
     _____________ (date) between the hours of _________________. Predicted weather conditions
     could transport a tier ______________ toxic vapor cloud over platforms: _________, _________,
     _________, _________. At approximately two hours before launch, the Aerospace Control
     Officer (ACO) will update the affected platform(s) on the status of the predicted toxic vapor cloud
     transport. Platform operators will be responsible to shelter or otherwise protect all personnel
     according to procedures stated in each oil company’s Plan for Evacuating or Sheltering." This
     notice will be given one day before the scheduled operation.
     3.4.2. In the event of an accidental spill of toxic propellant during a fuel loading or transfer oper-
     ation, affected platforms will be immediately notified by the Command Post (30 SW/CP) or Fron-
     tier Control, as appropriate. Due to the number and relative safety of propellant operations, a
     preliminary notice will not be provided to MMS.
4                                                                      30SWI13-210 2 OCTOBER 2006


    3.5. MMS Operations Division. The MMS Operations Division, Department of Interior, represents
    the federal government as "leaser" of the Outer Continental Shelf oil tracts. The range safety stipula-
    tion in the lease is the basis for the "shared use" provisions. The District Manager of the MMS is the
    30 SW point of contact for starting action to enforce these lease stipulations.

4. Security Policy.
    4.1. General. This policy guidance is provided to prevent the disclosure of sensitive, unclassified
    information that can be used to degrade mission effectiveness.
    4.2. Protection. Anyone implementing this instruction must consider the security protection of USAF
    operations resulting from the identification and notification procedures. Take precautionary measures
    to ensure that notifications are only given to those personnel who require them to perform their related
    duties. To the maximum extent possible, notices to oil rig operators made subject to this instruction
    will not identify the launch operation by booster type or location.
    4.3. Classification. All information concerning launch operations must be treated as stated in applica-
    ble program security classification guides and related security classification policies. Deviating from
    these policies is not authorized, and any violations will be immediately reported to the 30 SW OPSEC
    Office (30 SW/CCH). Refer questions concerning operational procedure and security restrictions to
    30 SW/CCH for a decision.
    4.4. Provisions. All personnel concerned with security provisions of this instruction will evaluate its
    effectiveness on a continuing basis. Address recommendations for changes to 30 SW/CCH.

5. Points of Contact.
    5.1. Initial Contact. 2 ROPS/DON and 30 SW/SEL are the first points of contact for offshore oil oper-
    ations with federal and state leasing agencies, oil companies, oil rig operators and the Western Oil and
    Gas Association. 2 ROPS/DON ensures the proper pre-sale coordination is accomplished with the
    appropriate government agency and begins any lease stipulation action.
    5.2. Routine Contact. 2 ROPS/DON is the operational point of contact for coordinating offshore oil
    rig shelter or evacuation actions. Responsibilities for shelter or evacuation will start when an oil rig
    operator arrives at an operating position near Vandenberg AFB. 2 ROPS/DON will:
       5.2.1. Distribute required notices to on-station oil rigs concerning compliance with the provisions
       of the "shelter or evacuate" stipulations in the leases. This action is not limited to notices concern-
       ing sheltering or evacuating, but includes controlling electromagnetic radiation and small boats or
       helicopters servicing the oil rigs. When "shared use" lease stipulation enforcement action is neces-
       sary, 2 ROPS/DON will coordinate the matter with 30 SW/SEL.
       5.2.2. Report any damage to offshore oil rigs resulting from scheduled operations on the Western
       Range to MMS.

6. Operating Procedures.
    6.1. 2 ROPS/DON will:
       6.1.1. Establish initial coordination with each oil company planning offshore oil rig operations
       near Vandenberg AFB, west of 120 degrees longitude.
30SWI13-210 2 OCTOBER 2006                                                                               5


     6.1.2. Advise 30 SW/SEL when a new offshore oil rig plans to enter the area.
     6.1.3. Start lease stipulation enforcement action, when required.
     6.1.4. Advise 30 SW/SE of the lease stipulation conditions when any lease enforcement action is
     necessary. Coordinate with 30 SW/SE and 30 SW/JA to present the details of the situation to the
     MMS District Office.
     6.1.5. Ensure safety stipulations are part of each lease for offshore oil tracts near VAFB (where
     necessary).
     6.1.6. Maintain a plot and record of each oil rig operating near VAFB.
  6.2. 30 SW/SEL will:
     6.2.1. Advise 2 ROPS/DON when a launch operation requires sheltering or evacuation of oil rig
     personnel.
     6.2.2. Advise 2 ROPS/DON of specific requirements for evacuating or sheltering each oil rig
     affected by launch operations, including location of any safe areas where personnel may be tem-
     porarily located.
     6.2.3. Provide shelter or evacuation requirements to 2 ROPS/DON and 2 ROPS/DOS in sufficient
     time to meet the "T" minus 10 to 15 days first notice and the L-1 day (T-24 hours to 36 hours) sec-
     ond notice.
  6.3. Western Range Scheduling (2 ROPS/DOS) will:
     6.3.1. Notify the MMS District Office verbally and in writing of the requirement to shelter or to
     evacuate each of the affected oil rigs 10 days before the operation. This first notice is to allow the
     oil rig operator sufficient time to make plans for the operation.
     6.3.2. Pass any schedule changes affecting the time of sheltering or evacuating to the MMS Dis-
     trict Office, after they have received the first notification to shelter or evacuate.
     6.3.3. Confirm to the MMS District Office the requirement to shelter or to evacuate personnel
     from the oil rig the day before the operation. The second notice enables the oil rig lessee to start
     any procedures required to shutdown the rig and to shelter or evacuate personnel.
     6.3.4. Notify the MMS District Office if the operation is canceled or rescheduled.
     2 ROPS/DOS will notify both MMS and the affected oil rig(s) if the operation is cancelled or
     rescheduled after the second notice but before Frontier Control is manned.
  6.4. The Aerospace Control Officer (ACO) will:
     6.4.1. Coordinate the third notice to the oil rig lessee and the actions necessary for sheltering or
     evacuating and report completion of these actions to 30 SW/SEL and the launch operation Range
     Operations Commander (ROC).
     6.4.2. Upon operation completion and approval from 30 SW/SEL, advise the affected oil rig
     leases that they may return to normal operations.
     6.4.3. Coordinate with the 30 SW Command Post (30 SW/CP) and the 30th Civil Engineer
     Squadron Readiness Flight (30 CES/CEX) (during Mobile Command Post operations) for emer-
     gency support of damaged oil rigs, if applicable.
6                                                                     30SWI13-210 2 OCTOBER 2006


       6.4.4. If a cancellation or rescheduling occurs while Frontier Control is operational, notify the oil
       platform(s) directly; if Frontier Control is not operational, notify them the next duty day.

7. Adopted Forms:
    7.1. AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publications.



                                               JACK WEINSTEIN, Col, USAF
                                               Commander
30SWI13-210 2 OCTOBER 2006                                                                        7


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 13-201, Air Force Airspace Management

Terms
Frontier Control—The call sign for the Area Control Center (ACC) that provides area surveillance and
clearance for Western Range Operations. It is a component of the Western Range Operations Control
Center (WROCC) located in Bldg. 7025 at Vandenberg AFB CA.
Hold Harmless—Legal term meaning free from liability of loss.
8                                                                      30SWI13-210 2 OCTOBER 2006


                                               Attachment 2

                            SAMPLE NOTIFICATION MEMORANDUM
MEMORANDUM FOR (ADDRESSEE)


FROM: 2 ROPS/DOS
        1602 California Blvd
        Vandenberg AFB CA, 93437


SUBJECT: Drilling Platform Sheltering for (OPERATION)


1. The 30th Space Wing Western Range requires the sheltering of all personnel from platform Hermosa in
accordance with approved plans on file at Minerals Management Service (MMS). Sheltering is required
on (DATE, TIME), until released by the Aerospace Control Officer (ACO) at approximately (TIME).
Frontier Control will be manned by not-later-than (TIME).


2. The Western Range Scheduling Office will notify MMS of any schedule changes as soon as possible.
Oil rig sheltering requirements will be confirmed with your office via telephone on the day before the
mission. If the launch is scrubbed prior to Frontier Control manning, on mission day, WR Range Sched-
uling will attempt to notify MMS directly. If MMS can’t be contacted, a call to the affected oil rigs will be
initiated to advise them of the scrub. After Frontier Control manning, all operational status affecting the
rigs will be provided by the ACO via telephone.


3. The 30th Space Wing requests all Western Range operational information be held in strictest confi-
dence and disclosed only to those with an absolute need-to-know.


4. If there are any questions, please contact 2ROPS/DOS at (805) 606-8825.




                                                               NAME, RANK, SERVICE
                                                               Launch Forecaster
