BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                30TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 32-7010
30TH SPACE WING
                                                                                           8 MAY 2009
                                                                                      Civil Engineering
                                                                          Certified Current 22 July 2011
                                                                         PROCEDURES FOR SITINGS




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:            Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
                          publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY:            There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 30 CES/CECB                                      Certified by: 30 MSG/CC (Col Benjamin C. Huff)
Supersedes: 30SWI32-108, 18 July 1998                                                      Pages: 7


This instruction outlines procedures for the siting of all proposed use and construction, including
commercialization projects at Vandenberg AFB and extends guidance from AFI 32-7062, Air Force
Comprehensive Planning; as applicable. It applies to all host and Department of Defense (DoD) tenant
organizations on Vandenberg AFB, and to all non-DoD activities and weapon/space/range contractors
that use Vandenberg AFB. Refer recommended changes and questions about this instruction to 30
CES/CECB 1172 Iceland Ave, B.11433, Vandenberg AFB, CA 93437 using AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publications. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to
AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The revision of this publication is to update office names, procedures, and types of approvals that have
changed since the previous 18 August 1998 edition. The publication number reflects the series number.
Some minor editing has also been done. No content material or process has changed except that 30
MSG approval is no longer required for temporary siting requirements (paragraph 5.4.); that approval is
at the 30 CES Engineering or Operations Flight Chief level (paragraph 5.4.), and the Facilities Board
(FB) only approves siting for major construction and land use designation that differs from the current
General Plan (paragraph 1.1.).
1. Responsibilities.
   1.1. The VAFB Facilities Board (FB) approves all requests for siting major construction and
   changes in land use designations that differ from the approved General Plan bi-annually.
   1.2. The VAFB Planning Office (30 CES/CECB):
2                                                                              30SWI32-7010 8 MAY 2009


       1.2.1. Presents major construction siting actions and land use changes that deviate from the
       current approved General Plan to the VAFB Facilities Board.
       1.2.2. Administers and updates Vandenberg AFB General Plan as required to keep current.
       1.2.3. Develops Vandenberg AFB area development plans and ensures General Planning goals
       and objectives are implemented in base development.
       1.2.4. Receives and processes all siting requests and initiates the formal siting process (AF Form
       332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request). Formally coordinates with appropriate base agencies
       for siting concurrence (i.e., Safety, Range, Environmental, etc.) and approval. Approves or
       disapproves minor construction, special project siting, and land use changes in conjunction with
       the approved General Plan.
       1.2.5. Recommends approval or disapproval of all new projects and major construction sitings at
       Vandenberg AFB.
       1.2.6. Recommends type of approval; i.e., Temporary, or Formal siting approval.
       1.2.7. Determines siting consistency with the Vandenberg AFB General Plan and selects
       appropriate siting locations. Conducts siting surveys, reviews construction documents, and
       determines potential sites in regard to appropriate land use, future mission growth, and user
       needs, as required. Comments on all Environmental Assessments (EA) and Environmental
       Impact Statements (EIS) in regard to facility/site/range/land use impacts or modifications.
       1.2.8. Validates siting requests and coordinates approval for all base support and temporary
       trailer (construction and mission related) requests in support of awarded government or
       commercial contracts and missions.
       1.2.9. Coordinates on all AF Form 332 and AF Form 103, Base Civil Engineering Work
       Clearance Requests, that involve new sitings and/or developments.
       1.2.10. Processes all requests for use of modular facilities in place of permanent construction to
       the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations and Environmental (SAF/IEI).
       1.2.11. Administers Vandenberg AFB Air Installation Compatible Use Zones (AICUZ) program
       and processes waivers to Airfield clearance criteria (reference UFC 3-260-01).
       1.2.12. Notifies siting requester of FB action.
    1.3. The Program Requirements Division (30 SW/XPR) will:
       1.3.1. Serve as the initial point of contact and wing proponent for new government and
       commercial entities requesting use of Vandenberg AFB.
       1.3.2. Relay siting requests, and program summary to 30 CES/CECB via the Site Survey process
       per the Base Unit Beddown Program, AFI 10-503 for site investigation, development of potential
       sites, selection, coordination, and all approvals. This package will also include a statement that
       the 30 SW supports the request for use and requests support for the proposed new program.
2. Submission Requirements. Siting requests must be approved for:
    2.1. All proposed construction, permanent or temporary, or relocatable facilities (modulars and pre-
    engineered), trailers, regardless of cost, size, or scope; i.e., new facilities and structures, additions to
    existing facilities or structures, equipment enclosures, antennas, fences, pads, roads, driveways,
    parking areas, or utilities services which are extended or modified, etc. Modular facilities are
    considered temporary facilities.
30SWI32-7010 8 MAY 2009                                                                               3


   2.2. Any proposed program or action that will affect existing or future land use on Vandenberg
   AFB.
   2.3. Any structure, i.e., building, trailer or shed, permanent or temporary, to be located within an
   explosive safety zone or within the scope of range, airfield clearance, or security criteria, etc.
   2.4. All laydown, staging, and/or storage areas for materials and equipment.
   2.5. Relocation of any facility regardless of size or age.
3. New Programs Beddowns.
   3.1. The Program Requirement Division (30 SW/XPR), 1515 Iceland Ave, Bldg 8500, Suite 1,
   Vandenberg AFB, CA 93437-5244, serves as the initial point of contact for all government and/or
   new commercial entities requesting use of Vandenberg AFB and will relay all siting requests to 30
   CES/CECB on behalf of the requesting party during the Site Survey process, along with a program
   summary and statement that the 30 SW supports the proposed request per the Base Unit Beddown
   Program, AFI 10-503. The request will also identify potential base or range support requirements
   and will be relayed to the Base Planning Office (30 CES/CECB), 1172 Iceland Avenue, Bldg 11433,
   Vandenberg AFB CA 93437-6011, for all new programs and or facilities. The summary shall
   include a brief description of each program, along with an estimate as to when and for how long base
   support is required. If base support involves administrative and/or technical space, real property or
   facilities, the recommended locations should be included.
   3.2. When an entity requests to construct a new facility in support of a proposed new program, or an
   existing program assigned to Programs Requirement Division (30 SW/XPR), the Base Planning
   Office (30 CES/CECB) will be contacted by 30 SW/XPR via Site Survey invitation to evaluate
   commercial program requirements. The objective of this initial interaction is to establish a common
   understanding of the user’s basic support requirements and how they can be met with 30 SW's
   capabilities without adversely impacting other current and projected Vandenberg AFB missions.
   3.3. If at any time project scope or requirements change from what was on an original siting request
   letter, 30 SW/XPR will initiate a revised siting request to 30 CES/CECB.
   3.4. Siting requests should, when possible, identify a prioritized list of candidate sites on
   Vandenberg AFB. 30 CES/CECB will coordinate the siting request with appropriate base agencies
   for concurrence and approvals (see Para. 6).
   3.5. All new programs/facility requirements will be coordinated through Environmental Planning
   (30 CES/CEVP) for applicability of an AF Form 813, Request for Environmental Analysis, and the
   Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP) via the Site Survey process.
   3.6. In addition, all new programs/facility requirements will have coordination through 30th Space
   Communications Squadron (30 SCS/CD) to ensure communications requirements are addressed via
   the Site Survey process.
4. Facilities Board Approval.
   4.1. The Base Planning Office (30 CES/CECB) will address the Facilities Board bi-annually for all
   major construction sitings and land use changes that deviate from the current approved General Plan.
   4.2. Siting Definitions:
      4.2.1. Temporary Siting: Time based approval ranging from 90 days to 3 years exclusively for
      temporary type projects. A temporarily approved project is to be concluded or relocated off-base
      prior to the siting end date.
4                                                                          30SWI32-7010 8 MAY 2009


       4.2.2. Formal Siting: Final, official approval of a project or site use. Approval is based upon all
       outstanding siting issues having been addressed. Formal Siting is valid for 36 months. If in this
       period the project is not established on Vandenberg AFB, the site approval will need to be
       resubmitted for approval.
       4.2.3. Modular Structure Siting: Considered any temporary trailer, pre-engineered or
       "component" type constructed facility. Three years temporary siting approval is the maximum
       granted per the planned replacement of the modular facility with a permanent facility. HQ
       SAF/MI approval is required prior to siting any modular structure.
       4.2.4. Base Support/Laydown Area Approval: Granted in support of an awarded government
       contract for length of a project’s performance period.
5. Requests for Temporary Siting Requiring Base Support and Services.
    5.1. Validation and approval is required for every request for temporary use (in support of an
    awarded government/contractor/tenant contract) of any site on Vandenberg AFB. This includes site
    usage for temporary trailers and containers (those for construction activities), mission support type
    trailers and vaults, material storage/laydown and stockpile areas (short and long term), equipment
    parking, fenced lots, etc.
    5.2. The government project officer (30 CES/CECB) is responsible for monitoring the ongoing
    appearance and boundaries of the laydown/equipment areas. Base support and services approval
    will be suspended or terminated if site approval provisions are not observed during the siting period.
    5.3. The requester is responsible for maintaining the site in accordance with the directions of the
    granting government project officer, including complying with environmental rules according to the
    environmental, safety, and occupational health compliance assessment management plan
    (ESOHCAMP) applied by the base environmental office, 30 CES/CEV. After completion of the
    construction period, removal of all equipment and materials, and restoration of the site to original
    condition, is required at the expense of the requester.
    5.4. Requesters shall submit a AF Form 332 for base support at least 15 calendar days in advance of
    need date. After coordination through environmental, safety, and other offices as required on the AF
    Form 332, it must be signed by the 30 CES Engineering or Operations Flight Chief or their deputies,
    or higher, before approval is granted.
6. Submission of Requests.
    6.1. Send all siting and support requests to the Base Planning Office (30 CES/ CECB), 1172 Iceland
    Avenue, Bldg. 11433, Vandenberg AFB CA 93437-6011, for processing per AFI 32-7062, Air Force
    Comprehensive Planning; AFMAN 32-1076, Design Standards for Visual Air Navigation Facilities,
    and AFMAN 91-201, Explosive Safety Standards; DoD Standard 6055.9, DoD Ammunition and
    Explosives Standards; AFSPC Manual 91-710, Range Safety User Requirements, as applicable. In
    addition, the following must be made available as part of the siting request:
       6.1.1. A copy of AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, and AF 103, Base Civil
       Engineering Work Clearance Request, DD Form 1391, Military Construction Project Data, or a
       memorandum requesting siting.
       6.1.2. A description of the proposed program or facility’s scope of 30 SW operational support
       requirements; i.e., range and airfield support, security, communications, primary and emergency
       power, water, sewage (including aboveground and under ground installations), etc.
30SWI32-7010 8 MAY 2009                                                                                 5


      6.1.3. One copy of the proposed site plan (print or reproducible, size appropriate to sufficiently
      show the entire site) showing the configuration and orientation of proposed facilities, equipment,
      pads, fences, roads, antennas, parking areas, access roads, turnarounds, etc., at scale.
      6.1.4. Proposed construction start date.
      6.1.5. A statement indicating the status of explosive/hazardous or toxic materials:
      6.1.5. 1 That explosives/hazardous or other toxic materials will not be involved in the siting.
      6.1.5. 2 If explosive/hazardous and or toxic materials will be involved in the siting, include
      information per AFMAN 91-201 and or EWR 127-1 in the siting request. Subsequent
      coordination with 30 SW/SE will be required prior to explosive/hazardous/toxic siting approval
      being accomplished.
      6.1.6. Name of the government project manager and point of contact for additional information.
   6.1. 7 All new programs/facility requirements will be coordinated through Environmental Planning
   (30 CES/CEVP) for applicability of an AF Form 813 and the Environmental Impact Analysis
   Process (EIAP).
   6.2. For requests in support of an awarded government contract, also include performance period
   dates, contract length, contractor names, and contract/project numbers.
   6.3. Siting requests should be submitted to 30 CES/CECB in a timely manner. For siting requests
   including major construction or changes in land use that deviate from the current approved General
   Plan, the Vandenberg Facilities Board (FB) meets bi-annually. If the need date is less than 180 days
   from the date of the siting request, include justification for priority action in request for siting.
   Formal siting approval is required before any construction can be started.
7. Adopted Forms.
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF Form 103, Base Civil Engineering Work Clearance Requests
AF Form 813, Request for Environmental Analysis
DD Form 1391, Military Construction Project Data




                                            DAVID J. BUCK, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
6                                                                      30SWI32-7010 8 MAY 2009


                                           Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-503, Unit Base Beddown Program
AFI 32-7062, Air Force Comprehensive Planning
AFI 32-7062, Air Force Comprehensive Planning
AFMAN 32-1076, Design Standards for Visual Air Navigation Facilities
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
AFMAN 91-201, Explosive Safety Standards
AFSPC Manual 91-710, Range Safety User Requirements
DoD Standard 6055.9, DoD Ammunition and Explosives Standards
EWR 127-1, Eastern and Western Range, Range Safety Requirements
UFC 3-260-01, Airfield and Heliport Planning and Design

Abbreviations and Acronyms
BCP—base comprehensive plan
BRAC—base realignment and conversion
CES—Civil Engineer Squadron
EA—Environmental Assessment
EIAP—Environmental Impact Analysis Process
EIS—Environmental Impact Statement
ESOHCAMP—Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Compliance Assessment Management
Plan
FB—Facilities Board
FYDP—five-year defense plan
GIS—geographic information system
IRP—installation restoration program
MILCON—military construction
MSG—Mission Support Group
NAF—nonappropriated funds
O&M—operations and maintenance
POM—program objectives memorandum
Q-D—quality-distance
VAFB—Vandenberg AFB
30SWI32-7010 8 MAY 2009                                                                                7


Terms
Component Plan—A detailed document comprised of graphics, textual data, and narrative that focuses
on functional areas that support the General Plan and the overall comprehensive planning effort.
Preparation of Component Plans is not specifically required by this instruction. Other installation
programs may require the preparation and maintenance of a Component Plan. Component Plan
information should be incorporated into the General Plan at an appropriate level of detail.
Comprehensive Plan—The combination of the General Plan, Component Plans, Special Plans and
Studies, and Maps that document a wide range of information necessary for decision-making. It
encompasses those specific resource documents and processes determined to be essential for planning
and managing an installation's physical assets in support of the mission. The comprehensive plan is the
all-encompassing description of the products, whereas comprehensive planning is the action associated
with the process and implementation.
Comprehensive Planning—The ongoing, iterative, participatory process addressing the full range of
issues affecting or affected by an installation's development. Through this process, goals and objectives
are defined, issues are identified, information is gathered, alternative solutions are developed, and a
sound decision-making process is employed to select a preferred alternative for implementation.
General Plan—The document that provides the installation commander and other decision-makers a
condensed picture of an installation's capability to support the mission with its physical assets and
delivery systems. It is a general assessment of the installation’s infrastructure and attributes for the
purpose of gauging development potential.
Map—A graphic representation, usually on a plane surface, and at an established scale, of natural or
built features on the earth surface, that generally encompasses the installation, surrounding area, and
region. The features are positioned relative to a coordinate reference system. Maps in most cases will be
computer generated. Maps support the General Plan, Component Plans, and Special Plans and Studies.
Special Plans and Studies—A source of planning information on a functional area required by a
specific Air Force program. Examples include Housing Community Plans, Integrated Natural Resources
Management Plans, Air Quality Studies, and Transportation Studies.
