BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 30TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 99-103
30TH SPACE WING                                                                       2 OCTOBER 2006
                                                                     Certified Current 27 FEBRUARY 2014
                                                                                    Test and Evaluation

                                                                      AERONAUTICAL OPERATIONS
                                                                      AND TESTING IN THE WCOOA



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 2 ROPS/DON                                        Certified by: 30 OG/CC (Col John W. Raymond)
Supersedes 30SWI10-107, 30 September 1998                                                   Pages: 8

This instruction implements AFI 99-103, Capabilities Based Test and Evaluation, and defines the gen-
eral boundaries of the West Coast Offshore Operating Area (WCOOA) and the resources available for
aeronautical operations and testing. It establishes the policies, responsibilities, and procedures for sup-
porting operations and testing. The provisions of this instruction apply to 30th Space Wing (30 SW) sub-
ordinate activities and special program offices supporting aeronautical operations and testing in the
WCOOA. Refer recommended changes and questions about this supplement to 2 ROPS/DON, 1602 Cal-
ifornia Blvd, Suite 146 VAFB CA 93437-5233 using AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publications. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located
at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision incorporates the following changes: Throughout the document, 30 RANS has been changed
to 2 ROPS; “Flight Safety Analyst (30 SW/SEY)” has been changed to “30th Space Wing Launch Safety
(30 SW/SEL).” Airspace and Offshore Management Flight (2 ROPS/DON) has been added (paragraph
1.1.); “Area Control Center” has been changed to “ACC” (paragraph 1.2.); “Aeronautical Operations
Control Officer” has been changed to “AOCO” (paragraph 1.3.); “the” has been removed (paragraph
1.4.1.); “according to this instruction” has been removed (paragraph 1.5.1.); “system” has been changed
to “system's” (paragraph 1.5.2.); “Range Tasking Office (RTO)” has been changed to “2 ROPS Range
Scheduling Office (2 ROPS/DOS)” (paragraph 1.6..); “WR” has been changed to “30 SW” and
“DoD-directed equipment” has been added (paragraph 2.); “2 ROPS” has been added (paragraph 3.1.);
“Flight Safety Analysis” has been removed (paragraph 3.1.3.); “Range Tasking Office (RTO)” has been
changed to “2 ROPS/DOS” (paragraph 3.2.); removed paragraph (paragraph 3.2.4.); “2 ROPS” has been
added (paragraph 3.3.); “Range Operations Maintenance Support Services and Contract (ROMSSC)” has
been changed to “range support contractor” (paragraph 3.3.4.); “Flight Safety Analyst” has been removed
(paragraph 3.4.); “system” has been changed to “system’s;” (paragraph 3.4.2.); “the first WR mission” has
2                                                                     30SWI99-103 2 OCTOBER 2006


been changed to “30 SW mission;” a comma has been added after “commence” (paragraph 3.4.4.);
Approval Authority has been updated; Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 3200.11, Major Range
and Test Facility Base Summary of Capabilities, has been replaced with AFI 99-103, Capabilities Based
Test and Evaluation in Attachment 1; format has been changed to include bolding of titles in the refer-
ence section; ACC has been added; “WR” has been changed to “30 SW;” “Aeronautical Operations Con-
trol Officer” has been added; “West Coast Offshore Operating Area” has been added; WCOOA
Handbook has been added; “states” has been changed to “identifies A3.1.;” “unmanned remotely piloted
vehicle (RPV)” has been changed to “Unmanned Aerial System (UAS)”A3.11.. A bar (|) indicates a revi-
sion from the previous edition.


1. Responsibilities:
    1.1. The 2d Range Operations Squadron (2 ROPS) Airspace and Offshore Management Flight
    (2 ROPS/DON) will:
       1.1.1. Optimize range support to meet aeronautical test and operational requirements in an envi-
       ronment that ensures flight safety for all participating and nonparticipating aircraft. This includes
       the operational planning, scheduling, and control for all test and support aircraft operating within
       the defined limits of the WCOOA.
       1.1.2. Manage the Area Control Center (ACC) for support of aeronautical operations and testing
       in the WCOOA.
       1.1.3. Request Aeronautical Operations Control Officer (AOCO) to monitor ACC personnel dur-
       ing aeronautical operations and testing.
    1.2. The ACC will provide radar services (vectors and surveillance), flight following, Federal Avia-
    tion Administration (FAA) and Air Traffic Control (ATC) flight plan coordination, radar handoff, and
    related services for mission and participating aircraft.
    1.3. The AOCO will monitor ACC personnel and manage range assets during aircraft testing opera-
    tions.
    1.4. Program Support Manager (PSM) will:
       1.4.1. Act as an interface between range user or test agency and the 2 ROPS. PSM will be respon-
       sible for program support planning and documentation necessary to conduct operations.
       1.4.2. Monitor the operation and provide information to the AOCO, if needed, for real-time deci-
       sions.
    1.5. 30th Space Wing Launch Safety (30 SW/SEL) will:
       1.5.1. Provide operational safety analysis.
       1.5.2. Evaluate safety approval on missions involving supersonic flights and the discharge of any
       weapon system's ordnance.
    1.6. 2 ROPS Range Scheduling Office (2 ROPS/DOS) will schedule all activities which require
    Western Range (WR) resources and coordinate scheduling activities of support ranges.
30SWI99-103 2 OCTOBER 2006                                                                               3


2. 30 SW Support Policy. 30 SW is dedicated to the support of all DoD-directed equipment and weapon
system testing and operation. This DoD directed equipment includes newly developed aircraft and aero-
nautical systems requiring the specialized resources of the WCOOA. When designated as lead range, 30
SW support will include: planning, analysis and development of flight safety criteria, scheduling of facil-
ities and airspace, and real-time operational control of aircraft. When operating as a support range for
operations in the WCOOA, 30 SW will ensure the provisions of this instruction are fulfilled.

3. Procedures for WCOOA Test:
   3.1. 2 ROPS Program Support Manager (PSM) will:
       3.1.1. Ensure proper conceptual planning and organization of support requirements.
       3.1.2. Coordinate with range user to determine requirements.
       3.1.3. Obtain pre-operation safety approval from 30 SW/SEL for each mission involving super-
       sonic flight or the discharge of any weapon system's ordnance, whether live or inert.
       3.1.4. Provide necessary documents defining safety and support requirements to the users, sup-
       port aircraft agencies, and support agencies. This includes operational directives, vehicle-peculiar
       supplements, operational requirements extracts, and special instructions (as required).
   3.2. 2 ROPS/DOS will:
       3.2.1. Respond to user requests for operation schedules.
       3.2.2. Schedule required airspace in accordance with mission planning requirements.
       3.2.3. Interface directly with the scheduling functions of other ranges as required.
   3.3. 2 ROPS Aeronautical Operations Control Officer (AOCO) will:
       3.3.1. Manage aircraft and aeronautical systems tests in real-time.
       3.3.2. Manage all facets of support for test operations.
       3.3.3. Approve configuration and support changes.
       3.3.4. Ensure that range support contractor complies with the Statement of Work.
   3.4. 30 SW/SEL will:
       3.4.1. Provide operational safety analysis, as required (Attachment 3).
       3.4.2. Evaluate requests for safety approval on all missions involving supersonic flight or the dis-
       charge of any weapon system's ordnance (live or inert).
       3.4.3. Evaluate the need for changes in the established flight safety criteria on a case-by-case
       basis.
       3.4.4. Provide the results of the above items to the appropriate PSM in sufficient time for 30 SW
       mission support to commence, as planned.
4                                                           30SWI99-103 2 OCTOBER 2006


4. Adopted Forms:
    4.1. AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publications.



                                         JACK WEINSTEIN, Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander
30SWI99-103 2 OCTOBER 2006                                                                             5


                                             Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 99-103, Capabilities Based Test and Evaluation, 6 August 2004.
DoD Flight Information Publication, “Area Planning, Special Use Airspace, North and South Amer-
ica.”
Federal Aviation Administration Handbook (FAAH) 7610.4, Special Military Operations.
Range Users Handbook.
Memorandum of Understanding concerning the WCOOA.
WCOOA Handbook

Terms
Area Control Center (ACC)—The WR Military Radar Unit (MRU) which controls mission aircraft in
the WCOOA, monitors non-mission aircraft, and is certified by both 30 SW and the FAA. It is manned by
certified contractor personnel.
Aeronautical Operations Control Officer (AOCO)—The real-time interface between the range user
and Range Scheduling Office so that optimum support is provided.
Test Agency—An agency which has established a requirement for aeronautical operations in the
WCOOA.
Real-time—The relatively small amount of time spent during the actual operation. For 30 SW
aeronautical operations real-time commences with the launching of the range user’s aircraft and
terminates when the aircraft departs 30 SW control.
Support Aircraft—Any aeronautical vehicle, perhaps mission essential, which is not itself being
evaluated. Examples of support aircraft include: chase, tankers, airborne sensors, photographic support,
and communications relay aircraft.
West Coast Offshore Operating Area (WCOOA)—The WCOOA is generally that airspace west of the
coastline extending seaward about 200 nautical miles (NM) to the extent of range instrumentation
coverage (Attachment 2). The southern and northern extremities vary with program requirement, but
generally extend from the latitude of the Canadian border to the latitude of the Mexican border. Most
aircraft test flights are conducted in a 30 NM wide corridor immediately west of and parallel to the Air
Defense Identification Zone (ADIZ) line. This 30 NM-wide corridor generally provides optimum
instrumentation from the shore-based radar, telemetry, and communications sites. Flight operations may
be scheduled outside of this 30 NM corridor if required by special flight profiles. The WCOOA is entirely
over water and does not encompass any island masses, although generally contained with Warning Areas,
flight profiles cross open airspace and FAA control area extensions to the composite oceanic route
structure.
6                                         30SWI99-103 2 OCTOBER 2006


                           Attachment 2

               WCOOA RADAR COVERAGE AND AIRSPACE

Figure A2.1.
30SWI99-103 2 OCTOBER 2006                                                                                  7


                                               Attachment 3

                          AIRSPACE UTILIZATION SAFETY CRITERIA

A3.1. The safety criteria developed for use in the WCOOA are the result of requirements associated with
specific programs. This attachment identifies general safety criteria established for previous programs and
serves as a guide to prospective range users. It describes the nature of the safety criteria constraints that
may be encountered. Additional specific safety criteria for each mission will be contained in the safety
approval letter.

A3.2. Flights involving radar controlled intercepts or simulated attacks will not close to less than 3 nau-
tical miles (NM) relative range unless the pilot reports visual reference to the target or vertical separation
is assured. Actual closure range should be no less than mission requirements and never less than safe
operating practices would deem appropriate.

A3.3. Simulated attacks on manned aircraft or surface units with other than captive ordnance are not per-
mitted. All weapon systems will be “test-fired” in a safe area to ensure they are not charged with live
ammunition prior to simulated attacks on manned targets.

A3.4. Unless the test aircraft’s agency or requirements dictate otherwise, all “head-on” intercepts will
break to the right (starboard) no later than minimum weapon release range or 5 NM, whichever is greater.
Tests involving “overhead” intercepts must include specific procedures to ensure that the aircraft maneu-
ver on diverging courses.

A3.5. The safety weapon discharge at supersonic speeds must be reasonably substantiated by weapon
system development tests or laboratory verification tests.

A3.6. The operation of all weather systems through clouds, undercast or overcast, rain or fog requires a
plan for total surveillance of the associated ground and air environment to meet the desired level of mis-
sion safety.

A3.7. Aerial and surface targets will be positioned to avoid FAA control area extensions and associated
intersections.

A3.8. Air carrier, general aviation, and transient military aircraft will not be used as “targets of opportu-
nity” for simulated attacks.

A3.9. Itinerant surface craft will not be used as “targets of opportunity” for simulated attacks.

A3.10. Upon completion of live firing operations, and prior to departing the firing area, the pilot will ver-
ify and report “no hung ordnance, guns safe, and armament switches off” as appropriate.

A3.11. Mission aircraft will not be vectored or cleared to fly beneath a drone or Unmanned Aerial System
(UAS).
8                                                                 30SWI99-103 2 OCTOBER 2006


A3.12. Active firing areas may be overflown if a minimum of 5,000 feet clearance over the maximum
ordinate of the weapons system is obtained.

A3.13. The hazard envelope for aircraft weapons systems test must clear land areas by a minimum of 5
NM. The hazard envelope should also be positioned clear of air corridors and shipping lanes.

A3.14. All supersonic runs should be away from or parallel to the coast. Under no conditions, should a
supersonic run be towards land.
