BY ORDER OF THECOMMANDER                                  30TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 33-117
30TH SPACE WING                                                                    28 FEBRUARY 1999

                                                                      Communications and Information

                                                                  AMATEUR, CITIZENS-BAND,
                                                      BUSINESS-BAND, RADIO-TELEPHONE AND
                                                       LOW POWER COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE
                                                                              OPERATIONS

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE : This publication is available digitally on the30th Space Wing WWW site at: http://
vepdl.vafb.af.mil. If you lack access, contact your Publishing Office.


OPR: 30 MXS/MXRS (Mr. C. A. Jordan)                       Certified by: 30MXS/MXR (Mr. R. Sproston)
Supersedes 30SWI 33-117, 26 Nov 1996                                                       Pages: 6
                                                                                    Distribution: F

This instruction establishes policy and procedures and defines responsibilities for use of privately owned
radio transmitting devices at Vandenberg Air Force Base (AFB) and at other site specific locations owned
and operated by the 30th Space Wing (30 SW). It applies to all personnel working and residing on Van-
denberg AFB and at the remote locations operated by the 30 SW. Attachment 1 is a Glossary of Refer-
ences, Abbreviations, Acronyms and Terms.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
The revision of this publication is to meet the format standards required by the Air Force. No content
material has changed. Some required format changes have been made to allow for the conversion pro-
cess.



1. Responsibilities:
   1.1. The 30 SW Commander may restrict the use of radio transmitters that jeopardize government
   operations.
   1.2. The 30th Range Squadron Commander directs the management of all radio frequency device
   operations on Vandenberg AFB, and at remote locations operated by instrumentation elements of the
   Western Range.
       1.2.1. Frequency Manager (30 MXS/MXRS, 734-8232, ext. 6-6695) directs the activities of the
       Range Operations, Maintenance, and Support Services Contract (ROMSSC) operated Frequency
       Control and Analysis Center (FCAC) in the implementation of this instruction.
       1.2.2. The Frequency Control and Analysis Center (FCAC) 734-8232, ext. 6-9247) implements
       frequency management and control activities to ensure compliance with this instruction.
2                                                                   30SWI33-117 28 FEBRUARY 1999

    1.3. The 30th Civil Engineering Squadron ensures all antennas installed at residence comply with the
    Care and Maintenance of Military Housing Guidelines.
    1.4. The 30th Medical Group hospital personnel ensures portable RF devices are not used in proxim-
    ity to patient care electronic equipment.
    1.5. The 30th Contracting Squadron ensures the registration of all contractor operated RF devices is
    accomplished.

2. Policy. The 30 SW Radio Frequency Spectrum Manager; acting for the 30 SW Commander, is respon-
sible for all electromagnetic radiation emanating from the installation and from those outlying activities
hosted by the installation. All radio frequency operations must cease immediately when specifically
directed to do so by the frequency manager or the FCAC.

3. Registration:
    3.1. Resident and transient owners of amateur, citizens-band, radiotelephone, and cellular telephone
    transmitters, except for contractors doing business on Vandenberg AFB (Paragraph 3.2.) are not
    required to register them for use.
       3.1.1. This requirement is subject to change.
       3.1.2. Operators of this equipment must comply with posted NO TRANSMIT LOCATIONS
       (Paragraph 5.).
    3.2. Contractors must register all radio communications devices that are used in the conduct of their
    business on Vandenberg AFB at other 30 SW operating locations. This includes land portable and
    mobile radios and cellular telephones.
       3.2.1. The contracting officer registers the systems by providing radio frequencies and FCC
       assigned business radio call signs (cell phones excepted) to the Frequency Manager (30 MXS/
       MXRS).
       3.2.2. The particulars of the area where the systems will be used are specified at the time of the
       request.
       3.2.3. Use is restricted to those areas encompassing the job site only.
           3.2.3.1. Use of mobile radio systems, including cellular radio telephones, enroute to the job
           site is permitted only in those areas not under restriction (Paragraph 5.).
           3.2.3.2. Use of radio communications at the job site, within a designated "no transmit" area, is
           at the discretion of the Air Force official having purview over that specific facility or location
           and must be addressed in the contract work statement (SOW).

4. Low-Power Devices:
    4.1. The use of FCC Part 15 low power communications devices is on a non-interference basis to
    licensed radio systems.
    4.2. Low power devices must accept any radio frequency interference received.
    4.3. The use of low power devices in an operational area or job site is at the discretion of officials
    controlling that specific location.
30SWI33-117 28 FEBRUARY 1999                                                                           3

5. Restricted Areas of Operation. Use of a radio transmitter, including a cellular radio telephone, is
restricted to preclude interference to government operations, and the inadvertent firing of ordnance in
these areas:
   5.1. All of Vandenberg AFB south of Highway 246 except for the cantonment area near the South
   Gate (13th Street).
   5.2. On and west of Tangier Road from Space Launch Complex 2 (SLC 2); south to New Mexico
   Avenue.
   5.3. On 13th Street, west of the junction of El Rancho Road and the Advanced Ballistic Reentry Sys-
   tem (ABRES) Atlas pads.
   5.4. On Bishop Road, east of Lompoc-Casmalia Highway (Vandenberg Tracking Station).
   5.5. Within 500 yards of any convoy transporting ordnance.
   5.6. Peacekeeper area, north and west of El Rancho Road.
   5.7. Any area posted to specifically prohibit radio transmissions (such as at launch facilities).
   5.8. 30th Medical Group Hospital Operations. Cellular phones or Land Mobil Radios (LMR) will be
   turned to the “off” position when within 20 feet of patient care electronic equipment. Interference
   could greatly impair patient care and/or health.

6. Residential Antennas. All residential antennas must comply with 30th Civil Engineer Squadron
guidelines.

7. Violations. Violators must cease operation and remove all antennas associated with the radio transmit-
ting equipment covered by this instruction.
   7.1. All radio transmission devices while on Vandenberg AFB and at other 30 SW operating locations
   are subject to inspection and radio frequency radiation testing.
   7.2. The operating privileges for any transmitting devices or components thereof that violate current
   FCC regulations may be canceled under Section 606 of the Communications Act of 1934; as
   amended.
   7.3. All operators are expected to be self-policing and to report suspected violators to the Frequency
   Control & Analysis Center (FCAC), Bldg. 7011, 826 13th Street, Suite 302, which is manned 24 hours
   a day, 7 days a week, at 734-8232, ext. 6-9247.

8. Operations Security (OPSEC). Users of privately owned and operated radio equipment must not
transmit missile operation or other sensitive information.

9. Security, Law Enforcement, and Emergency Services: are exempt from posted "no transmit" areas
except for restrictions to ordnance and hypergol transport convoys, and within exclusion circles estab-
lished by ground safety officials around launch facilities.
4                                                                 30SWI33-117 28 FEBRUARY 1999

10. Modification, Suspension, or Cancellation of Instruction. The private use of radio transmitters
may be further restricted or prohibited by order of the 30 SW Commander if officials suspect that govern-
ment operations may be in jeopardy.



                                         PAUL W. CURTIS, Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander, 30 LG
30SWI33-117 28 FEBRUARY 1999                                                                           5

                                             Attachment 1

        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS AND TERMS

References
AFI10-707, Spectrum Interference Resolution Program
30SWI33-102, Radio Frequency Management
AFI33-118, Radio Frequency Spectrum Management

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABRES—Advanced Ballistic Reentry Systems
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
CB—Citizens-Band
FACA —Frequency Control and Analysis Center
FCC—Federal Communications Commission
LMR—Land Mobil Radios
OPSEC—Operations Security
RANS—Range Squadron
RF—Radio Frequency
ROMSSC—Range Operations Maintenance and Support Services Contract
SLC—Space Launch Complex
SOW—Statement of Work
SW—Space Wing
SWI—Space Wing Instruction

Terms
Amateur (Service—)A radio communication service for the purpose of self training, inter
communication and technical investigation carried out by amateurs, that is by duly authorized persons
interested in radio technique solely with a personal aim and without pecuniary interest (RR/FCC Part 97).
BusinessBand (Business Radio Service)—Radio Communications in support of a commercial
(pecuniary) activity. (FCC Part 90.75).
Cellular Radio Telephone—See “Radio Telephone.”
Citizen’s Band (CB) Radio Service —The CB Radio Service is a private, twoway, shortdistance voice
6                                                                  30SWI33-117 28 FEBRUARY 1999

communications service for personal or business activities. The CB Radio Service may also be used for
voice paging. (FCC Part 95; Subpart D)
Interference (Electromagnetic)—The effect of unwanted energy due to one or a combination of
emissions, radiation, or induction upon reception in a radio communications system; manifested by any
performance degradation, misinterpretation, or loss of information that could be extracted in the absence
of such unwanted energy. (RR)
Low Power Communications Device—(FCC part 15). A restricted radiation device, exclusive of those
employing conducted or guided RF techniques, used for the transmission of signs, signals (including
control signals), writing, images and sounds, or intelligence of any nature by radiation of electromagnetic
energy. Examples: Wireless microphones, phonograph oscillators, baby monitors, wireless alarms,
garage door openers, and radio        controlled models. These types of systems must operate at power
levels below one tenth of a watt (0.1W or 100 milliwatts) and are considered low power. These devices
do not require a FCC license.
No Transmit Areas—Specific geographical locations where operation of the devices covered by this
instruction are not permitted.
Radio Telephone—Portable or mobile (installed in vehicle) telephone. Also a “cellular phone.” Not a
portable low power wireless phone (FCC part 15 Device). (CC Part 22—Public Mobile Service).
Radio Transmitter—A device that radiates radio frequency energy at specific frequencies.
RR—International Telecommunications Union Radio Regulations.
NTIA—National Telecommunications and Information Administration (Department of Commerce).
