BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           30TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 10-201
30TH SPACE WING
                                                                                26 JANUARY 2011

                                                                                          Operations

                                                        VANDENBERG AFB AUGMENTATION
                                                                       PROGRAM (VAP)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS INSTRUCTION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 30 SW/CCC                                                            Certified by: 30 MSG/CC
Supersedes: 30SWI10-201,                                                        (Col Kelly A. Kirts)
            15 August 2005                                                                  Pages: 9


This instruction implements Air Force Pamphlet (AFPAM) 10-243, Augmentation Duty, and
outlines the purpose, procedures, and responsibilities for using the augmentation program. It
applies to all personnel assigned to Vandenberg Air Force Base (VAFB), including tenant units
when participating in this program. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve or Air
National Guard units and members. This instruction requires collecting and maintaining
information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by Title 10, U.S.C., Section 8013.
Send recommended changes and questions about this instruction to 30 SW/CCC, using AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. All organizational
names and office symbols have been updated. Attachments have been updated to reflect changes
in the Vandenberg AFB Augmentation Program.
1. Program Mission. The Augmentation Program validates, approves, and documents the need
for additional personnel to support installation-level requirements. It identifies, trains, and tracks
personnel to meet augmentee needs for VAFB-level exercises, contingencies, wartime,
emergency, or recurring peacetime requirements tasked from outside the augmented
squadron/unit.
 2                                                         30SWI10-201 26 JANUARY 2011


2. Responsibilities:
     2.1. Commander, 30th Space Wing (30 SW/CC).
        2.1.1. Establishes the Vandenberg AFB Augmentation Program (VAP) through
        implementation of this instruction. This program is the only authorized augmentation
        program on VAFB.
        2.1.2. Designates 30 SW/CV as the approval authority for the VAP.
     2.2. 30th Space Wing Vice Commander (30 SW/CV).
        2.2.1. Serves as approval authority for manning augmentation.
        2.2.2. Chairs the Augmentation Review Board (ARB).
        2.2.3. Maintains authority over all Augmentation Duty call-ups for base-wide exercises,
        contingencies, emergencies, and wartime conditions.
        2.2.4. Establishes the Augmentation Working Group (AWG) and appoints 30 SW/CCC
        as the chairperson.
     2.3. 30th Space Wing Command Chief (30 SW/CCC).
        2.3.1. Serves as the AWG chair.
        2.3.2. Acts as a liaison for the ARB, AWG and Group Monitors (GM) as required.
        2.3.3. Distributes approved augmentation requests to GMs as levied by the AWG.
     2.4. Augmented Unit (AU) Commanders (CCs of units that require augmentation).
        2.4.1. Request and justify augmentee force requirements in writing to the 30 SW/CV.
        2.4.2. Will justify the number of augmentees required, training requirements and
        parameters of how and when augmentees will be utilized.
        2.4.3. Appoint in writing primary and alternate Augmentee Managers (AM) for a period
        of no less than one year. Replacements should be appointed at least 60 days prior to the
        departure of the previously assigned augmentee program manager.
        2.4.4. Ensure all specialized clothing and equipment required to perform augmentation
        are available.
        2.4.5. Notify supporting unit commanders, in writing of any augmentee training and/or
        recall no-shows.
        2.4.6. Notify the 30 SW/CV and request recalls when augmentees are required.
     2.5. Augmentee Managers
        2.5.1. Track all assigned augmentees and their training status. As a minimum, grade,
        name, SSAN (last 5 digits), unit, date assigned, training required, date trained, and
        training expiration date will be collected, maintained, and available for review.
        2.5.2. Coordinate all augmentee requirements and training through appointed Unit
        Monitors (UMs).
30SWI10-201 26 JANUARY 2011                                                                  3


     2.5.3. Notify GMs through their squadron Superintendent when experiencing problems
     with tasked units or UMs.
     2.5.4. Develop and provide training schedules.
     2.5.5. Schedule and notify all UMs and augmentees of training requirements at least 30
     days in advance.
     2.5.6. Provide monthly training reports to the 30 SW/CCC and GM identifying
     augmentees and their associated training status NLT the 5th duty day of each month.
     2.5.7. Maintain current appointment letters for each UM, alternate UM and augmentee.
     2.5.8. Establish and control augmentee recall procedures.
     2.5.9. Notify GM and all UMs (by e-mail) when augmentees are no longer required or
     released.
  2.6. Group Monitor (GM)
     2.6.1. The Group Superintendent of the unit requesting augmentees acts as the GM.
     2.6.2. Coordinates with the unit AM to verify force requirements prior to 30 SW/CV
     review.
     2.6.3. Validates fair share of E-6 and below support with Manpower and Organization
     section (30 FSS/FSMM) and Military Personnel (30 FSS/FSMP) following 30 SW/CV
     augmentation approval.
     2.6.4. Serves as members of the Augmentation Working Group.
     2.6.5. Is responsible for the overall administration of their group’s participation in the
     Augmentation Program, to include enforcing this instruction within their groups.
     2.6.6. Ensure their group’s required numbers of augmentees are appointed, trained and
     available, to include alternates.
  2.7. Augmentation Review Board.
     2.7.1. Comprised of all Vandenberg group commanders and tenant unit commanders
     participating in the augmentation program, who serve as voting members. 30 SW/CV
     serves as chair and will carry a vote in the event of a tie. Advisors (non-voting members)
     include the following: 30 SW/CCC, 30 FSS/FSMM, 30 FSS/FSMP and GM.
     2.7.2. Meets at as needed to review requirements or resolve any issues requiring
     attention.
  2.8. Augmentation Working Group.
     2.8.1. Is comprised of the 30 SW/CCC (Chairperson) and all Group and Tenant
     Commanders, Superintendents and GMs assigned to Vandenberg AFB. The chairperson
     may include other key members in the AWG as needed. The AWG will:
     2.8.2. Addresses and resolve matters pertaining to the VAP and act as the primary
     advisory body to the ARB.
 4                                                           30SWI10-201 26 JANUARY 2011


        2.8.3. Resolves any conflicts that cannot be resolved by the GM, UMs and squadron
        Superintendents. The AWG will convene only if there is a dispute with fare share
        numbers.
        2.8.4. Make recommendations to the ARB on augmentation requests and or changes.
        2.8.5. Meets as required to review, validate, and prioritize augmentation plans and
        requirements.
     2.9. Supporting Unit Commanders (CCs of units tasked to provide augmentees).
        2.9.1. Appoint, in writing, a primary and alternate Unit Monitor (UM) to the augmented
        unit (courtesy copy the respective GM) to manage the unit’s program.
        2.9.2. Appoint, in writing, the 30 SW/CV approved number of augmentees, plus
        alternates, to the augmented unit AM (courtesy copy the respective GM). It is
        recommended that one and a half to two times the requirement be appointed.
        2.9.3. Ensure personnel provided for augmentation duty are under the operational control
        of the augmented unit while performing augmentation duties, and are not scheduled for
        leave, temporary duty (TDY), or training during their augmentation duty period.
        2.9.4. Ensure replacements are appointed for primary augmentees who will be PCSing,
        separating, or who will otherwise be determined unavailable for augmentee duty. This
        should be accomplished 60 days prior to unavailability. Incumbents will not be released
        until replacements are appointed and trained.
     2.10. Augmentees:
        2.10.1. Report to the Augmented Unit (AU) when directed.
        2.10.2. Will fall under the operational control of the AU for all appointments, duty
        schedules, and training until officially relieved of augmentation duty.
        2.10.3. Complete required training prescribed by the AU within the prescribed time.
        2.10.4. Immediately notify UM if a change in availability occurs (that is, medical waiver,
        TDY, and so forth).
        2.10.5. Return any equipment issued by the AU upon termination of participation in the
        augmentation program.
3. Determining Fair Share of Augmentees:
     3.1. The GM will coordinate with 30 FSS FSMM / 30 FSS FSMP to determine fair share
     amounts. This amount will be based on a unit’s total number of E-6 and below authorized,
     assigned and the total number of augmentees required.
     3.2. Unless specifically exempted by the AWG, all personnel assigned to Vandenberg AFB
     are considered available to perform augmentation duty.
4. Exemptions/Removal and Replacement of Augmentees:
     4.1. Exemptions. If a unit is unable to fill an augmentation tasking, the UM will notify the
     applicable AM, who will try to source a replacement through the GM. If a unit is unable to
     fill the tasking, the UM will request exemption from the tasking to the VAP Manager.
     Requests will be made in writing (using format at Attachment 4) as early as possible, but not
30SWI10-201 26 JANUARY 2011                                                                      5


   later than 10 duty days prior to the scheduled training date for the affected AU. AMs
   requesting exemption will provide the circumstances, including the period of time for the
   exemption, which preclude them from filling the tasking. The AWG may convene to discuss
   and resolve the issue. A response will be provided back to the GM. In cases where the
   AWG cannot resolve the issue, the matter will be presented to ARB for resolution.
   4.2. Removal and Replacement of Augmentees. If a tasked unit needs to remove an
   assigned augmentee, the UM will provide a replacement via an updated appointment letter
   (courtesy copy their respective GM) to the affected AU prior to removing the augmentee. If
   the unit is unable to replace the augmentee, they will coordinate with their GM, who will
   attempt to resolve the issue by sourcing a replacement. In cases where the group or tenant
   unit is unable to provide a replacement, the GM will inform the VAP Manager via the
   exemption process described in paragraph 4.1.. If required, the VAP Manager will convene
   the AWG to resolve filling the tasking.
   4.3. If an augmentee is unavailable upon recall, the UM will first try to fill the requirement
   with an alternate from within the unit. If none are available, the UM will elevate the shortfall
   to the GM through the AM, who will attempt to resolve the issue. Only after all resources at
   the unit and group/tenant unit level have been exhausted, will the AM request assistance
   from the VAP Manager in filling the requirement.
5. Adopted Forms or Prescribed Forms: There are no adopted or prescribed forms used in
this publication.




                                             RICHARD W. BOLTZ, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
 6                                                30SWI10-201 26 JANUARY 2011


                                   Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPAM10-243, Augmentation Duty, 1 August 2002

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ARB—Augmentation Review Board
AM—Augmentee Manager
AU—Augmented Unit
AWG—Augmentation Working Group
DAF—Department of the Air Force
FSS—Force Support Squadron
GM—Group Monitor
FSMM—Manpower and Organization
FSMP—Military Personnel
NLT—No Later Than
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
TDY—Temporary Duty
UM—Unit Monitor
VAP—Vandenberg AFB Augmentation Program
30SWI10-201 26 JANUARY 2011                                                                         7


                                               Attachment 2
                           AUGMENTEE APPOINTMENT LETTER

MEMORANDUM FOR (AUGMENTED UNIT) [Use letterhead and Arial 12 pt font]
FROM: SQ/Unit CC
SUBJECT: FOUO - (Augmentation Duty) Appointment Letter - FOUO
1. The following individual/personnel have been appointed (augmentation duty) augmentee/s for
a period of no less than one year from the date of this memo.
Grade       Name                           SSAN (U/FOUO)           Office Symbol        Duty Phone
                                           (Last 5 digits)




2. Each augmentee is responsible for the following:
      a. Notifying the squadron monitor of any situation that may preclude them from performing
      their duties (i.e. all leaves, TDYs, PCS, or periods of profile/physical injury).
      b. Completing all training requirements associated with the augmentation duty, as determined
      by the Augmented Unit.
      c. Reporting to the augmented unit as required when directed to do so by a competent
      authority (i.e. Unit Monitor, Group Monitor, Unit Commander, etc).
      d. Reporting back to your assigned unit immediately upon release from augmentee duties by
      the Augmented Unit.
3. This letter supersedes all previous letters, same subject. Please direct any questions on this
matter to my unit monitor, MSgt Soandso, (Unit/Office Symbol) at 222-3456.
4. The information contained herein is personal and will not be disclosed without the consent of
the individual. The disclosure of any information may constitute an invasion of privacy IAW
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program.
[Start 2-line signature block on fifth line]
      Squadron CC Signature Block
cc:
Each Individual
Applicable Group Monitor
Applicable Unit Monitor
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
 8                                                             30SWI10-201 26 JANUARY 2011


                                               Attachment 3
                       AUGMENTATION REQUIREMENT REQUEST

NOTE: Electronic version of this letter is acceptable. Use letterhead and Arial 12 pt font
MEMORANDUM FOR 30 SW AUGMENTATION WORKING GROUP
FROM: Unit or SQ/CC

SUBJECT: Augmentation Requirement Request/Change
1. Request for new augmentation support: YES______ NO______
2. Request for changes to existing augmentation team: YES______ NO______
3. Justification/rational for new requirement or change:
4. Number of positions/grades requested or changed:
5. Parameters of use: How, when, and timeline for augmentee use, i.e. Will require augmentees
indefinitely when FPCON goes to XX level, % of needed AFSCs are deployed, etc.
6. Training and or equipment requirements: Who, what type, how long, how often, where, type
equipment, etc.?
[Start 2-line signature block on fifth line]
                                                        Unit or SQ/CC Signature Block

1st Ind, 30 SW Augmentation Working Group

MEMORANDUM FOR 30 SW AUGMENTATION REVIEW BOARD
Concur/Non-Concur
[Start 2-line signature block on fifth line]
                                                        30 SW/CCC Signature Block

2d Ind to Unit or SQ/CC, Original Memo Date, Augmentation Requirement Request/Change
MEMORANDUM FOR UNIT or SQ/CC
Concur/Non-Concur
[Start 2-line signature block on fifth line]
                                                        30 SW/CV Signature Block
30SWI10-201 26 JANUARY 2011                                                                       9


                                               Attachment 4
       REQUEST FOR EXEMPTION(S) TO THE AUGMENTATION PROGRAM

NOTE: Electronic version of this letter is acceptable. Use letterhead and Arial 12 pt font
MEMORANDUM FOR AUGMENTATION WORKING GROUP
FROM: Unit or SQ/CC
SUBJECT: (Augmentation Duty) Exemption Request

1. Proposed Exemption(s): (Identify augmentation position/s that unit is unable to support)
2. Circumstances: (Explain in detail the circumstances for the exemption request to include the
period time it will be required.)
3. Current Augmentees: (List the name/s and grade/s of the personnel currently supporting this
augmentation requirement.)
4. Additional Information: (Provide any additional information to support or justify the
exemption request.)
[Start 2-line signature block on fifth line]
                                                        Unit or SQ/CC Signature Block

1st Ind, 30 SW Augmentation Working Group

MEMORANDUM FOR UNIT or SQ/CC (or 30 SW AUGMENTATION REVIEW BOARD
when elevated for resolution)
Concur/Non-Concur (or Recommend Concur/Non-Concur when elevated to ARB)
[Start 2-line signature block on fifth line]
                                                        30 SW/CCC Signature Block
(AWG will add the following endorsement only when elevating the Exemption to the ARB)
2d Ind to Unit or SQ/CC, Original Memo Date, (Augmentation Duty) Exemption Request

MEMORANDUM FOR UNIT or SQ/CC
Concur/Non-Concur
[Start 2-line signature block on fifth line]
                                                        30 SW/CV Signature Block
