BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          30TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 40-301
30TH SPACE WING
                                                                                   4 APRIL 2014

                                                                               Medical Command

                                                             FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAM




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 30 MDOS/SGOW                                                       Certified by: 30 MDG/CC
                                                                           (Col Barbara A. Jones)
                                                                                         Pages: 17
Supersedes:    30 SWI 40-301, 29 June 2011


This instruction establishes the Vandenberg AFB Family Advocacy Program (FAP). It assigns
responsibilities and implements policies and procedures in accordance with (IAW) Department
of Defense (DOD) and Air Force (AF) policies, directives, and instructions for the identification,
treatment, and prevention of family violence. This instruction applies to all military and civilian
personnel and their dependents entitled to receive medical care in a military facility as specified
in AFI 41-115, Authorized Health Care and Health Care Benefits in the Military Health Services
System. All military members and civilian employees assigned to Vandenberg AFB (host or
tenant units) will report all known incidents or suspected instances of family maltreatment to the
Family Advocacy Program. Failure to comply with the reporting procedures described herein
may be punishable under Article 92 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice.

NOTE: This publication is affected by the Privacy Act of 1974. Each form is subject to the
provisions of AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program. This instruction requires the
collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by
Title 10, United States Code, Section 8013. Privacy Act system of records notices F044 AF SG
E, Medical Record System; F044 AF SGQ, Family Advocacy Program Record. All information
obtained must be protected IAW these provisions. This document may contain information
covered under the Privacy Act, 5 USC 552(a), and/or the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act (PL 104-191) and its various implementing regulations and must be protected
IAW those provisions. Healthcare information is personal and sensitive and must be treated
accordingly. Re-disclosure without additional patient consent or as permitted by law is
prohibited. Unauthorized re-disclosure or failure to maintain confidentiality subjects you to
 2                                                                                              30SWI40-301 4 APRIL 2014


application of appropriate sanction. Requests to release Privacy Act information to persons or
agencies outside the DOD must be IAW AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program, and DODI
5400.7-R/AF Supplement, Freedom of Information Act Program.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
the AF Form 847 through Base Publishing Managers. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW AFMAN 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document contains major administrative changes. Definitions and types of maltreatment
have been clarified. Reference publications’ dates reflect the most current versions. The 30
SW/CC has been added as the Family Advocacy Committee (FAC) chairperson when the FAC is
incorporated with the Community Action Information Board (CAIB). Annual Child Sexual
Maltreatment Response Team (CSMRT) and High Risk for Violence Response Team (HRVRT)
meetings and training requirements have been replaced with as needed.


       1.     Mission Statement. .................................................................................................       3
       2.     Program Components. ...........................................................................................            3
       3.     Who Reports (Family Maltreatment Reporting Procedures). ................................                                   3
       4.     When to Report. .....................................................................................................      4
       5.     How to Report. .......................................................................................................     4
       6.     What to Report. ......................................................................................................     5
       7.     Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................    5
       8.     Family Advocacy Program (FAP). ........................................................................                    8
       9.     Central Registry Board (CRB). ..............................................................................               9
       10.    Family Advocacy Committee (FAC). ....................................................................                     10
       11.    Child Sexual Maltreatment Response Team (CSMRT). ........................................                                 11
       12.    High Risk for Violence Response Team (HRVRT). ..............................................                              12

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                          13

Attachment 2—VANDENBERG AIR FORCE BASE CHILD SUPERVISION
             GUIDELINES                                                                                                                 15
30SWI40-301 4 APRIL 2014                                                                      3


1. Mission Statement. The mission of the Vandenberg Family Advocacy Program (FAP) is to
build healthy communities through implementing programs designed for the prevention and
treatment of child, spouse, and unmarried intimate partner maltreatment.
2. Program Components. The Vandenberg FAP is comprised of two principal components;
prevention services and maltreatment interventions.
   2.1. Prevention. The Vandenberg FAP prevention team will collaborate with key community
   leaders, the Integrated Delivery System (IDS) and other helping agencies to provide services
   that enhance community awareness and resilience and reduce the incidence and severity of
   family maltreatment. FAP prevention services include Community Outreach, the New
   Parent Support Program (NPSP), and on a space-available basis, Family Advocacy Strength-
   based Therapy (FAST) services. FAP outreach is designed to coordinate and implement
   primary and secondary prevention services that include education and skill development,
   advocacy, collaboration, community intervention, referral links to community resources,
   and marketing. The NPSP provides home-based education and support services to families
   with children ages birth to three years, including the prenatal period.
   2.2. Maltreatment Intervention. The Vandenberg FAP provides and/or coordinates the
   identification, assessment, treatment, and case management services to all eligible
   beneficiaries experiencing family maltreatment.
      2.2.1. Thorough assessments of family maltreatment incidents will be conducted on
      every case by the Family Advocacy Treatment Manager (FATM), Family Advocacy
      Officer (FAO), or on-call Mental Health provider. Assessments for safety only will
      include consultation with the involved member’s commander (CC) and/or First Sergeant
      (CCF).
      2.2.2. Assessments will include:
          2.2.2.1. Imminence of danger to the victim
          2.2.2.2. Severity of maltreatment
          2.2.2.3. Risk of further maltreatment
          2.2.2.4. Apparent validity of report
          2.2.2.5. Level of cooperation in the family
          2.2.2.6. The bio-psycho-social needs of the family members involved
          2.2.2.7. Completion of a Safety Plan and referrals to shelters, victim advocates, food
          pantry, law enforcement agencies, and other helping agencies when necessary.
3. Who Reports (Family Maltreatment Reporting Procedures).
   3.1. IAW AFI 40-301, Family Advocacy, paragraph 1.14., all military members and civilian
   employees assigned to Vandenberg AFB (host or tenant units) will report all known incidents
   or suspected incidents of family maltreatment to the FAP office (606-8217). Exclusion is
   made for chaplains receiving information through a “patient-clergyman” relationship or
   confidential communications in the course of their official duties. AFI 52-101, Planning and
   Organizing paragraph apply.
 4                                                                 30SWI40-301 4 APRIL 2014


     3.2. In cases of child maltreatment, California law (Penal Code Section 11166 and 11165.7)
     requires any child care custodian, health practitioner, employee of a child protective agency,
     child visitation monitor, firefighter, or animal control officer who has knowledge of or
     observes a child whom he or she knows or reasonably suspects has been the victim of child
     maltreatment, shall report the known or suspected instance of child maltreatment to a child
     protection agency immediately.
     3.3. Any individual not listed above has the right to report known or suspected family
     maltreatment to the FAP office.
4. When to Report.
     4.1. Call 911 immediately if an incident of family maltreatment is in progress or if there is
     an immediate threat to the physical health or safety of an alleged victim of family
     maltreatment.
     4.2. Report all known or suspected family maltreatment to the FAP office as soon as
     possible. In all cases, the report should be made within 24 hours.
5. How to Report.
     5.1. During normal duty hours, 0730-1630, contact the FAP office at 606-8217. Notify the
     technician that you need to make a family maltreatment referral.
     5.2. After normal duty hours call the 30th Security Forces Squadron Law Enforcement (LE)
     Desk at 606-3911. The LE desk will notify the Command Post who will notify the on-call
     Mental Health provider, 30th Space Wing Vice Commander (30 SW/CV), relevant CCF(s)
     and /or CC(s), and other base agencies (e.g., Staff Judge Advocate , AF Office of Special
     Investigations, etc.) as necessary.
     5.3. Procedures for Restricted Reporting of Domestic Abuse.
        5.3.1. Eligibility. Restricted Reporting (RR) is a process allowing an adult victim of
        domestic abuse, who is eligible to receive military medical treatment, the option of
        reporting an incident of domestic abuse to specified individuals for the purpose of
        receiving medical care, supportive services, and/or advocacy and information without
        initiating the investigative process or notification to the victim’s or alleged offender’s
        CC/CCF.
        5.3.2. Victims who make a domestic abuse restricted report inquiry to Military One
        Source, NPSP staff, Domestic Abuse Victim Advocate (DAVA), or the Sexual Assault
        Response Coordinator (SARC) will receive a direct referral to a FAP provider who will
        then assist the victim in the reporting process.
        5.3.3. The FAP staff member will explain to the victim all available reporting options,
        exceptions and limitations. If the victim elects to proceed with RR the victim will
        acknowledge in writing, his/her understanding that the RR will limit the government’s
        ability to prosecute the alleged offender in a domestic abuse incident, by signing the
        USAF Family Advocacy Victim Reporting Preference Statement.
        5.3.4. Exceptions to confidentiality, RR and limitations on use. In cases in which a
        victim elects RR, the prohibition on disclosing covered communications to the following
        persons or entities will be suspended when disclosure would be for the following reasons:
30SWI40-301 4 APRIL 2014                                                                         5


           5.3.4.1. Names individuals when disclosure is authorized by the victim in writing.
           5.3.4.2. Command officials or law enforcement when necessary to prevent or lessen
           a serious and imminent threat to the health or safety of the victim or another person.
           5.3.4.3. If the victim discloses a domestic abuse allegation in the presence of the
           alleged offender the restricted reporting option does not apply.
       5.3.5. For purposes of command responsibility, information concerning RRs of domestic
       abuse, without personal identifiers, will be reported by the FAO at the next FAC meeting.
6. What to Report.
   6.1. Report alleged victim’s demographics (name, age, date of birth, etc.), current location of
   alleged victim and alleged offender, and type of suspected or alleged maltreatment.
       6.1.1. A FAP maltreatment record will be opened on maltreatment referrals involving
       unmarried intimates, where at least one partner is active duty military.
       6.1.2. An unmarried intimate is defined by the USAF Family Advocacy Program
       Standards as “a former spouse, a person of the opposite sex with whom the victim shares
       a child in common, or a person with whom the victim shares or has shared a common
       domicile.”
   6.2. Type(s) of family maltreatment including, but is not limited to: spouse, partner, or child,
   physical, sexual, emotional maltreatment and/or neglect. See Air Force Family Maltreatment
   Definitions, 1 Nov 2010 for a detailed description of family maltreatment.
   6.3. “Home Alone” policy violations. DODI 6060.3 requires all Military Department of
   Defense Agencies to ensure that all DOD installations develop policies under which children
   residing on or in a DOD facility or installation can be left alone to care for themselves
   otherwise known as a “home alone” policy. Violating the Vandenberg Child Supervision
   Guidelines (Attachment 2) could result in a FAP referral.
7. Responsibilities.
   7.1. 30th Space Wing Commander (30 SW/CC)
       7.1.1. Maintains overall responsibility for the implementation, operation and
       effectiveness of the FAP.
       7.1.2. Establishes an installation FAC. When not incorporated into the CAIB, appoints
       the 30th Medical Group Commander (30 MDG/CC) as the chair.
       7.1.3. Serves as a member of the FAC or delegates this responsibility to a key member of
       the senior staff.
       7.1.4. Ensures new squadron CCs, new CCFs, and the Command Chief receive training
       on child, spouse and unmarried intimate partner maltreatment within 90 days of assuming
       these positions and annually thereafter.
       7.1.5. Appoints the 30 SW/CV as chair of the Central Registry Board (CRB) and the
       30th Mission Support Group Commander (30 MSG/CC) as the alternate chairperson.
       7.1.6. Refers to AFI 40-301, Family Advocacy, paragraph 1.3 for more details on
       Installation Commander responsibilities.
6                                                                30SWI40-301 4 APRIL 2014


    7.2. 30th Medical Group Commander (30 MDG/CC)
       7.2.1. Serves as chair of the installation FAC (when not incorporated into the CAIB).
       7.2.2. Ensures all medical personnel notify the FAP of all suspected incidents of family
       maltreatment.
       7.2.3. In cases of sudden or unexplained child deaths occurring on the installation,
       ensures the completion of an appropriate autopsy, notification of AFOSI Det 804, 30
       SFS, referral of the family to the FAP for immediate assessment and supportive services,
       and notification to AFSPC/SG and AF FAP within 24 hours.
       7.2.4. Ensures suspected victims of family maltreatment receive a medical and dental
       assessment, required intervention, and referral to base and community agencies when
       requested by the FAO or physician.
       7.2.5. Appoints the Family Advocacy Outreach Manager (FAOM) as the FAP
       representative to the IDS.
    7.3. 30th Security Forces Squadron Commander (30 SFS/CC)
       7.3.1. Ensures FAP is provided timely information (including blotter entries, AF Forms
       3545, photographs, and other reports) concerning all reports of family maltreatment.
       7.3.2. Ensures FAP is notified during duty hours or the Command Post after duty hours
       of all reports of suspected or alleged family maltreatment.
       7.3.3. Ensures visual depictions (photographs, digital images) are obtained where visible
       injuries or damages have been caused.
       7.3.4. Ensures emergency medical services are made available for treatment of injuries.
       7.3.5. Removes all firearms and weapons from the homes of families involved in a
       family maltreatment incident.
       7.3.6. Coordinates with Santa Barbara County, Child Welfare Services (CWS)
       investigators to provide support for interviews and child removal if necessary.
       7.3.7. Enforces Military Protection Orders and reports all violations of those orders to
       the FAP.
       7.3.8. Ensures all responding 30 SFS staff is trained at least annually on the
       identification and reporting procedures of family maltreatment.
       7.3.9. Appoints a primary and alternate representative to the CRB and HRVRT. Ensures
       appointees receive initial online CRB training and annual CRB and HRVRT member
       training.
       7.3.10. Appoints a primary and alternate representative to the FAC and ensures
       appointees receive annual FAC member training.
    7.4. Child Welfare Services (CWS)
       7.4.1. Investigates reports of child maltreatment with authority from the Santa Barbara
       County Department of Social Services (SBCDSS). While CWS will be involved in
       investigating suspected child maltreatment on Vandenberg AFB, primary criminal
       investigative jurisdiction remains with the AFOSI Det 804 and 30 SFS.
30SWI40-301 4 APRIL 2014                                                                     7


     7.4.2. In rare cases, CWS will remove children from their home because there is an
     immediate or chronic threat to a child's physical health or safety (or if a child has been
     sexually abused by a family member in the home). Refer to Memorandum of
     Understanding with Santa Barbara County Department of Social Services, Child Welfare
     Services on this subject for more detailed information.
  7.5. Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) Det 804
     7.5.1. Notifies the FAP of all family maltreatment reports that are directly referred to
     them.
     7.5.2. Investigates reports of family maltreatment that involve attempted aggravated
     assault, attempted aggravated assault, sexual assault and child aggravated physical or
     sexual maltreatment.
     7.5.3. Conducts reviews of the Defense Clearance and Investigations Index (DCII) on
     family members involved in maltreatment incidents and provide relevant findings to the
     FAP.
     7.5.4. Nominates a primary and alternate representative to the FAC and ensures
     appointees receive annual training.
     7.5.5. Nominates a primary and alternate representative to the CRB and ensures
     appointees receive initial online training and annual CRB member training.
     7.5.6. Nominates a primary and alternate representative to the HRVRT and the CSMRT
     and ensures appointees receive annual training on their responsibilities.
  7.6. On-Call Mental Health Provider.
     7.6.1. Serves as consultant to unit CCs and CCFs in cases of family maltreatment
     reported after duty hours. This provider will not respond to the scene but will assist in
     developing an emergency plan to ensure that the victim is not at risk of further
     maltreatment.
     7.6.2. Calls the 24-hour CWS hotline (1-800-367-0166) when a child is believed to be in
     imminent danger of further maltreatment.
  7.7. Commanders (CC) and First Sergeants (CCF).
     7.7.1. Immediately notify FAP of suspected and/or alleged incidents of family
     maltreatment reported directly to them.
     7.7.2. Make arrangements for temporary alternate living arrangements for alleged
     offenders of family maltreatment.
     7.7.3. When a child is in imminent danger, the CC or CCF may remain in the home until
     the FAO or on-call Mental Health provider has coordinated out-of-home placement with
     CWS, 30 SFS and the 30 SW/SJA.
     7.7.4. Ensure FAP is notified in a timely manner of impending deployments, temporary
     duty (TDY), permanent change of station (PCS), or long-term school enrollment of
     clients involved in the FAP Maltreatment Program so that the treatment plan can be
     discussed and amended as necessary.
 8                                                                  30SWI40-301 4 APRIL 2014


        7.7.5. Assist the FATM and/or FAO in implementing Clinical Case Staffing (CCS)
        recommendations. This includes supporting the family and military sponsor in
        participation, in treatment and/or educational services designed to prevent further family
        maltreatment. It may also include allowing the active duty member to be excused from
        duty to keep FAP appointments and attend classes and/or groups.
        7.7.6. Complete annual FAP training on the warning signs, dynamics, and risk factors of
        family maltreatment and reporting procedures for family maltreatment within 90 days of
        assuming their positions and at least annually, thereafter.
        7.7.7. Complete initial online CRB training and refresher CRB training as necessary.
        7.7.8. Notify active duty member(s) of CRB determinations pertaining to them and/or
        their family members by going over the CRB Determination Memo within three duty
        days following receipt.
        7.7.9. Issue Military Protection Orders and notify the FAP of any violation of those
        orders.
        7.7.10. Encourage at-risk service members and their families to seek voluntary
        prevention services from the FAP, Tricare network, IDS agencies, Military and Family
        Life Consultant or Military OneSource in order to prevent future family maltreatment or
        lessen severity.
     7.8. 30th Space Wing Staff Judge Advocate (30 SW/SJA)
        7.8.1. Designates a representative to provide legal advice to the FAP in all cases of
        family maltreatment.
        7.8.2. Nominates a primary and alternate representative to the CRB and ensures
        appointees complete initial online CRB training and annual CRB member training.
        7.8.3. Nominates a primary and alternate representative to the FAC and ensures
        appointees complete annual FAC member training.
        7.8.4. In the event that the alleged offender is a military member, advises the member's
        Commander on appropriate disciplinary action. If the alleged offender is a civilian,
        determines whether referral to federal civilian prosecutors is appropriate.
        7.8.5. Designates a representative to provide Victim Advocate services to Family
        Advocacy clients on a case by case basis when necessary.
8. Family Advocacy Program (FAP).
     8.1. Gathers background information regarding reported incidents of family maltreatment
     including processing a background check for any history of maltreatment. The FAO will
     review the facts of the reported incident in order to determine if enough information exists to
     support the allegation(s) of maltreatment. If the allegations(s) are supported, the FAO will
     open a maltreatment case and a formal assessment will be accomplished within three duty
     days.
     8.2. Upon receipt of maltreatment referral, FAP staff will ensure timely (optimally same
     day) notifications have been made to the following.
        8.2.1. 30 SFS Office of Investigations
30SWI40-301 4 APRIL 2014                                                                        9


      8.2.2. AFOSI Det 804
      8.2.3. Commander or First Sergeant of the involved active duty sponsor(s)
      8.2.4. Commander or First Sergeant of alleged victim if victim is Active Duty
      8.2.5. Santa Barbara County, CWS for reports of child maltreatment.
   8.3. Requests CWS interview an alleged victim during school hours, on school premises
   when a report of suspected maltreatment is received from one of the public schools.
   8.4. Activates the HRVRT and/or the CSMRT when indicated and necessary.
   8.5. Ensures victims of family maltreatment receive medical care if such was not provided at
   the time of the incident.
   8.6. Explains the Limits of Confidentiality to all family members during the initial
   assessment at an age-appropriate level.
   8.7. Ensures a Safety Plan is conducted with victims of domestic violence and ensures all
   victims are aware of community resources such as shelters and victim advocates.
   8.8. Schedules and coordinates the monthly CRB and quarterly FAC.
   8.9. Presents all incidents of alleged family maltreatment to the CRB within 60 days of
   referral.
   8.10. Conducts Clinical Case Staffing (CCS) to determine services and treatment for alleged
   offenders and victims of family maltreatment and prevention services for voluntary clients.
   The Case Manager will notify relevant CC(s) and CCF(s) of CCS recommendations,
   treatment progress and any major changes or risk factors that develop.
   8.11. Reports to the FAC on the extent of the family maltreatment problem on the base.
   8.12. Ensures 80 percent of new unit CCs and CCFs are briefed on the FAP and trained on
   the identification, reporting procedures, and dynamics of family maltreatment within 90 days
   of assuming command per AFI 40-301.
   8.13. Reports required maltreatment, outreach, and NPSP data within the mandatory DOD
   timelines via the Air Force FAP website, Family Advocacy System of Records (FASOR),
   and the Outreach Prevention Automated Log (OPAL).
   8.14. Conducts annual training for 30 SFS, AFOSI Det 804, SJA, 30 MDG and IDS staff,
   Child Care Providers, CCs and CCFs and members of FAP teams described in this
   instruction.
   8.15. Develops and encourages the IDS agencies to establish prevention programs that serve
   to reduce or prevent incidents of family maltreatment. The FAP will also ensure base
   personnel are informed of reporting procedures, as well as resources for help.
9. Central Registry Board (CRB).
   9.1. The purpose of the CRB is to decide which referrals for suspected family maltreatment
   meet the Air Force criteria that define family maltreatment, requiring entry into the Air Force
   Central Registry data base. These decisions are known as incident status determinations.
 10                                                               30SWI40-301 4 APRIL 2014


   9.2. Chaired by the 30 SW/CV.        In his/her absence the CRB shall be chaired by 30
   MSG/CC.
   9.3. Membership includes the FAO, Command Chief Master Sergeant, AFOSI Det 804
   representative, 30 SFS Representative, SJA, and relevant Squadron CC and CCF for
   incidents involving members of their squadron.
   9.4. All CRB members and unit representatives must complete CRB training prior to
   participation in order to vote.
      9.4.1. A quorum of two-thirds of the members is required for a vote.
      9.4.2. All incidents are determined within 60 days of referral.
10. Family Advocacy Committee (FAC).
   10.1. Chaired by the 30 SW/CC or 30 SW/CV (when incorporated into the CAIB),
   otherwise, chaired by the 30 MDG/CC. Chairperson will ensure two-thirds of voting
   members are present at each meeting.
   10.2. The FAC includes these members:
      10.2.1. 30 SW/CC (or designee)
      10.2.2. Family Advocacy Officer
      10.2.3. FAOM or Family Advocacy Intervention Specialist (FAIS)
      10.2.4. Director, Airmen and Family Readiness Center (A&FRC) (or designee)
      10.2.5. 30 SW/SJA (or designee)
      10.2.6. 30 SFS/CC (or designee)
      10.2.7. AFOSI Detachment Commander (or designee)
      10.2.8. 30 SW Chaplain
      10.2.9. Command Chief Master Sergeant
      10.2.10. The FAC may add other members as appropriate, such as civilian agencies and
      community service organizations.
   10.3. FAC Responsibilities.
   10.3.1. Convenes at least quarterly and at the call of the Chairperson.
      10.3.2. Ensures implementation of local FAP IAW DOD and Air Force guidance,
      including FAP Standards.
      10.3.3. Establishes and monitors education programs on family issues for the base
      community.
      10.3.4. Contributes ideas or suggestions for programs or activities to support the FAP.
   10.3.5. Ensures FAC members are trained on their roles and responsibilities at least
   annually.
      10.3.6. Ensures members are appointed to FAP teams: CRB, CSMRT, HRVRT and
      FAC.
30SWI40-301 4 APRIL 2014                                                                        11


      10.3.7. Ensures the development and currency of an installation supplement to guide the
      implementation of the local FAP.
      10.3.8. In cooperation with the 30 SW/CC, ensures availability of adequate resources for
      the effective and efficient implementation of the FAP.
      10.3.9. Addresses, resolves, or elevates (to wing then AFSPC) identified system
      concerns or constraints affecting the FAP.
      10.3.10. Establishes a collaborative working relationship with key agencies involved in
      addressing prevention of and intervention with maltreatment.
11. Child Sexual Maltreatment Response Team (CSMRT).
   11.1. Meets in response to the FAO's activation following a report of suspected or alleged
   child sexual maltreatment. Meets physically or by phone as soon as needed, but no more
   than 72 hours after notification of an incident. The purpose of the initial meeting will be to
   assess the nature of the allegation; coordinate a course of action; and attend to the safety and
   well being of the alleged victim, victim's family members, and the alleged offender.
   11.2. Composed of the FAO or FATM in FAO's absence and AFOSI Det 804 and SJA
   representatives. Coordinates and manages the initial response to child sexual maltreatment
   suspicions or allegations where:
      11.2.1. Prosecution is possible.
      11.2.2. The alleged victim is in imminent danger of further maltreatment.
      11.2.3. There is the possibility of multiple victims.
      11.2.4. The team approach is utilized to minimize suffering of the alleged victim and
      victim's family, and to ensure no one agency or individual makes decisions regarding
      these cases independent of the concerns of the other agencies involved.
   11.3. Forensic interviews and examinations of alleged victims will be conducted at the
   Sexual Assault Response Team house in conjunction with North County Rape and Crisis
   Center. The CSMRT will determine the most qualified person to conduct these evaluations.
   11.4. Meets following the initial examination and subsequent interviews to discuss and
   coordinate an intervention plan.
   11.5. When protection of children is best accomplished by removing them from the home,
   CWS will assume responsibility for accomplishing this IAW State of California authority.
   CSMRT members will be notified when this action is required and occurs.
   11.6. When sexual or severe physical maltreatment is alleged or suspected by an individual
   in a DOD sanctioned activity, a Family Advocacy maltreatment case will be opened and an
   assessment will be conducted in coordination with other medical and legal investigative
   agencies.
   11.7. Notifications will be made immediately to the 30 MDG/CC, 30 SW/CV, 30 SW/CC
   and AFOSI Det 804 IAW DOD guidance and Air Force FAP Standards.
   11.8. Meets as needed to clarify their roles and response procedures and to receive training
   on their responsibilities.
 12                                                               30SWI40-301 4 APRIL 2014


   11.9. The FAO will report quarterly to the FAC on all CSMRT activations and
   corresponding incident status determinations and CSMRT activations will be documented in
   the FAC meeting minutes.
12. High Risk for Violence Response Team (HRVRT).
   12.1. Composed of the FAO, FAP clinician working with the family, sponsor's CC, 30 SFS
   representative, SJA, Mental Health provider and AFOSI Det 804 representative and
   representatives from other agencies having legal investigative, or protective responsibilities,
   as appropriate.
   12.2. Manages potentially dangerous situations involving FAP clients and staff.
   12.3. Activated when:
      12.3.1. Members of a family unit may be in imminent danger of being harmed by other
      family members.
      12.3.2. Staff members of FAP may be in imminent danger of being harmed by a Family
      Advocacy client or ex-client.
   12.4. When a death occurs due to suspected family maltreatment, a Family Advocacy case
   will be opened and an assessment will be conducted in coordination with AFOSI, SJA and
   Command.
   12.5. The FAO will immediately notify the 30 SW/CC and AFOSI Det 804, IAW AF FAP
   Standards.
   12.6. Determines the course of action necessary to manage the risk of violence which will
   also include retaliation by the threatened individual.
   12.7. Meets as needed to clarify their roles and procedures and to receive training on their
   responsibilities and indicators of escalating violence associated with family maltreatment.
   12.8. Members must be trained prior to serving on the HRVRT or receive just-in-time
   training at the beginning of the HRVRT. Team activations must be reported and documented
   in the FAC meeting minutes.




                                            KEITH W. BALTS, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
30SWI40-301 4 APRIL 2014                                                               13


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 6400.1-M-1, Manual for Child Maltreatment and Domestic Abuse Incident Reporting
System, July 2005
DODI 6060.3, “School-age” Care Program, 19 Dec 1996
AFPD 40-3, Family Advocacy Program, 06 Dec 2011
AFI 40-301, Family Advocacy, 30 Nov 2009
AFI 52-101, Planning and Organizing, 10 May 2005, Incorporating through Change 5, 16 Mar
2011
USAF Family Advocacy Program Standards, 1 Oct 2009
USAF Family Advocacy Program Family Maltreatment Definitions, 3 Aug 12
Air Force Family Maltreatment Definitions, 1 Nov 2010

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AD—Active Duty
AFI—Air Force Instruction
CAIB—Community Action Information Board
CCS—Clinical Case Staffing
CRB—Central Registry Board
CSMRT—Child Sexual Maltreatment Response Team
CWS—Child Welfare Services
DAVA—Domestic Abuse Victim Advocate
DOD—Department of Defense
FAC—Family Advocacy Committee
FAO—Family Advocacy Officer
FAOM—Family Advocacy Outreach Manager
FAST—Family Advocacy Strength Based Therapy
FATM—Family Advocacy Treatment Manager
FAP—Family Advocacy Program
FOIA—Freedom of Information Act
HRVRT—High Risk for Violence Response Team
IDS—Integrated Delivery System
 14                                                         30SWI40-301 4 APRIL 2014


MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
NPSP—New Parent Support Program
RR—Restricted Report
SARC—Sexual Assault Response Coordinator
SBCDSS—Santa Barbara County Department of Social Services
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
30SWI40-301 4 APRIL 2014                                                                          15


                                          Attachment 2
       VANDENBERG AIR FORCE BASE CHILD SUPERVISION GUIDELINES

A2.1. The Department of Defense has mandated: Through DoDI 6060.3, School-Age Care
Program, that all military installations develop policy addressing the ages and circumstances
under which children may be left unattended. The attached guidelines have been drafted to assist
families in ensuring the safety and security of their children.
A2.2. The safety and welfare of the children of the Vandenberg AFB community: Are the
shared responsibility of parents and the command. Personality traits, environmental factors,
developmental progress and the level of maturity are factors used to determine when children are
ready to accomplish activities with little or no supervision. Particularly with the younger age
ranges, advanced language development does not always equate with advanced logical
reasoning. Even considering maturity level, the guidelines on the following page will be
considered the minimum ages by Security Forces, Family Advocacy and other officials.
A2.3. Children with physical, medical, developmental, educational, or any other special
needs: Should not be left alone for any length of time to care for themselves. Whether the
special need is mild, moderate or severe, the Vandenberg AFB guidelines below should be
carefully applied considering each child's unique status.
A2.4. When considering whether to leave children unsupervised: Parents must fully
examine what type of help will be available to the child in the event of any emergency, minor or
major. This is particularly true if the parent will not be in his/her residence or in a location near
the child. In these cases, a specific person for the child to contact in the parent's absence is
required. This person must know and agree to be the contact person for the child during the
parents' absence, and the child must understand that they can contact this person for assistance.
Playgrounds are not substitutes for parental supervision. Parents should not leave children on
playgrounds without establishing a point of contact. Parents or their designated point of contact
are expected to know the children's whereabouts at all times.
A2.5. Overnight baby-sitters will be at least 16 years of age. Parents must provide overnight
baby-sitters with complete emergency contact information and a suitable plan of action in case of
a medical emergency, to include who may consent to medical treatment for their child while they
are absent.
A2.6. All parties or social activities in government-owned or leased housing where
juveniles are present: Will be supervised by the sponsor or other adult family members.
Alcoholic beverages must not be served to persons less than 21 years of age.
A2.7. No person under 18 years of age, or who has not graduated from high school: Is
allowed in the dormitories without a parent or guardian.
A2.8. The following are standards for the safety and welfare of Vandenberg children. The
Command stresses that ultimately the parents are responsible for the well-being of their children.
These guidelines apply to sponsors and their family members both on- and off-base, and will be
utilized by Security Forces and Family Advocacy when responding to a suspected case of child
neglect. In non-Family Advocacy matters, such as complaints from neighbors, altercations
between children, or criminal mischief issues, adherence or non-adherence to these guidelines
will also be taken into account. NOTE: The ages specified are the minimum ages and are based
 16                                                                                   30SWI40-301 4 APRIL 2014


on the child’s ability to demonstrate age-appropriate behavior. Children who do not consistently
demonstrate age-appropriate behavior should not be given the same degree of self-management
responsibilities. In all instances below where a “yes” is indicated, the parent/guardian is
responsible for using reasonable judgment, and for any incident or mishap (considered
preventable), which occurs.

Figure A2.1. Vandenberg Air Force Base Youth Supervision Guidelines
          VANDENBERG AIR FORCE BASE YOUTH SUPERVISION GUIDELINES
                   Left         Left
                   Without      Without                           Outside
                   Sitter in    Sitter in                         Unattende
                                              Left Alone                         Left in Car      Child Sitting    Child Sitting
                   Quarters     Quarters                          d (To
Age of Child                                  Overnight                          Unattended       Siblings         Others
                   for Two      for More                          Include
                   Hours or     Than Two                          Playing)
                   Less         Hours
Newborn – Age 4    No           No            No                  No             No               No               No
                                                                  Yes;
                                                                  playground
                                                                  or yard
                                                                  with
                                No; except                        immediate
                                6 yr old                          access
Age 5 – Age 6      No           may walk      No                  (visual        No               No               No
                                to and from                       sight or
                                school                            hearing
                                                                  distance) to
                                                                  adult
                                                                  supervision
                                                                  ***
                                                                                 Yes; except in
                                                                                 hot weather;
                                                                  Yes; with      keys removed
                                No; except
                                                                  access to      and
                                may walk
Age 7 – Age 9      No                         No                  adult          handbrake        No               No
                                to and from
                                                                  assistance*    applied; 15-
                                school
                                                                  **             minutes
                                                                                 maximum and
                                                                                 adult in sight
                   Yes; with                                                                      Yes; 11 yr old
                   ready                                                         Yes; keys        or 6th grade
                   access to                                                     removed,         minimum; 2-
Age 10 – Age 11                 No            No                  Yes                                              No
                   an adult                                                      handbrake        hours
                   supervisor                                                    applied          maximum*/*
                   */***                                                                          *
                                Yes; during
                                daytime
                                                                                                                   Yes **
                                hours,
                                                                                                                   12 yr old or
Age 12 – Age 14    Yes          before        No                  Yes            Yes              Yes *
                                                                                                                   7th grade
                                curfew; no
                                                                                                                   minimum***
                                after
                                curfew
                                              Yes; minor’s
                                              age 16 yr old
Age 15 – through                              and older may
High School        Yes          Yes           be left alone for   Yes            Yes              Yes **           Yes **
graduation                                    short TDYs or
                                              leaves, not to
                                              exceed 5
30SWI40-301 4 APRIL 2014                                                                      17

                                     consecutive
                                     days. These
                                     minors must
                                     have some type
                                     adult
                                     supervision
                                     available to
                                     make periodic
                                     checks ***
*Home-alone training required
**Red Cross baby-sitting training or equivalent required
***Adult supervision is defined as someone who has or assumes responsibility for the child, e.g.,
parent, guardian, care provider, friend
