BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         30TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 91-103
30TH SPACE WING
                                                                                  16 JUNE 2011

                                                                                           Saftey

                                                                      TRAIN HOLD CRITERIA



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS INSTRUCTION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 30 SW/SEL                                                            Certified by: 30 SW/SE
                                                                             (Mark A. Gotfraind)
Supersedes:    30SWI91-103, 15 May 2008                                                   Pages: 4


This instruction describes responsibilities, procedures and the criteria to be used in determining
train protection and subsequent “hold” or “proceed” decisions during launch operations. It
further describes limits associated with delays when toxic hazard conditions are present, as well
as disaster response procedures. It applies to all 30th Space Wing (30 SW) units involved in
launch operations. The use of the name or make of any specific manufacturer, commercial
product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this instruction to 30 SW/SEL, 806 13th Street,
Suite 3, Vandenberg AFB CA 93437-5230, using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publications. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

“Trainmaster” changed to “Manager Road Operations (MRO)” (paragraphs 1.3., 1.6., 2., 3.6.,
and 3.7). The MRO location has also changed (paragraph 1.6). The term “train hazard impact
probability contours” changed to “debris risk contours” (paragraph 3.3). “Spacelift Commander”
changed to “Launch Decision Authority (LDA)” (paragraph 3.5). Changed name for group
responsible for railroad inspection and clearance (paragraph 3.6) An asterisk ( * ) indicates a
revision from the previous edition.
1. Responsibilities:
 2                                                                 30SWI91-103 16 JUNE 2011


     1.1. The Commander, 30th Space Wing (30 SW/CC), has the overall responsibility for the
     safety of all launch operations.
     1.2. The Mission Flight Control Officer (MFCO) (2 ROPS) disseminates changes to railroad
     protection requirements.
     1.3. The Aerospace Control Officer (ACO) (2 ROPS) monitors railroad traffic and
     coordinates with the Union-Pacific Manager Road Operations (MRO) to ensure train
     protection during launch operations.
     1.4. The Flight Safety Analyst (FSA) (30 SW/SEL) analyzes potential hazards to the railroad
     tracks due to the launch operation and determines what portions of the track require
     protective measures.
     1.5. The Range Operations Commander (ROC) (2 ROPS) manages Range countdown
     activities and passes final Range clearance for launch.
     1.6. The Union-Pacific Manager Road Operations (MRO) maintains radio contact with and
     controls all railroad traffic that traverses Vandenberg AFB. The MRO is located in San Luis
     Obispo.
2. Background and Coordination. The Union-Pacific Railroad (UPRR) Company right-of-
way crossing Vandenberg AFB is private property, with the UPRR having the rights of a
property owner. Most launch sites are located in areas where overflight of the railroad is
unavoidable. A few of the northern Minuteman sites near Point Sal may not require railroad
safety precautions. Coordination with the UPRR during launch countdown operations is effected
through direct line communication between the MRO and the ACO in the Area Control Center.
3. Operations Procedures.
     3.1. The ACO will ensure the current train location, movement, and schedules for all trains
     in the Vandenberg AFB area are documented and reported to the ROC and MFCO as defined
     in 30SWI13-207, Range Surveillance.
     3.2. The FSA will analyze predicted debris and toxic hazards to UPRR assets during the
     countdown and provide this information, as well as any updates, to the MFCO.
     3.3. The MFCO will determine and update the train protection area, based on information
     received from the FSA, and pass this information to the ACO as soon as possible. The train
     protection area will be based on the Impact Limit Line, the debris risk contours, the Tier 2
     catastrophic abort toxic hazard corridor (THC), or the Tier 2 normal THC, whichever is more
     conservative. The MFCO and ROC will coordinate countdown “hold”, and ability to “pick
     up the count” decisions based on train status received from the ACO.
     3.4. The ROC will manage all range user program objectives and the optimum liftoff time
     within the launch window. The ROC will coordinate any range user objectives or decisions
     that may affect, or be affected by, train hold criteria with the MFCO and ACO. When a
     critical train problem arises during the countdown, but prior to terminal count, the ROC will
     coordinate with the range user. The user decides when the best time is to hold or when to
     resume the launch countdown. The ROC will coordinate with the MFCO and ACO to
     determine range readiness to meet these times.
30SWI91-103 16 JUNE 2011                                                                        3


  3.5. A launch operation will be held if a train is projected to be in the train protection area
  and the (LDA) has not granted a waiver for the train to be there at liftoff. The ACO will
  attempt to coordinate the holding of trains that conservatively might be in the train protection
  area at liftoff. If the MRO cannot or will not hold a train, the ACO will report to the MFCO
  and the ROC the time the train is expected to clear the hazard area. The ROC will coordinate
  a new launch time with the range user, MFCO and ACO.
  3.6. In the event of a launch area destruct action, a self-abort or planned jettison where
  debris is suspected to impact railroad assets, the MFCO will instruct the ACO to request the
  MRO stop all trains until the track can be inspected and cleared by the UPRR. For on-base
  inspection and clearance, the Launch Support Team (LST) and Emergency Operations Center
  (EOC) will assist UPRR personnel in inspecting and clearing the UPRR tracks. The ACO
  will notify the MFCO and ROC when a train has stopped and when UPRR has determined
  the tracks to be clear.
  3.7. If a catastrophic abort occurs and updated THC analysis shows a Tier 2 over a stationary
  or moving train (train was held due to hazardous conditions or was allowed to proceed
  through an area originally not deemed hazardous), the MFCO will pass to the ACO
  identification of the spur tracks where the Tier 2 THC is entered and exited. The ACO will
  request that the MRO advise the train engineer to close all windows and doors while in this
  area. If the train must be held until the tracks are certified clear of debris, the ACO will
  request the engineer maintain a buttoned-up configuration until further notice. If the train is
  moving, no attempt will be made to stop it for toxic hazards unless a Tier 3 THC is
  anticipated on its path. The MFCO will notify the ACO and the ROC when hazardous
  conditions no longer exist and trains are cleared to pass through the previously identified
  THC.




                                            RICHARD W. BOLTZ, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
 4                                                          30SWI91-103 16 JUNE 2011


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
30SWI13-207, Range Surveillance, 23 January 2009
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publications, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
2ROPS—2nd Range Operations Squadron
30SW—30th Space Wing
30SW/CC—30th Space Wing Commander
30SW/SEL—30th Space Wing Launch Safety
ACO—Aerospace Control Officer
FSA—Flight Safety Analysis
LDA—Launch Decision Authority
LST—Launch Support Team
MFCO—Mission Flight Control Officer
MRO—Manager Road Operations
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
ROC—Range Operations Commander
THC—Toxic Hazard Corridor
