BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       30TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 63-102
30TH SPACE WING


                                                                               16 JUNE 2011

                                                                                  Acquisition

                                                 30TH SPACE WING PRIME MISSION
                                         EQUIPMENT (PME) REQUIREMENTS PROCESS



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 30 RMS/RMR                                                       Certified by: 30 OG/CC
                                                                       (Col Todd W. Gossett)
Supersedes:   30 SWI99-106,                                                          Pages: 10
              30 December 1998


This instruction implements AFSPCI63-104, Modifications to Systems and Implementation
Approval Process, 2 January 2007. This instruction establishes a policy to control processes
effecting Western Range (WR) Prime Mission Equipment (PME) Systems performance
requirements. These requirements are derived from problems or limitations with PME,
enhancement to PME due to changes in Range or Customer needs, and deficiencies against
products during development. It applies to personnel and agencies of the 30th Space Wing
(30 SW) involved in the acquisition, installation, integration, test and evaluation, logistics
support, operation, and maintenance of new or modified systems on the WR. This publication
incorporates the instructions previously published in 30 SWI 99-106, Deficiency Validation
Management, and includes instructions that support objectives regarding Range Standardization
with the 45th Space Wing (45 SW). Send proposed or recommended changes to this instruction
to Requirements Flight 30th Range Management Squadron (30 RMS/RMR), 816 13th Street,
Room 207, Vandenberg AFB, CA 93437 on Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication. Maintain and dispose of records created as a result of the processes
described in this instruction in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 37-123,
Management of Records, and AFRIMS Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                                                 30SWI63-102


1. Objectives.
     1.1. The principle objective is to provide a uniform process to identify, approve/validate,
     control, prioritize, and status Prime Mission Equipment (PME) requirements derived from
     problems or limitations with PME, enhancement to PME due to changes in Range or
     Customer needs, and deficiencies against products during development. An additional
     objective is to define the major processes used to identify requirements and report
     deficiencies.
        1.1.1. The Requirements Statement (RS) is the form for documenting requirements
        derived from problems or limitations with PME or enhancements to PME due to changes
        in Range or Customer needs. The RS is also a method for correction of deficiencies
        against PME.
        1.1.2. The Deficiency Report (DR) is the method for documenting deficiencies against
        products under development.
        1.1.3. An additional objective is to establish the repository for RSs, DRs, and the
        processes by which they are developed, maintained, and managed. The Visual Record
        Viewer, also known as VisualRV, is a web-based Business Process Management
        Application that contains all active and archived RSs and DRs, as well as the processes
        by which they are developed, maintained, and managed. This application also implements
        processes required by the Headquarters (HQ) Air Force Space Command (AFSPC).
2. Applicability.
     2.1. This instruction applies to PME and establishes a policy for a uniform process to
     identify, approve/validate, control, prioritize, and provide status of PME requirements and
     deficiencies.
     2.2. This instruction applies to personnel and agencies of the Wing involved in the
     acquisition, installation, integration, test, evaluation, logistics support, operation, and
     maintenance of new or modified systems on the Western Range (WR).
     2.3. This instruction excludes:
        2.3.1. Any modifications to administrative communication requirements.
        2.3.2. Any modifications to the WR infrastructure not directly in support of PME
        submitted to Base Civil Engineering.
        2.3.3. Any modifications to the maintenance of a facility not directly in support of PME.
3. Organizational Responsibilities.
     3.1. 30th Operations Group Commander (30 OG/CC).
        3.1.1. The 30 OG/CC is the final authority for the 30 SW validation of PME deficiencies,
        requirements, and all processes involved in their development, management and
        reporting.
        3.1.2. The 30 OG/CC is the final 30 SW authority for delegation of PME deficiency and
        requirement validation. PME deficiency validation shall be delegated to the Wing
        Deficiency Validator. PME requirements shall be delegated to the Wing Requirements
        Validator.
30SWI63-102                                                                                   3


     3.1.3. The 30 OG/CC is the final authority in the establishment of those systems
     considered as PME, and the Major Segments, and definition of the Major Segments,
     which comprise the PME.
     3.1.4. The following shall detail responsibilities of delegated units for the PME
     Requirements and Deficiency Reporting Process:
        3.1.4.1. When so delegated, the responsible squadron is the Wing‟s OPR for
        establishing and maintaining PME requirement and deficiency identification
        processes through the Wing Requirements Coordinator.
        3.1.4.2. When so delegated, the Wing Requirement Statement (RS) validation
        authority is the Wing Requirements Validator. Validation shall be the action by
        which the Wing establishes a requirement as an officially documented need of the
        Range PME. Validation is an official action of the Wing.
        3.1.4.3. When so delegated, the Wing Requirements Validator will serve as the
        Chair of the Wing‟s Review Board (RVB)--where approval decisions are
        documented, requirements are coordinated and prioritized, and all Wing comments
        are addressed. The Chair shall execute orders of the 30 OG/CC, in regard to any RS
        that has been reviewed by the 30 OG/CC (see paragraph 4.5.2).
        3.1.4.4. When so delegated, Wing Requirements Validator establishes the score of all
        Wing RSs prior to submitting to HQ AFSPC RVB or Space and Missile Systems
        Center (SMC). The scoring of any Wing RSs is a responsibility of the Wing
        Requirements Validator.
        3.1.4.5. When so delegated, Wing Requirements Validator represents the Wing at all
        HQ AFSPC RVBs relating to PME. This is the responsibility of the Wing
        Requirements Coordinator, in coordination with the Wing Requirements Validator.
        3.1.4.6. When so delegated, Wing Requirements Validator is the responsible
        organization to insure that all Wing DRs are properly categorized, prioritized, correct,
        accurate and if acceptable are submitted to SMC for processing. This duty may be
        further delegated to a Deficiency Manager.
        3.1.4.7. When so delegated, Wing Requirements Validator represents the Wing at the
        Deficiency Review Board (DRB) for new or modified PME. This duty may be further
        delegated to a Deficiency Manager.
     3.1.5. Responsible Squadrons shall provide a Point of Contact as the customer for all
     RSs affecting their PME.
  3.2. 30th Range Management Squadron (30 RMS):
     3.2.1. Serves as RVB member to ensure the Wing‟s priorities are addressed.
     3.2.2. As of publication of this Instruction, the 30th Range Management Squadron (30
     RMS) is OPR for the PME and is also delegated authority to maintain both Wing
     Requirements Validator and Wing Requirements Coordinator, both assigned to 30 RMS
     Range Systems Flight. The 30 RMS is also delegated authority to define equipment and
     resources as PME, and to further define the list and demarcation points for all major
     segments of the PME.
4                                                                                   30SWI63-102


          3.2.2.1. The Squadron shall designate their specific assignment of this responsibility
          by letter to the 30 OG/CC; this letter shall include the organizational position where
          that assignment is located.
          3.2.2.2. The responsibilities of the Wing Requirements Validator and the Wing
          Requirements Coordinator may be performed by direct report to the 30 OG. The
          Wing Requirements Validator and the Wing Requirements Coordinator shall be
          authorized to perform any and all actions, to include such things as bypass of
          Requirements Validation Board (RVB) member comments on RSs under electronic
          review, insertion of any comment on behalf of any person otherwise authorized to do
          so, and any other override of process in support of good and timely RS generation,
          review, modification, approval, cancellation, closure, and validation.
          3.2.2.3. In order to accomplish this delegation, the 30 OG shall sign a letter that shall
          be maintained by the 30 OG, with a copy to be kept by the Squadron. Delegations
          made by any       30 OG command authority (Commander, Deputy Commander, or
          Technical Director) shall be considered in force until changed by a new letter.
          3.2.2.4. The Wing Engineer shall be that individual responsible for the technical
          performance of specified PME and is assigned through chain of command by the
          Responsible Squadron which is OPR for the major PME Segment within which the
          asset lies. The Wing Engineer shall be an employee of the Government and may not
          be a contractor. For all PME within their assigned systems, the Wing Engineer is
          authorized to determine the existence and nature of any deficiencies, approve any
          statement of deficiency and/or requirement, make initial assessment of impact,
          likelihood, and/or operational cost savings, and continue or cancel any existing
          statement of deficiency or requirement. Approval shall be considered an action of
          official recommendation to the OG and/or agencies designated by the OG to act on
          behalf of the OG.
    3.3. 30th Space Communications Squadron (30 SCS):
       3.3.1. Serves as RVB member to ensure that PME requirements affecting base
       administrative communications systems and capabilities are fully evaluated for impacts
       and those requirements that need 30 SCS support or using/interfacing with systems and
       equipment for which 30 SCS is responsible have been identified and addressed.
       3.3.2. Serves as RVB member to ensure Information Assurance (IA) requirements are
       addressed. The 30 SW IA office is located in the Information Systems Flight of the 30
       SCS (30 SCS/SCXI). The RVB member who represents the Wing IA Office may be a
       separate person than the RVB member representing the NETSEG (see paragraph 3.3.1).
    3.4. 30th Space Wing Plans and Programs (30 SW/XP):
       3.4.1. Serves as RVB member to ensure that future Range Customer program
       requirements are addressed.
       3.4.2. Is the OPR for Program Introductions and Statements of Capability documents to
       identify PME capabilities and shortfalls that impact customer programs.
    3.5. 30th Space Wing Safety (30 SW/SE):
       3.5.1. Serves as RVB member to ensure Range Safety requirements are addressed.
30SWI63-102                                                                                   5


      3.5.2. Identifies PME systems and subsystems as Range Safety Critical.
      3.5.3. Identifies requirements that impact the conduct of Safety Critical operations.
   3.6. 2d Range Operations Squadron (2 ROPS):
      3.6.1. Serves as RVB member to ensure that Universal Documentation System (UDS)
      and operator requirements are addressed.
      3.6.2. Serves as OPR for the UDS process and UDS documentation management except
      for Program Introductions and Statements of Capability.
      3.6.3. Provides Range Customer interfaces for PME needs.
      3.6.4. Assists Range Customers external to the Wing by initiating or completing RSs for
      modifications of PME that support customer requirements.
      3.6.5. Serves as RVB member to ensure that current Range Customer program
      requirements are addressed.
   3.7. 30th Weather Squadron (30 WS):
      3.7.1. Serves as RVB member to ensure Meteorological requirements are addressed.
   3.8. 30th Range Management Squadron (30 RMS/RMO):
   3.8.1. Serves as RVB member to ensure that potential sustainment issues are addressed.
   3.9. Space and Missile Systems Center Range Systems Program Office, Vandenberg
   Operating Location (SMC/LRRV):
      3.9.1. Serves as RVB advisor to address any procurement and depot-level maintenance
      issues with submitted RSs.
4. Requirements Process.
   4.1. The 30 SW Requirements Process shall be defined and implemented using an electronic
   tool known as the Visual Record Viewer or VisualRV. RSs approved by 30 OG/CC and HQ
   AFSPC are defined as „Validated‟. Validated RSs are sent to SMC, who develops and
   implements the modification or new system.
   4.2. The final and definitive process is defined in Visual Record Viewer (VRV) and may be
   viewed at any time by any person authorized access to VisualRV,
   www.imis.rc.patrick.af.mil. This process may be adjusted as needed in order to optimize the
   process. The 30 SW is custodian of sub-process                          3 of the RS
   review/validation/implementation process and is authorized by HQ AFSPC to adjust this
   process as desired by the Wing. The Wing Requirements Coordinator is authorized to make
   any and all changes in the VRV process not otherwise directed in the HQ RVB Management
   Guide.
   4.3. Any Federal Government Employee (i.e., Originator) involved with the Range can draft
   and     submit    a    RS     using  VRV,      accessed    via   the    following   link:
   https://imis.rc.patrick.af.mil/vrvhome/ and clicking on the “add new” button under “RS-
   1320 Requirement Statement” heading. The RS is electronically forwarded for Wing initial
   consideration. Only Employees of the Federal Government may draft, author, or submit any
6                                                                                  30SWI63-102


    RS into the system; under no circumstance shall any RS be drafted, authored, or submitted by
    a contractor or contractor employee.
    4.4. Wing Assessments.
       4.4.1. A technical assessment is conducted and SMC/LRRV provides initial score
       recommendations. Definitions of the scoring criteria are contained in the VisualRV. The
       technical assessment insures completeness and correctness and may be accomplished by
       contractor evaluations currently authorized to serve the WR.
       4.4.2. The assigned Wing Engineer (see paragraph 3.1.4.3) will then perform an
       integrated assessment by reviewing and resolving all technical comments received
       against the RS. Changes may be made to the RS during this process.
       4.4.3. The assigned Wing Engineer makes a recommendation and provides an initial
       score input to the Wing RVB.
       4.4.4. Wing RVB members review the RS content, technical assessments, and initial
       score and provide approval or disapproval, and score recommendations to the RVB Chair
       who shall make the final decision regarding validation and score, in accordance with the
       orders from the OG. This is accomplished using VRV.
    4.5. Wing Validation.
       4.5.1. 30 OG review shall be conducted by the 30 OG (Commander, Deputy Commander
       or Technical Director, see paragraph 3.1). Review of RSs for 30 OG is during the
       Requirements Operation Group Executive Review (ROGER). 30 OG review shall afford
       the opportunity for all 30 OG Responsible Squadrons, Wing Safety, Wing Plans and
       Programs, Wing Information Assurance, and any other agency directed or requested by
       the 30 OG to raise issues specific to any RS being reviewed, discuss these issues and be
       offered a reasonable opportunity to form a consensus regarding any RS under review.
       While the 30 OG may exercise unilateral authority to approve any RS, regardless of
       objection, it shall be within the authority of the 30 OG/CC to obtain consensus on any
       given RS. The Wing Requirements Coordinator may propose a review of requirements
       that are ready for validation; this proposal may be made directly to the 30 OG, with
       advice to all OG Responsible Squadrons. A ROGER may be required on a periodic or
       emergency basis.
       4.5.2. Wing RVB Chair (as delegated by the 30 OG/CC) will act upon the RS as ordered
       by the OG. Validated RSs follow the steps below for either local validation or
       submission to HQ RVB. Chair will update the RS content and score, as applicable.
           4.5.2.1. A local validation is done when there is no requirement for HQ AFSPC
           validation. Local validations are made only if the modification meets all the
           following criteria: (a) no impact to form, fit, or function; (b) Government estimate is
           less than $500K and (c) has no Performance Specification level impact.
           4.5.2.2. A locally validated RS will not be scored by HQ (potentially lowering the
           possible score by 25 points).
           4.5.2.3. RSs that do not meet the local validation requirements are sent to HQ
           AFSPC for validation.
30SWI63-102                                                                                   7


   4.6. HQ AFSPC validates RSs and add their own scores as needed, IAW HQ RVB
   Management Guide, or returns RS to the Wing Requirements Validator for update or
   cancellation. If the RS is validated then it will be included in the next HQ AFSPC approved
   IPL update.
   4.7. Implementation
   4.7.1. SMC/LRRV and/or SMC/LRL determines the solution, creates an Engineering
   Change Proposal (ECP) if needed, obtains Configuration Control Board (CCB) approval of
   the ECP and implements the solution approved in the ECP. SMC/LRRV may also include
   their own scoring to add to the scoring made by the Wing and HQ.
   4.8. After SMC delivers a tested, documented, and logistically supportable solution,
   SMC/LRRV and/or SMC/LRL recommends closure via the Readiness Review Board (RRB)
   and sends the RS to the Wing for closure. The Wing will perform any additional operational
   tests and evaluation and request the customer review the solution for buy off. Closure is
   decided by the Wing and generally requires complete satisfaction of all elements requested in
   a RS.
   4.9. The following organizations shall be authorized to designate members to the RVB:
      4.9.1. Each Responsible Squadron; 2 ROPS, 30 RMS, 30 SCS, and 30 WS.
      4.9.2. Wing Plans and Programs Office (30 SW/XP).
      4.9.3. Wing Safety Office (30 SW/SE).
      4.9.4. Wing Information Assurance Office (30 SCS/SCBI).
      4.9.5. SMC/LRRV may designate members to the RVB who are assigned to the local
      Operating Location or Detachment.
5. Wing Deficiency Reporting Process.
   5.1. This section defines the 30 SW implementation of the deficiency reporting process
   identified in Technical Order (T.O.) 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting (DR) and
   Investigating System, 1 Jul 04. General terms and responsibilities for the DR process are
   defined in this T.O.
   5.2. Preprocessing: Only the Wing Engineer shall be authorized to draft and submit a DR
   using       the       VisualRV,       accessed      via     the       following     link:
   https://imis.rc.patrick.af.mil/vrvhome/ and clicking on the “add new” button under
   “Deficiency Report” heading. DR is electronically forwarded to the 30 RMS Quality Flight
   (RMQ) Deficiency Management Office (DMO). The Wing Engineer can be notified via
   email that a discrepancy has been found.
   5.3. Government Assessment.
      5.3.1. 30 RMS Originating Point, 30 RMS Screening Point, and SMC Action Point are
      assigned by the 30 RMS/RMQ DMO based upon the project. Additionally, the DMO
      coordinates with the Originator to insure completeness and accuracy of DR and
      electronically forwards to the assigned 30 RMS Originating Point.
      5.3.2. The assigned 30 RMS Originating Point reviews the DR for completeness and
      impact at the project level then recommends one of the following: (a) approve without
8                                                                                30SWI63-102


       comment, (b) approve with comment, (c) hold as watch item, (d) cancel or (e) submit as a
       RS. Electronically forwards to the 30 RMS Screening Point.
       5.3.3. The assigned 30 RMS Screening Point reviews the DR for completeness and
       impact at the Wing level then does one of the following: (a) recommends validation as
       Category I or Category II and electronically forwards to the Deficiency Review Board
       (DRB), (b) categorizes the issue as a Watch Item Rand places on Hold for Government
       review at a later date or (c) cancels the DR.
    5.4. DRB with representatives from SMC, 30 RMS, and (as applicable) 17th Test Squadron
    (17 TS) reviews the DR for completeness and impact and either rejects the DR or approves
    the DR. If the DR is approved a category is assigned, a priority is established and is
    electronically forwarded to SMC for implementation.
    5.5. SMC implements the DR and electronically notifies the DRB that work has been
    completed.
    5.6. DRB reviews and coordinates with 30 RMS/RMQ DMO, 30 RMS Originating point,
    and 30 RMS Screening point to determine whether DR has been satisfied. If the
    determination is positive, the DR is closed. Otherwise it is returned to SMC for additional
    work.




                                            RICHARD W. BOLTZ, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
30SWI63-102                                                                              9


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFSPCI63-104, Modifications to Systems and Implementation Approval Process 2 Jan 2007
TO 00-35D-54, Technical Manual USAF Deficiency Reporting and Investigating System, 01 July
2004
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publications, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
2 ROPS—2d Range Operations Squadron
30 OG—30th Operations Group
30 RMS—30th Range Management Squadron
30 SCS—30th Space Communication Squadron
30 SW—30th Space Wing
30 WS—30th Weather Squadron
45 OG—45th Operations Group
45 SW—45th Space Wing
DMO—Deficiency Management Office
DR—Deficiency Report
DRB—Deficiency Review Board
ER—Eastern Range
HQ AFSPC—Headquarters Air Force Space Command
IA—Information Assurance
IPL—Integrated Priority List
IRES—Integrated Requirement Entry System
LTRS—Launch and Test Range System
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—Point of Contact
PME—Prime Mission Equipment
PRD—Program Requirements Document
PSM—Program Support Manager
 10                                                                                30SWI63-102


PSP—Program Support Plan
PWRR—Project, Workflow, Requirement, and Resources
ROGER—Requirements‟ OG Executive Review
RS—Requirements Statement
RVB—Requirements Validation Board
SMC—Space and Missile Systems Center
SPO—System Program Office
SWI—Space Wing Instruction
UDS—Universal Documentation System

Terms
Eastern Range (ER)—The designated area of responsibility for the AFSPC managed LTRS
activity for tracking and command/control of missiles, launch vehicles, and specific spacecraft
from the Eastern United States.
Integrated Priority List (IPL)—A record containing all validated RS‟s. The list is published
every six months by HQ AFSPC and is given to SMC to assist in determining execution order.
The IPL is reviewed semi-annually by all parties. All the contents of the IPL are reviewed
according to subsystem such as weather, radar, or telemetry.
Prime Mission Equipment (PME)—Range instrumentation systems are the combination of
software, firmware, and hardware required to perform the WR mission. This includes, but is not
limited to, radar, telemetry, optics, Global Positioning System (GPS), weather, data processing,
telecommunications, command and control, display, closed circuit television, monitoring and
surveillance, and simulation in implementation with automated information systems to acquire,
display, an analyze data collected as an instrumentation network in support of ballistic missiles,
space shuttle and other launch systems, aircraft fly-bys, and orbital satellites.
Requirements Statement (RS)—The paper, or electronic equivalent, that communicates the
requirement to modify the PME. After validation by 30 SW, and HQ AFSPC where required, the
requirement is tasked to the System Program Office (SPO), or the authorized implementers to
modify the PME.
RS Scores—Determine the priority rankings of the RS‟s in the IPL. Scores are determined by
answers to a unique set of scoring questions. The answers are assigned a value, which is placed
into an equation to compute the score. VRV contains scoring detail needed to score RSs.
Validated—Means that a requirement has been accepted as an official statement by the 30 SW.
