BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          30TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 10-119
30TH SPACE WING
                                                                            1 SEPTEMBER 2009

                                                                                        Operations

                                                             WESTERN RANGE EMERGENCY
                                                            PROCEDURE RESPONSIBILITIES


                 COMPLIANCE WITH INSTRUCTION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website
               at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasbility restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 30G/OGV                                                                  Certified by: 30G/CC
                                                                             (Col André L. Lovett)
Supersedes:    30SWI10-119, 31 March 2005                                                 Pages: 19



This instruction describes responsibilities and procedures for the occurrence or indication of fire,
natural disaster, severe weather, bomb threat, security incident, FPCON change, accident, injury,
illness, total evacuation, toxic hazard, and other emergencies that may arise in the Western
Range Operations Control Center (WROCC) or Western Range Control Center (WRCC) during
aeronautical, pre-launch, and launch operations. It establishes Emergency Procedures for 30 SW
personnel within the WROCC and the WRCC and applies to all personnel manning operational
positions during launch and aeronautical operations. For contractors, it applies only to the extent
of their contracts. Attachment 1 lists references and supporting information covered in this
instruction.    Send comments and suggestions for this instruction on AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, through applicable channels, to the Standardization
and Evaluations office (30 OG/OGV). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located
at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.. Instructions contained in this document
and the checklists referenced are designed to provide for the needs of all mission ready, mission
support and key personnel trained in operating the Western Range. This instruction provides the
best possible guidance under most circumstances but cannot be used without sound professional
judgment. All personnel must be knowledgeable of command policies regarding operations on
the Western Range and must exercise sound professional judgment at all times.
2                                                       30SWI10-119 1 SEPTEMBER 2009


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction contains specific actions to take in response to emergency situations. This
instruction should be reviewed in its entirety. Updated roles and responsibilities (paragraphs
1.3-1.9); definition of requirements (paragraphs 2.-2.8); updated requirements for emergency
procedures in the WRCC/WROCC (paragraphs 3.-3.8).
1. Center Supervisor (CS) Responsibilities. The Center Supervisors are those persons
identified for each operational center who are responsible for the implementation of Emergency
Procedures. Table 1 identifies the personnel who will usually act as the CS for their areas of
responsibility.

Table 1. Operations Centers and Designated Center Supervisors During Launch
Operations.
OPERATIONS CENTER                                                  CENTER SUPERVISOR
Operations Supervisor (OP SUP)                                     ROC
WRCC Supervisor                                                    SMFCO
Command Management Center (CMC) (including VIP Room) LDA
Range Control Center (RCC)                                         ROC
Weather Control Center (WCC)                                       LWO
Area Control Center (ACC)                                          ACO
Mission Flight Control Center (MFCC)                               SMFCO
WROCC Mission Room A/B                                             TM/AFLD
*Note: The Air Force Launch Director (AFLD) is the CS in WROCC Mission A/B for 1 ASTS
missions. The Test Manager (TM) is the CS in WROCC Mission Room A/B for 576th Flight
Test Squadron (FLTS) missions. If applicable, the Launch Agency will appoint an appropriately
trained individual as the Center Supervisor for WROCC Mission Room A/B. Appropriate
training must include actions for Western Range Emergency Procedures, appropriate checklists,
and the ability to determine mission essential personnel within the WRCC/WROCC. The ROC
assumes Center Supervisor responsibilities for all rooms within the WROCC control center that
do not already have a trained CS on console.
**Note: The position of WRCC Supervisor and all references to the WRCC will be eliminated
when the Mission Flight Control Center (MFCC) transitions to building 7025.
    1.1. Launch Decision Authority (LDA).
       1.1.1. The LDA directs prioritization of personnel safety, public safety, and mission
       accomplishment.
       1.1.2. During launch operations, the LDA performs duties as the CS and identifies
       mission-essential personnel in the CMC and the VIP Room.
    1.2. Operations Director (OD).
       1.2.1. During operations when the LDA is not present, the OD will assume responsibility
       as CS for the CMC and VIP Room.
    1.3. Range Operations Commander (ROC).
       1.3.1. The ROC is the Operations Supervisor.
30SWI10-119 1 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                            3


      1.3.2. During launch operations, the ROC performs duties as the CS and identifies
      mission-essential personnel in the RCC.
   1.4. Range Control Officer (RCO).
      1.4.1. During launch operations the RCO will assume responsibility as Operations
      Supervisor and CS for the RCC when the ROC is not present or the ROC verbally
      delegates the responsibilities to them.
   1.5. Air Force Launch Director (AFLD).
      1.5.1. The AFLD will designate a CS for applicable Launch Agency operation centers
      identifying mission-essential personnel.
      1.5.2. The AFLD will notify the Operations Supervisor of all emergency actions being
      performed by the Launch Agency.
      1.5.3. The Launch Agency designated representative and the AFLD will coordinate data
      collection following a launch mishap.
      1.5.4. During 1 ASTS launch operations, the Air Force Launch Integrator (AFLI) will
      notify the AFLD of all emergency actions initiated at applicable Launch Agency
      operational centers.
   1.6. Launch Weather Officer (LWO).
      1.6.1. During launch operations, the LWO performs duties as the CS and identifies
      mission-essential personnel in the WCC.
   1.7. Aerospace Control Officer (ACO).
      1.7.1. During launch operations, the ACO performs duties as the CS and identifies
      mission-essential personnel in the ACC.
      1.7.2. During launch operations when the ROC, RCO, SMFCO/MFCO are not present,
      the ACO will assume responsibility as the Operations Supervisor. During aeronautical
      operations, the ACO will assume responsibility as the Operations Supervisor.
   1.8. Senior Mission Flight Control Officer (SMFCO).
   1.8.1.   The SFMCO is the WRCC Supervisor.
       1.8.2. During launch operations, the SMFCO performs duties as the CS and identifies
       mission-essential personnel in the MFCC and WRCC.
      1.8.3. During launch operations when the ROC and RCO are not present, the SMFCO
      will assume responsibility as the Operations Supervisor.
   1.9. Mission Flight Control Officer (MFCO).
      1.9.1. During launch operations when the SMFCO is not present, the MFCO will assume
      responsibility as the CS for the MFCC and WRCC.
      1.9.2. During launch operations when the ROC, RCO, and SMFCO are not present, the
      MFCO will assume responsibility as the Operations Supervisor.
2. Common Emergency Procedure Elements. The Emergency Checklists are designed to be
initiated and completed by the Center Supervisor at each operations center. The CS may
4                                                         30SWI10-119 1 SEPTEMBER 2009


delegate checklist steps to others as required. The Operations Supervisor is responsible for
overall checklist accomplishment, emergency response reaction, impact assessment, and
checklist termination in the WRCC/WROCC.
    2.1. Priorities. Responses to emergencies are made using the following prioritization:
    ensure personnel safety; ensure mission accomplishment; resource protection; notify required
    agencies of status; monitor status and assist emergency response personnel; terminate events;
    log actions.
    2.2. Status Monitoring. Center Supervisors must maintain situational awareness with respect
    to the emergency in progress, particularly with respect to its impact on the operation.
    Designate persons to escort and direct emergency response personnel. Brief response forces
    concerning hazards and facility peculiarities.
    2.3. Checklist Numbering. Western Range emergency checklists will be numbered IAW
    AFPSCI 10-1202_14AFSUP1, Crew Operations, Paragraph 8.3.2.6.1.. Western Range
    emergency checklists may include a suffix in the format #-#X (i.e. 1-1W), where the suffix
    W represents the WRCC/WROCC.
    2.4. Emergency Calls. Emergency calls will be made to the Emergency Control Center
    (ECC) at 911. The individual encountering the situation is responsible for notifying the
    proper agency. If the CS is notified of the situation and the emergency call has not been
    made, the CS has the responsibility to notify the proper agency. When placing the call, give
    specific information to the operator to include the building and room number. Do not report
    acronyms or room names, particularly when reporting the location of the emergency, as
    possible confusion may delay the response. The ECC monitors these transmissions and will
    respond appropriately. The following information must be provided to the operator if
    known/applicable:
       2.4.1. Emergency location (building/room number).
       2.4.2. Nature of emergency.
       2.4.3. Name and rank of person reporting the situation.
       2.4.4. Telephone number from which you are calling.
    2.5. Facility Search and Secure. A cursory search is performed to locate suspicious objects
    or unidentified/unauthorized persons, secure controlled entrances and physically ensure all
    work center doors are secure. Suspicious objects should never be touched or moved. Lights
    should not be turned on or off and cabinet doors or drawers should not be opened during the
    cursory search. An unidentified/unauthorized person will be challenged to determine their
    reason for being in the center, but should not be physically restrained by anyone other than
    security personnel. If there is an obvious or perceived threat to personal safety, personnel
    will not challenge or direct others to challenge unidentified/unauthorized personnel.
    Subsequent searches are not necessary if the initial cursory search and secure is performed
    correctly and positive control of the area has been maintained (i.e. no entrance/exit of any
    personnel, packages, etc.). During duress situations in the work center or adjacent work
    centers, do not perform search and secure actions for a security alert or change in FPCON. If
    a bomb threat is received and there is a duress situation in a work center or adjacent work
    center, search and secure actions will be accomplished.
30SWI10-119 1 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                                        5


   2.6. Evacuation. Different emergencies may call for partial or total evacuation of buildings
   in the 7000 complex. Any time personnel are evacuating, the route taken must avoid known
   hazards whenever possible -- making every effort to move away from those hazards -- and
   must otherwise follow the shortest route to the IAP.
       2.6.1. CS are responsible for directing evacuating personnel to avoid hazards (if known)
       and proceed to the applicable IAP. Certain events may not require evacuation of all
       buildings in the 7000 complex. The following events only require evacuation of the
       building the event occurred in.
           2.6.1.1. Fire (controllable or uncontrollable).
           2.6.1.2. Activation of building sprinkler system.
           2.6.1.3. Undetermined location of a fire alarm.
           2.6.1.4. Bomb Threat.
           2.6.1.5. Structural Damage.
       2.6.2. The Incident Commander may direct additional evacuations after assessing the
       situation.
       2.6.3. If Total Evacuation is required of only one of the Control Centers (WRCC or
       WROCC), CS in the remaining center will accomplish all steps in Checklist 18-1W with
       the exception of steps directing or accomplishing evacuation, activating fire alarms, and
       accounting for personnel.
   2.7. Notifications. Notifications for event initiation and event termination will be made to
   all launch team members including Air Force and contractor personnel with a need to know
   as determined by the applicable CS. The launch team consists of all personnel in the
   operational centers, including mission support and mission-ready positions as well as key
   support personnel. Contractor teams are the contractor counterparts to mission support and
   mission ready crews, including the booster, spacecraft, and support contractors.
   2.8. Events Log. The purpose of the event log is to aid the crewmember in reconstruction of
   events during any subsequent investigation. Crewmembers should attempt to keep as
   accurate a log as possible. However, logging does not take priority over other emergency or
   mission critical actions.
3. WRCC/WROCC Emergency Procedures. WRCC/WROCC Emergency Procedures
include: bomb threats; fire; severe weather; natural disasters; security incidents; FPCON
changes; accidents, injuries or illnesses; evacuations; and toxic hazards at the Building 7000
complex or a Vandenberg AFB launch critical resource not currently processing established
Western Range Emergency Procedures outlined in this instruction. During launch operations,
the Emergency Net is the primary means of reporting an emergency throughout the
WRCC/WROCC. The RCO, ROC, ACO, LWO, SMFCO, MFCO, MCS, OD, LDA, and
applicable Launch Agency personnel are connected to this net (as required). The 30 SW
Command Post (30 SW/CP) has monitor-only capability of this net. To report an emergency,
depress the console key and the net will ring all other agencies. Personnel will answer the net
with their position and not wait to be polled. The Operations Supervisor will verify all Center
Supervisors are on the net and direct the initiator to report their status. The initiating caller will
then give a brief description of the situation. When completed, the Operations Supervisor will
6                                                         30SWI10-119 1 SEPTEMBER 2009


direct implementation of the appropriate checklist. Initial emergency response actions should
not be delayed to notify the Operations Supervisor. These checklists are to be used by all CSs
and will be available during all operations conducted in the WRCC/WROCC. 30 OG/OGV is
the OPR for WRCC/WROCC Emergency Checklists. Table 2 shows the checklists used in the
WRCC/WROCC.

Table 2. WRCC/WROCC Emergency Procedures.
Checklist Number                                 Title
3-1W                                             Bomb Threat
3-2W                                             Security Alert
3-3W                                             FPCON Change
5-1W                                             Natural Disaster/Severe Weather
6-1W                                             Fire/Fire Indication
7-1W                                             Accident/Injury/Illness
18-1W                                            Total Evacuation
20-1W                                            Toxic Hazard
    3.1. WRCC/WROCC Bomb Threat (Checklist 3-1W). For a bomb threat or if notified of a
    bomb threat by an external agency against the Building 7000 complex or a Vandenberg AFB
    launch critical resource not currently processing established Western Range Emergency
    Procedures outlined in this instruction, perform the following procedures.
       3.1.1. Entering Arguments. Receipt of a bomb threat via any method should prompt
       initiation of the Bomb Threat checklist.
       3.1.2. Procedure. Upon receipt of a bomb threat as described above, the following
       actions will be accomplished:
          3.1.2.1. If the threat is received by phone, let the caller finish without interruption.
          Attempt to keep the caller on the line if possible. Ask and record all information
          referring to AF Form 440, Bomb Threat.
          3.1.2.2. CS will notify the Emergency Control Center at 911 and provide AF Form
          440 information, request a response, and a trace on the line.
          3.1.2.3. Pass threat location and specific threat information to the CSs via the
          Emergency Net.
          3.1.2.4. The Operations/WRCC Supervisor will use the PA system to direct an
          evacuation of non-essential personnel in the WRCC/WROCC and direct CSs to
          search and secure their work areas. Direction to personnel evacuating should include
          any appropriate safety directions and the location of the Initial Assembly Point (IAP)
          area.
          3.1.2.5. CSs will direct evacuation of all non-essential personnel from applicable
          control centers.
          3.1.2.6. CSs will perform a cursory search and secure of operational center(s) and
          report anything unusual to the Operations Supervisor.
30SWI10-119 1 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                                   7


         3.1.2.7. The Operations Supervisor will direct Entry Control to verify the
         WRCC/WROCC is secured from any threat to the building 7000 complex. Entry
         Control will ensure SFS personnel are allowed access to the WRCC/WROCC or
         applicable areas in 7000 complex to search the area. SFS personnel should be
         accompanied by owner/user personnel, unless a possible explosive device was found.
         If a bomb/suspicious object is found or explodes at anytime, immediately initiate total
         evacuation procedures in accordance with Checklist 18-1W, WRCC/WROCC Total
         Evacuation. Responding SFS personnel will contact the Operations Supervisor to
         verify the area is clear.
         3.1.2.8. Determine mission impacts to the operation (if applicable).
         3.1.2.9. Operations Supervisor will request status of the above actions and relay any
         mission impacts from the CSs.
     3.1.3. Termination. The Incident Commander is the only authority for determining when
     the "all-clear" is to be given. Accomplish the following actions after the "all-clear" is
     given:
         3.1.3.1. Coordinate return to normal operations with key operational interfaces.
         3.1.3.2. As required, coordinate with the WRCC/WROCC Supervisor for countdown
         pick-up or scrub. ACO will coordinate the reschedule of aeronautical operations as
         required.
  3.2. WRCC/WROCC Security Alert (Checklist 3-2W). When notified of a security
  incident in progress or one that has taken place at Building 7000 complex or a Vandenberg
  AFB launch critical resource not currently processing established Western Range Emergency
  Procedures outlined in this instruction, perform the following procedures.
     3.2.1. Entering Arguments. A security incident includes, but is not limited to:
     unauthorized personnel entering or attempting entry into the Building 7000 complex or at
     a launch critical resource, discovering persons with fake or altered badges, duress (active
     or passive), Helping Hand or Covered Wagon declaration.
     3.2.2. Procedure. Upon determining a security alert as described above has occurred, the
     following actions will be accomplished:
         3.2.2.1. CSs will notify the Emergency Control Center at 911 for security alerts
         including duress situations, specifically Helping Hands and Covered Wagons.
         3.2.2.2. Pass pertinent information to the Operations Supervisor via the Emergency
         Net unless a duress situation exists within any center in the WRCC/WROCC. For a
         duress situation in the WRCC/WROCC, notify the Operations Supervisor in a manner
         that will not alert the individual under duress or the individual causing the duress.
         3.2.2.3. The Operations/WRCC Supervisor will advise personnel of the security
         incident and provide instruction to all work areas via PA announcement, except when
         a duress situation exists within the WRCC/WROCC.
         3.2.2.4. CSs will perform a cursory search and secure of operational center(s), unless
         a duress situation exists in their respective center, and report anything unusual to the
         Operations Supervisor.
8                                                         30SWI10-119 1 SEPTEMBER 2009


          3.2.2.5. The Operations Supervisor will ensure SFS personnel are allowed access to
          the WRCC/WROCC or applicable areas in 7000 complex to search the
          WRCC/WROCC and any other applicable area for threats received to the building
          7000 complex. SFS personnel will lead the response to a Security Alert incident and
          will be accompanied by owner/user personnel as is deemed necessary by responding
          SFS personnel. Responding Security Forces personnel will contact the Operations
          Supervisor to report the area is clear.
          3.2.2.6. Determine mission impacts to the operation (if applicable).
          3.2.2.7. Operations Supervisor will request status of the above actions and relay any
          mission impacts from the CSs.
       3.2.3. Termination. The senior on-duty Security Forces member terminates Helping
       Hands, the 30 SW/CC or designee will terminate Covered Wagons, and the designated
       Incident Commander terminates security situations. Accomplish the following actions
       after termination:
          3.2.3.1. Coordinate return to normal operations with key operational interfaces.
          3.2.3.2. As required, coordinate with the Operations Supervisor for countdown pick-
          up or scrub. ACO will coordinate the reschedule of aeronautical operations as
          required.
    3.3. WRCC/WROCC FPCON Change (Checklist 3-3W). When notified of a change in
    FPCON perform the following procedures. If the FPCON change is a result of a security
    incident, accomplish WRCC/WROCC Security Alert Checklist 3-2W.
       3.3.1. Entering Arguments.     An upgrade or downgrade in FPCON status affecting
       Vandenberg AFB.
       3.3.2. Procedure. Upon receiving notification of a FPCON change, the following actions
       will be accomplished:
          3.3.2.1. Pass all pertinent information to the Operations Supervisor via the
          Emergency Net, unless a duress situation exists within any center in the
          WRCC/WROCC. For a duress situation in the WRCC/WROCC, notify the
          Operations Supervisor in a manner that will not alert the individual under duress or
          the individual causing the duress.
          3.3.2.2. The Operations/WRCC Supervisor will advise personnel of the FPCON
          change via the PA announcement, except when a duress situation exists within the
          WRCC/WROCC.
          3.3.2.3. CSs will perform a cursory search and secure of operational center(s), unless
          a duress situation exists in their respective center, and report anything unusual to the
          Operations Supervisor. Search and secure is not necessary for FPCON downgrade.
          3.3.2.4. Determine mission impacts to the operation (if applicable).
          3.3.2.5. Operations Supervisor will request status of the above actions and relay any
          mission impacts from the CSs.
30SWI10-119 1 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                                  9


     3.3.3. Termination. Upon receipt of FPCON NORMAL issued by 30 SW Command
     Post accomplish the following action:
         3.3.3.1. Coordinate return to normal operations with key operational interfaces.
  3.4. WRCC/WROCC Natural Disaster/Severe Weather (Checklist 5-1W). In the event
  of a natural disaster or severe weather, or notification from a responsible agency (e.g., 30
  SW/CP, 30 WS, etc.) of impending disaster/severe weather at Building 7000 complex or a
  Vandenberg AFB launch critical resource, perform the following procedures. If the disaster
  results in other emergency situations, proceed immediately to the appropriate checklist.
  Evacuation procedures will normally take precedence over weather conditions; however, do
  not evacuate personnel outdoors if this places personnel in greater jeopardy (e.g., tornado,
  hail storm, etc.). The LWO will determine if exiting the building places personnel in greater
  danger due to severe weather. In the event of a natural disaster, VAFB personnel will also
  accomplish VAFB CEMP 10-2, Natural Disaster checklist.
     3.4.1. Entering Arguments. Checklist 5-1W is used upon notification of a pending
     disaster or a Weather Watch/Warning affecting operations or in the event of a natural
     disaster.
     3.4.2. Procedure. Upon determining a natural disaster/severe weather situation as
     described above has occurred, the following actions will be accomplished:
         3.4.2.1. Pass all pertinent information to the Operations Supervisor via the
         Emergency Net.
         3.4.2.2. All WRCC/WROCC personnel will remain indoors and seek shelter until the
         event is over or evacuate at the discretion of the LWO/Operations Supervisor. For
         earthquakes, seek shelter is defined as taking cover under a desk, console, table or in
         a door frame and to stay away from windows or any objects that can topple over.
         3.4.2.3. The Operations Supervisor will direct implementation of Operations
         Directive (OD) 9900, for Western Range Emergency Actions.
         3.4.2.4. Determine mission impacts to the operation (if applicable).
         3.4.2.5. Operations Supervisor will request status of the above actions and relay any
         mission impacts from the CSs.
     3.4.3. Termination. For a natural disaster, the designated Incident Commander decides
     when the disaster is terminated. Cancellation of Weather Watches/Warnings will come
     from the Duty Forecaster or the LWO, if on console. For severe weather, the LWO can
     issue the “all clear.” Accomplish the following actions after the “all clear” is given:
         3.4.3.1. Coordinate return to normal operations with key operational interfaces.
         3.4.3.2. As required, coordinate with the Operations Supervisor for countdown pick-
         up or scrub. ACO will coordinate the reschedule of aeronautical operations as
         required.
  3.5. WRCC/WROCC Fire/Fire Indication (Checklist 6-1W). For a fire indication at
  Building 7000 complex or a Vandenberg AFB launch critical resource not currently
  processing established Western Range Emergency Procedures outlined in this instruction,
10                                                           30SWI10-119 1 SEPTEMBER 2009


     perform the following procedures. Only the Fire Department can determine if an alarm is
     false.
        3.5.1. Entering Arguments. A fire indication is an audible or visual alarm, smoke,
        flames, sparks, extreme heat, notification of a fire, etc.
        3.5.2. Procedure. Upon receiving a fire indication as described above, the following
        actions will be accomplished:
            3.5.2.1. If strobe lights are flashing in the WRCC/WROCC, the Operations
            Supervisor will contact Entry Control to determine the exact fire location.
            3.5.2.2. CS will notify 911 for fire or fire indications, if not previously accomplished.
            3.5.2.3. Pass all pertinent information to the Operations Supervisor via the
            Emergency Net. Each CS will notify the Operations Supervisor, when polled, of fires
            or fire indications in their respective area(s).
            3.5.2.4. If a fire is found and is controllable, on scene personnel will attempt to
            control the fire, if possible. The personnel who locate a fire will determine its status.
            A controllable fire is one where personnel safety is not in jeopardy and the fire can be
            put out with available firefighting equipment (e.g. a fire extinguisher). If on scene
            personnel determine fire is uncontrollable, immediately implement total evacuation
            procedures in accordance with Checklist 18-1W, WRCC/WROCC Total Evacuation.
            For all determination and control actions, do not direct personnel into an area that
            would endanger life.
            3.5.2.5. If the fire is in the Building 7000 complex, the Operations/WRCC
            Supervisor will use the PA to direct evacuation of all non-essential personnel from
            the building that the fire is in. The direction to evacuate should include any
            appropriate safety directions and the location of the IAP area.
            3.5.2.6. The Operations Supervisor will direct implementation of OD 9900 if the fire
            is at a site other than the building 7000 complex.
            3.5.2.7. Determine mission impacts to the operation (if applicable).
            3.5.2.8. Operations Supervisor will request status of the above actions and relay any
            mission impacts from the CSs.
        3.5.3. Termination. The designated Incident Commander, usually the responding Fire
        Chief, determines when the fire situation is terminated. Accomplish the following
        actions after the “all clear” is given:
            3.5.3.1. Coordinate return to normal operations with key operational interfaces.
            3.5.3.2. As required, coordinate with the Operations Supervisor for countdown pick-
            up or scrub. ACO will coordinate the reschedule of aeronautical operations as
            required.
     3.6. WRCC/WROCC               Accident/Injury/Illness    (Checklist   7-1W). For       an
     accident/injury/illness at Building 7000 complex or a Vandenberg AFB launch critical
     resource not currently processing established Western Range Emergency Procedures outlined
     in this instruction, perform the following procedures.
30SWI10-119 1 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                                 11


     3.6.1. Entering Arguments. An accident is an incident involving any personnel
     (government, civilian, or contractor), which results in any degree of impairment to the
     subject personnel. An injury or illness is an incident that requires medical attention.
     When notified of an accident/injury/illness, take appropriate actions to ensure any
     individuals are removed from further harm. Do not direct personnel to perform any
     actions that might further endanger human life.
     3.6.2. Procedure. Upon receiving notifications of an accident/injury/illness as described
     above, the following actions will be accomplished:
        3.6.2.1. Direct administering of first aid if not already in progress. If no one can be
        found to administer first aid, the Operations Supervisor will make a PA
        announcement to direct qualified individuals to the scene.
        3.6.2.2. CS will notify 911 for accident/illness/injury situations, if not previously
        accomplished. The 911 operator will determine if a response is required.
        3.6.2.3. Pass all pertinent information to the Operations Supervisor via the
        Emergency Net.
        3.6.2.4. Notify Entry Control to escort medical personnel to the ill/injured individual.
        3.6.2.5. For any accident or injury that does not require a 911 response but still
        requires medical attention, provide an escort for the injured party to medical care.
        The escort must remain with the individual until medical personnel assume
        responsibility.
        3.6.2.6. Determine mission impacts to the operation (if applicable).
        3.6.2.7. Operations Supervisor will request status of the above actions and relay any
        mission impacts from the CSs.
  3.7. WRCC/WROCC Total Evacuation (Checklist 18-1W). When total evacuation of the
  WRCC/WROCC is required, perform the following procedures. These actions vacate the
  WRCC/WROCC immediately and provide for response agency notifications from a safe
  location.
     3.7.1. Entering Arguments. A total evacuation is required any time personnel safety is in
     jeopardy. For example, a bomb/suspicious object is found or explodes, toxic fumes,
     structural damage to the Building 7000 complex, an undetermined location of a fire
     alarm, activation of building sprinkler system, or an uncontrollable fire. For split
     operations in buildings 7000 and 7025 all personnel must exit both buildings if a bomb or
     suspicious package is found, or if any other circumstance arises that endangers personnel
     in both buildings.
     3.7.2. Procedure. Upon receiving total evacuation indications as described above, the
     following actions will be accomplished:
        3.7.2.1. Pass all pertinent information to the Operations Supervisor via the
        Emergency Net.
        3.7.2.2. The Operations/WRCC Supervisor will direct the total evacuation of the
        WRCC/WROCC via PA announcement.                   The direction should include any
        appropriate safety directions and the location of the IAP area.
12                                                          30SWI10-119 1 SEPTEMBER 2009


            3.7.2.3. The SMFCO will ensure all flight safety systems are placed in a safe
            configuration prior to evacuating the Mission Flight Control Center. During flight,
            the SMFCO will direct actions consistent with the applicable mission rules.
            3.7.2.4. The RCO, MFCO and ROC will depress the applicable RED Status and
            Alert (S&A) light indicator.
            3.7.2.5. The Operations Supervisor will announce the WRCC/WROCC evacuation
            over the primary countdown net(s). The MFCO will announce the evacuation over
            the MFCO Safety Net. The RCO will hold the countdown clock.
            3.7.2.6. Ensure the fire alarm is activated for uncontrollable fires only, if not
            previously accomplished.
            3.7.2.7. From a safe location, the Operations Supervisor will notify 911, if not
            previously accomplished.
            3.7.2.8. Account for personnel, determine mission impact with key operational
            interfaces and report status to the Operations Supervisor at the assembly area.
        3.7.3. Termination. The designated Incident Commander decides when the hazardous
        condition no longer exists and the evacuation is terminated. Accomplish the following
        actions after the “all clear” is given:
            3.7.3.1. Coordinate return to normal operations with key operational interfaces.
            3.7.3.2. As required, coordinate with the Operations Supervisor for countdown pick-
            up or scrub. ACO will coordinate the reschedule of aeronautical operations as
            required.
     3.8. WRCC/WROCC Toxic Hazard (Checklist 20-1W). For a toxic hazard incident
     taking place on the Western Range perform the following procedures. Procedures outlined in
     this instruction implement critical portions of 30 SWI 91-106, Toxic Hazard Assessments,
     and AFSPCMAN 91-710, Range Safety User Requirements Manual, and are in addition to
     the launch agency’s normal toxic hazard response actions as documented in Missile System
     Pre-launch Safety Package (MSPSP), Launch Complex Safety Plan, Facility Safety Plan, and
     Ground Operations Plan. In the event of a toxic hazard, VAFB personnel will also
     accomplish VAFB CEMP 10-2, HAZMAT Response Checklist.
        3.8.1. Entering Arguments. Use this checklist if an unplanned toxic spill occurs during
        operations to include unknown substances or potentially dangerous quantities of non-
        toxic substances, or upon notification from a reliable agency (e.g. 30 SW/CP, Safety,
        etc.) of a pending chemical hazard. 30 SW personnel will follow the procedures outlined
        in AFSPCMAN 91-710 and 30 SWI 91-106. Except during launch operations, the 30
        SW/CP will provide notification on a 24-hour basis to affected oil platforms and trains
        that a toxic spill has occurred. This includes updates and termination notifications.
        3.8.2. Procedure. Upon receiving toxic hazard indications as described above, the
        following actions will be accomplished:
            3.8.2.1. Pass all pertinent information to the Operations Supervisor via the
            Emergency Net. Pertinent information that must be passed to the Operations
            Supervisor via the Emergency Net includes, but is not limited to, time of the incident,
30SWI10-119 1 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                                 13


        associated injuries, toxic hazard zone, valid time for the toxic hazard, site of the
        incident, strength and direction of winds, azimuth, chemical and source strength of
        the toxic hazard and tier 2 and/or 3 distance from the incident.
        3.8.2.2. Except for a planned release, the LWO will coordinate with the Range/Duty
        Forecaster for Operational Hazard Zone (OHZ) information and updates and will
        provide information via the Emergency Net every 15 minutes, unless otherwise
        directed.
        3.8.2.3. The Aerospace Control Officer (ACO) will ensure ocean-going vessels and
        aerial assets are advised to stay clear of the OHZ. During aeronautical operations, the
        ACO will ensure aerial assets are advised. During launch operations the ACO will
        advise trains and affected oil platforms of the type of toxic hazard and other pertinent
        information. The ACO will provide a status update to the Operations Supervisor and
        MFCO.
        3.8.2.4. The Operations Supervisor will direct implementation of OD 9900. The
        Operations Supervisor will also notify 30 SW/CP and pass pertinent information
        found in para. 3.8.2.1.
            3.8.2.4.1. Coordinate evacuation of hazardous area and ensure emergency
            response is notified.
        3.8.2.5. For spills at launch agency facilities, the Operations Safety Manager (OSM)
        and the Launch Agency will coordinate affected site OHZ clearance actions and/or
        evacuations. The OSM will notify the MFCO of actions taken.
        3.8.2.6. The ACO will notify the Launch Support Team (LST) of toxic information.
        3.8.2.7. Determine mission impacts to the operation (if applicable).
        3.8.2.8. The Operations Supervisor will request status of the above actions and relay
        any mission impacts from the CSs.
        3.8.2.9. Personnel will monitor hazard procedures. The ACO must ensure aerial
        assets remain clear of affected area until the airspace clearance responsibilities are
        assumed by Base Operations.
        3.8.2.10. The Operations Supervisor will pass and receive status updates to and from
        the Launch Agency and Safety and coordinate on any hold or scrub points should the
        situation dictate. As required, other agencies will be notified of the situation (e.g.
        support ranges, Launch Correlation Unit, etc.).
     3.8.3. Termination. The designated Incident Commander decides when the hazardous
     condition no longer exists. Accomplish the following actions after the “all clear” is
     given:
        3.8.3.1. The ACO will ensure ocean-going vessels, trains, oil platforms, and aerial
        assets are notified to resume normal operations. During aeronautical operations, the
        ACO will ensure aerial assets are notified.
        3.8.3.2. Coordinate return to normal operations with key operational interfaces.
14                                                      30SWI10-119 1 SEPTEMBER 2009


           3.8.3.3. As required, coordinate with the Operations Supervisor for countdown pick-
           up or scrub. ACO will coordinate the reschedule of aeronautical operations as
           required.
4. Adopted Forms:
     4.1. AF Form 440, Bomb Threat




                                           DAVID J. BUCK, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander, 30th Space Wing
30SWI10-119 1 SEPTEMBER 2009                                               15


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
30 SWI 15-101, Weather Support
30 SWI 32-102, Fire Prevention
30 SWI 91-106, Toxic Hazard Assessment
30 SWI 91-101, Launch Support Team Process
VAFB CEMP 10-2, Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan
OD 9900, Range Emergency Actions
AFSPC Manual 91-710, Range Safety User Requirements Manual (Volumes 1-7)

Acronyms and Abbreviations
ACC—Area Control Center
ACO—Aerospace Control Officer
AFLC—Air Force Launch Controller
AFLD—Air Force Launch Director
AFLI—Air Force Launch Integrator
CMC—Command Management Center
CP—Command Post
CS—Center Supervisor
EC—Entry Control
ECC—Emergency Control Center
ECP—Entry Control Point
EOC—Emergency Operations Center
EWR—Eastern/Western Range
FPCON—Force Protection Condition
IAP—Initial Assembly Point
LCG—Launch Group
LDA—Launch Decision Authority
LST—Launch Support Team
LWO—Launch Weather Officer
MCS—Mission Control Supervisor
MFCC—Mission Flight Control Center
16                                                         30SWI10-119 1 SEPTEMBER 2009


MFCO—Mission Flight Control Officer
MSPSP—Missile System Pre-launch Safety Package
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OD—Operations Director
OHZ—Operational Hazard Zone
OHA—Oxidizer Holding Area
OP SUP—Operations Supervisor
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSM—Operations Safety Manager
PA—Public Address
PHZ—Potential Hazard Zone
PPE—Propellant Protective Equipment
RCC—Range Control Center
RCO—Range Control Officer
ROC—Range Operations Commander
RSTA—WROCC Range Status & Alert System
S&A—Status and Alert (lights)
SLC—Space Launch Complex
SMFCO—Senior Mission Flight Control Officer
SV—Satellite Vehicle
SWI—Space Wing Instruction
TSR—Test Support Room
VIP—Very Important Person
WCC—Weather Control Center
WRCC—Western Range Control Center
WROCC—Western Range Operations Control Center

Terms
Active Duress—Sounding of an alarm by physical means to security forces members or by
passing the duress word. A member under active duress is being forced to act involuntarily, by
means of coercion or threat of harm by a second party.
Bomb Threat—Notice of a "bomb planting" within a building, area, or facility. Normally, this
is called in to the target location. However, a bomb threat may be received by other means, (e.g.,
by letter, note or it may convey information to a third party).
30SWI10-119 1 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                                      17


Building 7000 Complex—Area including buildings 7000, 7025, 7011, 7015, and 7050.
Caution—An operating or maintenance procedure, practice, condition, or statement, which, if
not strictly observed, could result in damage to or destruction of equipment or loss of
effectiveness or long term health hazards to personnel.
Center Supervisor (CS)—Those persons identified for each launch center are responsible for
the implementation of Emergency Procedures.
Covered Wagon—An unclassified telephonic message transmitted rapidly up the chain of
command. The message informs higher headquarters that an unusual incident, probably or
actually hostile and affecting priority resources, has occurred at an installation or dispersed site.
The installation commander terminates Covered Wagons.
Cursory Search—A preliminary search of the center of responsibility used to provide
information to responding agencies and make a determination of potential evacuation situations.
The individual will not touch/open drawers, touch/open cabinet doors, touch/turn on/off light
switches, or touch/move any objects.
Duress—The act of coercion of an individual to accomplish activity against their will through
the use of force or threat of force.
Duress Words—Words usable in normal conversation to alert knowledgeable personnel that a
duress situation may exists. A duress word can be passed to any individual that is
knowledgeable of the duress word. A duress word letter is issued by Security Forces and
consists of a primary, alternate, and exercise duress word.
Emergency Control Center (ECC)—The ECC consists of Fire Dept 911 Center and Law
Enforcement Desk (aka Security Forces). When calling 911, specify the nature of the
emergency, address and point of contact.
FPCON—Force Protection Condition (FPCON)—A Joint Staff-approved program standardizing
the military services’ identification of, and recommended responses to, terrorist threats against
US personnel and facilities. This program facilitates interservice coordination and support for
antiterrorism activities. Military services are always in one of the following five FPCONs:
FPCON NORMAL—Applies when a general threat of possible terrorist activity exists, but
warrants only a routine security posture.
FPCON ALPHA—Applies when there is a general threat of possible terrorist activity against
personnel and facilities, the nature and extent of which are unpredictable, and circumstances do
not justify full implementation of FPCON BRAVO measures. However, it may be necessary to
implement certain measures from higher FPCONs resulting from intelligence received or as a
deterrent. The measures in this FPCON must be capable of being maintained indefinitely.
FPCON BRAVO—Applies when an increased and more predictable threat of terrorist activity
exists. The measures in this FPCON must be capable of being maintained for weeks without
causing undue hardship, affecting operational capability, or aggravating relations with local
authorities.
FPCON CHARLIE—Applies when an incident occurs or intelligence is received indicating
some form of terrorist action against personnel and facilities is imminent. Implementation of this
18                                                          30SWI10-119 1 SEPTEMBER 2009


FPCON for more than a short period probably creates hardship and affects the peacetime
activities of the unit and its personnel.
FPCON DELTA—Implementation applies in the immediate area where a terrorist attack has
occurred or when intelligence has been received that terrorist action against a specific location or
person is likely.
Helping Hand—An unclassified telephonic message relayed to an installation command post
informing them that an unusual incident, possibly hostile and affecting priority resources, has
been detected. The Helping Hand report is not generally relayed to higher headquarters, as it
reflects a situation, which has not been investigated or analyzed. Security Forces will
immediately respond and investigate the Helping Hand situation. The installation commander
terminates Helping Hand situations. Note: Helping Hand termination authority has been
delegated to the Chief, Security Forces, or designated representative.
Incident Commander— Individual in charge of all response forces, the emergency scene,
support resources and mitigation/termination actions.
Key Operational Interfaces—Customers and/or external agencies directly supporting center or
launch day operations for a particular work center.
Launch Critical Resource—A WR asset supporting a given operation.
Launch Operations—Actions conducted by USAF or contractor personnel at the launch base to
command, control, and execute spacelift systems.
Launch Support Team—A team, under the direction of 30 SW/SE, composed of trained
technicians pre-positioned for nominal operations and rapid response to emergencies during
missile or space launch operations. In the event of a non-nominal destruct the LST will be under
the direction of the Emergency Operations Center (EOC) after toxic and debris hazards no longer
exist.
Launch Support Team Chief—A 30 SW commander representative with overall responsibility
for the LST. The individual prepares and coordinates the Launch Support Plan, and provides
overall LST leadership.
Mission—Essential Personnel—Military, civil service, or contractor personnel in operational
positions necessary to ensure flight safety or mission accomplishment. Personnel are designated
as mission-essential by the CS/AFLD for each area or key facility.
Non—Mission Essential Personnel—All operations support personnel who are not designated
critical for flight safety or mission accomplishment during operations. Personnel are designated
as non-mission essential personnel by the CS/AFLD for each area or key facility.
Note—An operating or maintenance procedure, condition, or statement, which must be
highlighted.
Operational Center—Any area, which has a pre-determined center supervisor, responsible for
running applicable emergency checklist(s).
Operations Positions—Functional positions in Western Range facilities that contractor or
government personnel occupy to conduct tasks in support of a launch or test operation.
30SWI10-119 1 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                                  19


Passive Duress—Failure to follow established entry and internal control procedures. This may
include “piggy-backing” through a turnstile. “Piggy-backing” means to enter through a turnstile
without entering your PIN.
Security Alert—Any situation requiring response of Security Forces to a secure area.
Suspicious Object—Use the following questions to help determine if an object is suspicious. 1)
Is the object accounted for by authorized personnel? 2) Does the object have characteristics that
raise doubt concerning its appropriateness in that location? 3) Is the object an unexpected
delivery? Not all situations can be accounted for in this definition. The responsibility for
determining a suspicious object initially resides with the person finding the object. Ultimately,
the CS responsible for the area where the object is found must use sound professional judgment
when deciding to initiate a response based upon all available information.
Warning—An operating or maintenance procedure, practice, condition, or statement, which if
not strictly observed, could result in injury or death of personnel.
Weather Warning—A Weather Warning is a special notice provided when a weather condition
severe enough to pose a hazard to property or life is occurring or is expected to occur, and for
which agencies must take protective actions.
Weather Watch—A Weather Watch is a notice issued to advise affected agencies of the
potential for warning-level weather conditions before actually issuing the warning, allowing
affected agencies advance notice to prepare/plan for action.
Western Range Control Center (WRCC/WROCC)—The facilities within Building 7000
complex that contain the operational positions of Range and launch agency personnel. These
areas require sensor card (“swipe card”) access to enter or verification via a launch operation
Entry Authorization List (EAL).
