BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                30TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 21-103
                                                                                 18 SEPTEMBER 2007

                                                                                           Maintenance

                                                            REPAIR AND CALIBRATION OF TEST,
                                                             MEASUREMENT, AND DIAGNOSTIC
                                                                         EQUIPMENT (TMDE)

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-Publishing.af.mil (will convert to www.af.mil/e-publishing on AF Link)
                       for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 30 RMS/RMO                                         Certified by: 30 OG/CC (Col Andre L. Lovett)
Supersedes 30SWI21-103, 1 October 1998                                                    Pages: 11

This instruction implements and defines the Test Measurement and Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE) pro-
gram, and describes the control system used to ensure all TMDE used for measuring and testing govern-
ment-owned systems and equipment are repaired, calibrated and certified at regularly scheduled intervals.
Control and calibration of TMDE are essential to exact and repeatable systems alignment, and through the
Air Force Primary Standards Laboratory (AFPSL), ensures measurements are traceable to National Insti-
tute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Standards. This instruction applies to all agencies that use or
have custody of Government owned TMDE, and is not intended to replace requirements outlined in AFI
21-101, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management, AFI 21-113, Air Force Metrology and Cali-
bration (AFMETCAL) Program or TO 00-20-14, Air Force Metrology and Calibration Program. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this instruction to 30 RMS/RMO, 816 13th Street Suite 229
VAFB CA 93437-5212 using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publications. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accor-
dance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This instruction has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Organizational names
and office symbols have been updated. Meters information has been deleted (paragraph 2.3.); TMDE
Storage has been renumbered; TMDE Scheduling and Control has been substantially rewritten (paragraph
3.); user/customer responsibilities clarified (paragraph 5.2.13.) and (paragraph 5.2.14.).


1. Introduction
   1.1. General. The 30th Space Wing provides TMDE calibration services at Vandenberg Air Force
   Base (VAFB). The Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratory (PMEL), 340 Airfield Road,
2                                                                30SWI21-103 18 SEPTEMBER 2007


    (Building 1737), Vandenberg AFB CA 93437-6118, repairs, calibrates, and certifies all TMDE. To
    have an effective calibration program, TMDE customers will:
       1.1.1. Provide TMDE inventory information to PMEL.
       1.1.2. Make sure assigned TMDE is calibrated at periodic intervals.
       1.1.3. Furnish auxiliary equipment, such as cables, probes, and electrical cords, needed to cali-
       brate TMDE.
       1.1.4. Ensure care and handling procedures are followed for TMDE in their custody.
       1.1.5. Perform preventive maintenance to include proper use, cleaning, preservation, servicing,
       and minor external repairs in accordance with (IAW) TO 33-1-27, Logistic Support of Precision
       Measurement Equipment (excluding any work needing adjustment or replacement of parts or
       components that affect calibration).
       1.1.6. Maintain technical data files of equipment owned. Provide technical data with TMDE when
       requested by PMEL. TMDE user will ensure adequate maintenance and technical data for each
       item of TMDE is available.
       1.1.7. Seek assistance from the ASSC program office (30 RMS/RMO) to resolve technical prob-
       lems needing special consideration. Examples include system or subsystem calibration, on-site
       calibration, limited certifications, acceptance tests, and new test equipment purchases.
       1.1.8. Only use TMDE that was serviced by an authorized PMEL and has a valid TMDE certifi-
       cation label affixed.
       1.1.9. Consider the alternative of limited calibration, no periodical calibration (NPC) and Cali-
       brate Before Use (CBU), when possible.
    1.2. Traceability. Reference standards used at PMEL are traceable to the National Institute of Stan-
    dards and Technology (NIST) directly through the Air Force Primary Standards Laboratory (AFPSL)
    or through the US Naval Observatory Precision Timing Reference Station (PTRS) for precise time.
    1.3. Responsibilities.
       1.3.1. The Commander, 30th Space Wing (30 SW/CC) has overall responsibility for the PMEL
       program at VAFB.
       1.3.2. The 30th Contracting Squadron (30 CONS) is responsible for overall compliance of the
       PMEL contract.
       1.3.3. The Quality Assurance Office (30 RMS/RMQ) assesses, documents, and reports contractor
       performance of the PMEL contract and statement of work requirements.
       1.3.4. The Program Office (30 RMS/RMO) is the office of primary responsibility (OPR) for cost,
       schedule and performance, as well a providing the technical guidance and monitoring of the
       PMEL’s program compliancy.

2. Care, Handling, and Storage of TMDE.
    2.1. General. The accuracy and useful life of TMDE are directly influenced by proper use, care, han-
    dling, and storage. Manufacturer operating and maintenance manuals describing specific items of
    TMDE are excellent references as they contain precautionary instructions related to use and operation.
30SWI21-103 18 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                                           3


  Each item of TMDE is usually designed for a particular application. Therefore, the knowledge of
  assigned TMDE technical specifications is a basic requirement and all workcenter personnel are urged
  to read manufacturer's manual prior to using equipment.
  2.2. Care and Handling. It is beyond the scope of this instruction to give detailed care and handling
  instructions for all contingencies that may be encountered at individual workcenters. Guidelines listed
  below are general procedures for the care and handling of test equipment.
     2.2.1. Do not stack test equipment on the floor and do not place open liquid containers on or near
     test equipment.
     2.2.2. Before lifting or carrying test equipment, disconnect and coil all cables and leads so they do
     not drag on the floor.
     2.2.3. Get help when lifting or carrying heavy or bulky equipment. Heavy equipment is defined as
     weighing in excess of 50 pounds. A person carrying equipment is subject to tripping since the
     view of the floor is usually obstructed. Utilize wheeled carts to move equipment when practical.
     2.2.4. Utilize carrier handles to move storage cells.
     2.2.5. Avoid stacking test equipment more than two units high. When equipment must be stacked,
     always place smaller, lighter units on top.
     2.2.6. Arrange TMDE used during testing to minimize possibility of tripping over test leads or
     cables. Cart-mounted equipment must be located adjacent to work benches.
     2.2.7. Avoid blocking aisles, exits, or access to fire extinguishers with test equipment mounted on
     carts.
     2.2.8. Avoid subjecting TMDE to any unnecessary mechanical shock. If an item is dropped, it
     must be removed from service immediately, tagged, and sent to PMEL for recalibration.
     2.2.9. Wear special gloves to handle items, such as unplated precision iron weights, to protect
     them from moisture and/or oil from the skin.
     2.2.10. Avoid putting fan-equipped TMDE in a position that will restrict or block air flow when
     in operation. Check rack-mounted test equipment to ensure cooling is adequate, fan filters are
     clean, and air flow is not restricted.
     2.2.11. Do not use any item of TMDE suspected of malfunctioning or when certification date has
     expired and is due calibration.
  2.3. TMDE Storage. To avoid mechanical damage and protect TMDE from dust and effects of mois-
  ture, the following storage instructions apply:
     2.3.1. A definite storage area must be assigned for all TMDE when not in use. Shelves, work
     bench drawers, or cabinets may be used for storage purposes and will be identified as test equip-
     ment storage areas.
     2.3.2. Test and measurement equipment having magnets (such as meters and waveguide isolators)
     must be kept away from degaussing fields. Keep these items separated by at least six inches to pre-
     vent magnetic coupling.
     2.3.3. Mechanical test and measurement devices must be stored carefully avoiding nicks, burring,
     abrasion, corrosion and rust.
4                                                               30SWI21-103 18 SEPTEMBER 2007


       2.3.4. In areas where dust control is a problem, place test and measurement equipment in plastic
       bags prior to storage. Bags are available in a variety of shapes and sizes and may be ordered
       through logistics channels.
       2.3.5. When physical size or weight of equipment renders shelf storage impractical, store in area
       where it is used.
       2.3.6. Small portable items stored in drawers are protected from shock through generous use of
       vibration absorbent material. Two acceptable cushioning materials are urethane foam and sponge
       rubber.
       2.3.7. Non-calibrated accessory items, such as adapters, probes, and cables (when not stored as
       part of the test and measurement equipment) should be in drawers, on racks, or on shelves. These
       storage areas are designated and marked to ensure individual items are properly stored. Coaxial
       cables and accessories damaged, dented, creased, or with faulty connectors, will be tagged listing
       the discrepancy and stored in an area designated as nonconforming equipment hold area. When
       repairs are completed, remove tags return item to service.
       2.3.8. Minimize effects of moisture by storing equipment in a dry storage area. Equipment within
       cases is stored with the covers closed and latched. When test equipment has been exposed to mois-
       ture, remove from case, dry, and replace in case prior to application of power or storing.
       2.3.9. Protective covers are installed on waveguide parts when test equipment is not in use.
       2.3.10. All internal dry cell batteries must be removed from instruments placed in long-term or
       permanent storage to prevent damage from battery acid leakage. The custodian declaring an item
       excess will remove dry cell batteries from test equipment.

3. TMDE Scheduling and Control.
    3.1. General. Periodic calibration and maintenance of test equipment are necessary to ensure equip-
    ment remains accurate to within designed limits. This chapter prescribes procedures for processing
    TMDE through PMEL Scheduling Section.
       3.1.1. The master ID is used to produce reports and listings relative to scheduling and control of
       TMDE.
    3.2. TMDE Schedule. PMEL will provide monthly schedules prior to start of the month for each own-
    ing work center (OWC). This schedule will include list of items overdue, items currently in PMEL,
    and forecast of items due for the month. PMEL will exclude any categories with no entries.
       3.2.1. OWC will review work center schedules to ensure accuracy. OWC will notify PMEL
       Scheduling of required changes, additions or deletions. PMEL will update PMEL Automated
       Management System (PAMS) database accordingly, and a new schedule provided upon request.
       3.2.2. The monthly schedule is also provided as an equipment hand receipt. The original or copy
       of the monthly schedule is provided when items are being processed. PMEL employee receiving
       TMDE will place initial and date next to each line item on the schedule for TMDE being pro-
       cessed. Each OWC will retain this listing as their record of receipt.
       3.2.3. All items must be available to PMEL 10 calendar days prior to due date shown on the
       schedule or as established by PMEL Scheduler. TMDE received more than 10 calendar days past
       due date is considered overdue and will not be approved for priority calibration.
30SWI21-103 18 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                                          5


  3.3. Scheduled Maintenance. TMDE scheduler will send OWC a due calibration listing for each cal-
  endar month. OWC's will ensure all TMDE due calibration is received by PMEL or delivered to
  PMEL for calibration within 10 calendar days of due date. Any TMDE scheduled for calibration that
  is no longer needed should be brought to the attention of PMEL Scheduler and eliminated from the
  master ID listing.
  3.4. Unscheduled Maintenance. Unscheduled TMDE includes new items in inventory, items more
  than 10 calendar days overdue calibration , and items failed prior to calibration due date.
  3.5. Initial Calibration; No Identification (ID) Number Assigned. OWC will notify TMDE Scheduler
  of model/part number and serial number of new items added to the inventory. Scheduler will update
  the master ID listing.
     3.5.1. OWC will supply maintenance manuals when submitting new items to PMEL for initial
     calibration. This does not pertain to new like-items of TMDE already owned by the OWC and
     supported by PMEL.
  3.6. Monthly TMDE Overdue Report. Status of overdue OWC (not updated) as of end of the report-
  ing period will be included as part of TMDE monthly schedule. Workcenters must verify overdue
  items are submitted to PMEL immediately.
     3.6.1. OWC will notify TMDE scheduler when a unit of equipment is removed from the master
     inventory for any reason (condemned, obsolete, excess to requirements, etc.).
     3.6.2. When schedule or inventory requires a correction, addition, or deletion, OWC will note
     information in red on the monthly schedule or TMDE inventory document.
  3.7. TMDE Maintenance. OWC will ensure cleanliness and completeness of equipment. Items, such
  as test leads and probes, must be replaced when lost or in need of repair. All equipment will be han-
  dled in the manner required for TMDE.
     3.7.1. Equipment must be cleaned externally before pickup by PMEL. Incomplete equipment
     received by PMEL will be returned to OWC without repair or calibration-except in cases where
     PMEL help is necessary to replace defective items. Protective covers shall be installed on all
     unmated connectors (such as waveguide ports, BNC, etc.) prior to submitting equipment to
     PMEL. Equipment air filters are cleaned as necessary.
  3.8. Adjustment of Calibration Cycle (Interval). The Air Force calibration cycle listed in TO
  33K-1-100-2, TMDE Interval, Calibration and Repair, Technical Order Guide and Work Unit Code
  Manual is the period of time equipment will perform a function with a statistically derived
  end-of-period reliability of 85% or better (meet specification). These intervals are established and
  modified as necessary from data collected through maintenance data collection system on the total
  TMDE population. TMDE that has exceeded prescribed calibration interval will not be used. When no
  calibration interval is prescribed or listed in TO 33K-1-100-2, the interval must not exceed 12 months.
  For items not listed in TO 33K-1-100-2, calibration requirements and responsibilities will be deter-
  mined by the 562d Combat Sustainment Group (562d CBSG) by submitting AFTO Form 45, Request
  for Calibration Responsibility Determination, via PMEL.
  3.9. Torque Wrenches. Torque wrenches are considered TMDE and will be treated as such. No spe-
  cial considerations apply.
6                                                               30SWI21-103 18 SEPTEMBER 2007


    3.10. Seldom Used Items. TMDE that normally is not used at least once during calibration interval do
    not require periodic calibration. TMDE, designated CBU, will be calibrated at least once prior to
    being designated CBU. PMEL will not make an item CBU without user’s direction or permission.
       3.10.1. An AFTO Form 99, Limited/Special TMDE Certification, or AFTO Form 398, Limited/
       Special TMDE Certification, will be used as the certification label. Calibration block date will
       have the last date TMDE was calibrated. Date due block will have the date TMDE would normally
       be due calibration followed by “/CBU”. The CBU designation will be entered in PMEL Master ID
       in place of frequency.
NOTE: OWCs can designate previously PMEL calibrated and certified TMDE as CBU by contacting
PMEL scheduler to have calibration interval changed to CBU. OWC will annotate “/CBU” on certifica-
tion sticker.
    3.11. Removal of TMDE from Storage. OWC or custodian will ensure calibration is within the time
    frame of the PMEL certification label when TMDE is removed from storage. If certification time
    frame has expired, OWC or custodian will resubmit item for recalibration.
    3.12. No Periodic Calibration Required (NPC). Based on application, TMDE may not require peri-
    odic calibration and may be designated NPC. TMDE will require an initial calibration and re-cali-
    brated when repaired to ensure requirements of the applicable calibration technical order (T.O.) have
    been met. PMEL is not authorized to make or designate an item NPC without user direction or permis-
    sion. However, there are a few exceptions where TO 33K-1-100-2 has directed items be designated
    NPC, in these instances PMEL will not require user permission.
       3.12.1. Items designated NPC will carry an AFTO Form 99 or 398 as the certification label. Date
       calibrated block will have the last date item was calibrated. The letters “NPC" will be entered in
       the date due calibration block.
       3.12.2. NPC items may be used provided its performance is verified, checked, or monitored by
       other certified TMDE. NPC items may also be used if usage does not affect safety, or if they are
       not used to make absolute measurements.
    3.13. Limited Calibration. There are situations when PMEL may be authorized to perform a limited
    calibration. OWC supervisor will sign AFTO Form 99 or initial AFTO Form 398 when item is
    returned for use.
       3.13.1. Limited PMEL Capability. PMEL supervisor will advise user of the extent of services
       available when PMEL does not have capability to calibrate a full range of TMDE. User will deter-
       mine whether available service will meet mission requirements. If limited calibration service will
       not meet customer needs, action will be taken to obtain support IAW TO 00-20-14.
       3.13.2. Limited User Requirements. User will specify desired calibration points or ranges to
       PMEL when user requires less than full capability of associated TMDE. PMEL will clearly iden-
       tify certified points or ranges on certification label (AFTO 99 or 398).
       3.13.3. Instrument Limitation. When a function, range, or specification on TMDE item cannot be
       economically restored to original specifications, the PMEL supervisor will advise using activity of
       the condition. Using activity will determine if the test instrument limited capability will support
       mission requirements or replacement is needed.
30SWI21-103 18 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                                          7


       3.13.4. T.O. Directed Limitation. Calibration procedure can identify any limitations caused by
       lack of adequate reference standards available to PMEL.

4. TMDE Priority Service.
   4.1. General. Normal day-to-day TMDE calibration and repair service will be provided on a routine
   basis. Priority calibration service will be provided by VAFB PMEL to meet nonroutine requirements.
   4.2. Priority Categories. Priorities are generally classified Emergency or Mission Essential.
       4.2.1. Emergency. Used for calibration/repair of TMDE that will render an operational weapons
       system out of commission. Included are Emergency War Operations (EWO) space launches and
       aircraft flying missions when failure to immediately process the item will cause a work stoppage.
       Emergency items will be processed into PMEL immediately and work will continue, including
       overtime (when approved by the program manager or contracting officer), until TMDE is service-
       able/calibrated or awaiting parts (AWP).
       4.2.2. Mission Essential. Used for TMDE that is urgently needed to support mission require-
       ments, but does not require around the clock work. Included are items that create a work stoppage
       condition prior to a combat training launch (missile crew training) or a simulated test of flight/
       integrated systems and flight training missions. Mission Essential items will be processed on a
       first-in, first-out basis, ahead of routine work.
       4.2.3. Routine. Used for all other non-prioritized TMDE work. Average turn-around time for rou-
       tine calibrations, excluding items requiring repair, is 7 work days.
       4.2.4. Special case. Considered when loss of test equipment causes a hardship work situation on
       using organization. Priority may be assigned to items by mutual agreement between PMEL and
       user. Items not in priority categories are considered routine and serviced in order received.
   4.3. Procedure for Obtaining Priority Support. Each unit of TMDE requiring priority service may be
   delivered (or picked up by request) to PMEL, accompanied by 30 SW Form 50, Priority Request, jus-
   tifying the requirement and including the following information: (1) Priority Request Date, (2) Own-
   ing Work Center, (3) Part/Model Number, (4) Noun, (5) PAMS Label Number, (6) Emergency or
   Mission Critical, (7) Date Needed, (8) Point of Contact with Phone Number, (9) Signature of Autho-
   rized Individual, and (10) Signature of TMDE Coordinator.
NOTE: TMDE more than 10-days overdue will not be approved for priority support.
   4.4. After-Hours and Weekend PMEL Service. To obtain PMEL services after hours, customer will
   coordinate through Aerospace Maintenance Operations Center (AMOC) for PMEL support. AMOC
   will alert PMEL. Upon notification of PMEL authorization, customer will arrange delivery of equip-
   ment to the lab. PMEL personnel will also need approval from the program manager or contracting
   officer prior to accomplishing overtime work.
   4.5. Upgrading Priorities. When operational demands justify upgrading priorities, OWC will prepare
   and deliver a letter of justification. OWC will promptly pick up equipment for which priority work is
   requested.

5. Support Responsibilities.
8                                                                30SWI21-103 18 SEPTEMBER 2007


    5.1. General. To be effective, TMDE program requires active support from various organizational
    elements. This section recaps support functions and outline responsibilities not previously discussed.
    5.2. TMDE User. Care of TMDE is a shared responsibility between user and PMEL. Specific respon-
    sibilities assigned to user are outlined in TO 00-20-14 and TO 33-1-27. User responsibilities are as
    follows:
       5.2.1. Appoint a PMEL account coordinator.
       5.2.2. Calibrate, certify and repair TMDE not specified in TO 33K-1-100-2 as PMEL responsibil-
       ity or obtain calibration and maintenance support from the lowest level having capability.
       5.2.3. Use applicable forms, labels, and alternate methods of certification in accordance with TO
       00-20-14.
       5.2.4. Return all TMDE specified as PMEL responsibility in TO 33K-1-100-2 to PMEL when
       scheduled for calibration or when unscheduled maintenance is required.
       5.2.5. Ensure TMDE sent to PMEL has all ancillary equipment (e.g., preamps, power supplies,
       adapters, cables, or probes) needed for calibration. PMEL personnel will advise user when item is
       not complete. PMEL may return item without action if the ancillary equipment and/or technical
       data is not available.
       5.2.6. Provide proper care, handling, and cleanliness of all TMDE.
       5.2.7. Provide technical data with the TMDE when requested.
       5.2.8. Identify and/or coordinate any requirements for limited or special calibrations with the
       PMEL.
       5.2.9. Perform organizational maintenance on assigned TMDE in accordance with TO 33-1-27.
       5.2.10. Perform all periodic maintenance and inspections as directed by maintenance technical
       orders.
       5.2.11. Ensure all forms, labels, and calibration charts received with TMDE from PMEL are com-
       plete. Place authorized signature on AFTO Form 99, or initials on AFTO Form 398, for TMDE
       receiving limited or special calibration, or for TMDE that is exempt from periodic calibration.
       5.2.12. Return one (1) corrected TMDE Scheduling Report to PMEL prior to date indicated at the
       top of the listing. Corrections will be made in red ink using the same format and printed above data
       that corrected.
       5.2.13. Coordinate local purchases of TMDE with PMEL to verify there is no existing TMDE that
       may be used to satisfy requirements listed in calibration measurement summary (CMS) or TO
       33K-1-100-2.
       5.2.14. Provide funding for resources necessary for support of locally procured TMDE not listed
       in CMS or TO 33K-1-100-2.

6. Prescribed and Adopted Forms:
    6.1. Prescribed Form:
    30 SW Form 50, PMEL Priority Request
30SWI21-103 18 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                9


  6.2. Adopted Forms:
  AFTO Form 45, Request for Calibration Responsibility Determination
  AFTO Form 99, Limited/special TMDE Certification (3 1/2 x 1 4/6)
  AFTO Form 108, TMDE Certification (3 1/2 x 1 4/6)
  AFTO Form 255, Notice Certification Void When Seal is Broken (Decal)
  AFTO Form 256, No Calibration Required (NCR) (Issued by sheet)
  AFTO Form 398, Limited TMDE Certification
  AFTO Form 394, TMDE Certification (2 x 7/10)



                                          STEPHEN M. TANOUS, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
10                                                          30SWI21-103 18 SEPTEMBER 2007


                                          Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 29 Jun 2006
AFI 21-113, Air Force Metrology and Calibration (AFMETCAL) Program, 1 Feb 2001
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006
TO 00-20-14, AF Metrology and Calibration Program, 24 Jul 2006
TO 33K-1-100-1 and TO 33K-1-100-2, TMDE Interval, Calibration and Repair, Technical Order Guide
and Work Unit Code Manual, 29 Nov 2006
TO 33-1-27, Logistic Support of Precision Measurement Equipment, 1 Oct 1994
PMEL Handbook, 6 Apr 2007

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMETCAL—Air Force Metrology and Calibration
AFPSL—Air Force Primary Standards Laboratory
AMOC—Aerospace Maintenance Operations Center
AWP—Awaiting Parts
CMS—Calibration Measurement Summary
CBU—Calibrate before use
EWO—Emergency War Operations
IAW—In accordance with
ID—Identification
NIST—National Institute of Standards and Technology
NCR—No Calibration Required
NPC—No Periodic Calibration Required
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OWC—Owning Work Center
PAMS—PMEL Automated Management System
PMEL—Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratory
PTRS—Precision Timing Reference Station
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TMDE—Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic Equipment
30SWI21-103 18 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                                            11


TO—Technical Order
VAFB—Vandenberg Air Force Base

Terms
Accessories—Item of general adaptability or special-purpose items related to specific measurement or
test equipment necessary to complete desired equipment connections or test configuration.
BNC—Type of connector.
Calibration—Comparison between instruments, one of which is a standard of known accuracy, to detect,
correlate, or adjust, any variation in accuracy of instrument being compared.
Calibration Interval—Length of time between calibrations during which each item of test equipment is
expected to retain reliable measurement capability.
Calibration Responsibility—Term used to identify agency responsible for doing calibration of
equipment. Calibration responsibility, except for NCR items, will be listed as PMEL.
Certification—Act of stating that standards and test measurement and diagnostic equipment have been
calibrated and meet established requirements.
Master ID Listing—Quarterly listing of TMDE owned by particular OWC supported by PMEL.
Owning Work Center—Work center having primary use of TMDE.
PMEL Automated Management System (PAMS)—Used for inventory control and tracking of items of
TMDE.
Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratory—Standards-possessing activity responsible for
calibration and certification of TMDE traceable to NIST.
Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE)—Equipment used to maintain, measure,
calibrate, test, inspect, diagnose, or otherwise examine materials, supplies, equipment, and systems to
identify or isolate actual or potential malfunctions, or decide if operational specifications established in
technical documents are met.
