BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        314TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 21-100
314TH AIRLIFT WING (AETC)
                                                                             8 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                    Maintenance

                                                           TOOL MANAGEMENT PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 314 MXG/MXQI                                                     Certified by: 314 MXG/CC
                                                                       (Colonel Steven M. Weld)
Supersedes:    314 AWI 21-100,                                                          Pages: 15
               11 January 11


This instruction applies to all 314th Airlift Wing (AW) organizations assigned or attached to
Little Rock AFB, AR. This instruction does not apply to the 19th Airlift Wing or Air National
Guard. This operating instruction (OI) implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air
and Space Maintenance. This instruction expands upon policies and procedures as outlined in
Air Force Instruction (AFI) 21-101, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management, AFI 21-
101 AETC SUP I, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management, AFI 91-203, Air Force
Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction, Technical Order (TO) 32-1-101, Use and Care of
Hand Tools and Measuring Tools, Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 23-110, USAF Supply Manual,
314 MXGOI 21-105, Aircraft and Equipment Impoundment Procedures, LRAFBI 21-140,
Foreign Object Damage Prevention Program, LRAFBI 21-141, Use and Control of Preprints,
Locally Developed Forms/Lists, and Job Flow Packages, and local standards. It establishes
guidelines, specific procedures, and responsibilities for the Composite Tool Kit (CTK)
Management Program. It also provides security, control, positive accountability, and custodial
care responsibilities of CTKs. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer,
commercial product, commodity or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the
Air Force. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System Records Disposition
Schedule located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using the
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional managers chain of command.
 2                                                          314AWI21-100 8 FEBRUARY 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The review of this publication has been accomplished IAW AFI 21-101 para. 8.3.4. Minor
changes were made throughout the publication to remove the use of chits. The requirements for
control of personal equipment issued to personnel have been updated. Requirements have been
added to address on the job turnover of dispatchable CTKs/equipment as well as lost tool report
filing. Attachment 2 has also been updated with current world-wide identifier codes. This
publication supersedes 314 AWI 21-100, 11 January 2011.
1. Program Objectives: The objectives of the tool management program are to prevent and
eliminate foreign object debris (FOD) to aircraft, engines, and equipment, and to reduce costs
through strict control and accountability of assets.
2. Terms Explained:
     2.1. Special purpose CTK: Small individually issued tool kits, which because of the nature
     of the contents, preclude shadowing or silhouetting (i.e. launch kits, recovery kits, cartridge
     cleaning kits, oxygen servicing kits, titanium engine blade blending kits, etc.).
     2.2. Tool rooms/support sections: Areas authorized for storage and issue of tools and
     equipment. Tool rooms/support sections are limited to one per work center. NOTE: Sub-
     located CTKs are authorized; however, the main tool room/support section will strictly
     control these CTKs. When two or more work centers operate a single tool room/support
     section, the squadron maintenance officer/superintendent or flight commander/chief
     establishes responsibilities. The section chief will prevent the unauthorized use or access to
     tools and equipment.
     2.3. CTK custodian: The primary will be an NCO or designated civilian. The alternate may
     be an Airman or designated civilian. The flight commander or flight chief will designate
     primary and alternate custodians in writing. A waiver to have a senior airman as the primary
     custodian will be approved by the maintenance operations officer/superintendent (or
     equivalent) on a case-by-case basis.
     2.4. CTK personnel: The individuals assigned to the support section.
     2.5. Storage location: A space or place for storing and consolidating individual issue tools,
     equipment, and or CTKs.
3. Functional Responsibilities:
     3.1. The 314th Maintenance Group Quality Assurance (QA) flight is the office of primary
     responsibility or all changes or waivers to this instruction.
     3.2. Depot teams, factory representatives, and contract field teams (CFT) must adhere to Air
     Force, MAJCOM, and local instructions regarding tool control policies and procedures.
     3.3. Flight commanders/flight chiefs (or equivalents) will:
        3.3.1. Monitor CTK requirements.
        3.3.2. Ensure the number of individuals authorized to procure tools is limited to
        designated government purchase card holders.
        3.3.3. Ensure CTKs and designated storage areas are properly maintained.
314AWI21-100 8 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                      3


      3.3.4. Establish a tool management program and designate CTK custodians in writing to
      manage and control CTKs. A copy of the appointment letter will be maintained in the
      master inventory file.
      3.3.5. Determine the type, size, and number of CTKs required for their work centers.
      3.3.6. Approve the master inventory listing (MIL) by signing it.
   3.4. CTK custodians will:
      3.4.1. File a copy of the MIL in the master MIL file. Include a copy of the applicable
      MIL with each dispatchable CTK.
      3.4.2. Ensure strict overall control of all CTK assets to include: lost tool procedures,
      broken/scrap tools, replacement tools, CTK security, and consumable items.
      3.4.3. Inventory equipment requirements: There are no additional inventory requirements
      above the requirements stated in AFI 21-101 AETC SUP I.
      3.4.4. Be responsible for tool, Hazardous Material (HAZMAT), and equipment
      accountability and control within their respective areas.
4. Composition of Master Inventory Listing:
   4.1. MIL contents are broken down by drawer/section indicating the total number and type
   of items in each drawer/section of the storage location or CTK.
   4.2. MILs will have the description, World Wide Identification (WWID) number, and the
   quantity of each item contained in the storage location or CTK. Units may add serial
   numbers if desired.
      4.2.1. For containers with multiple pieces, such as apex kits, etc., the contents listing
      description will include a detailed breakdown, to include the description and quantity of
      each piece contained inside. EXCEPTION: If labeling/marking on the container
      identifies each item in the kit/set, only the quantity is required on the contents listing.
   4.3. The CTK personnel have the authority to interchange “like” items. All changes will be
   annotated in ink, in the automated tool tracking system, and on all copies of MIL and must be
   individually initialed and dated by the CTK personnel.
5. CTK Composition:
   5.1. Storage locations, CTKs, and kits will be arranged to ensure contents are easy to
   inventory. Shadowing, silhouetting, or labeling will be used to the maximum extent to ease
   inventory. Contents will be standardized to the maximum extent possible within functional
   squadron elements that have similar missions.
   5.2. Each tool, equipment item, or consumable contained in a storage location or CTK has an
   assigned location identified by inlay cuts in the shape of the item, shadowed layout, label, or
   silhouette to the maximum extent possible. No more than one item is stored in a cutout,
   shadow, or silhouette except for tools issued in sets such as drill bits; allen wrenches, apexes,
   and paired items (e.g. gloves, booties).
   5.3. A MIL will be developed for each type of dispatchable CTK and a copy of the MIL will
   be kept in the tool and equipment storage area at all times for inventory purposes. A copy of
 4                                                             314AWI21-100 8 FEBRUARY 2013


     each individual CTK listing will be maintained in each CTK at all times for inventory
     purposes. The MIL will include the assigned WWID number.
     5.4. Expendable hand tools such as apexes, files, and file cleaners will be permanently
     marked or installed in a marked container prior to issue as replacements. Before replacement
     expendable tools are issued, unserviceable items will be accounted for and turned in to the
     support section. NOTE: Cutting blades will not be etched. The blades will be considered as
     part of the cutting device. Only one blade will be authorized in the cutting device;
     accountability and replacement procedures still apply.
     5.5. Tools and boxes will be clean, free of foreign objects, dry, and serviceable. Upon turn
     in, CTKs will not contain water or excessive amounts of residual oils, hydraulic fluids, etc.
     5.6. A FOD pouch, can, bag, etc. will be maintained with every dispatchable CTK and tool
     pouch (excluding test equipment). The FOD container will be included on the inventory
     listing. As a minimum, the FOD container will be emptied upon turn in.
     5.7. If dog tags, identification tags, or dust caps are attached to tools/equipment, they will be
     secured in a manner that will preclude any possibility of FOD and will be listed on the MIL.
     5.8. When required, flashlights, lanterns, portable lighting devices, and light sources will
     conform to the requirements of Article 513 of the National Fire Protection Association
     (National Electric Code), TO 1-1-3, Inspection and Repair of Aircraft Integral Tanks and
     Fuel Cells, and AFMAN 91-201, Explosive Safety Standards. NOTE: Aircraft and
     equipment technical orders may dictate additional restrictions. Extra light bulbs/foam in
     flashlights will be removed prior to issue.
     5.9. Tools/expendable items used for titanium engine blade blending will be kept in a special
     purpose kit separate from other tools. In addition to normal CTK identification, these kits
     will be marked “For Titanium Engine Blade Blending Only”. These kits will only be issued
     to personnel authorized to perform titanium blade blending.
6. Items Excluded from CTKs:
     6.1. Equipment and accessories that are not dispatched from a work center, support section,
     or tool room and are not a potential FOD hazard do not have to be included in a CTK.
     However, this equipment will have designated storage locations established and will have an
     inventory listing. Designated storage locations will be established for common accessories
     that are not part of a CTK, such as test leads, actuators, fittings, cables, adapters, equipment
     accessories, etc.
     6.2. Industrial shop machinery accessories/attachments/equipment (blades, arbors, chucks,
     gears, etc.) need not be controlled as tools. However, these items will be on a contents list
     identified by the corresponding work center prefix and kept in a designated storage location
     for accountability. Drawers and storage cabinets will be labeled to identify contents.
     6.3. Because of the potential for FOD, bench stock items such as rivets, splices, nuts, bolts,
     washers, spare flashlight bulbs, etc., will not be stored or carried in CTKs (e.g. tool boxes,
     test equipment, kits, etc.).
     6.4. Designated storage locations will be established for test equipment and common
     accessories (e.g. waveguides, attenuators, fittings, cables, adapters, etc.) that are not part of a
     CTK. Designated locations may be work areas or stations.
314AWI21-100 8 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                   5


7. Marking and Tool Identification:
   7.1. To identify tools/items tracked in the automated tool tracking system units will use a
   standard nine digit WWID code as the Equipment Identification Designator (EID). The
   purpose of the WWID code is to positively identify tools from any AF base world-wide and
   tools will be marked with a nine character WWID code marking to ease ownership
   identification. QA assigns the first four characters of CTK numbers assigned to
   flights/sections. The first two characters for Little Rock AFB AR will be LP and the second
   two characters will be a determined by QA. Flights/sections will assign the remaining five
   numbers or letters as they choose. CTKs will strictly adhere to the WWID codes assigned by
   QA (attachment 1). Any additions or deletions to these assignments will be coordinated
   through QA. QA will review CTK designators annually.
   7.2. At no time will a tool be marked with two or more different CTK identification
   numbers. The marking will be permanent and legible and can be marked by any means
   which will leave a permanent mark, i.e. stamping, etching, permanent pen, etc. Refer to
   paragraph 5.4 for identification requirements for expendable items.
   7.3. Each CTK and storage location will be individually numbered with at least one-inch
   high letters, space permitting. If the CTK cannot accommodate the lettering size, the CTK
   identification must be legible. Dispatchable CTKs will have reflective tape on all sides.
   7.4. Fiberglass handles of tools will not be etched or stamped. Hammers will be etched or
   stamped on the metal head in a non-impact area.
   7.5. Protective eyewear will not be etched on the lens or on side shields.
   7.6. Items that are not usually disassembled during use require only one etching, marking, or
   stamping and one entry in the MIL (e.g. scribes, flashlights, grease guns, helix-coils, etc.).
   7.7. All test equipment will have an inventory listing kept inside the container of detachable
   items included in the test set (i.e. power cords, hoses, etc.). All detachable items will be
   permanently marked with the CTK/test set identification number.
   7.8. When included in CTKs, serial/ID-numbered equipment, special tools, meters, and
   items listed on a Custodian Authorization/Custody Receipt Listing (CA/CRL) will be etched
   with a CTK number. These items will also be identified with the CA/CRL detail number
   and/or the Test Measurement and Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE) number.
   7.9. Control of personal equipment issued to personnel: Personal equipment issued to
   maintenance personnel by the government, such as ear protectors, reflective belts, gloves,
   whistles, etc., will be clearly marked with the individual's last name, employee number, and
   the first two digits of the WWID (i.e. LP for Little Rock AFB). Aircrew will follow
   guidance in local MDS-specific instruction. Individuals are responsible for controlling the
   personal equipment issued to them at all times. NOTE: Personal tools are NOT authorized
   for maintenance personnel on the flightline or in any maintenance area (i.e. flashlights,
   Leatherman type tools, knives, etc.). Supervisors at all levels must strictly enforce this
   policy.
      7.9.1. Lost personal equipment/items will be reported as lost tools/items and reported on
      an AETC Form 138, Lost Tool or Item Investigation Record, IAW this instruction.
 6                                                          314AWI21-100 8 FEBRUARY 2013


     7.10. Multiple cabinets may be identified as one CTK. The tools or equipment contained in
     a CTK will be assigned the CTK number of the parent CTK. Small tools or items belonging
     to a CTK that cannot be marked (drill bits, allen wrenches, etc.) are maintained in a container
     marked with the assigned CTK number and the quantity of the tools contained therein.
8. Tool Room Operations, Security, Accountability, and Control:
     8.1. Accountability means knowing where tools are and who has responsibility for them.
     Flight commanders/chiefs and section NCOICs, through CTK custodians, are responsible for
     tool and equipment accountability and control. When a person signs for a tool or piece of
     equipment, he or she is accountable for it until it is returned to the tool room and
     accountability transfers back to the CTK custodian (through a representative or tool room
     employee). Units will use a MAJCOM approved automated tool tracking system. In the
     event of the automated tool tracking system failure units will use AF Form 1297, Temporary
     Issue Receipt, AETC Form 1042, CTK Tool Checklist, or locally approved form for
     accountability and control of CTKs, equipment, and tools.
        8.1.1. The automated tool tracking system will be used to:
            8.1.1.1. Track and issue all assigned tools, equipment, tool kits, rags, dispatchable
            tech data, and dispatchable HAZMAT items.
            8.1.1.2. Track authorizations/restrictions for special tools/equipment by individual.
            8.1.1.3. Track inspections required by this instruction.
            8.1.1.4. Track spare, lost, and damaged (removed) tools.
            8.1.1.5. Develop and manage tool/equipment inventories.
            8.1.1.6. Develop and manage deployment kits (import/export).
        8.1.2. If an automated system is not available, units may use AF Form 1297, AETC
        Form 1042 or locally approved form for accountability and control of CTKs, equipment,
        and tools.
        8.1.3. Automated tool tracking system data base will be backed up to removable media
        daily and an idle backup will be set up to save issue/return log to removable media a
        minimum of once a day. It is recommended that a copy of both the .mdf and .ldf files for
        the automated tool tracking system be copied and saved to a backup location at least
        monthly.
     8.2. Tool rooms will be set up to ensure positive accountability. Tools that are lost,
     damaged, or destroyed due to neglect will be processed according to AFMAN 23-220,
     Reports of Survey for Air Force Property.
        8.2.1. The tool room must be capable of being locked and afford protective measures
        such as monitoring, 24-hour coverage, or controlled key access. The section chief
        authorizes access to tool rooms. When all CTKs are not capable of being secured in the
        tool room, the section chief will design a process to prevent the unauthorized use or
        access to tools and equipment. Due to space and facility limitations, it may not be
        possible to store oversized tool kits in the tool room. NOTE: All keys to CTKs will be
        stored in the main tool room.
314AWI21-100 8 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                 7


  8.3. As required, tool kit locks will be used to provide a physical barrier to opening the
  container lid or door and prevent the unauthorized removal of tools. Tools and equipment
  stored within secured tool rooms are not required to be locked.
  8.4. Dispatchable tools, equipment, and CTKs will be locked and/or secured when left
  unattended. Tools and equipment will not be secured to the exterior of an aircraft or to
  Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) items. Unattended tool kits located within the
  controlled area are required to be locked but do not need to be secured to another object.
  8.5. Modifications to tool containers are authorized unless modifications void the
  manufacturer’s warranty. All modifications will be approved by the CTK custodian.
  8.6. Tool rooms will not issue tools individually from dispatchable CTKs. When a recurring
  need exists for common tools to be issued individually (e.g., hammers, screwdrivers, pliers,
  drills, wrenches, etc.) to perform routine housekeeping, or facility tasks within the work
  center, those tools will be added to a nondispatchable CTK.
  8.7. CTK personnel will account for all CTKs, tools, and equipment at the beginning and
  end of each shift. Document shift inventories. CTKs present during tool room shift
  inventories do not need to be opened for inventory.
  8.8. At least annually or when the CTK custodian changes, a comprehensive inventory of all
  tools, equipment, and CTKs will be conducted and documented. This includes situations
  when both primary and alternate CTK custodians are deployed at the same time and must be
  temporarily replaced. The purpose of this inventory is to perform an extensive inspection of
  all tools and equipment, to include condition, identification markings, and accuracy of the
  MIL. Inspect all tools for serviceability according to TO 32-1-101. CTK custodians will
  document these inventories and maintain the most current inventory documentation on file.
  NOTE: If desired, sections may accomplish more frequent inventories using the same
  guidelines.
  8.9. Nondispatched CTKs exclusively located within a tool storage facility/workcenter will
  use the automated tool tracking system, AETC Form 1042, or color-coded markers to
  indicate tools removed. Dispatched CTKs used around engines or aircraft will not use
  markers to indicate tools removed because of the FOD potential. Tools removed from these
  CTKs for any reason (other than when in use performing maintenance) will be annotated in
  the automated tool tracking system, an AETC Form 1042, or locally approved form. The
  form if used will be kept in the tool storage facility and a matching copy kept with the
  corresponding CTK.
  8.10. The contents of CTKs will be inventoried at the time of issue and when turned in to the
  tool room. Users of dispatchable CTKs will account for all tools upon job completion.
  8.11. Users will accomplish a CTK inventory prior to any aircraft movement including, but
  not limited to, towing and engine start, as well as, prior to any maintenance actions such as
  engine runs, landing gear retractions, flight control operational checks, etc.
  8.12. The contents of nondispatchable CTKs (i.e. cabinets) which have been opened will be
  inventoried at the beginning and end of each shift, and the inventory will be documented in
  the automated tool tracking system, an AETC Form 1042, or a locally approved form.
8                                                            314AWI21-100 8 FEBRUARY 2013


    8.13. On-duty Production Superintendent is the only individual who can authorize an on the
    job site turnover of dispatchable CTKs/equipment. If a dispatchable CTK is to remain at a
    job site for more than one shift and is not returned to the support section at the end of the
    shift for inventory/turnover, the following procedures will be used to ensure positive tool
    control:
    8.14. Outgoing and incoming individuals will inventory the CTK(s) together. Both
    individuals will report to CTK once the inventory is complete and perform the shift change
    transfer option in the automated tool tracking system. CTK personnel will verify with the
    on-duty Production Superintendent for authorization of the transfer.
       8.14.1. An AF Form 1297 may be used in place of the above procedure when the
       urgency of the job prevents the incoming person from going to CTK. CTK personnel will
       verify with the on-duty Production Superintendent for authorization of the transfer.
    8.15. If a discrepancy exists with a CTK (e.g. undocumented missing tool, broken tools, etc.)
    personnel will immediately notify appropriate supervision. In the case of a lost tool(s) or
    item(s), follow procedures in Section 10 of this instruction. CTKs will not be transferred
    from one individual to another until all tools are properly accounted for and all issues, if any,
    are resolved.
    8.16. CTK tool room will not be signed out and in by the same person, unless extenuating
    circumstances exist, i.e. only a single person is working in the work center and the next shift
    is unmanned. Only in this case, may the same individual open and close the CTK. However,
    extra caution will be used to ensure all items are accounted for before securing the CTK.
    8.17. Silhouettes or cavities for tools, which have been permanently removed, will be filled
    in.
    8.18. Rag control: Positive control of rags will be enforced at all times.
       8.18.1. Lost rags will be treated as a “lost tool.”
       8.18.2. Rags may be added to CTKs, signed out, or prepackaged (quantity to be
       determined by the CTK custodian) to facilitate the process. Bags or containers of
       prepackaged rags or pads will be marked with the quantity of items in the bag or
       container. Rags issued or removed from CTKs will be strictly controlled.
           8.18.2.1. Upon return to the support section, the soiled rags in the CTK will be
           exchanged with clean rags on a one-for-one basis.
    8.19. Consumables placed in CTKs will be identified on the MIL.
       8.19.1. When a consumable is used up, it will be replaced or annotated in the automated
       tool tracking system, an AETC Form 1042, or a locally approved form.
       8.19.2. Lost consumables or containers will be treated as a “lost tool/item.”
       8.19.3. Consumables must be neat, serviceable, and meet shelf-life and Hazardous
       Communication Program requirements concerning hazardous chemicals (if applicable).
       8.19.4. Support section personnel will strictly control machinist/engine blade marking
       dye. Issue of machinist/engine blade marking dye will be limited to authorized users
       only.
314AWI21-100 8 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                      9


9. Tool Replacement Procedures:
   9.1. Replacement/expendable/consumable tool bins/lockers will be strictly controlled and
   secured at all times. Tools will be exchanged on a one-for-one basis. Examples of
   expendable tools include saw blades, apexes, files, file cleaners, acid brush, wire brushes, etc.
   Items on hand will be inventoried and quantities kept accurate at all times. A quarterly
   inventory will be accomplished and documented by the CTK custodian or designated
   representative. Name, rank, date of inventory, balance on hand, and location of tool storage
   will be documented in an automated system, a general purpose form, or on a locally
   approved form.
   9.2. Expendable tools may be placed on bench stock or operating stock; however, strict
   control procedures will be established. Inventories will be maintained for expendable tools
   and on-hand quantities will be accurate at all times. CTK custodians or designated
   representatives will ensure expendable tools on bench stock are kept secure and exchanged
   on a one-for-one basis.
   9.3. Unserviceable tools will be strictly controlled until they are turned in for salvage.
   Unserviceable tools will not be placed in metal recycling bins. Tools will be de-etched
   before placing them into the scrap tool storage bin. The scrap tool bin will be a separate and
   secure container/location.
10. Lost Tool/Item Procedures:
   10.1. When a tool/item is lost, personnel will immediately report the missing tool/item to the
   expediter, production supervisor, or their immediate supervisor. The Expediter/Production
   Superintendent will notify the flight commander/flight chief, operations officer/maintenance
   superintendent, Maintenance Operations Center (MOC), and support section. QA will be
   contacted for notification and a lost tool/item control number. NOTE: A lost tool/item
   report will be completed even if the tool or item is subsequently found.
   10.2. Anytime a tool or item, or a portion of a broken tool or item is discovered missing
   while performing maintenance on or around an aircraft, support equipment, or flightline
   vehicle, a Red X will be entered in the aircraft Air Force Technical Order (AFTO) Form
   781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document, or AFTO Form 244,
   Industrial/Support Equipment Record (as applicable), with a description of the tool or item
   and specific last known location. NOTE: In regards to impounding an aircraft or
   equipment, each situation will be considered on a case-by-case basis by the owning unit
   when deciding to impound. The impounding authority will make the final determination to
   impound.
   10.3. The person identifying the missing tool/item will search the immediate work area for
   the tool/item. A thorough search will be conducted and every possible attempt must be made
   to find the lost tool/item.
   10.4. If a tool/item cannot be found after a thorough search, the maintenance operations
   officer/maintenance superintendent will determine when the search may be discontinued.
   The Red X entries will be cleared by authorized personnel.
   10.5. If a tool/item is lost, the person who signed out the tool/item will initiate a lost tool
   report. AETC Form 138, will be used to document lost tools/items.
 10                                                        314AWI21-100 8 FEBRUARY 2013


      10.5.1. If a tool/item is discovered missing between sign outs, support section personnel
      will initiate the AETC Form 138. The initiator of the lost tool report will complete the
      AETC Form 138 with the assistance of the CTK supervisor and ensure QA is contacted
      for a lost tool/item control number, which will be documented on the top of the AETC
      Form 138.
   10.6. The completed AETC Form 138 will be reviewed by the maintenance supervisor or
   maintenance superintendent and forwarded to the QA superintendent or chief inspector by
   the first duty day following closeout of the report.
   10.7. QA will review the AETC Form 138 for accuracy and place it on file in the QA office.
   QA will provide the group commander a copy of the missing tool/item report. A courtesy
   copy of the completed lost tool report will be forwarded to the 314 AW FOD Office and the
   owning work center that lost the tool/item.
   10.8. When it is suspected that the tool/item has fallen into an inaccessible or unobservable
   aircraft or equipment area, perform a non-destructive inspection or use borescope equipment
   (if available) to locate the lost tool/item.
   10.9. If at any time during the investigation the tool/item is found, but is inaccessible, notify
   the flight commander/flight chief, support section, MOC, QA, expediter, production
   supervisor or equivalent, and the owning work center.
      10.9.1. If the tool/item is in an inaccessible area that poses no FOD threat and the action
      is to leave the tool/item in place, the x-ray (or equivalent) with the identification of the
      exact tool/item location and copies of all information concerning the lost tool/item will be
      maintained in the aircraft/equipment historical file until the tool/item is recovered.
          10.9.1.1. If the aircraft is scheduled for programmed depot maintenance (PDM) or
          depot modification, the lost tool/item and location is listed in the AFTO Form 345,
          Aerospace Vehicle Transfer Inspection Checklist and Certification, for removal by
          the depot.
          10.9.1.2. Maintenance supervision may explore other possible actions to include
          having the unit or depot field teams disassemble the aircraft/equipment to remove the
          item/tool.
   10.10. If at any time during the investigation the tool/item is found and retrieved, notify the
   flight commander/flight chief, support section, MOC, QA, expediter, production supervisor
   or equivalent, and the owning work center.
   10.11. QA will maintain a lost tool logbook and copies of all lost tool reports for 1 year.
11. Warranty/Quality Tool Program:
   11.1. Detailed management procedures are contained in AFMAN 23-110, Volume 2, Part 2,
   Chapter 23, Section F. The following guideline will also apply:
      11.1.1. Unserviceable or unsafe warranted tools will be secured in an area separated
      from other non-warranted tools until replaced by the vendor.
12. Locally Manufactured or Developed Tools and Equipment:
314AWI21-100 8 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                   11


   12.1. Work centers will coordinate with QA on all requests for approval and use of locally
   designed tools or equipment that carry loads, change torque, and present the potential to
   damage government resources, or injure personnel. Requestors will give local manufactured
   tool approval request letters, with photos, to QA (see attachment 2). The QA superintendent
   or chief inspector, as designated by the group commander, is the final approval authority.
   NOTE: This procedure does not apply to local manufacture, modification, or design of tools
   authorized in specific technical data.
   12.2. Locally manufactured tools of the types listed in paragraph 12.1 and not approved by
   the group commander or designated representative will not be used.
   12.3. Unserviceable parts used for the purpose of testing, or as a tool, must be marked as
   unserviceable.
13. Electronic Tool (E-Tool) Management and Use
   13.1. E-Tools, to include laptop computers, electronic “tablets”, hand-held devices, etc., that
   are purchased and used for the purpose of viewing digital technical data and maintenance
   documentation will be used solely for that purpose. E-tools that are not used for this specific
   purpose will be controlled IAW AFI 33-112, Command, Control, Communications, and
   Computer (C4) Systems.
   13.2. License, certification, maintenance, and security of E-Tools (hardware and software)
   will be the responsibility of the Automated Data Processing Equipment (ADPE) account
   custodian, whether owned by the group or unit.
   13.3. E-Tools, when implemented, will be controlled in the automated tool tracking system
   for dispatch outside the work center.
   13.4. An additional ADPE account shall be established for E-Tools to separate them from
   other small computers within the squadron or support section.
   13.5. Dispatchable E-Tools will be connected to the Local Area Network (LAN) during
   periods of recharging or before issue if more than 24 hours has expired since the last update
   to ensure current patches/and technical data are loaded.
   13.6. E-Tools will be managed IAW with their security classification.




                                            EDWARD S. BREWER, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
 12                                                     314AWI21-100 8 FEBRUARY 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 21-101, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 Jul 2010
AFI 21-101, AETC Supplement I, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management, 21 Oct
2010
AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction, 15 Jun 2012
TO 1-1-3, Inspection and Repair of Aircraft Integral Tanks and Fuel Cells, 24 Nov 2012
TO 32-1-101, Use and Care of Hand Tools and Measuring Tools, 31 Jul 2012
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, 01 Apr 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 Mar 2008
AFMAN 91-201, Explosive Safety Standards, 12 Jan 2011
314 MXGOI 21-105, Aircraft and Equipment Impoundment Procedures, 30 Nov 2012
LRAFBI 21-140, Foreign Object Damage Prevention Program, 25 Sep 2012
LRAFBI 21-141, Use and Control of Preprints, Locally Developed Forms/Lists, and Job Flow
packages, and local standards, 22 Apr 2011
AFI 33-112, Command, Control, Communications, and Computer (C 4) Systems, 07 Jan 2011
AFMAN 23-220 Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, 01 Jul 1996
Prescribed Forms
No Forms or Information Management Tools (IMT) prescribed by this publication.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt
AETC Form 1042, CTK Tool Checklist
AFTO Form 244, Industrial/Support Equipment Record
AFTO 345, Aerospace Vehicle Transfer Inspection Checklist and Certification
AFTO Form 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document
AETC Form 138, Lost Tool or Item Investigation Record

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADPE—Automated Data Processing Equipment
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFI—Air Force Instruction
314AWI21-100 8 FEBRUARY 2013                             13


AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFTO—Air Force Technical Order
AGE—Aerospace Ground Equipment
CA/CRL—Custodian Authorization/Custody Receipt Listing
CFT—Contract Field Team
CTK—Composite Tool Kit
E-Tools—Electronic Tools
EID—Equipment Identification Designator
FOD—Foreign Object Debris
HAZMAT—Hazardous Material
IAW—In Accordance With
MIL—Master Inventory Listing
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
PDM—Programmed Depot Maintenance
QA—Quality Assurance
TMDE—Test Measurement and Diagnostic Equipment
TO—Technical Order
WWID—World Wide Identification
 14                                                        314AWI21-100 8 FEBRUARY 2013


                                          Attachment 2
          ASSIGNED NINE DIGIT WORLDWIDE IDENTIFICATION CODES

A1.1. The following list contains the first four characters of the nine digit worldwide
identification codes for the indicated flights/sections. Flights/sections will add the remaining
five characters as they choose. Any additions or deletions to this list will be coordinated through
the QA office.
314 MXG Quality Assurance                                                                   LPQA
314 AMXS Support Flight                                                                     LPBA
314 AMXS Dash 21/Dual Rails                                                                 LPDR
373 DET 4 (AETC)                                                                            LPOL
48 AS Loadmaster                                                                            LPJL
62 AS Flight Engineer/Loadmaster                                                            LPLM
19 MXG Mobility Kit                                                                         LPMB
19 MXG Quality Assurance AFREP                                                              LPGW
19 MXG Quality Assurance                                                                    LPAG
19 MXG TA                                                                                   LPOT
19 AMXS Dash 21/Dual Rails                                                                  LPDT
19 AMXS Green AMU                                                                           LPGS
19 AMXS Red AMU                                                                             LPST
19 AMXS Silver AMU                                                                          LPSS
19 MOS Training                                                                             LPMO
19 MXS AGE Flight                                                                           LPMG
19 MXS Avionics Flight                                                                      LPMV
19 MXS E & E                                                                                LPCE
19 MXS Fuels                                                                                LPCF
19 MXS Metals Tech                                                                          LPFM
19 MXS Maintenance Flight                                                                   LPMT
19 MXS Munitions Flight                                                                     LPMW
19 MXS NDI                                                                                  LPFN
19 MXS Pneudraulics                                                                         LPCP
19 MXS Engine Regional Repair center                                                        LPER
19 MXS Propulsion Flight                                                                    LPMP
19 MXS TMDE Flight                                                                          LPMD
19 MXS Refurb                                                                               LPFR
19 MXS Structural Maintenance                                                               LPFS
19 OSS JI                                                                                   LPOJ
19 OSS Aircrew Flight Equipment (Life Support) (5)                                          LPFE
41 AS Loadmaster                                                                            LPSM
50 AS Flight Engineer/Loadmaster                                                            LPRD
53 AS Flight Engineer/Loadmaster                                                            LPBL
61 AS Flight Engineer/Loadmaster                                                            LPGN
314AWI21-100 8 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                 15


                                          Attachment 3
      AUTHORIZATION/APPROVAL FOR LOCALLY MANUFACTURED TOOL




                                                                            Date


MEMORANDUM FOR (INITIATOR’S SQUADRON SUPERVISION)
               314 MXG/MXGQI
               IN TURN

FROM: Initiator Squadron & Office Symbol

SUBJECT: Request for Authorization/Approval for Locally Manufactured Tool

1. Nomenclature, description, and purpose of locally manufactured tool.

2. Justification for locally manufactured tool.

3. List references, i.e. tech. data, and title, example (TO 1C-130B-2-10, Utility Systems)




                                              FIRST MI LAST NAME, Rank, USAF
                                              Duty Title of Requester

Approved/Disapproved



                                              FIRST MI LAST NAME, Rank, USAF
                                              Duty Title, Quality Assurance Flight

Attachment:
Mandatory Photographs

cc:
Initiating Squadron Supervision
Initiator
