BY ORDER OF THE                                  315 AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 84-101
315TH AIRLIFT WING COMMANDER
                                                                         4 SEPTEMBER 2013

                                                                                        History

                                                HISTORICAL PRODUCTS, SERVICES AND
                                                                   REQUIREMENTS


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasable restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 315 AW/HO                                                        Certified by: 315 AW/CC
                                                                        (Col James Fontanella)
                                                                                        Pages: 4
Supersedes:   315AWI84-101,
              15 November 2005


This instruction implements AFI 84-101 Historical Products, Services and Requirements. It
directs guidance and procedures for wing historians to prepare and submit historical reports and
related documents. This instruction applies to all unit historians assigned to 315 AW. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF IMT 847s from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.mil. The use of the name or mark of any specific
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

All revisions to this AWI have been made in order to clarify the Wing Historian responsibilities
and to clarify requirements and procedures related to documents and reports that will be
submitted to the wing History Office (HO). This document has been substantially revised and
must be completely reviewed. Major changes include wing and unit responsibilities, procedures
for the collection and storage of electronic documents, quarterly submission schedule and the
 2                                                         315AWI 84-101 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


report format. The following paragraphs have significant changes: 1, 1.1, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.5, 3,
3.1, 3.1.1, 4, 5, 5.1, 5.3, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4, 6.2, 6.4, 6.5, 6.6, 6.7.
1. Wing Responsibility. The Wing Commander has the overall responsibility for the 315 AW
History Program. The Commander delegates the responsibility for the actual preparation of the
Official Wing History report to the Wing Historian. Per AFI_84-101 paragraph 1.4.1.1, the wing
commander ensures the Wing Historian has access to all information (classified and unclassified)
required to prepare accurate, objective and comprehensive historical publications and records.
This includes access to archived e-mail files, organizational shared drives, restricted-access web
sites and other sources of information. Commanders will ensure history offices are equipped or
have access to dedicated secure (SIPRNET) and unclassified (NIPRNET) network computer
terminals. Additionally, Government Services Agency (GSA) approved security containers must
be available in the workplace for the storage of classified information. Per AFI_84-101
paragraph 1.4.1.2, the wing commander ensures that the wing historian has adequate office space
and resources necessary to maintain and protect historical documents, to research paper and
electronic files (software and hardware) and to provide research assistance to the staff.
     1.1. Air Force Wing Historian. The position of wing historian is identified as part of the
     wing commander’s staff per AFI_38-101, Paragraph 3.3.2.3. The wing historian produces
     substantive periodic history reports that are the foundation of the Air Force History &
     Museums Program (AFHMP).
2. Unit Responsibilities. Unit commanders and staff agency chiefs are responsible for
forwarding historical reports with attached supporting documents to the Wing HO as scheduled
in section 3.1.
     2.1. Each unit and staff agency will retain their significant mission related data and reports
     by storing all documents electronically in a unit repository. The establishment of a unit
     repository is accomplished by creating and maintaining an electronic file dedicated
     specifically for the storage of collected documents that will be submitted to the wing HO.
     2.2. Additional duty historian (ADH). Each unit commander and staff agency chief will
     appoint an additional duty historian (ADH). The ADH will collect and store source
     documents as well as maintain the electronic repository. Quarterly, the ADH will submit to
     the wing historian a report that includes a list of all collected source documents attached (see
     section 5 for report details).
     2.3. Selection Criteria for the ADH. The following guidelines will be used to determine the
     selection of an ADH: computer literacy, thorough knowledge of the unit mission, the
     unencumbered ability to gather documents and data related to the unit and its mission, the
     ability to appreciate the importance of collecting factual information/data. Commanders and
     staff agency chiefs are strongly encouraged to select a full-time member.
     2.4. Appointment Letter. The appointment letter designating the primary (and alternate if
     applicable) ADH must be signed by the unit commander or staff agency chief and submitted
     to the 315 AW/HO. A new appointment letter is required each time there is a change in unit
     commanders, staff agency chiefs, the primary ADH and/or the alternate ADH.
     2.5. Training. The wing HO will accomplish training for the appointed primary and/or
     alternate ADH. The unit commander or staff agency chief must request initial training within
315AWI 84-101 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                  3


   30 days of the effective appointment date. Refresher training for personnel that are currently
   serving as a primary or alternate ADH can be requested at any time.
3. Quarterly History Report Submission procedures and Schedule. Each unit will submit
their quarterly report (with supporting documents) electronically. The report must be
electronically signed by the flight/squadron/group commander or staff agency chief. The history
report will be submitted electronically to the 315 AW/HO, according to the schedule in 3.1.
   3.1. Quarterly submission schedule:

Table 1. Quarterly Submission Schedule.
Reporting Period                                Suspense Date
1 January - 31 March                            Last business day in April
1 April - 30 June                               Last business day in July
1 July - 30 September                           Last business day in October
1 October - 31 December                         Last business day in January

       3.1.1. Request for Extension. Unit historians and staff agency historians may be granted
       an extension if requested at least two weeks in advance of the suspense date. Requests
       can be submitted via telephone or by electronic mail to the 315 AW/HO.
4. Unit History Reports. All information submitted must be accurate. Personnel gathering
historical data must have full access to files and documents needed to collect the information.
All squadrons, flights and staff agencies are required to submit quarterly reports following the
format outlined in paragraph 5.
5. Unit History Report Format. The following report format will be used.

Table 2. Unit History Report Format.
The report should be written as a Memorandum to the 315 AW/HO.
The subject line should read: Quarterly History Report for the (first, second, third, or fourth)
quarter of 20XX).
There will be five main topics on the report:
               the units Mission Statement
               a list of the units Key Personnel
               a list of Significant Events
               a list of all Awards/Decorations/Promotions received by the unit and its personnel
               a list of all Supporting Documents that will be electronically attached

   5.1. Mission Statement – leave blank if the unit does not have a mission statement.
   5.2. Key Personnel – List commander or staff agency chief and key personnel in the unit or
   staff agency office.
 4                                                          315AWI 84-101 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


     5.3. Significant Events – Significant events are important; please keep the primary mission
     of the unit or staff agency office in the forefront when completing this section. Example of
     documents that would support a significant event: Inspection report, G-series order for
     change of command, deployment orders, exercise reports, functional area visit reports, staff
     assisted visit reports, training reports, operation after action reports-trip reports, events logs,
     any correspondence related to important decision making processes, documents that support
     changes or problems that influence the units mission. (if acronyms are used, please be sure
     to define them at the end of the report).
     5.4. Awards/Decorations/Promotions – award citations, award submittal forms, supporting
     documents used to substantiate an award or decoration submittal. – List all higher
     headquarters awards and decorations received from Department of Defense (DOD) agencies,
     the Air Force (AF), Air Mobility Command (AMC), Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
     or any numbered Air Force (NAF) and attach all supporting documentation. This section
     must also list all personnel that were promoted within the quarter - attach a copy of the
     promotion orders.
6. Functional Offices and historical data. The following functional offices will submit
quarterly information:
     6.1. Wing Operations Center (WOC)/Mission Launch and Recovery Facility (MLRF).
     Readiness data, WOC logs, MLRF logs, and copies of the 315 AW Form O-7 (C-17 Aircrew
     Mission History).
     6.2. Military Personnel Flight (MPF). G-Series orders, all unit manning document statistics
     for officers, enlisted, and civilians, all mobility manning statistics, all reenlistment and
     retention statistics, and all training statistics.
     6.3. Current Operations. Submit a monthly summary of all missions flown.
     6.4. Wing plans and programs office. A copy of the wings Exercise plans, Mobility plans,
     reports related to exercise and mobility plans, mobility meeting minutes and any monthly
     conversion progress reports (during conversion).
     6.5. Safety Office (SE). All safety-meeting minutes, annual summary reports that show
     trends in safety practices and all safety milestones that were achieved.
     6.6. Wing Executive Officer (CCE). Minutes and slides of the weekly/monthly 315 AW
     Staff meetings, any quarterly awards or Wing awards, messages or electronic mail related to
     the wings mission and deemed historically significant by the CC/CCV/CCE.
     6.7. Wing Financial Manager (FM). Quarterly budget statistics (Operations Management,
     Manpower, etc.), a copy of the yearly Statement of Assurance signed by the commander.




                                                James Fontanella, Colonel, USAFR
                                                Commander
