BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                315 AW INSTRUCTION 36-104
315TH AIRLIFT WING                                                                    28 OCTOBER 2005
                                                                       Certified Current, 7 February 2012
                                                                       Awards and Decorations Program

                                                                 WING SAFETY AWARDS PROGRAM




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 315 AW/SE (SMSgt Jaconda Lightburn)             Certified by: 315 AW/SE (Lt Col Deborah Rieflin)
Supersedes 315AWI36-104, 9 July 2003                                                         Pages: 3
                                                                                      Distribution: F

This instruction establishes the 315th Wing Safety Awards Program. It outlines the requirements and
nominating procedures for the Wing Safety Awards program.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
Paragraph 1.1. is changed to select one overall annual winner. Paragraph 2.2. is deleted, due to paragraph
4.2. explanation of who can nominate personnel. Paragraph 3.1.1. was added. Paragraph 4.2. is changed
to include item two, other nominations. Paragraph 5.1. is changed indicating the winner(s) will receive
recognition in the base newspaper instead of exclusively the Palmetto Bug. Paragraph 5.2. is changed
indicating the annual winner will receive recognition by the Wing Commander versus a plaque presenta-
tion. A bar (|) indicates revisions in text from the previous edition.


1. Overall Purpose: Safety awards are designed to honor and recognize people and units for contribut-
ing to safety and for preventing mishaps through either sustained superior performance or a one-time act.
The safety awards program is designed to recognize our model safety awareness performers and encour-
age others to emulate their example.
   1.1. Nominations: A short narrative describing the achievement(s), complete with the nominee’s
   name and organization, should be sent to the Wing Safety office, 315 AW/SE. Each award is selected
   quarterly with an overall winner being selected annually.

2. Responsibilities:
   2.1. The Wing Safety Office (315 AW/SE) manages the wing safety awards program. The wing
   safety office reviews unit nominations and selects the most qualified individual for either the flight or
   ground safety award.
2                                                                 315AWI36-104 28 OCTOBER 2005


3. Program Specifics:
    3.1. The 315 AW Flight Safety Mishap Prevention Award (Quarterly). This award is presented to
    individuals or units who in the performance of their duties consistently demonstrated outstanding
    safety consciousness, have contributed to the overall improvement of flight safety, have prevented a
    serious flight mishap or have contributed significantly to the 315 AW Flight Safety Mishap Prevention
    Program.
       3.1.1. AMC and Boeing flying hours milestone awards require submission off base and will be
       processed by 315 AW/SE. Units should submit names and flying hour data IAW the Squadron
       Flight Safety Officer (FSO) Continuity Guide.
    3.2. The 315 AW Ground Safety Mishap Prevention Award (Quarterly). This award is presented to
    individuals or units not involved in aerial flight who in the performance of their duties consistently
    demonstrated outstanding safety consciousness, have prevented a serious ground mishap or have con-
    tributed significantly to the 315 AW Ground Safety Mishap Prevention Program.

4. Nomination procedures:
    4.1. Individuals assigned to the 315 AW are eligible for the awards.
    4.2. Nominations for the awards can be made by anyone. However, commanders and supervisors are
    encouraged to play an active part in the nomination process. Nominations will be forwarded to 315
    AW/SE. Nominations can be sent to the safety office anytime during the quarter, but no later than one
    week after the quarter ends. Nominations can be made for military or civilian personnel.
    4.3. The Chief of Safety will determine the winner of the awards based on the following factors:
       4.3.1. Unit Commander nominations.
       4.3.2. Other nominations.
       4.3.3. Safety inspection results (how the nominee contributed).
       4.3.4. Mishap prevention record (how the nominee contributed).
       4.3.5. Other noteworthy achievements and improvements made to promote the Wing Mishap Pre-
       vention Program.
    4.4. Award nominations must be supported by clear, concise and pertinent facts reflected in a short
    narrative describing the individual’s or unit’s achievements during the award period. If you have mul-
    tiple nominees, please submit a separate nomination package for each. See attachment 1 for a sample
    awards package format.

5. Award winners:
    5.1. The winner’s name will be published in the Palmetto Airlifter. Each award winner will receive a
    Certificate of Appreciation prepared by the safety office and signed by the Wing Commander. It will
    be presented to the recipient by the Wing Commander or designated representative.
315AWI36-104 28 OCTOBER 2005                                                                           3


  5.2. All quarterly award winners will be eligible for the annual safety award. The Chief of Safety will
  select the award winner. The winner will receive recognition by the Wing Commander or designated
  representative.



                                             GARY L. COOK, Col, USAFR
                                             Commander
