BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             315TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 48-102
315TH AIRLIFT WING
                                                                                           16 MAY 2009
                                                                       Certified Current, 20 APRIL 2013
                                                                                    Aerospace Medicine

                                                        EXPOSURE CONTROL FOR BLOODBORNE
                                                                              PATHOGENS


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:            Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
                          Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY:            There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 315 AMDS/SGPM                                    Certified by: 315 AMDS/CC (Col Michael Alday)
                                                                                         Pages: 11


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program, and
has been developed in conjunction with the 315 Aeromedical Evacuation Squadron, Aerospace
Medicine Council (AMC) and Occupational Health Working Group (OHWG) to eliminate or minimize
employee exposure to blood or other potentially infectious materials and is intended to comply with the
requirements of OSHA Standard 29 CFR 1910.1030, Occupational Exposure to Bloodborne Pathogens.
It applies to all 315 Airlift Wing personnel with reasonably anticipated occupational exposure to blood
or other potentially infectious materials. To ensure compliance with OSHA Standard 29 CFR
1910.1030 this publication shall be reviewed and updated annually. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility
(OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 to 315
AMDS/ SGPM, Charleston AFB, SC 29404.

1. Methods of Compliance.
   1.1. The Exposure Control Plan shall be reviewed and updated at least annually and whenever
   necessary to reflect new or modified tasks and procedures which affect occupational exposure and to
   reflect new or revised employee positions with occupational exposure. The review and update of
   such plans shall also reflect changes in technology that eliminate or reduce exposure to bloodborne
   pathogens and annually document consideration and implementation of appropriate commercially
   available and effective safer medical devices designed to eliminate or minimize occupational
   exposure.
   1.2. An employer, who is required to establish an Exposure Control Plan, shall solicit input from
   non-managerial employees responsible for direct patient care. These individuals, who are potentially
   exposed to injuries from contaminated sharps, are responsible for the identification, evaluation, and
2                                                                        315AWI48-102 16 MAY 2009


    selection of effective engineering and work practice controls and shall document the solicitation in
    the Exposure Control Plan.
    1.3. Standard Precautions. Standard precautions shall be observed to prevent contact with blood or
    other potentially infectious materials. According to the concept of standard precautions, all human
    blood and certain human body fluids are treated as if known to be infectious for HIV, HBV, and
    other bloodborne pathogens. Under circumstances in which differentiation between body fluid types
    is difficult or impossible, all body fluids shall be considered potentially infectious materials.
    Supervisors of employees working in job classifications who encounter occupational exposure to
    blood or other potentially infectious materials are responsible for ensuring that employees observe
    standard precautions at all times.
    1.4. Engineering and Work Practice Controls. Controls (e.g., sharps disposal containers, self-
    sheathing needles, safer medical devices, such as sharps with engineered sharps injury protections
    and needleless systems) that isolate or remove the bloodborne pathogens hazard from the workplace.
       1.4.1. Employees must wash their hands and any other exposed skin with soap and water, or
       flush mucous membranes with water immediately or as soon as feasible following contact of
       such body areas with blood or other potentially infectious materials.
       1.4.2. Employees must wash their hands and any other exposed skin immediately, or as soon as
       possible, after removal of gloves or other PPE.
       1.4.3. Employees are required to wash their hands and any other exposed skin with soap and
       water as soon as feasible after using an approved antiseptic. Hand cleaners or towelletes are
       acceptable only where hand-washing facilities are not feasible.
       1.4.4. Contaminated needles and other sharps shall not be bent, recapped, or removed unless no
       alternative is feasible or such action is required by a specific medical procedure. Such recapping
       or needle removal must be accomplished through the use of a mechanical device or a one-handed
       technique. Shearing or breaking of contaminated needles is prohibited.
       1.4.5. Eating, drinking, smoking, applying cosmetics or lip balm, and handling contact lenses
       are prohibited in work areas where there is a reasonable likelihood of occupational exposure.
       1.4.6. Food and drink shall not be kept in refrigerators, freezers, shelves, cabinets or on
       countertops or bench tops where blood or other potentially infectious materials are present.
       1.4.7. All procedures involving blood or other potentially infectious materials shall be
       performed in such a manner as to minimize splashing, spraying, splattering, and generation of
       droplets of these substances.
       1.4.8. Mouth pipetting/suctioning of blood or other potentially infectious materials is prohibited.
       1.4.9. Specimens of blood or other potentially infectious materials shall be placed in a container,
       which prevents leakage during collection, handling, processing, storage, transport, or shipping.
       1.4.10. Equipment that may become contaminated with blood or other potentially infectious
       materials shall be examined prior to servicing or shipping and decontaminated, as necessary. If
       decontamination is not feasible, a readily observable label, in accordance with 29 CFR
       1910.1030, must be attached to the equipment stating which portions remain contaminated. The
       Infection Control Officer within each unit is responsible for informing affected employees, the
       servicing representative, and/or the manufacturer prior to handling, servicing, or shipping so that
       appropriate precautions can be taken.
315AWI48-102 16 MAY 2009                                                                               3


   1.5. Sharps Injury Log.
       1.5.1. Each unit shall establish and maintain a sharps injury log for the recording of
       peramucocutaneous injuries from contaminated sharps. The information in the sharps injury log
       shall be recorded and maintained in such a manner as to protect the confidentiality of the injured
       employee. The sharps injury log shall contain, at a minimum:
          1.5.1.1. The type and brand of device involved in the incident, the department or work area
          where the exposure incident occurred, and an explanation of how the incident occurred.
       1.5.2. The sharps injury log shall be maintained for the period required by 29 CFR 1904.8, in
       accordance with recording criteria for needle stick and sharps injuries. In addition, all sharps
       injuries shall be documented on the OSHA Form 300, Log of Work Related Injuries and Illness,
       consistent with 315 AW/SE reporting guidelines. Where the risk of occupational exposure
       remains after institution of engineering and work practice controls, appropriate PPE will be used.
       PPE will be considered "appropriate" only if it does not permit blood or other potentially
       infectious materials to pass through to reach employees work clothes, street clothes,
       undergarments, skin, eyes, mouth, or other mucous membranes under normal conditions of use.
       Employers must provide appropriate gloves when exposure to blood or other potentially
       infectious materials (OPIM) exists. Alternatives shall be readily accessible to those employees
       who are allergic to latex (gloves for example). PPE is provided at no cost to the employee.
       Supervisors will be responsible for ensuring that employees wear appropriate PPE. The
       following also applies to PPE.

Table 1. Exposure Determination.
      UNIT                WHO              HBV          RATIONALE           TASK #
315 CES            Fire fighter          Required      Emergency         4-11
Fire Department                                        response
315 AMDS           Lab technician        Required      Processing        1
Laboratory                                             blood/tissue
                                                       specimen
315 AMDS          Optometrist         Required         Medical care   6, 8, 9
Optometry         Optometry
                  technician
315 AMDS          Physician           Required     Medical care       1-12
Flight Medicine   Nurse practitioner
                  Physician
                  Assistant
                  Nurse
                  Medical technician
315 AMDS          Dentist             Required     Medical care       2, 4-12
Dental            Dental technician
315 AES           Nurse               Required     Medical care       1-12
                  Medical technician
315 SVS           Search and          Required     Exposure to        12
Volunteers        Recovery Team                    human remains
315 SFS           Security police     Required     Emergency          4, 5, 7-9, 11, 12
                  officers                         response
Note: Exposure determination has been made without regard to the use of PPE. The
4                                                                         315AWI48-102 16 MAY 2009


following are job classifications in which employees have reasonably anticipated
occupational exposure to bloodborne pathogens.

2. PPE.
        2.1. PPE must be cleaned, laundered, repaired, and/or replaced as needed to maintain its
        effectiveness.
        2.2. If blood or other potentially infectious material penetrates a garment, this garment must be
        removed immediately or as soon as feasible.
        2.3. All PPE must be removed prior to leaving the work area.
        2.4. When PPE is removed, it must be placed in an appropriately designated covered container for
        storage, washing and decontamination, or disposal.

Table 2. Tasks with Recommended PPE.
    #           TASK             GLOVES          EYE               MASK         GOWN
                                              PROTECTION
1         Drawing blood         Yes           No                 No           No
2         Giving injection      Yes           No                 No           No
3         Starting IV           Yes           No                 No           No
4         Bleeding control      Yes           No                 No           No
          with minimal
          bleeding
5         Bleeding control      Yes           Yes                Yes          Yes
          with spurting blood
6         Peramucocutaneous     Yes           No, unless         No, unless   No, unless
          exposure while                      splashing          splashing    splashing
          providing medical
          care
7         Childbirth            Yes           Yes                Yes          Yes
8         Disinfecting          Yes           Yes                No           Yes
          contaminated
          equipment
9         Contact with          Yes           No                 No           No
          contaminated
          equipment
10        Suctioning            Yes           No, unless         No, unless Yes
                                              splashing          splashing
11        Administering CPR     Yes           No                 Mouth to   No
                                                                 mouth mask
                                                                 with one-
                                                                 way valve
12        Contact with human Yes              Yes                No         Yes-
          remains                                                           coverall
315AWI48-102 16 MAY 2009                                                                               5


3 Housekeeping. In keeping with the concept of standard precautions, supervisors will ensure that the
worksite is maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
   3.1. Equipment. All contaminated equipment and environmental work surfaces shall be cleaned and
   decontaminated with an appropriate disinfectant after contact with blood or other potentially
   infectious materials by shift personnel.
   3.2. Work Surfaces. Contaminated work surfaces shall be decontaminated with an appropriate
   disinfectant after completion of procedures or as soon as feasible when surfaces are obviously
   contaminated, after any spill of blood or other potentially infectious material and at the end of the
   work shift.
   3.3. Protective Coverings. Protective coverings such as plastic wrap, aluminum foil, or
   imperviously-backed absorbent paper used to cover equipment or environmental surfaces shall be
   removed and replaced as soon as feasible when they become obviously contaminated.
   3.4. Trash Cans. All bins, pails, cans, and similar receptacles which have a reasonable likelihood for
   becoming contaminated with blood or other potentially infectious materials will be inspected,
   cleaned, and decontaminated as soon as feasible upon visible contamination.
   3.5. Sharps. Contaminated sharps shall be discarded immediately or as soon as feasible in approved
   containers. Caution: Broken glassware that may be contaminated shall not be picked up directly with
   the hands. It must be cleaned up using mechanical means such as a brush and dustpan, tongs, or
   forceps. (Furthermore, any mechanical device, which is contaminated, must be decontaminated
   following use or as soon as feasible).
   3.6. Sharps Containers. Sharps containers will be inspected to ensure they do not become overfilled.
   Sharps containers must be closeable, puncture resistant, leak proof on sides and bottom, and labeled
   or color-coded in accordance with paragraph (g)(1)(i) of 29CFR 1910.1030. Additionally, sharps
   containers will be located as close as feasible to the immediate area where sharps are used.
   3.7. Disposal. All contaminated waste, properly bagged and labeled, will be given to the 315 AMDS
   within 24 hours of being generated. The only organizations that would routinely generate
   "potentially infectious material" are the 315 AMDS and 315 AES.
4. Hepatitis B Vaccination and Post-Exposure Evaluation/Follow Up. The Hepatitis B vaccine and
vaccination series shall be made available at no cost to all employees identified in Table 1. 315 AMDS
will provide the HBV to all required reservists, with occupational exposure as identified in Tables 1 and
2. Identified individuals will receive the vaccine either from the 315 AMDS. All reservists with
potential occupational exposure must receive the vaccine.
5. Post Exposure Evaluation/Follow-Up.
   5.1. Due to the potentially severe consequences resulting from exposure incidents, the
   circumstances regarding these incidents will be investigated with high priority. It is imperative that
   potentially exposed individuals, supervisors, and/or emergency response personnel notify the 315
   AMDS/SGPM (Public Health) to ensure compliance with regulatory guidance. In addition, the 315
   AMDS/Flight Medicine must also be notified to initiate follow-up actions and reporting
   requirements. As soon as possible after the incident the employee must notify their supervisor, and
   complete a 315 AW Exposure Incident Statement.
   5.2. The individual must be evaluated in an approved emergency medical center or contract facility.
   If it occurs after normal duty hours, the supervisor will notify 315 AMDS Air Reserve Technician
6                                                                        315AWI48-102 16 MAY 2009


    and 315 AMDS/SGPM the next duty day. If an exposure incident has occurred, 315 AMDS/SGPM
    will submit exposure to 315 AW/SEG via OSHA 300 log.
    5.3. The medical evaluation and follow-up will include the following elements (within 24 hours):
       5.3.1. Evaluation and routes of exposure will be made by a medical physician; as well as the
       circumstances under which the exposure occurred. This should occur within one hour of
       exposure.
       5.3.2. Identification and documentation of the source individual, unless infeasible or prohibited
       by state or local law. If consent (where required) is obtained the source individual's blood shall
       be tested and the results documented. If the source individual is known to be infected with HIV
       or HBV, this shall be documented without a repeat test.
       5.3.3. Results of the source individual's testing shall be made available to the exposed employee,
       along with applicable laws and regulations concerning disclosure of the identity and infectious
       status of the source individual.
       5.3.4. The exposed employee's blood shall be tested as soon as feasible after consent is obtained.
       5.3.5. If the employee consents to baseline blood collection but does not give consent at the time
       for HIV serologic testing, the sample shall be preserved for 90 days. If, within 90 days of the
       exposure incident, the employee elects to have the baseline sample tested, such testing shall be
       done as soon as feasible.
       5.3.6. When medically indicated, post-exposure prophylaxis will be provided, as recommended
       by the U.S. Public Health Service.
       5.3.7. Counseling will be made available to the employee upon request.
       5.3.8. Within 15 days of completion, a copy of the evaluating healthcare professional's written
       opinion shall be obtained and provided to the employee. This written opinion will be limited to
       the following information:
           5.3.8.1. That the employee has been informed of the results of the evaluation.
           5.3.8.2. That the employee has been told about any medical conditions resulting from
           exposure to blood or other potentially infectious materials which require further evaluation or
           treatment (other findings or diagnoses shall remain confidential and not be included in the
           written report).
       5.3.9. The 315 AMDS/SGPM is responsible for providing the following information to the
       healthcare professional following an exposure incident:
           5.3.9.1. A copy of the 315 AW Exposure Control Plan.
           5.3.9.2. A description of the exposed employee's duties as they relate to the exposure
           incident.
       5.3.9.3. Documentation of the route(s) of exposure and circumstances under which exposure
       occurred.
       5.3.10. All medical records relevant to the appropriate treatment of the employee including
       vaccination status.
6. Labeling.
315AWI48-102 16 MAY 2009                                                                                7


   6.1. Warning labels shall be affixed to containers of regulated waste, refrigerators and freezers
   containing blood or other potentially infectious materials, and other containers used to store,
   transport, or ship blood or other potentially infectious materials. These labels shall include the
   following legend: "BIOHAZARD" (word and symbol).
   6.2. These signs shall be fluorescent orange or orange-red or predominantly so, with lettering or
   symbols in contrasting color. Alternately, red bags or containers may be substituted for labels.
7. Training. All employees with reasonably anticipated occupational exposure will be expected to
participate in a training session that will be provided at the time of initial assignment to tasks where
occupational exposure takes place, every year thereafter, and whenever changes such as modifications of
tasks or procedures or institution of new tasks or procedures affect the employee's exposure. Each unit is
responsible for conducting training IAW 29 CFR 1910.1030. 315 AMDS/SGPM is available to provide
technical assistance upon request. All documentation will be maintained by the unit and available for
review by 315 AMDS/SGPM. Training will consist of the following:
   7.1. An explanation of the Bloodborne Pathogens Standard (29CFR 1910.1030) and the fact that a
   copy of the text of this standard will be accessible to employees at all times.
   7.2. A general explanation of the epidemiology and symptoms of bloodborne diseases.
   7.3. An explanation of the modes of transmission of bloodborne pathogens.
   7.4. An explanation of the exposure control plan and the means by which employees can obtain a
   copy of the written plan.
   7.5. An explanation of the appropriate methods for recognizing tasks and other activities that may
   involve exposure to blood and other potentially infectious materials.
   7.6. An explanation of the use and limitations of methods that will prevent or reduce exposure, to
   include engineering controls, work practice, and PPE.
   7.7. Information on the types, proper use, location, removal, handling, decontamination, and
   disposal of PPE.
   7.8. An explanation of the basis for selection of PPE.
   7.9. Information on the hepatitis B vaccine and a statement that the vaccine will be offered free of
   charge to those identified.
   7.10. Information on the appropriate actions to take and persons to contact in an emergency
   involving blood or other potentially infectious materials.
   7.11. An explanation of the procedures to follow if an exposure incident occurs, including the
   method of reporting the incident and the medical follow-up that will be made available.
   7.12. Information on the post-exposure evaluation and follow-up that the employer is required to
   provide for the employee following an exposure incident.
   7.13. An explanation of the signs and labels and/or color coding that is used in the facility.
   7.14. An opportunity for interactive questions and answers with the person conducting the training
   session.
   7.15. The organization will keep a record of the training on file. This documentation will include
   unit, trainer, trainer's qualifications, trainee, job title, SSN (last four), date of training, and
   information covered.
8                                                                        315AWI48-102 16 MAY 2009


8. Recordkeeping. Medical records must be kept for each employee with occupational exposure to
bloodborne pathogens. Reserve medical records will be maintained in accordance with established
procedures. These records will be kept in accordance with the privacy act. The following records will
be kept on file:
    8.1. A file for each employee with occupational exposure to blood or other potentially infectious
    materials including the name and social security number of the employee, a copy of the employee's
    hepatitis-B vaccination status (maintained in individuals medical record and AFCITA – Air Force
    Immunization Tracking Application).
    8.2. A copy of all results of examinations, medical testing, and follow-up procedures following an
    exposure incident (to be maintained in medical record).
    8.3. The employer's copy of the healthcare professional's written opinion regarding post-exposure
    evaluation and follow-up (to be maintained in medical record).
    8.4. Note: The above records will not be disclosed or reported without the employee's expressed
    written consent to any person within or outside the workplace except as required by the bloodborne
    pathogens standard or by law. Additionally, these records will be maintained for at least the duration
    of employment plus thirty years.




                                             TIMOTHY J. WRIGHTON, Colonel, USAFR
                                             Commander
315AWI48-102 16 MAY 2009                                                                               9


                                             Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program, 3 October 2005,
OSHA Standard 29 Code of Federal Regulation (CFR) 1910.1030, Occupational Exposure to
Bloodborne Pathogens, January 2007

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ASIMS—Aerospace Information Management System
CDC—Center for Disease Control and Prevention
CPR—Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation
EPA—Environmental Protection Agency
HBV—Hepatitis ―B‖ Virus
HCV—Hepatitis ―C‖ Virus
HIV—Human Immunodeficiency Virus

Terms
Blood—Human blood, human blood components, and products made from human blood.
Bloodborne Pathogens (BBP)— Pathogenic microorganisms that are present in human blood and can
cause disease in humans. These include Hepatitis B Virus (HBV) and Human Immunodeficiency Virus
(HIV).
Contaminated— The presence or the reasonably anticipated presence of blood or other potentially
infectious materials on an item or surface.
Engineering Controls— Controls (e.g., sharps disposal containers, self-sheathing needles) that isolate
or remove the BBP hazard from the workplace.
Exposure Incident—A specific eye, mouth, other mucous membrane, non-intact skin, or parenteral
contact with blood or other potentially infectious material that results from the performance of an
employee’s duties.
Occupational Exposure—Reasonably anticipated skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral contact
with blood or other potentially infectious materials that may result from the performance of an
employee’s duties.
Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)— Specialized clothing or equipment worn by an employee for
protection against a hazard. General work clothes (e.g., uniforms, pants, shirts or blouses) not intended
to function as protection against a hazard is not considered to be personal protective equipment.
Titer— is a measure of concentration. Titer testing employs serial dilution to obtain approximate
quantitative information from an analytical procedure that inherently only evaluates as positive or
negative.
10                                                                          315AWI48-102 16 MAY 2009


                                                Attachment 2
                       ACCEPTABLE METHODS OF DECONTAMINATION

A2.1. STERILIZATION: Allows for no microbial life to exist.
     A2.1.1. Destroys: All forms of microbial life including high numbers of bacterial spores.
     A2.1.2. Methods: Steam under pressure (autoclave), dry heat or immersion in EPA-approved
     chemical ―sterilant: for prolonged period of time; e.g., 10 hours or according to manufacturers’
     instructions. NOTE: Liquid chemical ―sterilants‖ should be used only on those instruments that are
     impossible to sterilize or disinfect with heat.
     A2.1.3. Use: For those instruments or devices that penetrate skin or contact normally sterile areas of
     the body; e.g., scalpels, needles, etc. Disposable invasive equipment eliminates the need to process
     these types.
A2.2. INTERMEDIATE LEVEL DISINFECTION:
     A2.2.1. Destroys: Mycobacterium tuberculosis, vegetative bacteria, most viruses, and most fungi,
     but does not kill bacterial spores.
     A2.2.2. Methods: EPA-registered ―hospital disinfectant‖ chemical germicides that have a label
     claim for tuberculocidal activity; commercially available hard surface. Germicides or solutions
     containing at least 500 ppm (parts per million) free available chlorine (a 1:100 dilution of common
     household bleach - approximately 1/4 cup bleach per gallon of tap water) A2.2.3. Use: For those
     surfaces that come into contact only with intact skin, e.g., stethoscopes, blood pressure cuffs, splints,
     etc. Clean visible material from surface before applying disinfectant.
A2.3. LOWER LEVEL DISINFECTION:
     A2.3.1. Destroys: Most bacteria, some viruses, some fungi, but not Mycobacterium tuberculosis or
     bacterial spores.
     A2.3.2. Methods: EPA-registered ―hospital disinfectants‖ (no label claim for tuberculodial activity)
     A2.3.3. Use: These agents are excellent cleaners and can be used for routine housekeeping or
     removal of soiling in the absence of visible blood contamination.
A2.4. ENVIRONMENTAL DISINFECTION:
     A2.4.1. Environmental surfaces which have become soiled should be cleaned and disinfected using
     any cleaner or disinfectant agent which is intended for environmental use. Such surfaces include
     floors, woodwork, ambulance seats, counter tops. Important: To assure the effectiveness of any
     sterilization or disinfection process, equipment and instruments must first be thoroughly cleaned of
     all visible debris.
315AWI48-102 16 MAY 2009                                                                            11


                                            Attachment 3
    OCCUPATIONAL EXPOSURE TO BLOODBORNE PATHOGENS POST EXPOSURE
                     EVALUATION AND FOLLOW UP

A3.1. The following is an exposure incident resulting in a peramucocutaneous injury from contaminated
sharps or other reasonably anticipated bloodborne pathogen exposure as described in Table 1, the
following procedures are to be followed. It is imperative that potentially affected individuals,
supervisors, and/or emergency response personnel notify the 315 AMDS/SGPM (Public Health) and 315
AMDS Air Reserve Technician to ensure compliance with regulatory guidance. In addition, the 315
AMDS/Flight Medicine must also be notified if the exposed individual is a military member to initiate
follow-up actions and reporting requirements.
A3.2. If not already done so by emergency response personnel, immediately cleanse wound and notify
supervisor who will, in turn, notify 315 AMDS/SGPM and 315 AMDS Air Reserve Technician at
extension 6785/6787 on the day of incident. If after hours, report the incident the following morning.
A3.3. With supervisor, complete 315 AW Exposure Incident Statement including source individual’s
name.
A3.4. Obtain consent from source individual for testing for HIV, HBV and HCV. Reservists must
comply with testing. If source is already known to be positive, no further testing is indicated.
A3.5. Depending on the incident, the appropriate POC, Emergency Response personnel, supervisor or
315 AMDS Air Reserve Technician, will direct individual to proceed to an approved medical facility for
evaluation and documentation of the incident by a medical doctor. The medical evaluation and follow-
up shall be completed within 24 hours.
A3.6. Testing shall be accomplished ASAP. Results of the source individual’s testing shall be made
available to the exposed individual.
A3.7. The exposed individual’s blood shall also be tested as soon as feasible. Exposed reservists are
required to comply with testing.
A3.8. When medically indicated, post exposure prophylaxis will be provided as recommended by the
US Public Health Service. Counseling will be provided.
A3.9. Within 15 days of completion, a copy of the evaluating healthcare provider’s written opinion will
be provided to exposed individual and will include documentation that member has been notified and
information regarding any medical conditions which may result from the exposure which could require
further evaluation or treatment.
A3.10. The 315 AMDS/SGPM will provide the healthcare professional following the exposure incident
with a copy of the 315 AWI 48-102 Exposure Control Plan and 315 AW Exposure Incident Statement
and other pertinent medical record information, including vaccination status.
