BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              315TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
315TH AIRLIFT WING                                                              33-114

                                                                               27 AUGUST 2012

                                                               Communications and Information

                                                      SOFTWARE LICENSE MANAGEMENT
                                                                          PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 315 FSS/SCOS                                                      Certified by: 315 FSS/SCO
                                                                      (Colonel William R. Fingar)
                                                                                          Pages: 6
Supersedes:    315AWI33-114, 7 April 2009


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-114, Software Management,Air
Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-1, Command, Control, Communications, and Computer (C4)
Systems, T.O 00-33A-1001 Methods and Procedures, General Communication’s Activities
Management Procedures and Practice Requrements, and AFI 33-200, Information Assurance
(IA) Management. It explains how to manage accountability for computer software licenses,
mandates specific roles, responsibilities and processes for software license accountability to meet
requirements of Section 1(c) of Executive Order (EO) 13103, Computer Software Piracy. It
incorporates enterprise license and Standard Desktop Configuration (SDC) considerations,
Communications Support Center (CSC) personnel responsibilities, and specific requirements for
placing software on PCs and computer network systems. It applies to all 315 AW organizations.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
1. Roles and Responsibilities
   1.1. 315 AW/CC Responsibilities.
2                                                             315AWI33-114 27 AUGUST 2012


       1.1.1. As the 315th AW responsible official for software license management, designate a
       primary and alternate Wing Software License Manager (WSLM) to manage the wing
       Software License Management Program.
       1.1.2. Forward WSLM appointment memorandum to the command software license
       manager (HQ AFRC/A6XR).
    1.2. Wing-level Software License Manager Responsibilities.
       1.2.1. The WSLM is responsible for management of the wing level Software
       Management Program.
           1.2.1.1. Establish a process to track all software to ensure effective software control
           and accountability to include deployment/unit type code (UTC) requirements. Limit
           access to minimize fraud, waste and abuse.
               1.2.1.1.1. Coordinate with and obtain approval from host communications unit or
               servicing network operations center prior to implementing any software.
               1.2.1.1.2. Establish a process to track software licenses.
               1.2.1.1.3. Establish documentation procedures for the annual inventory of
               software and licenses as required by E.O.13103.
       1.2.2. In accordance with AFI 33-114 para 9.9.2, Software Management, dispose of old
       versions of COTS software according to licensing agreements. Upgrades from the
       original software source are normally considered a continuation of the original license,
       not an additional or new license.
       1.2.3. Certify the completion of an annual inventory of all unit computer software and
       licenses.
    1.3. CSC Responsibilities.
       1.3.1. Maintain a current inventory of the COTS software controlled by organizations to
       include: software version, unit assigned location (bldg/room), system number, system
       name, and system serial number. Inventory documentation must be updated when:
           1.3.1.1. Obsolete software is returned to the WSLM for destruction or redistribution
           1.3.1.2. Software is installed on a different system
           1.3.1.3. . Software is transferred to another account
       1.3.2. Create a “memo for record” for software transferred to another unit or returned to
       WSLM.
       1.3.3. Perform an annual software inventory by the first Friday in June. or when a new
       CSC POC is assigned specific group level duties. Accomplish certification by
       forwarding a signed compliance memorandum, along with software inventory
       (Attachment 2).
    1.4. System User responsibilities:
       1.4.1. In accordance with AFI 33-100, users will not install and use copies of
       government-owned software on a home computer unless the software license explicitly
315AWI33-114 27 AUGUST 2012                                                                   3


      allows users to do so and the installation CSO has authorized such use. This action may
      be a violation of The Copyright Act, rendering the individual user accountable and liable.
      1.4.2. Do not install software or hardware on an IS without coordination with the IAO.
      The IAO is responsible for the proper coordination and implementation through IA
      channels.
2. Software Purchases.
   2.1. CSC Personnel will:
      2.1.1. Identify/justify need for software purchase and creates trouble ticket (REMEDY),
      to include required information regarding purchase:
          2.1.1.1. Details of software requested (name, version, and cost). Attach information
          as needed regarding local vendor.
          2.1.1.2. Justification for desired purchase. What, why, where software will be used,
          impact on mission.
   2.2. WSLM will:
      2.2.1. Upon request notifcation, validate requirements.
      2.2.2. Request local approval for purchase. Approval is based on host unit and HQ AMC
      software approval process requirements. Refer to the AF approved transistional list
      (https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/DocMan/DOCMain.asp?Tab=0&FolderID=OO-
      SC-IA-01-31-14-2&Filter=OO-SC-IA-01) to determine approval status. Requests for
      software versions not listed will be forwarded to HQ for testing and inclusion on
      approved software listing - process may require a single purchase of the software being
      submitted to HQ AMC for testing. Once added to list, future purchase of the software
      edition will be eligible for local approval.
      2.2.3. Following approval, forwards requirement to ECO for purchasing.
      2.2.4. Track IT/NSS request until the purchase is complete.
      2.2.5. Receive the actual software and copies of purchase documentation to ensure
      inclusion in wing software management program inventory.
      2.2.6. Release to CSC personnel.
   2.3. IT GPC Approving Authority. All software purchased in this wing must be purchased
   using the Information Technology Government Purchase Card. The IT GPC Approving
   Authority will notify the ECO when the appropriate funds have been transferred to the IT
   GPC Account and the purchase can be made.
3. Equipment Control Officer (ECO) will purchase all requested COTS using government
purchase card. Purchases will be delivered to the ECO. Actual Software and copies of
purchase documentation will be forwarded to the WSLM.

                                           WILLIAM R. FINGAR, Colonel, USAFR
                                           Commander
 4                                                        315AWI33-114 27 AUGUST 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
The Copyright Act
The Information Technology Management Reform Act (Division E of Public Law 104-106)
AFPD 33-1, Command, Control, Communications, and Computer (C4) Systems
AFI 33-100, User Responsibilities and Guidance for Information Systems
AFI 33-114, Software Management

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
C4—Command, Control, Communications, and Computers
COMPUSEC—Computer Security
COTS—Commercial Off-The-Shelf
CSC—Communications Support Center
CSO—Communications and Information Systems Officer
ECO—Equipment Control Officer
GPC—Government Purchase Card
IS—Information System
IT—Information Technology
IAO—Information Assurance Officer
MAJCOM—Major Command
PWRR—Project, Workflow, Requirements, and Resource Manager
SDC—Standard Desktop Configuration
WSLM—Wing-level Software License Manager

Terms
Certification—For purposes of this instruction, the act of determining that software performs
without defects and viruses, and does what the supporting documentation says it will do in
accordance with any specified acceptance criteria.
Command, Control, Communications, and Computer (C4) Systems—Integrated systems of
doctrine, procedures, organizational structures, personnel, equipment, facilities, and
communications designed to support a commander’s exercise of command and control, across
the range of military operations. Also called “communications and information systems.”
315AWI33-114 27 AUGUST 2012                                                                       5


Communications and Information Systems Officer (CSO)—Identifies the supporting CSO at
all levels. At base level, this is the commander of the communications unit responsible for
carrying out base communications and information systems responsibilities, the base CSO.
Tenant organizations may also have CSOs. At MAJCOM, and other activities responsible for
large quantities of communications and information assets, it is the person designated by the
commander as responsible for overall management of communications and information assets
budgeted and funded by the MAJCOM or activity. The CSO function, when under the base
communications unit, uses the office symbol “SC” that expands to three or four digits to identify
specific functional areas.
Computer Security (COMPUSEC)—1.The protection resulting from all measures to deny
unauthorized access to exploitation of friendly computer systems. 2. Measures and controls that
ensure confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information systems assets including
hardware, software, firmware, and information being processed, stored , and communicated.
Copyright—Without a license that specifies otherwise, the purchaser’s use of software is
restricted to making an archival copy and installing the computer program onto a single
computer, in accordance: with the Copyright Act of 1976. Do not reproduce or use copyrighted
software in any other manner.
Enterprise License—Allows the purchasing organization to use a specific COTS software
program across the organization for a set price. This is usually a more cost effective acquisition
strategy than purchasing individual copies for widely used software. The user should refer to the
contract terms and conditions to determine if the enterprise license is limited or unlimited. Either
the Air Force Enterprise Software License Program or DoD ESI should be considered for
commonly used software.
Enterprise Software Agreement (ESA)—Agreements, such as contracts or blanket purchase
agreements, by which organizations acquire, software or software maintenance under specified
terms and conditions.
Requirement—A need for a new or improved information processing capability that, when
satisfied, increases the probability of operational mission success or decreased the cost of
mission support.
Reuse—The process of developing or supporting a software intensive system using existing
software assets.
6                            315AWI33-114 27 AUGUST 2012


              Attachment 2
    SOFTWARE INVENTORY SPREADSHEET
