BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                    341ST MISSILE WING INSTRUCTION 10-401
341ST MISSILE WING
                                                                               20 JUNE 2014

                                                                                   Operations

                                                             BASE PLANS MANAGEMENT



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 341 MW/IGIX                                                     Certified by: 341 MW/IG
                                                                      (Mr. David W. Bliesner)
Supersedes:   341MWI 10-401, 31                                                      Pages: 10
              December 2009


This instruction contains the procedures that will be used for base level plans management and
memorandums of agreement/memorandums of understanding as a complement to AFMAN 10-
401 Vol 2, Planning Formats and Guidance, 1 May 1998, AFI 25-201 Intra-service, Intra-
agency,and Inter-agency Support Agreement Procedures1 May 2005, and AFGSC Supplement
Support Agreement Procedures 1 May 2010. This guide outlines the responsibilities and
procedures for base level plan development and unit plan management on Malmstrom AFB.
This guide will be used by all personnel involved with the development and maintenance of any
local plans on Malmstrom AFB. This publication does not apply to the US Air Force Reserve or
Air National Guard. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847 through the wing publishing office and then to the appropriate
OPR. This publication may not be further implemented/extended. Ensure that all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Waivers to
this supplement will not be granted.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is rewritten to reflect changes in guidance and procedures dealing with
OPLANS. The changes include instituting the new Memorandum of Agreement
(MOA)/Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) program. Additionally, references to XP have
been changed to IGIX due to a reorganization.
 2                                                              341MWI10-401 20 JUNE 2014


1. Background. USAF operation planning is an integral part of the Air Force at all echelons.
The base level plans program supports two areas: higher headquarters plans or publications and
local contingencies. Both of these areas require support from many base agencies in order for
the wing to properly respond to any contingency. This instruction has been developed to aid
plan managers through development, format, coordination, and annual review requirements.
2. Responsibilities:
     2.1. Wing Commander. Designate the Wing Plans Office (341 MW/IGIX) as the
     functional manager for all plans and memorandums of agreement/memorandums of
     understanding developed on Malmstrom AFB. The Wing Commander will approve all plans
     (by signing the basic plan) and shall review MOA/MOUs developed on Malmstrom AFB
     unless specifically prohibited by higher headquarters directives.
     2.2. Wing Self-Assessment and Plans Section:
        2.2.1. Coordinates, administratively controls, and reviews all plans, MOAs, and MOUs
        initiated by Malmstrom AFB agencies.
        2.2.2. Designates an office of primary responsibility (OPR) for each base plan or plan
        annex, MOA, and MOU based on functional responsibility. Normally, the base OPR will
        be aligned with the HQ AFGSC OPR.
        2.2.3. Ensures plan numbers are assigned for locally developed plans.
        2.2.4. Ensures review of all MAFB plans before publication and distribution.
        2.2.5. Ensures the Unit Plans Representative properly coordinates all plans, MOAs, and
        MOUs.
        2.2.6. Publishes a current MAFB Plans, MOA, and MOU index semi-annually.
        2.2.7. Provides 60 days notification to the Unit Plans Representative prior to the plan,
        MOA, and MOU biennial review date. The review will be initiated 60 days prior to the
        first day of the month the Plan MOA/MOU was signed. Other reviews will be made as
        required by the prescribing directive or plan.
        2.2.8. Provides guidance to the Unit Plans Representative for proper distribution of all
        plans totasked organizations.
        2.2.9. Provides plans guidance to newly appointed Unit Plans Representatives.
        2.2.10. Monitors suspense and documents required actions when notified by a Unit Plans
        Representative that a higher headquarters instruction, manual or plan, change, or new
        requirement to develop a base plan is received.
        2.2.11. Contacts Unit Plans, MOA, and MOU Representatives monthly for updates
        during the development, review, coordination and distribution phases of all plans. Tracks
        and document the monthly updates.
        2.2.12. Maintains a digital and paper copy of active plans, MOA, and MOU IAW Air
        Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air
        Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
        Schedule (RDS).
341MWI10-401 20 JUNE 2014                                                                       3


   2.3. Unit Plans Representatives:
       2.3.1. Notifies 341 MW/IGIX when a higher headquarters instruction, manual, plan
       change, or requirement to develop a base plan is received. A base plan will detail how to
       execute key processes for mission execution that span multiple units (e.g., RS Movement
       Plan, Continuity of Operations Plan, or Disease Containment Plan). Plans that are
       governed by state or federal regulations do not need to comply with the requirements of
       this publication. The only requirement for state or federally directed/regulated plans is
       that a current copy of the plan be on file with 341 MW/IGIX.
       2.3.2. Develops plans, annexes, appendices, etc., for which the agency is responsible.
       Agencies developing plans must use the format guidance outlined in this instruction
       unless their plan has specific format requirements outlined in an Air Force Instruction.
       2.3.3. Coordinates the basic plan draft and appropriate annexes with tasked organizations
       and 341 MW/IGIX. Complete an AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet, showing proper
       routing/coordination with wing/base officials. Attach the form and all coordination with
       tasked organizations to the master copy of the proposed plan.
       2.3.4. Conducts meetings as needed, to review and discuss recommended changes to the
       plan. Consolidates recommended changes to the basic plan, attaches annex, and
       coordinates a revised draft of the entire plan for distribution with all affected
       organizations and 341 MW/IGIX.
       2.3.5. Ensures the overall classification of the plan reflects the content of the plan.
       Guidance for security markings for classified plans can be found in AFI 31-401,
       Information Security Program Management.
       2.3.6. Reviews unit plans as appropriate.     Notifies 341 MW/IGIX of any changes or
       deletions to a plan.
       2.3.7. Completes unit review of draft plans coordinated by other units. Attach
       recommended changes/corrections to the coordination package. Forward completed
       coordination package to the plan OPR.
       2.3.8. Informs key personnel on changes to plans that affect their specific functional area
       within the unit.
       2.3.9. Ensures adequate written procedures and/or checklists are developed to implement
       plans that affect the unit.
       2.3.10. If agency checklists require changes, ensures those changes based on a revised or
       changed plan are coordinated and incorporated through the appropriate OPR.
3. Organization of a Plan. When creating or revising a plan, use the plan writing guide
template in conjunction with this instruction. 341 MW/IGIX has these available as electronic or
paper copy. Plans will normally be organized as follows:
   3.1. Plan Cover. The cover will show plan date, issuing headquarters, overall classification,
   the plan title and number, missile wing emblem and the OPR. Classified plans will also
   include downgrading instructions. If a plan is Top Secret, copy number will be annotated.
   Soft covers will be used on all plans and will NOT contain classified information.
4                                                                341MWI10-401 20 JUNE 2014


    3.2. Letter of Transmittal. Letter of Transmittal identifies the reason for preparing the
    plan, all agencies or commands coordinating on the plan, additional supporting plans
    identified if they are required by tasked agencies, and the OPR for the plan and biennial
    review/disposition instructions for superseded plans. This letter will be printed on the
    organization letterhead. The unit commander and the 341 MW/IG sign this letter unless
    specifically prohibited by higher headquarters directives.
    3.3. Distribution Change Letter. This is used by addressees to notify the plan OPR of
    changes in distribution requirements. This letter is not numbered and follows the letter of
    transmittal.
    3.4. Security Instructions and Record of Changes. This page identifies long and short
    titles of plans. Classification guidance for supporting plan development and overall plan
    classification, declassification instructions, special access requirements, reproduction
    limitations, and use of nicknames will be identified. The security instructions identify
    biennial review requirements. This will be the first page (i) following the letter of
    transmittal.
    3.5. Plan Summary. The plan summary provides a brief outline of the purpose of the plan,
    conditions for implementation, and operations to be conducted. It also provides a brief
    description of actions to be taken during a contingency situation, such as threat analyses,
    installation vulnerability assessments, prevention, and mitigation of certain situations.
    3.6. Table of Contents. All annexes, appendixes, and tabs included in the plan will be
    identified here. Page numbers and titles listed need to correspond throughout plan.
    3.7. Basic Plan. The basic plan provides a full signature block for the installation
    commander. Additionally, the basic plan provides more detail than the plan summary. The
    basic plan varies from agency to agency based upon operational requirements. In general, it
    consists of a situation, execution and command and control.
       3.7.1. The situation describes the environment that would establish conditions to
       implement the plan. It contains basic assumptions, operational constraints, and required
       agencies/forces.
       3.7.2. The execution typically includes the entire concept of operations. It gives the
       commander’s intent, the roles/responsibilitiesof agencies under the direction of the
       installation commander and expected tasks.
       3.7.3. Command and control usually has two distinct meanings. Command describes the
       authority and responsibility of the installation commander in relation to agreements with
       outside agencies (memorandums of understanding). Control refers to the means by
       which a commander communicates with agencies.
    3.8. Applicable Attachments. Attachments (annexes, appendices, tabs, exhibits) are listed
    on the final page of any attachment. For example, Tab 1 to Appendix A would be listed on
    the final page of Appendix A. All pages on the applicable attachments need to be numbered
    properly and correspond correctly to pages listed in the table of contents. The headquarters,
    base, and date of the plan need to be present in the top right-hand corner of the first page of
    each attachment.
341MWI10-401 20 JUNE 2014                                                                        5


   3.9. Distribution List. The distribution should be held to the absolute minimum consistent
   with the plan content. Functional address symbols should be used for Air Force addressees.
   The OPR provides tasked agencies with copies of the plan when needed. If the plan is
   classified Secret or higher, copy numbers need to be identified.
4. Administrative Guidelines. Within the plan, the following guidance applies:
   4.1. Identification. Subparagraphs will be identified as follows:
       4.1.1. Paragraphs will use the following nomenclature for paragraphs and sub-
       paragraphs: numeral, lower case letter, numeral in parentheses, lower case letter in
       parentheses, underlined numeral, underlined lower case letter, underlined numeral in
       parentheses, and finally underlined lower case letter in parentheses. The following string
       represents the first tier nomenclature for each possible paragraph level:
       1.a.(1).(a).1.a.(1).(a). Please note that the parentheses are underlined; however, the
       period is never underlined.
       4.1.2. Each paragraph designator will end in a period.
       4.1.3. To subdivide a paragraph, there must be at least two subdivisions (each “1” must
       have a “2” and each “a” must have a “b”, etc.). Progressive subdivisions of a paragraph
       are initially indented an additional five spaces.
   4.2. Numbering. Page numbers are centered at the bottom of each page and indicate page
   order within each part of the plan. For example, page C-1-A-3 denotes page 3 of Tab A to
   Appendix 1 to Annex C. Sequential numbering may also be used.
   4.3. Text Formatting. The text is single-spaced Times New Roman font 12 point with 1”
   borders.
   4.4. Elements. Each separate element will identify the date of issue. All elements will
   maintain this date until the plan is completely revised and republished. Changes will be
   addressed later in this guide.
   4.5. Signatures/Authentication. The basic plan and each secret annex are signed or
   authenticated by the commander of the organization issuing the plan and approved by the
   wing commander. Full signature blocks are used. Other attachments do not require
   signatures unless they will be removed from the plan or issued separately. A memorandum
   for record indicating compliance with this requirement is sufficient to sign or authenticate for
   each secret annex. This memorandum for record must remain with each Secret annex.
5. Review. Plans will be reviewed on a biennial cycle by the OPR. This cycle encompasses a
review, coordination, publication and distribution of the plan. Tasked organizations will
coordinate on the biennial review for concurrence/recommended changes to the plan. Only
agencies that are functionally affected need to coordinate on revisions/changes. This review will
focus on technical content and tasks.
   5.1. Notification. The 341 MW/IGIX will begin the cycle using a notification letter. The
   notification letter is sent 60 days prior to the date of review to remind OPRs to begin the
   review process. When the notification letter is received, the OPR for the plan will notify all
   tasked agencies requesting they review the plan. The Unit Plans Representative needs to
   inform 341 MW/IGIX whether the plan is current with no changes, rescinded, or
   changed/revised.
 6                                                               341MWI10-401 20 JUNE 2014


     5.2. Page Changes. When completing the review, update the record of review in the
     beginning of the plan. If no adjustments are needed, inform 341 MW/IGIX and update the
     record of annual review. An annual review may reveal needed changes, which can be
     incorporated in one of two ways: page changes or pen and ink changes.
        5.2.1. A plan should be changed rather than revised if the total adjustments (any new or
        previously changed material) affect less than 40 percent of the basic plan, attachments
        included. However, if more than 40 percent of the plan is affected, then a plan revision
        should be initiated.
           5.2.1.1. Regardless of the type of change, Unit Plans Representatives need to update
           the record of changes in the front of the plan. This is accomplished by updating the
           change number, date, date entered and posted by information located in the security
           instructions. Updates to the security instructions need to be provided to all tasked
           agencies and 341 MW/IGIX.
           5.2.1.2. The preferred method for plan changes is the “Page Change” method. Page
           changes keep the document clean and reduce the chance of posting errors. To
           indicate new or changed material, a vertical line is added in the left margin. When a
           page change is made, the change number and date of the change must be annotated as
           follows: (Change X, 1 January 20XX). Change pages will retain the date of the
           original document until a new plan is published. Additional change numbers must be
           consecutive from previous changes. For example, if (Change 2, 1 January 2012) is
           the current version, (Change 3, 1 January 2013) will be next version.
           5.2.1.3. An AF Form 1565, Entry, Receipt and Destruction Certificate, will be
           prepared according to guidelines in AFI 31-401.
           5.2.1.4. The 341 MW/IGIX is required to coordinate/approve on all changes prior to
           publication. This is required whether 341 MW/IGIX submitted changes or not. As
           with the basic plan, 341 MW/IGIX coordination is for the format not the content of
           the change.
        5.2.2. Pen and Ink Changes: These may be accomplished for minor corrections
        (spelling, office symbols, etc.). These should be kept to a minimum. Line through the
        incorrect information, initial and date the change. Write the correct information legibly.
6. Classification Guidelines. Classified plans will be developed, controlled, and marked as
outlined in DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, and AFI 31-401, Information Security
Program Management. Each plan must be assigned an overall security classification that is
determined by its content and in accordance with the security classification guidance contained
in any plan it supports.
     6.1. Classification Markings on Plan Elements:
        6.1.1. Guidance for marking DoD UCNI materials can be found in DoDM5200.01-V2,
        DoD Information Security Program: Marking of Classified Information.
        6.1.2. The front and rear covers and the letter of transmittal must be marked with the
        overall classification of the plan.
        6.1.3. Each page must be marked top and bottom with the highest classification of the
        page (or the highest classification of the entire plan may be placed top and bottom of each
341MWI10-401 20 JUNE 2014                                                                        7


       page for administrative simplification). In a plan containing classified items, unclassified
       items must also be marked. Each paragraph, table, figure, etc., must be marked with its
       classification using a parenthetical symbol (for example “(S)” for Secret). Remember to
       add Warning Notices such as “RESTRICTED DATA”, to the basic classification, (for
       example, a paragraph containing Secret, Formerly Restricted Data information would be
       marked (S/FRD).
       6.1.4. If a plan contains classified information from more than one source, it requires a
       letter of derivative classification identifying all classified sources used in creation. The
       letter of derivative classification will be filed with the master copy of the plan.
       6.1.5. All plans that are anything BUT purely unclassified (e.g. if they contain DoD
       UCNI, SECRET, or FOUO), they must be coordinated through the unit security manager
       to ensure correct marking and disclosure statements.
       6.1.6. For guidance on Disclosure statements refer to AFI 33-332.
7. Coordination Guidelines. Once a plan is developed, it is ready for coordination.
Coordination provides an in-depth assessment of the product. It also ensures the accuracy of the
plan after coordination and implementation.
   7.1. 341 MW/IGIX. All tasked agencies will coordinate with 341 MW/IGIX on all plans to
   ensure documents are properly formatted.
   7.2. Higher Headquarters (HHQ). If it is required to have HHQ coordination prior to
   implementation, ensure this is accomplished and documented on the staff summary sheet.
   7.3. Staff Summary Sheet. A staff summary sheet will be used to record coordination. All
   tasked agencies will have a separate block for their coordination. Additionally, the wing and
   group commanders of tasked agencies will also coordinate on the plan. For example, the
   341 OSS is tasked in the plan. The 341 OG/CC coordination block should follow
   immediately behind the 341 OSS/CC block. If the plan requires the coordination of more
   than one agency, the staff summary sheets can use “shotgun” distribution so that each
   organization will have its own staff summary sheets. This will greatly reduce the amount of
   time the plan is in coordination.
       7.3.1. Staff summary sheets used for coordination of classified plans will be stamped top
       and bottom with the same classification as the applicable plan. The staff summary sheet,
       however, should not contain any classified information and will include a paragraph
       identifying its classification when removed from the plan.
       7.3.2. Once coordination is complete, file the staff summary sheets with the master copy
       of the plan. These should be maintained for the life of the plan.
8. Plan Distribution Requirements:
   8.1. Approval. After the plan has been reviewed and approved by the wing commander, it
   will be returned to the unit representative for publication/distribution. If a problem with the
   plan arises during the wing commander's review, 341 MW/IGIX will contact the Unit Plans
   Representative for resolution.
   8.2. Plan Distribution. When ready for publication/distribution, the Unit Plans
   Representative will review published copy of the plan to ensure that it has been produced and
8                                                                 341MWI10-401 20 JUNE 2014


    collated correctly. 341 MW/IGIX will convert an electronic copy into a portable document
    format (.pdf) for ease of distribution. The unit representative will then distribute the plan to
    the required agencies.
       8.2.1. Distribution of plans is generally limited to those units/agencies that have a
       tasking. This may be done electronically and reproduction done at the task units expense.
       8.2.2. Separate Distribution of Annexes. Plans are normally distributed complete with
       all necessary annexes and other attachments unless those annexes are classified for
       security reasons. When wider distribution of the plan is required, additional distribution
       of individual annexes is authorized.
    8.3. Unit Plan Representatives. Unit Plan Representatives will maintain the original or
    master copy of the plan and coordination documentation. They will provide 341 MW/IGIX
    with one electronic copy of the final plan. A hard copy of the plan will be created for file
    purposes.
       8.3.1. Release/request of plan information to AFGSC/IG in support of authorized
       inspections will be through the wing plans office.
       8.3.2. The plans will usually be uploaded into the Community of Practice (CoP) database
       when requested by AFGSC/IG.
9. Memorandum of Agreement/Memorandum of Understanding
    9.1. 341 MW/IGIX Responsibilities. The 341 MW/IGIX office is an MOA/MOU
    repository.   It is not responsible for developing or coordinating functional area
    MOAs/MOUs. The status of the MOA/MOU will be tracked and the OPR notified when a
    review of the MOA/MOU needs to be initiated and the suspense dates for signing.
       9.1.1. Ensures the status and effective dates of MOA/MOU are current. MOA/MOUs
       shall be reviewed every two years. They shall be revised and signed every five years
       unless otherwise specified in the MOA/MOU.
       9.1.2. The 341 MW/IGIX Office is responsible for maintaining a continuity folder and
       copies of all agreements (i.e., hardcopy and/or electronic).
    9.2. Unit Responsibilities. Each OPR will supply a copy of all MOAs/MOUs along with a
    one paragraph synopsis pertaining to the MOA/MOU to the 341 MW/IGIX office.
       9.2.1. This shall include all items listed in DoDI 4000.19 Enclosure 1 and any item
       excluded from DoDI 4000.19 paragraph 2.b.(1) thru 2.b.(13).
       9.2.2. Functional OPRs should inform the 341 MW/IGIX office when an
       instruction/directive is changed that affects the agreement. If required, the agreement
       should be revised or re-accomplished.
       9.2.3. The 341 MW/IGIX Office will be added to the coordination for all new and
       current MOAs/MOUs.
    9.3. Minor Revisions. Minor pen and ink changes, including non-substantive
    modifications, may be made by mutual agreement provided they do not significantly affect
    manpower or funds. Pen and ink changes should be forwarded to the 341 MW/IGIX office.
    They must be incorporated into the next review/revision.
341MWI10-401 20 JUNE 2014                                      9




                            JOHN T. WILCOX II, Colonel, USAF
                            Commander
 10                                                        341MWI10-401 20 JUNE 2014


                                        Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERNCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Adopted Forms

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

AF Form 1565, Entry, Receipt and Destruction Certificate

AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet.


Abbreviations and Acronyms

AFMAN- Air Force Manual

AFRIMS- Air Force Records Information Management System

CoP- Community of Practice

MOA- Memorandum of Agreement

MOU- Memorandum of Understanding

OPR- Office of Primary Responsibility

RDS- Records Disposition Schedule

UCNI- Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information
