BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      341ST MISSILE WING INSTRUCTION 10-205
341ST MISSILE WING
                                                                            29 OCTOBER 2012

                                                                                     Operations

                                                       MANAGEMENT OF MISSILE ALERT
                                                            FACILITIES AND CENTERS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:        Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
                      www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 341 OG/FM                                                         Certified by: 341 OG/CC
                                                                   (Colonel Edward J. Rimback)
Supersedes:   341SWI 10-204, 1 Jul 04                                                  Pages: 11


This instruction complements AFPD 10-2, Readiness. It applies to all Department of Defense
(DoD) and civilian personnel who enter or use the Missile Alert Facilities (MAF) and Launch
Control Centers (LCC). It does not apply to Air National Guard (ANG) or Air Force Reserve
(AFRC) personnel. It outlines general responsibilities, procedures, and guidance while using
these facilities and centers. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change
of Publication; route AF Form 847 through the wing publishing office. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
applicable Air Force instructions, and disposed of as indicated in the Records Disposition
Schedule available on https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction makes designation changes throughout, changing Space Wing over to Missile
Wing, as well as removing references to the 564 MS, makes changes to standardization of
“Remains Overnight (RON)” room configurations (paragraph 12.6) and modifies scheduled
MAF meal hours (paragraph 14.1).
1. Responsibilities. All persons who work, rest, or RON at any 341st Missile Wing MAF or
LCC are responsible for knowing the provisions of this instruction.
2. Mission Statement. The primary purpose of the MAF is to support the war-fighting
capabilities of the Launch Control Center (LCC) and its Missile Combat Crew (MCC) by
providing meals, protection, and a comfortable place to rest for all personnel who support
mission requirements in the missile complex.
 2                                                         341MWI10-205 29 OCTOBER 2012


3. Customers. Internal: MCC, Facility Manager (FM), Chef, Flight Security Controller (FSC),
Security Response Teams (SRT), and Mobile Fire Teams (MFT). External: Group
Commanders, Squadron Commanders, and all other personnel and teams dispatched to the
missile complex.
4. Duress Words. All personnel dispatched to the missile field complex will know the current
duress words. When MCCs receive notification from the Malmstrom Command Post (MCP) that
duress words have been changed or compromised, they will immediately relay the new word or
words to the FM, FSC, and other MAF personnel. The MCC will confirm that the duress words
have been implemented and notifications have been made within the flight area.
5. Control of Personnel. The FM is the noncommissioned officer in charge (NCOIC) of the
MAF and is responsible for the management, control, and general supervision of personnel
dispatched to the MAF. Appropriate supervisors (not the FM or MCC) are responsible for the
supervision of primary or technical duties. FM supervision involves compliance with general
military standards, conduct, housekeeping, general maintenance, and emergency or exercise
actions. The missile combat crew commander (MCCC) is the officer in charge of the entire
flight under his or her control.
     5.1. Violations. Supervisors have the primary responsibility for correcting infractions and
     violations of AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel. It is the
     responsibility of all personnel to adhere to military standards and conduct themselves in an
     appropriate manner at all times.
     5.2. If necessary, violations will be documented on a Memo for Record (MFR).
        5.2.1. The FM and violator will sign the MFR. The FM will annotate the comments area
        of the endorsement section if the violator refuses to sign.
        5.2.2. The FM will forward the MFR to the squadron FM Superintendent for proper
        disposition.
     5.3. Personnel dispatched to a MAF are normally restricted to the confines of the MAF
     fence. Personnel assigned to the MAF, but not in duty status, may leave the confines of the
     fence for physical exercise. The FM will not leave the MAF when visitors are present or
     when maintenance is being performed at the site. All personnel leaving the MAF for
     physical exercise must comply with the following conditions:
        5.3.1. Coordinate exercise period with the MCCC.
        5.3.2. Notify the FSC of duration and route of travel.
        5.3.3. Do not exceed 30 minutes total time.
        5.3.4. Do not exceed 15-minute return time to the MAF.
        5.3.5. Do not conduct off-site exercise during any higher headquarters inspection.
6. Tobacco Products Policy. The use of any tobacco product is prohibited inside the MAF
building or near points of ingress or egress. Tobacco use is allowed within the designated area
only. Tobacco material will be disposed of in butt cans or appropriate containers. Tobacco
products will never be disposed of in trash cans.
7. Alcohol/Drugs/Gambling.
341MWI10-205 29 OCTOBER 2012                                                                    3


   7.1. All personnel dispatched to the missile complex are prohibited from possession or use
   of alcoholic beverages, controlled substances, and prescription drugs that are not specifically
   prescribed by proper medical authorities for on-duty use.
   7.2. Any game or lottery played for money, property, services, or other benefits is
   prohibited.
8. Dress Code. Military personnel will comply with AFI 36-2903 while at the MAF. In
addition, all personnel at the MAF will comply with the following restrictions:
   8.1. On-duty personnel will be in uniform.
   8.2. Security forces may wear headgear in the MAF building when performing official duties
   and under arms. Chefs must wear appropriate headgear in the kitchen while preparing food.
   8.3. Bare feet are not allowed on the MAF. Shoes, slippers, or socks must be worn at all
   times. Shower shoes will be worn when showering.
   8.4. Civilian clothing will be clean and in good repair. Sleeveless garments, including sleep
   wear, swim wear, short shorts, or extremely short cutoffs, and soiled or sweaty clothing are
   not allowed in the dining area or the lounge.
   8.5. Sleeveless garments may be worn outside, or while exercising.
   8.6. Ragged clothing will not be worn for lounging purposes.
9. Multimedia Viewing. All MAFs are Air Force work centers and must be free from
discrimination of any kind or from sexual harassment creating or condoning an intimidating,
hostile or offensive environment. Any program, video, website, or reading material that contains
sexually explicit content, promotes racial prejudice, or conveys hate group messages is
prohibited on all MAFs.
   9.1. Control of the Television on the MAF. The FM/MCCC will have final approval of any
   material being shown on the TV. The following basic rules will apply:
       9.1.1. Any material found to be offensive (nudity, language, etc.) to any person watching
       will not be shown.
       9.1.2. Any videotape or digital video disk (DVD) either “not rated” or rated higher than
       "R" will not be shown.
       9.1.3. No non-commercial videotapes or DVDs will be shown that display offensive
       material (nudity, language, etc.).
       9.1.4. The majority of those watching TV will have approval to watch a program subject
       to aforementioned restrictions.
10. Visitors:
   10.1. The FM will immediately give all visitors a safety briefing after they are properly
   processed on, and cleared for the site. The chef will give the briefing in the FM’s absence.
   10.2. The designated escort official will give an escort briefing to all visitors that require
   escort immediately after the FM’s safety briefing.
   10.3. Very important persons (VIP) are lieutenant colonels and above, squadron
   commanders, and higher headquarters inspection personnel. The FM or designated
 4                                                           341MWI10-205 29 OCTOBER 2012


     representative will greet all VIPs at the entrance of the MAF, then ensure all individuals are
     cleared through the FSC, give them a safety briefing, and provide a tour of the site, if desired.
     The FM will escort VIPs to the gate upon their departure.
     10.4. Proper military customs, courtesies and uniform wear will be exercised at all times.
     The MAF will be called to attention for lieutenant colonels and above, squadron
     commanders, and any higher headquarters inspection officer.
11. Cleaning Responsibilities. All personnel assigned to or visiting the MAF will be
responsible for maintaining MAF cleanliness. This includes all support facilities, LCC, launch
control equipment building (LCEB), access road, and exterior grounds. The FM has overall
responsibility for maintaining cleanliness and will coordinate cleaning efforts with the senior SF
representative on site. The FM is responsible for minor maintenance, and can use assigned
personnel to assist if required. The FM must consider crew rest, time lines, and assigned duties
before assigning tasks. Discrepancies will be adjudicated with the MCC.
     11.1. The FM will coordinate the use of SF personnel with the senior SF representative on
     duty for additional cleaning, maintenance, and self-help projects not otherwise covered by
     this instruction.
     11.2. Standards of Cleanliness. The following definitions for cleanliness are provided:
        11.2.1. INDUSTRIAL CLEAN. Free of trash, debris, or foreign objects, and when
        applied to interior areas, free of bulk deposits of dirt, dust, or grease, and accumulations
        of spilled water, oil, lubricants, or other liquids. Industrial clean areas must be safe for
        personnel access, maintenance, and operation.
        11.2.2. COMMERCIAL CLEAN. Is Industrial clean, plus reasonably free of dirt, dust,
        foreign residual solids, moisture, and spilled oil, grease, lubricants, and foreign liquids.
        11.2.3. DOMESTIC CLEAN. Is Commercial clean, plus free of dirt, dust, foreign
        residual solids, moisture, foreign liquids, visible oils, grease and lubricants, and
        commensurate with design functions.
     11.3. Topside Responsibilities. The FM will use the following information as a guide for
     assigning clean-up responsibilities. The MAF, including grounds and support buildings, will
     be ready for inspection no later than 1000 hours daily.
        11.3.1. All assigned personnel will:
            11.3.1.1. Clean their rooms and make their beds.
            11.3.1.2. Help with general cleaning. This includes washing windows, picking up
            trash, cleaning light fixtures, shampooing carpets, etc.
            11.3.1.3. Clean up any mess they make as it occurs (e.g., spills, return of coffee cups
            and magazines, proper disposal of empty cans).
            11.3.1.4. Clean areas and floors that become excessively dirty due to inclement
            weather or excessive activity.
        11.3.2. The FM will clean unoccupied bedrooms, the utility/boiler room, the water
        treatment room, communications room, diesel generator (DG) room, and environmental
        control system (ECS) room. The DG, communications, and ECS rooms will be
341MWI10-205 29 OCTOBER 2012                                                                  5


     maintained industrially clean and the water treatment room will be maintained
     commercially clean.
     11.3.3. Security Forces’ responsibilities: If the SRT have work related duties that
     require them to be away from the MAF, the FM and Chef will assume their cleaning
     details.
         11.3.3.1. The day two-person SRT, MFT, and FM will jointly clean the latrines,
         weight room and vacuum the hallway. Personnel requiring access to an opposite-sex
         latrine for cleaning duties will ensure it is vacant before entering.
         11.3.3.2. The night two-person SRT or MFT will clean the lounge, vestibule, and
         empty trash.
         11.3.3.3. The FSC will ensure the entire Security Control Center (SCC), to include
         the latrine, is clean and trash emptied each shift.
     11.3.4. The MAF chef will clean the kitchen and dining area and empty trash.
     11.3.5. Anyone using the garages will ensure they are clean upon his or her departure.
     11.3.6. Transient personnel will:
         11.3.6.1. Clean up after themselves, following the basic philosophy, "If you mess it
         up, clean it up."
         11.3.6.2. Clean areas at the MAF where they have performed maintenance work.
         The FM must approve the cleanliness of work areas before a team’s departure.
         11.3.6.3. Clean their bedroom if they have occupied one during their stay. This will
         include neat arrangement of beds, discarding of any trash, vacuuming, etc. The FM
         must approve the room condition prior to the team’s departure.
         11.3.6.4. The FM will direct any team that RONs to assist the assigned security
         forces with their daily, weekly, and monthly cleaning responsibilities. The FM must
         consider crew rest, time lines, and assigned duties before assigning tasks.
     11.3.7. Periodic cleaning responsibilities:
         11.3.7.1. Daily, at a minimum, the MAF will be vacuumed, dusted, trash emptied,
         latrine cleaned, utility/boiler rooms cleaned and mopped, books, magazines, etc., put
         in their proper places, bedrooms will be straightened and beds made when not in use.
         11.3.7.2. Monthly, at a minimum, the MAF will have the windows washed, garage
         cleaned, carpet shampooed, light fixtures cleaned, and parking area swept. Heavy use
         or inclement weather may require more frequent cleaning.
  11.4. Below-Ground Responsibilities:
     11.4.1. The MCC will ensure the LCC is neat, clean, and orderly at all times. The MCC
     is responsible for normal day-to-day cleaning of the LCC, such as emptying waste
     baskets, cleaning the consoles, latrine, sink area, refrigerator, freezer, and microwave,
     and maintaining the LCC bed and storage cabinet in a neat, orderly configuration.
     11.4.2. The FM will inspect the elevator, elevator shaft, tunnel junction, and elevator
     landings at least every Sunday, and clean as needed.
 6                                                          341MWI10-205 29 OCTOBER 2012


12. Billeting. The Central Reservation Point (CRP) will assign bedrooms to requesting teams
and evenly distribute RONs throughout the squadron as missions dictate. Officers and Senior
NCOs will be assigned separate sleeping quarters when possible. Female personnel will be
assigned separate sleeping quarters from male personnel except under extreme emergency
conditions. Squadron commander or higher approval is required before any type of coed
sleeping conditions can be implemented. .
     12.1. If a situation arises requiring the use of sleep shifts in the same bed, personnel will
     remove their linen from the bed, fold it neatly, and place it in a paper or plastic bag provided
     by the FM. They will use the same linen upon retiring.
     12.2. Teams normally needing only one room may be allowed to utilize additional rooms at
     the discretion of the FM. These additional rooms will be on a night-by-night basis to allow
     quality sleeping conditions.
     12.3. Bed make-up is the responsibility of each individual using a bedroom. Beds assigned
     to individuals will be made with one mattress cover, two sheets, one pillow, one pillowcase,
     one blanket, and a bedspread blanket or comforter. Each individual will neatly fold used
     linen and return it to the FM.
        12.3.1. Personal sleeping bags may be used. A blanket, bedspread, or comforter will be
        used to neatly cover the mattress. When not in use, the sleeping bag must be neatly
        arranged on the bed.
     12.4. Personal property will be neatly arranged in the room (i.e., toiletries will be stored in
     appropriate containers, luggage will be zipped and placed in the closet or under the bed).
     Items on top of the desk should be neatly arranged.
     12.5. The FM will keep all unoccupied rooms locked.
     12.6. Standardization of RON room configuration:
        12.6.1. Six beds per RON room.
        12.6.2. Six beds per site security force rooms.
        12.6.3. Two beds in the chef’s room.
        12.6.4. C-01 and M-01 will provide only one room with six beds.
        12.6.5. MAFs will have no more than one RON room down for self-help at a time,
        unless approved by the squadron commander.
     12.7. Standardization of permanent party policy:
        12.7.1. The chef will have a permanent room, shared only by a training chef, unless an
        emergency exists. This room will be utilized as a work/office environment as well as a
        sleeping environment.
        12.7.2. The FM will have a permanent room. This room will be utilized as a work/office
        environment as well as a sleeping environment.
        12.7.3. Site security forces will have two permanent rooms. They may use additional
        rooms on a night-by-night basis with the facility manager’s approval, but may not reserve
        additional rooms, except for female personnel.
341MWI10-205 29 OCTOBER 2012                                                                  7


       12.7.4. Mobile maintenance will have a permanent room assigned at M-01.
       12.7.5. Camper Alert Teams will have a permanent room assigned at C-01 during winter
months.
       12.7.6. Each MAF will set aside two permanent rooms for MFT’s use. MFTs will have
       priority for these rooms over all other dispatches in the missile complex.
   12.8. Central Reservation System:
       12.8.1. Charlie, Golf, and Mike MAFs will serve as central reservation points (CRP).
       12.8.2. The FM at the CRP will maintain a reservation book and status board reflecting
       number of rooms, beds per room, availability of rooms, and status of rations at each
       MAF.
       12.8.3. The FM at the CRP will have the authority to reserve rooms for customers at all
       five MAFs within his/her missile squadron area.
       12.8.4. Customers needing a room will call the FM at the CRP between the hours of
       0730 and 1630 the day before it is needed. The only exception to this process is that
       MFT’s are not required to call ahead for reservations.
       12.8.5. The FM at the CRP will brief the customer on the status of availability and
       condition of the rooms/MAF. He/she will reserve and confirm reservation with the
       customer and FM at the applicable MAF
       12.8.6. FMs at other MAFs will assist customers with their room request. They will also
       explain the Central Reservation System.
13. Property and Equipment Management.
   13.1. Damage to property or equipment may subject the violator to punishment in
   accordance with Article 108, UCMJ. Furthermore, monetary damage may be collected in
   accordance with AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property. The FM will
   report any damage to property or equipment to the Wing Safety office for mishap reporting
   and investigation purposes, and to the squadron superintendent.
   13.2. FMs are responsible for the proper care, utilization, and accountability of MAF
   equipment and tools. FSCs are responsible for accountability of all security equipment in the
   SCC. MCCs are responsible for accountability of their equipment and tools in the LCC.
   13.3. Any organization that moves equipment (i.e., freezer, refrigerator, or vending machine)
   will have a dolly or the necessary tools to move the items safely and without damaging the
   MAF. The FM will refuse to let items be moved if the proper equipment is not available.
14. Mess Facilities. FMs will ensure the kitchen and dining areas are always kept clean, safe,
and sanitary. Inspection of these areas will not be considered as interfering with the technical
duties of food service personnel. Substandard cleanliness will be corrected immediately.
   14.1. Scheduled MAF meal hours are:
Breakfast 0630 - 0800
Lunch 1100 - 1300
Dinner/Midnight meal 1700 - 1900
 8                                                        341MWI10-205 29 OCTOBER 2012


     14.2. Personnel already on-site will order no later than 30 minutes prior to closing of the
     meal hours.
        14.2.1. The chef will provide an order sheet at the conclusion of meal hours for
        personnel to order for the next meal.
     14.3. The chef will provide hot meals to teams who are not able to eat during normal meal
     hours due to mission requirements. The FM/MCCC must approve or disapprove the serving
     of meals before or after normal meal hours.
        14.3.1. Since maintenance and security teams are often not able to meet the posted MAF
        meal schedule, Missile Maintenance Operations Center (MMOC) or security forces on-
        duty FSC will notify the FM as soon as they are aware of the need to deviate from the
        normal MAF meal hours.
        14.3.2. All teams that are going to RON will notify the chef at least one hour prior to
        MAF arrival to place their hot meal orders. It is recommended this be done just prior to
        back out to allow time for the chef to have the meals ready when the team arrives on site.
     14.4. If a requirement exists to subsist away from the MAF, box meals can be provided.
     Personnel must arrange their own transportation of meals and coordinate with the FM or chef
     to ensure food pickup prior to 2300. Hot type meals will only be issued if the customer has
     the means to heat or reheat them to 140 degrees Fahrenheit.
     14.5. Personnel who cannot meet MAF meal hours will obtain box lunches or utilize base
     dining facilities prior to departing support base. Personnel going to a MAF for meals will:
        14.5.1. Contact the MAF as soon as possible and place their orders. Meal preparation
        normally takes a minimum of 45 minutes.
        14.5.2. Provide name, organization, office symbol, and trip number.
     14.6. To cancel a meal, personnel will:
        14.6.1. Notify the MAF as soon as possible.
        14.6.2. Give reason and identify the control center that directed the change in itinerary.
        The individual who ordered the meal will be required to pay for it (if prepared) unless
        proper authority authorizes a deviation. Appropriate job controllers and commanders are
        normally the proper authority.
     14.7. Personnel should have the correct change to pay for the meal. Denominations larger
     than ten dollars will normally not be accepted. Canadian funds and personal checks will not
     be accepted.
15. Snow Removal. The FM will coordinate the use of SF personnel with senior SF
representative to assist with clearing snow from the paved area inside the MAF fence, helipad,
and access roads when equipment is available. Fire exits must remain clear of snow and ice at
all times. Personnel operating snow removal vehicles must have a valid driver’s license for the
equipment they are operating.
16. Utilities Conservation:
     16.1. All personnel will conserve energy.
341MWI10-205 29 OCTOBER 2012                                                                   9


   16.2. Air conditioners will be operated only during extremely hot weather. Doors and
   windows will be kept closed when air conditioners are in operation.
   16.3. Windows will not be opened to regulate room temperature when heating or air
   conditioning is in use. Contact the FM when problems are encountered.
   16.4. Thermostat settings in the large garages and rooms 101, 102, and 103 are to be set as
   follows:
       16.4.1. Set at lowest setting, usually 35 or 40 degrees Fahrenheit, when used for storing
       vehicles.
       16.4.2. May be set at 65 degrees Fahrenheit when personnel are working in these areas.
       Reset thermostats to the lowest setting when work is completed.
       16.4.3. Settings should be adjusted for unusually cold outside temperatures, such as -20
       to -40 degrees Fahrenheit. The FM will adjust settings higher if a 35 or 40 degree setting
       will not keep equipment from freezing.
17. Flag Ceremony:
   17.1. The FM or chef and one SF will raise the flag no later than 0700 and lower it no later
   than 1700 each day. The FM and chef will perform the ceremony if security forces personnel
   are not on site.
   17.2. The 341 OG/FM will notify the squadron FM superintendents, who will notify their
   MAFs, when the flag is to be flown at half-staff.
   17.3. The flag will be flown except during extreme inclement weather or when surface
   winds exceed 18 knots. The FM will make the decision to lower the flag.
   17.4. The FM will monitor the condition of the flag and notify MAF supply when it begins
   to show evidence of wear. Since flags are equipment items, they are accountable and must
   be exchanged on a one-for-one basis.
18. Safety and Fire Prevention. All personnel are responsible for safety and fire prevention
(AFI 32-2001, The Fire Protection Operations and Fire Prevention Program, and 341 MWI 32-
2001, Fire Prevention and Protection). Personnel will adhere to the instructions of the FM, or in
his or her absence, the FSC.
   18.1. The FM is the MAF Safety NCO. If an accident or incident occurs, the FM will
   inform the MCCC and Squadron FM Superintendent.
   18.2. The FM will conduct and annotate a fire drill at least monthly at each MAF.
   18.3. Every FM will conduct a fire drill at least once per quarter.
19. Payload Transporter (PT) Van On-Site Requirements:
   19.1. Refueling Requirements:
       19.1.1. Fuel storage tank servicing is prohibited while a loaded PT van is parked at a
       MAF.
       19.1.2. Limit refueling of vehicles to emergency situations while a loaded PT van is at
       the MAF, and only if a fire extinguisher is located adjacent to the servicing pump.
10                                                      341MWI10-205 29 OCTOBER 2012


     19.1.3. Turn off vehicle engines during all refueling operations.
     19.1.4. Keep the MAF gate fully open during all refueling operations when a PT van is
     on site.
  19.2. Parking Requirements:
  19.2.1. Loaded PT vans will be parked at a grounding point approximately 30 to 45 feet
  from the missile alert facility support building, along the side of the building where the SCC
  is located. Any deviations may be an explosive safety violation.
     19.2.2. The maintenance officer or team chief is responsible for the safety of the PT van.
     19.2.3. PT vans will be grounded to the grounding point while parked at the MAF.
     19.2.4. Loaded PT vans and loaded transporter erector vans will not be parked
     simultaneously at a MAF.
     19.2.5. No more than one loaded PT van will be parked at a MAF.
     19.2.6. When a loaded PT van is on site the outside area within the MAF fence line will
     be designated as a NO SMOKING area.




                                           HERALDO B. BRUAL, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
341MWI10-205 29 OCTOBER 2012                                11


                                     Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Prescribed Forms

None

Adopted Forms

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
