BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        341ST MISSILE WING INSTRUCTION 48-102
341ST MISSILE WING
                                                                                      2 JUNE 2011

                                                                               Aerospace Medicine

                                                     BLOODBORNE PATHOGEN EXPOSURE
                                                                     CONTROL PLAN

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 341 MDOS/SGPM                                                      Certified by: 341 MDG/CC
                                                                         (Colonel Leslie L. Dixon)
Supersedes:    341 SWI 48-102, 18 August                                                   Pages: 8
               2004


This instruction complements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 48-1, Aerospace Medical
Program, 3 October 2005. This instruction is consistent with Department of Labor Occupational
Safety and Health Act (OSHA) Bloodborne Pathogens Standard, 29 CFR 1910.1030. It explains
how to write an Exposure Control Plan. This instruction applies to any squadron, unit, or flight
assigned or attached to Malmstrom AFB, having personnel who have a reasonable risk of
incurring an occupational exposure to bloodborne pathogens in the performance of their daily
duties. In all other aspects, it does not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG) or Air Force
Reserve (AFRC) personnel. This publication requires the collection and or maintenance of
information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974. The authorities to collect and or maintain the
records prescribed in this publication are 10 United States Code (U.S.C.) 55, 10 U.S.C. 8013,
and Executive Order (E.O.) 9397. Forms affected by the Privacy Act have an appropriate
Privacy Act Statement. Systems of records notices Medical Record System, F044 AF SG F, and
Military Personnel Records System, F036 AF PC C, apply. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route the AF Form 847 through the wing
publishing office. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AF Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

.
 2                                                                341MWI48-102 2 JUNE 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Updated references, dates and signature block to comport with the change from the 341st Space
Wing to the 341st Missile Wing.
1. Responsibilities.
     1.1. Units identified as having personnel who have a reasonable potential risk of exposure to
     blood-borne pathogens as determined by the MDG Occupational Health Working Group
     (OHWG) include, but are not limited to: 341 MDG, 341 CES (fire department), 341 SFS
     (law enforcement), 341 FSS (mortuary services), and AFOSI. Unit specific exposure control
     plans will include the identified information covered below under each main heading. These
     control plans shall be accessible to personnel.
     1.2. Safety representatives for units identified in paragraph 1.1. will ensure unit specific
     exposure control plans are written, reviewed annually, and revised when necessary by the
     unit safety representative or designee.
     1.3. Supervisors will:
        1.3.1. Ensure employees receive OSHA Blood-borne Pathogen training with section- or
        task-specific hazards and precautions prior to duties placing them at occupational risk of
        exposure.
        1.3.2. Ensure employee compliance with appropriate personal protective equipment and
        procedures.
        1.3.3. Ensure that appropriate personal protective equipment is readily accessible at the
        work site or is issued to employees.
     1.4. Base personnel are responsible for complying with requirements and reporting exposure
     incidents to their supervisor.
2. Exposure Determination.
     2.1. Identify job classifications in your unit in which personnel may be expected to have a
     reasonable risk of exposure to blood-borne pathogens in the performance of their job. This
     may be listed by Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) and/or duty title.
     2.2. Identify job classifications in which only some personnel have a risk of exposure and
     specify which jobs or personnel have that risk.
     2.3. Identify specific tasks which have a risk of exposure which may be performed at some
     time in your unit which have not been covered by the above.
3. Implementation Schedule and Methodology:
     3.1. Units identified above will make a statement about practicing Standard Precautions
     when performing tasks involving a risk of exposure to blood-borne pathogens; e.g.,
     "Standard Precautions will be practiced in this unit in order to prevent contact with blood or
     other potentially infectious materials. All blood or body fluids from a person will be
     considered potentially infectious regardless of the perceived status of this person.
     Appropriate protective measures will be used EVERY time there is a risk of contact with
     someone’s blood or body
341MWI48-102 2 JUNE 2011                                                                           3


fluids. Body fluids include saliva, semen, vaginal fluids, human milk, serum, tissue with fluid,
etc.”.
   3.2. A review of the effectiveness of Standard Precautions will be performed by a designated
   person or persons semiannually.
   3.3. Engineering and work practice controls will be utilized to eliminate or minimize
   exposure of personnel. Where occupational exposure remains after institution of these
   controls, personal protective equipment will also be utilized. Personnel may be designated
   either by the safety representative or the commander.
       3.3.1. A review of these controls will be made during each exposure incident evaluation
       and follow-up.
       3.3.2. A periodic review of the availability and feasibility of more advanced engineering
       controls will be conducted by a specified person or group of people semiannually.
           3.3.2.1. Personal protective equipment (PPE) will be used to protect personnel when
           there is anticipated exposure to blood and body fluids. It is the unit’s responsibility
           to provide the PPE that will protect the part of the person’s body perceived to be
           at risk of exposure to blood and body fluids. The equipment used in your unit will
           be specified and can include any or all of the following: latex or vinyl disposable
           gloves, plastic eye goggles with protective side guards, plastic face shields, face
           masks, and fluid resistant or fluid impermeable cover gowns or overalls. The PPE
           will be considered appropriate only if it does not permit blood or other potentially
           infectious materials to pass through or reach the other person’s clothing, skin, eyes,
           mouth, or other mucous membranes under normal conditions of use and for the
           duration of time the PPE will be used. An attachment to the unit’s exposure control
           plan should be added that lists types of tasks with potential exposure and the
           recommended PPE for each task or group of tasks. All garments penetrated by blood
           or body fluids will be removed as soon as possible. All PPE will be removed prior to
           leaving the work area. PPE will be placed in an appropriately designated area or
           container for storage, washing decontamination or disposal.
           3.3.2.2. After removal of PPE, personnel will wash their hands and any other
           potentially contaminated skin areas immediately or as soon as feasible with soap and
           water. When provision for handwashing facilities is not feasible, the unit shall
           provide either an appropriate antiseptic hand cleanser in conjunction with clean
           cloth/paper towels or antiseptic towelettes. When antiseptic hand cleansers or
           towelettes are used, hands shall be washed with soap and running water as soon as
           feasible.
           3.3.2.3. If personnel incur exposure to their skin or mucous membranes, those areas
           will be washed or flushed with water as appropriate as soon as feasible following
           contact.
       3.3.3. Contaminated needles and other contaminated sharps will not be bent, recapped,
       removed, sheared, or purposely broken. They will be discarded immediately into a
       puncture resistant, leak proof sharps container. This container will be color-coded red or
       labeled as a Biohazard. Do not overfill the container. When the container is 3/4 full, the
 4                                                                 341MWI48-102 2 JUNE 2011


       cover will be sealed so that nothing can fall out and the container will be disposed of in
       accordance with hazardous waste guidelines.
       3.3.4. All procedures will be conducted in a manner which will minimize splashing,
       spraying, splattering, and generation of droplets of blood or body fluids.
       3.3.5. Hand washing of contaminated equipment will be done underwater to minimize
       splashing.
       3.3.6. Pouring of any blood or body fluids will be done slowly and carefully to avoid
       splashing.
       3.3.7. Equipment that has become contaminated with blood or body fluids will be
       examined prior to servicing or shipping and will be decontaminated as necessary, unless
       decontamination of the equipment is not feasible. For that portion of the equipment
       which cannot be decontaminated, a readily visible label will be attached to the equipment
       stating which portions remain contaminated. This information will be conveyed to all
       affected personnel, the servicing
representative, and the manufacturer prior to handling, servicing, or shipping so appropriate
precautions can be taken.
       3.3.8. Gloves will be worn where it is reasonable to anticipate that personnel will have
       hand contact with blood, other potentially infectious materials, non-intact skin, and
       mucous membranes. Gloves will be readily available.
           3.3.8.1. Disposable gloves will not be washed or decontaminated for re-use and will
           be replaced as soon as practical when they become torn, punctured, or when their
           ability to function as a barrier is compromised. Utility gloves (i.e., thick dishwashing
           gloves) may be washed and decontaminated for re-use provided that the integrity of
           the glove is not compromised.
               3.3.8.1.1. Utility gloves will be discarded if they are cracked, peeling, torn,
               punctured, or exhibit other signs of deterioration, or when their ability to function
               as a barrier is compromised.
           3.3.8.2. Masks in combination with eye protection or face shields are required to be
           worn whenever splashed, sprayed, splattered, or droplets of blood or body fluids may
           be generated and eye, nose, or mouth contamination can reasonably be anticipated.
           3.3.8.3. Protective clothing will be worn if contamination is anticipated to encompass
           more than the face and hands.
           3.3.8.4. Exemptions from the use of PPE are allowed in situations where the use of
           these items would prevent the effective performance of the job. The safety
           representative will ensure a unit evaluation protocol will be set up to evaluate those
           situations where no PPE was used for appropriateness of decision and personnel
           safety.
       3.3.9. Unit specific exposure control plans will include a written schedule for cleaning
       work areas and items contaminated with blood or other potentially infectious materials.
       Identifying the method of decontamination to be used. A disinfectant will be available to
       spot clean any surface that may become contaminated by blood or body fluids. This
341MWI48-102 2 JUNE 2011                                                                             5


       disinfectant must be Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) approved and able to kill
       Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) and Hepatitis B viruses. An example of an
       inexpensive approved solution is 10 percent bleach and water.
       3.3.10. Clothes that have become contaminated by blood or body fluids will be handled
       as little as possible and segregated from other laundry. Contaminated laundry will be
       placed and transported in leak proof bags or containers, and labeled or color-coded as
       biohazards. Personnel who have contact with contaminated laundry will wear gloves and
       other appropriate PPE. If
arrangements cannot be made for a medical laundry to handle these clothes, they will be washed
alone in a hot water cycle.
       3.3.11. Biohazardous waste shall be placed in closable, leak proof containers and labeled
       as
Biohazardous Waste. If outside contamination of the regulated waste container occurs, it will be
placed in a second container which is closable, leak proof, and labeled. Warning labels are
affixed to containers of waste with blood or body fluids in them. These labels will be easily
visible and identify this waste as Biohazardous Waste. Any containers used to store, transport,
or ship this waste will also be labeled. Red bags or red containers may be substituted for labels.
This waste will be disposed of in accordance with local, state, and federal guidelines. Any room
in which this waste is stored before transport must have the same warning label on the outside
door.
           3.3.11.1. Disposal: The base medical clinic has an established contract with an
           approved EPA biohazardous waste handler. Base biohazardous waste may be
           delivered to the clinic after contacting the clinic’s Facility Manager (phone extension,
           3301) or the clinic’s Logistics Office (phone extension, 4360) for instructions.
           3.3.11.2. Biohazardous waste is defined as blood/blood components or other
           potentially infectious materials (OPIM). Semen, vaginal secretions, cerebrospinal
           fluids, synovial fluid, pleural fluids, pericardial fluid, peritoneal fluid, amniotic fluid,
           any body fluid that is visually
contaminated with blood, or any unfixed human tissue /organ are classified as OPIM. Items
contaminated with blood or OPIM must be saturated and dripping with fluids to be considered
biohazardous waste. For example, a Band-Aid with a small amount of blood is not
biohazardous.
       3.3.12. Hepatitis B Vaccine series is required within 10 working days of assignment for
       all active duty personnel whose work involves exposure to, or the potential for exposure
       to blood or potentially infectious body fluids as determined by the 341 MDG OHWG.
       Civilian employees will be offered the Hepatitis B vaccination series after receiving
       training as required in paragraph 5. and within 10 working days of assignment. Civilians
       working in areas where exposure to blood or other body fluids is likely are highly
       encouraged to have the vaccine series. Any civilian employee who refuses the vaccine
       must sign a waiver, which will be placed in his or her medical records. If a civilian
       initially declines the vaccination, he or she may accept it at a later date. All vaccinations
       are given in the immunization clinic. In certain situations or occupations, civilian
       employees may not have the option to decline the Hepatitis B vaccination.
 6                                                                341MWI48-102 2 JUNE 2011


4. Post-Exposure Evaluation and Follow-Up:
     4.1. After an exposure incident, the individual will:
        4.1.1. Immediately flush or wash the exposed area.
        4.1.2. Report incident to his or her supervisor.
            4.1.2.1. Supervisor will complete AF IMT 457, USAF Hazard Report.
        4.1.3. Promptly go to the base medical clinic for assessment by their Primary Care
        Manager (PCM).
        4.1.4. If an exposure occurs after clinic duty hours, the person will immediately go to the
        downtown civilian hospital emergency room for assessment and treatment, and to their
        PCM on the next duty day. This must be done immediately since treatment, if indicated,
        will be initiated according to the current recommendation of the Center for Disease
        Control and Prevention.
     4.2. PCM will coordinate with the HIV Physician Consultant for treatment and appropriate
     test to conduct. The HIV consulting physician will determine treatment, follow-up and
     counsel exposed individuals. The physician will evaluate and provide written opinion (in
     medical records) to the exposed individual within 15 days of receiving the initial laboratory
     test results on both the source and exposed.
5. Training:
     5.1. All incoming personnel at risk for exposure will receive OSHA Blood-borne Pathogen
     training at the time of initial assignment to task where occupational exposure may take place.
     Training will include:
        5.1.1. An explanation of the OSHA Standard for Blood-borne Pathogens.
        5.1.2. The epidemiology and symptomatology of blood-borne diseases.
        5.1.3. Modes of transmission of blood-borne pathogens.
        5.1.4. The unit Exposure Control Plan (i.e., points of the plan, lines of responsibility,
        how the plan will be implemented).
        5.1.5. Procedures which might cause exposure to blood or other potentially infectious
        materials in the unit.
        5.1.6. An explanation of the use and limitations of methods that will prevent or reduce
        exposure including appropriate engineering controls, work practices, and Personal
        Protective Equipment.
        5.1.7. Information on the types, proper use, location, removal, handling,
        decontamination, and disposal of PPE including an explanation of the basis for selection.
        5.1.8. Post-exposure evaluation and follow-up.
        5.1.9. Types of Biohazard signs and labels used in the unit.
        5.1.10. The Hepatitis B vaccination program.
        5.1.11. An explanation of the procedures to follow and persons to contact in an
        emergency involving blood or other potentially infectious material, including an exposure
341MWI48-102 2 JUNE 2011                                                                       7


      incident, the methods for reporting the incident, and the medical follow-up that will be
      made available. The training should include an opportunity for interactive questions and
      answers with person conducting the training. The person conducting the training will be
      knowledgeable in the subject matter as it relates to the unit.
   5.2. The lesson plan and records of attendance are kept by the unit trainer. These records are
   kept for 3 years. Annotate training on the AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health
   Record.
   5.3. Annual refresher training will be conducted by the unit trainer with a record of
   attendance.
6. Recordkeeping.
   6.1. All documentation concerning personnel with an occupational exposure incident will be
   kept in accordance with OSHA guidelines. Records will be confidential and will be
   maintained for the duration of the individual’s employment plus 30 years.




                                            ANTHONY J. COTTON, Brig Gen (sel), USAF
                                            Commander
 8                                                      341MWI48-102 2 JUNE 2011


                                   Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Adopted Forms

AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record

AF IMT 457, USAF Hazard Report.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
