BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          341ST MISSILE WING MANUAL 33-302
341ST MISSILE WING
                                                                                24 MAY 2010
                                                                  Certified Current 22 May 2012
                                                           Communications and Information

                                              FUNCTIONAL AREA RECORDS MANAGER
                                                  (FARM) TRAINING AND GUIDANCE

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 341CS/SCOKR                                                      Certified by: 341CS/CC
Supersedes: 341SWMAN33-302,                                        (Lt Col Jordon T. Cochran)
            1 April 2007                                                              Pages: 5


This manual complements and expands instructions and guidance outlined in AFMAN33-363,
Management of Records, for performing the duties of a functional area records manager
(FARM). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847 through the wing publishing office. This manual does not apply
to the Air National Guard (ANG) or Air Force Reserve (AFRC) personnel. It applies to all Air
Force personnel assigned FARM duties supported by Malmstrom AFB. It develops knowledge
of the basic duties and responsibilities of a FARM. Records created as a result of prescribed
processes in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of as indicated in the Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) available at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision replaces all references to Space Wing with Missile Wing and updates references,
unit designations and office symbols throughout the publication; updates procedures for FARMS
processing approved file plans (para 4.3).
1. Introduction:
   1.1. This manual has been prepared specifically to help individuals who find themselves in
   the position of FARM for their unit or staff agency. The individual selected to fill this
   position actually performs one of the most vital jobs in the records management program and
   is the person who knows the functional area and can provide the necessary guidance.
 2                                                           341MWMAN33-302 24 MAY 2010


2. Responsibilities and References:
     2.1. The commander/program manager within an organization appoints a FARM to
     supervise the Air Force records management program within his or her functional area. The
     FARM will:
        2.1.1. Become familiar with the Air Force records management directives in the 33-
        series (e.g., Air Force instructions [AFI], Air Force manuals [AFMAN], Air Force
        pamphlets [AFPAM], etc., as supplemented).
        2.1.2. Maintain a close working relationship with the base records manager (BRM) and
        records management personnel. Read and comply with guidance provided by the BRM.
        2.1.3. Maintain a close working relationship with the chief of office of record (COR) and
        records custodians (RC) to provide guidance and assistance.
        2.1.4. Complete Records Maintenance and Disposition Training.
        2.1.5. Ensure that all RCs and CORs complete records management training within 90
        days of appointment.
        2.1.6. Ensure the supervisors record the completion of training on the Supervisor's
        Employee Brief, for civilian employees, and AF Form 623, On-The-Job-Training, for
        military personnel.     Update all office and Records Professional’s information in
        AFRIMS.
        2.1.7. Ensure personnel engaged in filing operations comply with current instructions on
        files maintenance and disposition.
        2.1.8. Conduct a staff assistance visit (SAV) for each office of record during a 24-month
        cycle using Staff Assistance Visit Checklist in AFRIMS.
        2.1.9. Ensure all RCs have accessibility to AFRIMS.
        2.1.10. Ensure a file plan is prepared in AFRIMS by each RC in each office of record
        within his or her functional area. (NOTE: The FARM reviews each file plan and
        accomplishes any necessary corrections prior to e-mailing it to the BRM for review.)
        The office of record maintains the original file plan in front of the current files (Item 1.
        Files Maintenance and Disposition on the file plan). The FARM and the RM maintain
        duplicate copies (signed by the COR) for use in monitoring the maintenance and
        disposition of all records. The FARM and RM will be advised in writing (via e-mail) of
        any corrections, deletions or additions, and names of new CORs and RCs.
        2.1.11. Ensure prompt disposition of records is done as prescribed by AFRIMS, RDS.
        2.1.12. Review Standard Forms 135, Records Transmittal and Receipt, and ensure
        they are prepared according to AFI 33-364, Records Disposition--Procedures and
        Responsibilities. The BRM and the Office of Record will maintain a list of all records
        that are eligible for retirement. This list can be found on AFRIMS under “Reports/Active
        Holdings/Table and Rules by Office.” All records to be staged or retired will arrive at the
        staging area during January and February (calendar year) or October and November
        (fiscal year). Instructions for completing SF 135 can be found in AFI 33-364, Records
        Disposition--Procedures and Responsibilities.
341MWMAN33-302 24 MAY 2010                                                                    3


      2.1.13. Provide controls over the creation of records to ensure that fewer but better
      records are created; coordinate on all drafts of proposed directives initiated in their
      activity to ensure the necessity of any reports, forms, etc.; ensure number of copies
      required are essential, and that AFRIMS RDS provides adequate disposal instructions for
      all records created.
   2.2. The following is a list of directives the FARM should have available or readily
   accessible in order to manage an effective program. NOTE: This is a minimum listing;
   other directives may be added as they apply. All directives are available through the e-
   publishing site.
      2.2.1. AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, provides detailed instructions for
      planning and managing your unit's records. Instructions on actual filing procedures,
      information on the types of filing supplies and equipment authorized for use, and
      electronic record keeping.
      2.2.2. AFRIMS RDS provides the disposition instructions for all records created or
      accumulated by the Air Force.
      2.2.3. AFI 33-322, Records Management Program, provides a brief summary of overall
      program requirements and in-depth information on the responsibilities of everyone who
      is involved in the records program.
      2.2.4. AFI 33-364, Records Disposition--Procedures and Responsibilities. This
      instruction provides procedures for disposing of special types of records, retiring or
      transferring records, establishing and using staging areas, and accessing information from
      inactive records.
      2.2.5. Air Force Electronic Records Management (ERM) Solution Version 7. This is the
      Electronic Records Management directive.
   2.3. The FARM records will be maintained on the FARM’s office of record file plan under
   Table 33-45, Rule 10.00, and will contain the following:
      2.3.1. A copy of the appointment letter designating the FARM.
      2.3.2. A copy of appointment letter (the original is maintained by the BRM) appointing
      records custodians for offices of record for which the FARM is responsible.
      2.3.3. Copies of file plans for each office of record with attached cover sheet signed by
      the respective COR.
      2.3.4. Copies of vital records index or no vital records memo.
      2.3.5. Copies of any waiver letters.
      2.3.6. Copies of most current staff assistance visit reports that the FARM and the BRM
      section performed on each of the FARM's offices of record.
      2.3.7. Copies of response letters for the FARM and BRM SAVs.
3. Appointment of a Records Custodian:
   3.1. Within 5 days of appointment of a new RC, the COR must submit an appointment letter
   to the FARM. The FARM must then provide the BRM with a copy of the appointment letter.
 4                                                           341MWMAN33-302 24 MAY 2010


     3.2. The FARM will input all RC and COR information in AFRIMS giving them access to
     the system.
4. File Plan:
     4.1. AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, Chapter 2, gives the FARM detailed
     instructions on how to create a file plan.
     4.2. Instructions to complete the file plan:
        4.2.1. Accomplish all file plans in AFRIMS.
        4.2.2. After the file plan is approved in AFRIMS local titles may be added in parentheses
        to make series more meaningful--AFRIMS titles cannot be changed.
        4.2.3. The location for items not maintained with the majority of the files must be
        indicated in "Location" column of the file plan.
        4.2.4. List the series in the sequence arranged in filing equipment.
     4.3. Changes to file plans:
        4.3.1. Changes can be made by the RC to the file plan in AFRIMS. Changes that are
        made must be relayed to the FARM (e-mail directly from AFRIMS) for initial approval.
        Then the FARM requests final file plan approval from the BRM via e-mail.
        4.3.2. After the BRM’s review and approval of the file plan, the RC will be notified
        directly from AFRIMS. The RC will then have 10 days to print a copy of the approved
        file plan, have the COR sign the cover sheet and make two copies of the complete file
        plan with cover sheet; one copy for the FARM and one for the BRM.
5. Electronic Records Program:
     5.1. The FARM will notify the BRM of any updates to users in their respective offices in the
     Data Farm. (Malmstrom's designated electronic records server).
        5.1.1. The FARM will notify the BRM of any organizational changes such as office
        symbols.
6. Records Management Staff Assistance Visits (SAV):
     6.1. Requirements for SAVs are outlined in AFI 33-322 . The FARM submits his or her
     SAV schedule to the BRM in AFRIMS.
     6.2. When discrepancies are noted, the suspense date for corrective action is 30 duty days
     after the SAV. These discrepancies must be corrected before the BRM does a SAV on the
     FARM. All discrepancies found during the SAV must be made a matter of record even
     though corrections were made on the spot.
7. SF 135 Instructions:
     7.1. The FARM must review the inventory of all boxes to be staged. After records are
     received and placed in the staging area, a copy of the SF 135 will be returned to the office of
     record to be maintained until records are destroyed.
341MWMAN33-302 24 MAY 2010                                                  5


8. Forms Adopted/Prescribed.
   8.1. Forms Adopted.
   AF Form 623, On-The-Job-Training;
   Standard Form 135, Records Transmittal and Receipt.
   8.2. No forms prescribed.




                                        Michael E. Fortney, Colonel, USAF
                                        Commander
