BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                    341ST MISSILE WING INSTRUCTION 32-9002
341ST MISSILE WING
                                                                          1 DECEMBER 2010

                                                                             Civil Engineering

                                           CARE AND OPERATION OF BASE FACILITIES



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 341 CES/CEOSC                                    Certified by: 341 CES/CD (Mr. John Hale)
Supersedes: 341SWI32-9002                                                             Pages: 4
            15 July 2005


This instruction complements Air Force Policy Directive 32-10, Installations and Facilities, and
Air Force Policy Directive 32-90, Real Property Management, by establishing procedures and
guidance for commanders and building managers in the care and operation of base facilities on
Malmstrom AFB. It does not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG) or Air Force Reserve
(AFRC) personnel. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847 through the wing publishing office. Records created as a result
of prescribed processes in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of as indicated in the Records Disposition Schedule
available at https://webrims.amc.af.mil.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Changes Space Wing to Missile Wing throughout the instruction.
1. Policy. One of the most important functions of organizational commanders is the care and
upkeep of all real property assigned to them. Under the guidance of AFPD 32-10 and AFPD 32-
90 all facilities at the installation are assigned to individual unit commanders by action of the
installation's Facilities Board through the Space Utilization Board. Through the Base Civil
Engineer, each commander must provide the attention needed to keep real property in use to full
capacity and efficiency.
2. Responsibilities. Proper attention to maintenance and building cleanliness is the
responsibility of the commander whose operations occupy that building. If two or more
organizations occupy a facility, the user occupying the most floor space will be responsible for
 2                                                        341MWI32-9002 1 DECEMBER 2010


the facility and represent the interests of all using organizations. If equal space is assigned to
several organizations, the ranking commander will be responsible for maintenance and
cleanliness. These responsibilities are limited to those outlined below as the Base Civil Engineer
is responsible for repair, utilities maintenance, and new construction of all facilities.
3. Building Maintenance. Responsible organization commanders will designate in writing an
officer, NCO, SrA, or civilian equivalent as a primary and alternate building manager. Managers
should have at least 18 months retainability at the time of appointment and will only be changed
upon PCA, PCS, or retirement to lessen the impact of changes on all affected personnel as well
as to ensure continuity. Building managers will acknowledge responsibility for the building(s)
by signing the letter of appointment/release and obtain the initial mandatory building manager
orientation training no later than 30 days after appointment. Refer to 341MWI32-9001,
Utilization and Assignment of Real Property Facilities, for the appointment letter and the correct
process. Through the building manager, commanders are responsible for the general cleanliness
of their buildings. In addition, the following are user responsibilities:
     3.1. Trash Collection. Place all trash and debris in dumpsters. Stone, brick, concrete, or dirt
     will not be placed in dumpsters. Scrap lumber or boards will be taken to the scrap woodpile.
     After depositing debris in the dumpster, the door will be closed to prevent debris from being
     blown out.
     3.2. Lights. The building manager will be responsible for supplying the light bulbs as well
     as replacing all burned out light bulbs up to a ceiling height of 10 feet; civil engineering is
     responsible for replacing bulbs above 10 feet.
     3.3. Pictures, Bulletin Boards, and Emblems. These items will be hung with commercial
     brackets. Excessive damage resulting from the installation of these items will be repaired at
     the expense of the building manager.
     3.4. Plumbing. It is the responsibility of the building manager to attempt to clear clogged
     drain lines through the use of a plunger. Only after the building manager has made an
     attempt will civil engineering respond to clogged drains.
     3.5. Insect and Rodent Control. Normal precautions will be taken by building managers to
     prevent infestation by insects or rodents. If infestation is observed, civil engineering will
     respond.
     3.6. Locks and Keys. Maintain accountability for all keys to the facility on a document,
     ensure keys are issued to authorized personnel only, and retrieve keys when personnel PCS,
     separate, retire, etc. Building managers are reminded of the potential consequences of
     inadequate accountability or negligence, as described in paragraph 8, which results in the
     need to rekey any part of a facility.
     3.7. Fire Extinguishers and Emergency/Exit Lights.          The fire extinguishers and
     emergency/exit lights must be inspected a minimum of once a month. Annotate these
     inspections in the building manager book as well as on the yellow card attached to the fire
     extinguishers.
     3.8. Energy Conservation. Encourage good housekeeping practices and conservation of
     utilities. Establish procedures to ensure interior and exterior lights are extinguished and that
341MWI32-9002 1 DECEMBER 2010                                                                   3


   heating temperatures are set at 55 degrees Fahrenheit, when the facility is unoccupied. When
   the building is occupied, follow the energy conservation checklist as close as possible.
   3.9. Snow Removal. Owning commanders, through their building managers, are responsible
   to keep building doorsteps, landings, walkways, and building ramps clear of snow and ice.
   Snow removal in parking lots and roadways is the responsibility of civil engineering.
   3.10. Anti-terrorism Checklist. The anti-terrorism checklist is to be used by the building
   manager during heightened terrorist activities or as recommended by the security forces.
4. Grounds Maintenance. Civil engineering is responsible for mowing, fertilizing, and
maintaining base grounds; a contractor performs these tasks with oversight from civil
engineering. Owning commanders are responsible for clean up around their buildings to the
distances outlined below:
   4.1. To the center between facilities, but no more than 100 feet.
   4.2. To the edge of the street.
   4.3. To the outside limits of a parking lot.
   4.4. Playing fields will be maintained by the 341 FSS with the exception of the grass and
   sprinkler system.
5. Janitorial Services/Bathroom Supplies. Inspect contract janitorial service work and report
unsatisfactory work to the contract performance management section (341 CES/CEOES), ext
6549. The statement of work, frequency of cleaning, and areas to be cleaned will be provided to
each building manger by 341 CES/CEOES. If there are no janitorial services provided,
bathroom supplies (soap, paper towels, etc.) will be provided by the building manager as well as
establish rules, coordinated through the unit commander, for cleaning the facility.
6. Submission of Work Requests to Civil Engineering. Minor maintenance and repair work
requests may be called in to the civil engineering customer service section, where a direct
scheduled work order (DSW) will be initiated to accomplish the work. Major scope and minor
construction work requests must be submitted to civil engineering on AF IMT 332, Base Civil
Engineer Work Request. All AF IMT 332s must be submitted by the building manager or
owning commander and coordinated with the fire department, wing safety, bioenvironmental,
and security agencies, as appropriate, with the exception of requests for keys and two or more
exterior signs. Contact the civil engineering customer service section prior to purchasing an item
that will require civil engineering installation or support. The owning unit commander must sign
minor construction requests. Minor construction is any work that would create new or enlarge
the facility's volume/footprint or convert the facility's primary function.
7. Self-Help Work. Ensure that building occupants to not move or remove load bearing walls,
water, heating, lighting, ventilation, air conditioning, plumbing, and related fixtures or other
installed equipment or property without proper approval. No self-help work can be
accomplished by building occupants unless approved by 341 CES/CEO on an AF IMT 332.
Building occupants must be able to do all of the requested work for the project to be considered
self-help.
8. Vandalism, Negligence, and Abuse. Damages caused by carelessness, negligence, abuse, or
vandalism will be reported to the unit commander. The unit commander initiates an AF IMT
332 with a "statement of acceptance" signed by the individual(s) admitting liability. The
 4                                                     341MWI32-9002 1 DECEMBER 2010


commander sets up a suspense file to ensure the debt is cleared. Civil engineering processes the
work request. When approval is obtained, the work is initiated. When the work is completed,
the customer service section provides the unit commander with the actual cost of repairs. The
commander prepares a DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher, and four copies. The
individual(s) responsible for the damage takes the DD Form 1131 to the Accounting and Finance
Office (341 CPTS/FMF) for deposit of payment. A receipt copy is furnished to the individual,
the unit commander, and civil engineering for inclusion in the work order folder. When financial
liability is not determined for damages to base facilities, the unit commander may initiate DD
Form 200, Financial Liability Investigation of Property Loss, or a government property lost,
damaged, or destroyed certificate. If the report of survey determines reimbursement is required,
follow the procedures outlined above. When civil engineering or others identify damages to a
facility caused by abuse, the commander of the organization involved will be notified. The
commander has 24 hours to forward an AF IMT 332 to civil engineering to initiate repair of the
damage and has 10 working days to advise civil engineering of the person(s) involved or whether
a DD Form 200 will be initiated. Civil engineering identifies those units that are experiencing
facility abuse problems and the success of collecting reimbursement for damages.
9. Forms Prescribed and Adopted.
     9.1. Forms Prescribed. No forms prescribed.
     9.2. Forms Adopted. This instruction adopts DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher; DD
     Form 200, Financial Liability Investigation of Property Loss, and AF IMT 332, Base Civil
     Engineer Work Request.




                                            ANTHONY J. COTTON, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
