BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                     341ST MISSILE WING INSTRUCTION 91-212
341ST MISSILE WING
                                                                         16 FEBRUARY 2012

                                                                                        Safety

                                                   BIRD/WILDLIFE AIRCRAFT STRIKE
                                                HAZARD (BASH) REDUCTION PROGRAM


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 341 MW/SEF                                                     Certified by: 341 MW/CV
                                                                    (Col Robert W. Stanley II)
Supersedes:   341SWI91-212, 15 August                                                Pages: 12
              2007


This instruction defines and coordinates various base agencies responsible for minimizing the
Bird Aircraft Strike Hazard (BASH) to aircraft operating at Malmstrom Air Force Base and
throughout the missile field complex. It complements AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and
Reports, 24 September 2008, AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 5
August 2011, and AFPAM 91-212, Bird/Wildlife Aircraft Strike Hazard (BASH) Management
Techniques, 1 February 2004. It applies to all military personnel, DOD civilians, civilian
contract and vendor personnel required to operate at Malmstrom. This instruction does not apply
to Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve personnel. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 through the wing
publishing office. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is updated to reflect changes to the Helicopter Movement Area (HMA)
dimensions, administrative changes to AFGSC/MW, updated Organizational Tasking, Roles, and
Responsibilities, and current knowledge of potential wildlife hazards.
1. Bird Aircraft Strike Hazard (BASH) Program Information.
 2                                                      341MWI91-212 16 FEBRUARY 2012


     1.1. A bird/wildlife strike hazard exists at Malmstrom AFB and in its vicinity. Daily and
     seasonal migratory bird movements and on base deer, fox, and coyote population create
     various hazardous conditions.
     1.2. Malmstrom Air Force Base Location and Geography:
        1.2.1. Malmstrom AFB is located east of Great Falls, Montana. The base is situated atop
        a plateau with an airfield elevation of 3472 feet above mean sea level. The surrounding
        area has lower elevations. The Missouri River is located 1 mile north of the base. (See
        Figure 1)

Figure 1. Location and Geography.




        1.2.2. Little native vegetation currently exists on Malmstrom AFB. Over the years,
        native vegetation on lands within the base boundaries have been altered or modified by
        developmental activities and the introduction of exotic grasses. Most of the open fields
        on the southeast portion of the base have been plowed and planted with introduced
        grasses such as crested wheatgrass (Agropyron cristatum), Kentucky bluegrass (Poa
        pratensis), and intermediate wheatgrass (Agropyron intermedium). Bare ground
        requirements and regular mowing of installation grasses conducted as part of the historic
        hay lease and to satisfy BASH requirements also have contributed to the present
341MWI91-212 16 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                   3


      composition of range vegetation found on Malmstrom AFB. Introduced weedy forbs,
      including bracteate verbena (Verbena bracteata) and summer cypress (Kochia
      scoparius), have invaded the area, although some native grass species have recolonized
      sites to a small degree (BioSystems Analysis, Inc., 1994). The base and surrounding
      areas have sunflowers which attract seed-eating birds and small mammals. A
      cottonwood grove is located along both sides of the abandoned runway approximately
      1200 feet from the base flying area environment.
      1.2.3. Eight Category 1 Montana State-listed noxious weeds were identified at
      Malmstrom AFB and the deployment area during a survey conducted in 2004 (North
      Wind, 2005). They include Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense), leafy spurge (Euphorbia
      esula), Dalmatian toadflax (Linaria dalmatica), field bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis),
      spotted knapweed (Centaurea maculosa), Russian knapweed (Acroptilon repens), and
      hoary cress (Cardaria draba). Houndstongue (Cynoglossum officinale) was identified in
      the deployment area. Five other invasive species also were found during the field
      surveys, including Russian thistle (Salsola kali), kochia (Kochia scoparia), musk thistle
      (Carduus nutans), bull thistle (Cirsium vulgare), and Russian olive (Elaeagnus
      angustifolia). Each of these species is difficult to control and poses an invasive threat to
      the native vegetation at Malmstrom AFB and throughout the deployment area.
   1.3. HMA: The helicopter local flying area includes the 13,800 square miles missile
   complex. The heliport has two landing pads within the Helicopter Movement Area (HMA)
   near the center of the airfield. The helicopters use an open 3000 foot section of the runway
   for emergency procedure training. The grass around the HMA and adjacent to the closed
   runway must be mowed to prevent birds from loafing, feeding, and nesting. (See Figures 2 &
   3)

Figure 2. Helicopter Movement Area.
 4                                                         341MWI91-212 16 FEBRUARY 2012


Figure 3. Mowing Area.




     1.4. Specific bird threats:
        1.4.1. Flocks of gulls feed and loaf within the HMA and operations area during late
        summer. California gulls (Larus californicus) are present year-round but thousands of
        migratory gull species pass through Malmstrom AFB each fall, usually in August and
        September. In the morning hours, the birds use the runway overruns as an area to warm
        up and feed in the grassy areas on grasshoppers, other insects and carrion from mowing
        activities. Gulls, raptors, and pelicans have been observed riding thermals approximately
        300 – 500 feet AGL directly over the HMA. Control techniques may include
        pyrotechnics, vehicle disturbance, propane cannons, grass height management, insect
        control and limited lethal control.
        1.4.2. Hawks, owls, vultures, and pelicans soar over and near Malmstrom AFB. While
        searching for food or riding thermals, they often fly co-altitude with aircraft in the traffic
        pattern. Control techniques may include pyrotechnics, vehicle disturbance, propane
        cannons, grass height management, insect control and limited lethal control. The
        effectiveness of ―Peaceful Pyramids‖ is anecdotal and birds are commonly seen loafing
        near active units.
        1.4.3. Migratory waterfowl present a hazard to the Malmstrom flying environment. The
        proximity of Malmstrom to the Missouri River, where tens of thousands of Canada geese
        overwinter, and agricultural land surrounding the base and throughout eastern Montana
341MWI91-212 16 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                    5


      present a significant risk to helicopter operations during the migratory season (August –
      April) (Figure 4).

Figure 4. Central Waterfowl Flyway.




   1.5. Bird Watch Conditions:
      1.5.1. Based on observations of bird activity, as well as statistical data on historical bird
      strikes at or around Malmstrom, August through April is designated as Phase II, or
      heightened Bird Awareness months. These periods have heavy bird activity, mainly due
      to the migratory seasons. Completely separate from the BASH Phase I or II distinction,
      the local Bird Watch Condition (BWC) measures immediate and continuously changing
      bird threat throughout the missile field complex. It estimates the threat in close proximity
      to established helicopter landing zones (HLZ), launch facilities (LF), and missile alert
      facilities (MAF). The threat is estimated by observation of the type of birds seen, the
      quantity of birds, altitude of bird activity, and the proximity of the birds to established
      landing sites. Baseline information on daily and seasonal bird activities over the airfield,
      by species, is necessary to accurately determine the appropriate BWC, or level of risk to
      helicopter operations. The BWC does not give data or bird activity information for low
      level routes (consult the Bird Avoidance Model (BAM) and Avian Hazard Avoidance
      System (AHAS) databases for this information). However, BAM, a component of the
      AHAS, provides only general guidance (Low, Medium, or Severe) regarding the hazard
      rating on any particular day.
 6                                                         341MWI91-212 16 FEBRUARY 2012


        1.5.2. BIRD WATCH CONDITION SEVERE – Heavy concentration of birds on or
        immediately above the base flying area, departure routes, arrival routes, or other specific
        locations that represent a high potential for strikes or an immediate hazard to safe flying
        operations. Supervisors and aircrews must thoroughly evaluate mission need before
        operating in areas under condition SEVERE.
        1.5.3. BIRD WATCH CONDITION MODERATE – Concentration of observable birds
        in locations which represent an increased potential for strikes or a probable hazard to safe
        flying operations. This condition requires increased vigilance by all agencies and
        extreme caution by aircrews.
        1.5.4. BIRD WATCH CONDITION LOW – Normal bird activity on and above the base
        flying area with a low potential for strikes or a low probability of a hazard. Upon
        extended normal bird activity, no BIRDWATCH condition need be declared.
        1.5.5. Paragraph 3 describes how the BWC is determined or changed and operational
        restrictions for each condition.
     1.6. The Bird Hazard Working Group (BHWG) consists of the 341 MW/CV and members
     from the 40 HS, 341 CES ―(including but not limited to the Conservation Program Manager,
     Entomology Shop NCOIC, Grounds Contract Manager, and Pavements and Equipment Shop
     Foreman) and 341 MW/SEF. The BHWG meets quarterly (usually in conjunction with the
     ESOH Council) to review wildlife strike data, identify and recommend actions to reduce
     hazards, and recommend changes in operational procedures. The BHWG meetings should
     discuss, but are not limited to the following topics: wildlife strike statistics, bird activity,
     habitat management/modification, BASH plan procedures, BASH awareness and education,
     and activities/results of the wildlife management efforts. If the BHWG agenda is not covered
     at the quarterly ESOH council meeting, the BHWG will meet semi-annually or more often if
     needed.
2. Organizational Tasking, Roles, and Responsibilities.
     2.1. The 341 MW/CV chairs the BHWG and approves/disapproves all recommendations.
     The BHWG will meet IAW paragraph 1.6.
     2.2. 341 Missile Wing Chief of Flight Safety (341 MW/SEF) will:
        2.2.1. Serve as OPR for the overall BASH Program.
        2.2.2. Oversee the Wing‘s BASH dispersal initiatives.
        2.2.3. Ensure base-wide compliance with AFI 91-202 and report all bird-aircraft strikes
        and hazards IAW AFIs 91-202, 91-204 and AFMAN 91-223 and all related supplements.
        2.2.4. Report on BASH and include BHWG recommendations and actions in the agenda
        and minutes of the quarterly Wing ESOH Council Meetings or other meeting if held
        outside the ESOH Council.
        2.2.5. Monitor all tasked organization activities for compliance with this directive.
        2.2.6. Disseminate BASH data to BHWG and flying units.
        2.2.7. Provide the BHWG with the current BASH guidance from higher headquarters,
        the BASH Team, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and other agencies.
341MWI91-212 16 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                 7


     2.2.8. Maintain a current bird activity log for Malmstrom AFB.
     2.2.9. Provide any additional information on migratory, local and seasonal bird activities
     through contact with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Montana Department of Fish,
     Wildlife and Parks, Audubon Society, local ornithologists, and other agencies.
     2.2.10. Monitor bird activity and strike statistics and advise the chairman of the working
     group when a meeting is deemed necessary.
     2.2.11. Coordinate with aircrews and maintenance for collection of non-fleshy remains
     after strikes and send any salvaged feather material to the Smithsonian Institute for
     identification.
     2.2.12. Establish and maintain a continuity folder with any pertinent BASH data and
     information to assure continuity of knowledge with personnel turnover.
     2.2.13. Establish a bird hazard awareness program in conjunction with the unit flight
     safety officers, to include films, posters, and information on local bird hazards and
     reporting procedures.
  2.3. Unit Flight Safety Officer (SEF) will:
     2.3.1. Ensure aircrews participate in the BASH Reduction Program by promptly
     reporting all bird strikes and hazardous bird conditions to the Operations Duty Officer
     and Wing Safety.
     2.3.2. Ensure aircrews use the Bird Avoidance Model (BAM), Avian Hazard Avoidance
     System (AHAS) and other planning tools as directed by the Sq/CC and Wing Safety.
     2.3.3. Brief aircrews on seasonal bird hazards. Movies, articles, and other information
     will be used as appropriate to maintain awareness.
     2.3.4. Ensure that all aircraft are stocked with AF Form 853, Bird Strike Report and
     materials necessary to obtain and preserve bird strike evidence or bird remains. Ensure
     all completed forms and collected remains are forwarded to Wing Safety. Additionally
     notify Conservation Program Manager at X6333 for initial identification of remains.
     2.3.5. Evaluate the effectiveness of bird dispersal equipment for use on the heliport.
  2.4. The 40 HS Supervisor of Flying (SOF) will:
     2.4.1. Post the current BWC.
     2.4.2. Monitor the online Bird Avoidance Model (BAM) and Avian Hazard Avoidance
     System (AHAS) periodically to determine if an update to the local BWC is warranted.
     2.4.3. Solicit BWC condition updates and reports and update the local BWC based on
     aircrew recommendations and consultation with the 40 HS/DO or 40 HS/CC. Additional
     information may be obtained by contacting Conservation Program Manager at X6333.
     2.4.4. Brief crews on the BAM, AHAS, local BWC, and bird activity reported by
     airborne crews.
     2.4.5. Notify all airborne aircrews, the 40 HS/DO or CC, and 341 MW/SEF when the
     local BWC at the airfield increases.
8                                                       341MWI91-212 16 FEBRUARY 2012


       2.4.6. Activate the bird scare/dispersal group at any time birds in the base flying area
       create hazardous conditions. Wing Safety is designated as the primary for bird dispersal
       and Entomology will assist the bird dispersal group for Malmstrom.
    2.5. Base Civil Engineering (341 CES) will:
       2.5.1. Provide representatives to the BHWG to monitor and advise the group of
       environmental modification and plans that warrant BASH considerations.
       2.5.2. Provide bird dispersal on the airfield, when needed. CES will primarily utilize
       non-lethal methods for dispersal and limited lethal methods only when other means are
       ineffective. Personnel using lethal methods will be qualified by CATM in proper storage,
       transport, and operation of small arms. Security forces will be notified anytime
       pyrotechnics or lethal methods are to be used.
       2.5.3. Manage, maintain, and evaluate the effectiveness of bird dispersal equipment for
       use on the heliport.
       2.5.4. Develop procedures for removal or control of bird attractants.
       2.5.5. Analyze BASH related actions for environmental impact in accordance with Air
       Force Environmental Impact Analysis requirements.
       2.5.6. Correct environmental conditions that increase BASH potential.
       2.5.7. Use land management practices that reduce BASH potential.
       2.5.8. Modify base flying area habitat as required.
       2.5.9. Address the following issues in the base Integrated Natural Resources
       Management Plan as deemed necessary to reduce BASH potential:
           2.5.9.1. Leveling of airfield. High and low spots on the field should be leveled or
           filled to reduce attractiveness to birds and prevent standing water.
           2.5.9.2. Elimination of standing water may be required to reduce attractiveness to
           birds. Coordination with the Army Corps of Engineers and the Montana Department
           of Natural Resources and Conservation is required prior to altering wetlands. No
           activities can take place within wetlands without obtaining the proper permits and
           without performing an environmental assessment with a finding of no practical
           alternative signed by Air Force Global Strike Command.
           2.5.9.3. Erosion control vegetation should be used which is appropriate for the region
           and supports BASH reduction philosophy--i.e., do not control erosion using plants
           which produce seeds at heights below 14-18 inches.
           2.5.9.4. Out-leasing of crops should be consistent with BASH reduction philosophy.
           Hay is a suitable crop for runway lateral and approach clearance zones when properly
           managed.
       2.5.10. Incorporate the following issues into the base grounds maintenance practices:
           2.5.10.1. Grass height management. Mowing operations shall maintain a uniform
           grass height between 7 and 14 inches (for specific area, see Figure 2). Mowing
341MWI91-212 16 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                  9


         frequency will be as needed to maintain height requirements. Coordinate mowing
         with periods of low flight activity.
         2.5.10.2. Broad-leafed weed control. Broad-leafed weeds will be kept to a minimum
         within the base flying area. Application of herbicides, as necessary, will be
         accomplished to achieve this. Broad-leafed weeds attract a variety of birds, may
         produce seeds or berries, and may limit grass growth.
         2.5.10.3. Planting bare areas. Bare areas are frequently used by birds as resting sites
         and should be eliminated in the base flying area. Grass should be planted as
         necessary
         2.5.10.4. Drainage ditches. Ditches will be inspected regularly and kept clear and
         obstacle-free.
         2.5.10.5. Standing water bodies. Sides of standing water bodies will be maintained
         as steeply as possible—maintain slope ratio of 5:1 to discourage wading birds and
         emergent vegetation. Vegetation will be removed as often as necessary to maintain
         flow and discourage use by birds.
         2.5.10.6. Eliminate roosting and nesting sites. Blackbirds, starlings, swallows, and
         other bird species considered hazardous to helicopter operations roosting or nesting
         within helicopter operations area will be controlled by vegetation management or
         direct removal. Trees should be pruned to reduce the number of perches available
         and entire trees, or stands removed if necessary.
     2.5.11. Dead birds or other animals will be removed from the field to avoid attracting
     vultures or other birds. The Conservation Program Manager will assist in the early
     identification of dead birds and animals. Forward non-fleshy (i.e. feathers) remains
     which may have been caused by collision with aircraft to 341 MW/SEF for
     documentation and/or identification.
     2.5.12. Invertebrates and rodents provide important food sources for many birds. The
     Conservation Program Manager (341 CES/CEANC) and Pest Control Management (341
     CES/CEOIE) will coordinate to periodically survey and reduce these pests when
     required. The 341 CES/CEOIE shall coordinate the control of insects, earthworms,
     rodents, etc. Control should begin early in the spring. These activities shall be consistent
     with the Integrated Pest Management Plan and the Integrated Natural Resources
     Management Plan.
     2.5.13. Bird-proof buildings and hangars. Pigeons, sparrows, swallows, and starlings
     frequently occupy buildings and hangars and must be excluded. Denying access by
     screening windows, closing doors, and blocking entry holes is most effective. Migratory
     birds, their eggs and active nests are protected under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act.
     Prior to bird, egg, or active nest removal, the Conservation Program Manager
     (CES/CEAN) shall be notified and a permit must be obtained from the U.S. Fish and
     Wildlife Service. Contact the Asset Management Flight (341 CES/CEA) or CES
     Customer Service for assistance.
  2.6. Associate units will provide a representative on the BHWG and support the base BASH
  program as appropriate
 10                                                        341MWI91-212 16 FEBRUARY 2012


   2.7. Public Affairs (341 MW/PA) will participate as required and upon request will provide
   a public information program designed to inform base personnel, dependents and the general
   public on the hazards and costs of uncontrolled bird activity and the measures being taken to
   minimize them.
   2.8. Weather Flight (341 OSS/OSW) advises aircrews and helicopter operations when
   possible bird targets appear on weather radar.
   2.9. Base Visual Information Services will:
       2.9.1. Provide photographic services to document bird strikes and related activities as
       required.
       2.9.2. Provide graphic support to publicize bird hazards and actions taken to minimize
       them, as required.
3. Flying Operations.
   3.1. Setting the local Bird Watch Condition.
       3.1.1. The BWC is normally declared for the heliport and the complex by geographical
       locations defined by the missile squadron located in that region. This does not prohibit
       smaller regions and/or specific altitudes being assigned a local BWC (i.e. ―a three mile
       radius around Stanford at 500 feet and below is BWC SEVERE due to multiple soaring
       raptors‖). This prevents unnecessarily restricting flight operations in areas of the complex
       not adversely affected by bird activity.
       3.1.2. At the beginning of each week, the SOF will reset the local BWC to LOW after
       considering BAM, AHAS, and observing the bird activity from the SOF duty station. If
       observed bird activity warrants a higher BWC, the SOF will execute the BWC quick
       reaction checklist.
       3.1.3. BIRDREPS (Bird activity reports) are a vital part to reducing the potential for bird
       strikes throughout the complex. Aircraft Commanders should provide BIRDREPS to the
       SOF on UHF 271.9 with the following information:
          3.1.3.1. Type of bird activity (i.e. transiting, soaring, circling, etc.).
          3.1.3.2. Location of bird activity.
          3.1.3.3. Altitude of bird activity.
          3.1.3.4. Approximate number.
          3.1.3.5. A recommendation for the local BWC.
NOTE: All aircraft commanders have the authority to raise the local BWC during periods of
flight operations. To lower the BWC, see paragraph 3.1.4.
       3.1.4. Except as outlined in paragraph 3.1.1, the ability to lower a local BWC resides
       with the 341 OG/CC, 40 HS/CC, 40 HS/DO, 341 MW/SEF, and 40 HS/SEF.
   3.2. Restrictions on flight operations for the local BWC other than LOW will be as follows:
       3.2.1. Local BWC SEVERE. A high potential for strikes or an immediate hazard to safe
       flying operations exists. A Flight Authorizing Official (FAO) must approve specific
       operations within the areas and altitudes declared BWC SEVERE. Only those operations
341MWI91-212 16 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                  11


      the FAO deems as absolutely essential should be conducted under this condition. The
      risk will be assessed and mitigated with appropriate entries made on the AFGSC Risk
      Assessment Worksheet located in AFGSCI 90-203. Aircraft commanders will display
      the landing light unless real world tactical situations or formation considerations require
      otherwise.
      3.2.2. Local BWC MODERATE. Due to the concentration of birds in locations which
      create an increased potential for strikes or a probable hazard to safe flying operations,
      crews must increase their vigilance and use extreme caution. Should the aircraft
      commander deem operations are warranted in these areas, he/she will display the landing
      light unless real world tactical situations or formation considerations require otherwise.
   3.3. Upon any change in the local BWC, the SOF will execute the BWC quick reaction
   checklist and ensure that all airborne aircrews are properly notified. Upon initial contact via
   UHF 271.9, the SOF will report the local BWC if other than LOW to transient crews or those
   returning from off station.
4. Reporting Strikes.
   4.1. If a crew discovers evidence of a strike, either post flight or after a precautionary
   landing, the crew must collect and secure remains for identification. If a carcass, feathers or
   other non-fleshy material is not available and bloody imprints or smudges are the only
   evidence, use a paper towel to soak up whatever evidence is available. Place the collected
   material in a plastic bag and seal it for delivery to 341 MW/SEF.
   4.2. If maintenance discovers evidence of a bird strike, they will call the SOF who will in
   turn call the 40 HS/SEF or the 341 MW/SEF who will collect and forward remains IAW
   paragraph 4.1.
   4.3. All aircraft commanders will immediately notify the SOF of all strikes. The
   Conservation Program Manager should also be notified for ‗local‘ identification of remains.
   Upon return to base, submit a completed AF Form 853 along with any material collected to
   341 MW/SEF who will report the event IAW governing directives. If the event occurs
   during non-duty hours, provide the form and material to 341 MW/SEF the following duty
   day.




                                            ANTHONY J. COTTON, Brig Gen (Sel), USAF
                                            Commander
 12                                               341MWI91-212 16 FEBRUARY 2012


                                   Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Forms Adopted
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 853, Bird Strike Report
