BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                     341ST MISSILE WING INSTRUCTION 10-204
341ST MISSILE WING
                                                                       21 DECEMBER 2010
                                                    Incorporating Change 1, 28 February 2013

                                                                                    Operations

                                                    INSTALLATION EXERCISE PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 341 MW/XPI                                                      Certified by: 341 MW/CV
                                                                    (Colonel Stephen L. Davis)
Supersedes:   341MWI10-204, 23                                                        Pages: 29
              September 2009


This instruction complements AFI 10-204_AFGSC Supplement 1, Readiness Exercises and
After-Action Reporting Program, AFI 10-245_AFGSC Supplement 1, Air Force Antiterrorism
(AT) Standards; AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Planning and
Operations; AFI 10-2603, Emergency Health Powers on Air Force Installations; AFI 10-2604,
Disease Containment Planning Guidance (FOUO), AFI 90-201_ AFGSC Supplement 1,
Inspector General Activities, AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management; and AFMAN 91-201,
Explosive Safety Standards. It provides the basic structure, guidance and policy for designing,
planning, executing and evaluating contingency exercises conducted by the 341st Missile Wing
(MW) Exercise Evaluation Team (EET). Use this instruction to complement Air Force and
AFGSC publications directing the exercise program. It applies to all personnel who design, plan,
schedule, conduct, evaluate, monitor, or participate in 341 MW EET exercises. While contractor
personnel are encouraged to participate to the greatest extent possible, it is understood that
participation is governed by contract statement of work (SOW). It does not apply to the Air
National Guard (ANG) or Air Force Reserve (AFRC) personnel. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 through the wing
publishing office. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with applicable Air Force instructions, and disposed of
as      indicated    in     the     Records        Disposition   Schedule       available    on
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm
 2                                                                                  341MWI10-204 21 DECEMBER 2010


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Grammatical change all references from 341 MW/XP to 341 MW/IGI. All Group /Unit/WSA
Leads and Alternate evaluators require Secret Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRnet)
accounts. Group/Unit Risk Assessments are required for technical operations and must be
submitted NLT 5 duty days prior to STARTEX. Simulations, Deviations, Exemptions and
Limiting Factors are in attachment 2, para A2.3.3. Coordinating event start and end coordination
must be done with 341 MW EET Chief /IGI Staff members prior to exercise event for approval.
EET Appointment letter format template change. A margin bar indicates newly revised material.

        1.      Purpose. ..................................................................................................................     2
        2.      Organization. ..........................................................................................................        3
        3.      Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................         3
        4.      Policies. ..................................................................................................................    6
        5.      Types of Exercises. ................................................................................................            7
        6.      Training. .................................................................................................................     8
        7.      Scheduling. ............................................................................................................        9
        8.      Exercise Cycle. ......................................................................................................          9
        9.      Remedial Action Program. .....................................................................................                 13
        10.     Credentialing. .........................................................................................................       14
        11.     Prescribed and Adopted Forms. .............................................................................                    14
        11.2.   Adopted Forms. .....................................................................................................           14

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                 15

Attachment 2—EXERCISE GROUND RULES                                                                                                             17

Attachment 3—SAMPLE EET LETTER                                                                                                                 22

Attachment 4—EXAMPLE OF MSEL                                                                                                                   23

Attachment 5—EXERCISE TIMELINE CHECKLIST                                                                                                       24

Attachment 6—341 MW FORM 28 - EXERCISE INJECT/INPUT CARD                                                                                       25

Attachment 7—EXEMPTION/LIMITING FACTOR (LIMFAC) /SIMULATION (SIM)
             REQUEST LETTER EXAMPLE                                                                                                            26

Attachment 8—EET CONTINUITY FOLDER FORMAT                                                                                                      29


1. Purpose. The 341 MW installation exercise program is designed to improve and maintain
readiness in the following areas:
     1.1. Conducting “fight-in-place” nuclear deterrent mission.
341MWI10-204 21 DECEMBER 2010                                                                    3


   1.2. Positioning the Force.
   1.3. Employing the Force.
   1.4. Sustaining the Force.
   1.5. Ability to survive, operate and continue the mission.
   1.6. Other areas as determined by the 341 MW/CC.
2. Organization. The EET is organized as follows:
   2.1. EET Chief. EET Chief/Assistant EET Chief. Appointed by the 341 MW/CC and
   assigned to the Wings Plans (341MW/XP).
   2.2. EET Staff. Assigned to XP.
   2.3. Group/Unit Lead Evaluator/Alternate.        Appointed by applicable group/unit
   commander or agency chief. Size and manning of agencies may preclude appointment of an
   alternate Lead Evaluator.
   2.4. Group/Unit EET Members. Appointed by applicable group/unit commander or
   agency chief. Number of EET members per group/unit is at the discretion of the
   commander/agency chief. Decision on appointing EET members should be guided by size of
   group/unit and readiness requirements.
   2.5. Trusted Agents (TA). TA’s are subject matter experts outside the EET who need to be
   given exercise close-hold information to assist with exercise planning and/or execution.
3. Responsibilities.
   3.1. Group/Unit Commanders/Agency Chiefs.
       3.1.1. Appoint, in writing, highly qualified subject matter experts (recommend a review
       of the Group/Unit Manpower Personnel Document (UMPR)) to ensure the most highly
       qualified individuals based on grade and experience are given this critical additional duty
       to serve as group/unit Lead Evaluator, Alternate Lead Evaluator and Members
       (Attachment 3). Ensure appointed personnel are trained and currently qualified on the
       tasks they will evaluate.
           3.1.1.1. Identify on appointment letter, name, rank, duty phone, security clearance
           verification (coordinated/signed by unit security manager) and section of group/unit
           Lead/Alternate Lead Evaluator/Members.
           3.1.1.2. Identify subject areas EET members are qualified to evaluate to include
           specialized team as outlined in AFI 10-2501, Table 6.3.
       3.1.2. Communicate exercise objectives to group/unit EET personnel.
       3.1.3. Ensure exercise objectives from the group/unit annual plan of evaluation (APOE)
       and the Mission Readiness Assessment Program (MRAP) are incorporated into wing
       exercises.
       3.1.4. Ensure group/unit supports “end-to-end” exercise events (e.g., if an exercise event
       actually occurred, all group/units that would support/participate in a real world event will
       participate in the exercise).
4                                                        341MWI10-204 21 DECEMBER 2010


       3.1.5. Ensure non-scenario assessments (e.g., program                 compliance   checks,
       individual/team proficiency, etc.) are incorporated into exercises.
       3.1.6. Ensure group/unit EET personnel are available to participate in exercise planning
       meetings, exercise execution and exercise hot wash briefings.
       3.1.7. Provide input on exercise objectives and suspense’s to EET members during the
       development of an exercise.
       3.1.8. Review and provide inputs to the EET Team Chief/Staff on exercise After Action
       Reports (AARs).
       3.1.9. Ensure required corrective actions are taken on exercise observations forwarded in
       exercise AARs. Use the Self-Inspection Program (SIP) to track corrective actions.
       3.1.10. Review and provide inputs to the EET Team Chief/Staff on exercise schedules.
       3.1.11. Identify replacements for group/unit EET personnel who will no longer perform
       EET duties (e.g., PCA, PCS, reassignment of duties, etc.), NLT 30 days in advance.
    3.2. EET Chief/Assistant EET Chief.
       3.2.1. Manages the EET training/credentialing program and ensures:
          3.2.1.1. Initial and recurring training requirements in AFI 10-2501_AFGSCSUP are
          met.
          3.2.1.2. EET personnel can be readily identified from exercise participants during
          exercises.
       3.2.2. Develops exercise objectives in conjunction with wing senior leaders, group/unit
       commanders/wing staff agency chiefs and HHQ requirements. Performs quality control
       function to remind EET members, group/unit commanders and wing staff agency chiefs
       to ensure exercise objectives from respective APOEs are included in wing exercises.
       3.2.3. Coordinates with EET personnel and others, as necessary, to finalize exercise
       objectives and scenarios. Provides a quality control function to ensure exercise events
       involve all Group/Units that would participate if the event being exercised actually
       occurred (e.g., “end-to-end” event).
       3.2.4. Provides feedback to group/unit commanders and wing staff agency chiefs, as
       applicable, regarding quantity, quality and sufficiency of exercise objectives and events.
       3.2.5. Coordinates exercise participation with tenant group/units, contractors and the
       local community, as applicable.
       3.2.6. Functions as wing POC for exercises with HHQ and outside agencies.
       3.2.7. Ensures Operational Risk Management (ORM) is integrated into exercise planning
       and execution. Ensures all potential risks are identified as part of the exercise planning
       and ensures all risks are accepted at the appropriate level IAW AFI 90-901_AFGSCSUP.
       3.2.8. Manages exercise administrative support to include:
          3.2.8.1. Minutes from exercise planning meetings.
          3.2.8.2. Master Scenario Events List (MSEL).
341MWI10-204 21 DECEMBER 2010                                                                  5


        3.2.8.3. Exercise injects/SIMSWITCH responses.
        3.2.8.4. EET schedules.
        3.2.8.5. Wing exercise schedule.
     3.2.9. Provides exercise guidance to EET personnel and participants, as required, to
     control the exercise and ensure exercise objectives are safely met.
     3.2.10. Manages the exercise remedial action program to include:
        3.2.10.1. Ensuring consolidated AARs are published.
        3.2.10.2. Organizing exercise out briefs.
     3.2.11. Ensures production and distribution of a semiannual EET performance feedback
     memo to Group commanders for groups where all EET members are assigned to the
     group and to individual Group/Unit commanders as well as wing agency chiefs for other
     group/units. Memo will contain evaluation of individual EET members, by exception, on
     participation in planning meetings, quality/timeliness/sufficiency on input of exercise
     objectives and MSEL reviews, any specific problems with exercise control observed
     during exercise execution and quality/timeliness of AAR submission.
  3.3. Group/Unit Lead Evaluator/Alternate. Group/Unit Lead Evaluator/Alternates must
  meet the responsibilities of group/unit EET members listed in paragraph 3.4.
     3.3.1. Coordinates exercise objectives with group/unit commander/agency chief.
     Ensures exercise objectives from group/unit APOE are incorporated into wing exercises
     as applicable.
     3.3.2. Ensures Group/Unit has an EET representative at all planning meetings.
     3.3.3. Ensures proposed exercise scenarios have been de-conflicted with actual mission-
     related events (e.g., activity in the Weapons Storage Area, required field training
     sessions, MDG patient requirements, etc.).
     3.3.4. Ensures adequate status presentation aids (e.g., role players, props, etc.) have been
     obtained/scheduled to provide realism to planned exercise scenarios.
     3.3.5. Ensures sufficient EET evaluators of appropriate skill level are scheduled to
     provide adequate evaluation of planned exercise events. Ensures EET evaluators are
     evaluating all aspects of performance and providing in-depth evaluations of exercise
     participants.
     3.3.6. Coordinates exercise observations with Group/Unit commander/agency chief and
     Group/Unit SIP monitor.
     3.3.7. Group/Unit/Wing Staff Agency (WSA) Lead Evaluator will develop an EET
     Program Continuity Binder (hard copy or electronic). See Attachment 8 for continuity
     book format.
     3.3.8. (Added) Group/Unit/WSA Lead Evaluator will have a Secret Internet Protocol
     Router Network (SIPRNet) account. This SIPR account will allow each unit visibility on
     HHQ exercise scenarios and HHQ inspection AAR’s which are classified confidential.
  3.4. Group/Unit EET Members.
 6                                                      341MWI10-204 21 DECEMBER 2010


        3.4.1. Attend initial and recurring EET training (to include all computer based training
        courses (CBT) and classroom training).
        3.4.2. Know and apply the exercise policies listed in paragraph 4.
        3.4.3. Know and apply the exercise ground rules contained in Attachment 2.
        3.4.4. DELETE
        3.4.5. Do not release “exercise close hold” information to anyone except EET personnel
        or a trusted agent (TA) positively identified as such by your Lead Evaluator/Alternate
        Lead Evaluator.
        3.4.6. Evaluate all aspects of tasks performed by exercise participants. Conduct in-depth
        evaluation of exercise participants’ performance.
        3.4.7. Provide a verbal de-briefing with evaluated personnel as soon as possible
        following termination of the individual exercise scenario evaluated.
        3.4.8. Ensure AARs contain accurate and complete accounting for all performance by
        exercise participants.
     3.5. Trusted Agent (TA).
        3.5.1. Provides exercise support required/requested by the EET Chief/Staff and/or
        group/unit Lead Evaluator/Alternate.
        3.5.2. Does not release “exercise close hold” information to anyone except EET
        personnel.
     3.6. Wing Safety (341 MW/SE). Wing Safety personnel will provide applicable ground,
     vehicle and explosives ORM safety oversight of exercise planning and execution.
4. Policies.
     4.1. Safety.
        4.1.1. Safety takes precedence during all exercise activities. Any EET personnel or
        exercise participant noting an unsafe condition will immediately stop the exercise event
        and remove personnel from the area, as necessary. The exercise event will not resume
        until the unsafe condition has been corrected. Announce “Safety, Safety, Safety” during
        exercise activities for safety concerns (reference exercise ground rules, Attachment 2).
        4.1.2. ORM is an integral part of all exercise planning and execution. All EET personnel
        must participate in the ORM process for it to be successful. Per AFI 90-901, paragraph
        3.4, ORM must be integrated into operations and planning at all levels.
            4.1.2.1. During planning, unit EET personnel must identify all technical operations
            and hazards/risk control measures associated with their exercise inputs and submit a
            unit risk assessment NLT 5 duty days from STARTEX.
            4.1.2.2. During execution, all personnel including EET must be actively aware of
            potential hazards and manage risks IAW AFI 90-901_AFGSCSUP.
        4.1.3. If exercises involve munitions, EET personnel must comply with the requirements
        of AFMAN 91-201_AFGSCSUP.
341MWI10-204 21 DECEMBER 2010                                                                  7


   4.2. Realism. The goal of every exercise scenario is to maximize the amount of realism that
   can be practically achieved. This is accomplished by:
       4.2.1. Ensuring all group/units participate in an exercise and respond like a “real world”
       event actually occurred.
       4.2.2. Scheduling enough time to let exercise scenarios reach logical end-points.
       4.2.3. Limiting simulations.
       4.2.4. Employing the “train like we fight, exercise like we train” concept.
   4.3. Tenant Units. Tenant units will participate in wing exercises to the maximum extent
   practicable. Exercises to meet only tenant unit requirements will not be managed by the 341
   MW EET; however, 341 MW EET will provide all possible support and assistance requested
   by 341 MW tenant group/units.
   4.4. Group/Unit Independent Exercises. Group/Units should accomplish independent
   exercises to satisfy group/unit specific requirements and to meet readiness goals of the
   group/unit commander.
   4.5. Civilian Participation. Civilians will participate in wing exercises to the greatest
   extent possible permitted by contract or statement of work. The amount of civilian
   participation and exceptions/exemptions are listed in the exercise ground rules (see
   Attachment 2).
   4.6. Simulated Switch (SIMSWITCH). The SIMSWITCH simulates off-base agencies
   who are not participating in the exercise but who would be contacted by the exercise
   participants in an actual situation. The SIMSWITCH consists of an office area with phones
   staffed by EET or TA personnel. All exercise participants will use the SIMSWITCH to make
   any required contacts with off-base agencies (e.g., HHQ, local law enforcement agencies,
   etc.). Reference the exercise ground rules (Attachment 2) for specific SIMSWITCH
   procedures.
5. Types of Exercises. Typically, the different types of exercises will be integrated into
comprehensive scenarios and not conducted as “stand alone” (e.g., an exercise scenario requiring
an emergency management response may also require an increase in FPCON). Additionally, the
341 MW/CC may direct other types of exercises to achieve readiness goals.
   5.1. Exercise concept. The exercise concept guides and focuses the planning effort. It
   identifies the exercise type (e.g. table top exercise (TTX), command post exercise (CPX), or
   field training exercise (FTX), etc.), the major participants, the level of exercise play, the
   broad scenario profile and the plans, procedures, and activities that are the primary exercise
   focus.
   5.2. Codeword (e. g., GRIZZLY RAMPART). For all local nuclear and conventional
   exercises, MAREs, security forces exercises, Response Task Force (RTF), Nuclear Surety
   Exercises (NSE), Wings and NAFs will use the following exercise naming convention:.
   341MW: “Grizzly”/ NORE: Vigilance/CORE: Warrior/NSE: Guarantee/ MARE:
   Rampart/SF Ex: Knight.
   5.3. Anti-terrorism/Force Protection (AT/FP). Designed to exercise wing’s ability to
   protect people and resources. Usually integrated with one of the other exercise types.
 8                                                       341MWI10-204 21 DECEMBER 2010


        5.3.1. No Notice Focused Inspections (NNFIs). Wing-level events intended to mimic the
        AFGSC/IG’s 13 NNFIs.
     5.4. HHQ. Can evaluate all required areas of readiness. Wing participation will be directed
     by HHQ.
     5.5. Level of Participation. Within all of the types of exercises there can be various levels
     of participation directed:
        5.5.1. Full scale exercise: Full participation by all personnel and equipment that would
        respond if the scenario was real. Participation of responding personnel and equipment
        must be consistent with exercise ground rules (Attachment 2), specifically non-
        interference with actual mission accomplishment.
        5.5.2. Table Top Exercise (TTX): Participation by representatives from all agencies that
        would respond if the scenario was real. No movement/participation of responding
        personnel or equipment. “Talk through/walk through” of response typically from a single
        exercise venue.
        5.5.3. Crisis Action Team Exercise (CAT): Participation by the CAT/Emergency
        Operations Center (EOC) and other control center personnel only.            No
        movement/participation of responding personnel or equipment. “Talk through/walk
        through” of response from Installation Control Center (ICC).
6. Training.
     6.1. Initial. Initial EET training is required to be completed within 60 days after
     appointment from Group/Unit commander. Training is normally conducted the first Tuesday
     of every month. Initial EET training consists of Malmstrom localized EET procedural
     orientation taught by 341 MW EET Chief/Assistant EET Chief. Air Force Emergency
     Response Operations (AERO) Command and Control (C2) and EET CBT course via the
     Advanced Distributed Learning System (ADLS) available through the AF Portal are required
     prior to attending the initial EET classroom training. No pre-registration is required for
     attending initial EET classroom training, however attendees must be appointed in writing by
     their Group/Unit commanders and bring their course completion certificates for the EET and
     AERO C2 web based training. NOTE: Newly appointed EET members will not evaluate
     exercises until they have completed all phases of initial training.
     6.2. Recurring. Recurring training is conducted as needed during EET meetings. Recurring
     training topics will be determined by the EET Chief/Assistant EET Chief/Staff and will
     typically focus on observed EET problem areas/trends as well as new/changed procedures.
     All EET members must participate in at least one exercise every 20 months, to include all
     planning meetings, hot wash and training to receive refresher credit. If an EET member fails
     to complete required training for any reason (e.g., deployment, TDY, missed the scheduled
     classes, etc.) they will be decertified from performing EET duties until they make up the
     training requirement. The make up for overdue recurring training is to attend initial EET
     training.
     6.3. Verification of EET Member Emergency Management Training/Currency. All
     EET members who evaluate the teams/positions listed in AFI 10-2501 tables 6.2 and 6.3 and
     AFI 10-2501_AFGSCSUP, Table 6.1, must have completed the same training as the
341MWI10-204 21 DECEMBER 2010                                                                  9


   personnel being evaluated. The EET Chief/Staff will ensure verification of training status for
   those EET members appointed to evaluate the teams/positions listed in the applicable tables.
   The EET Chief/Assistant EET Chief/Staff will conduct periodic reviews during exercise
   planning and execution to verify this training requirement is being met.
   6.4. Verification of Disaster Response Force (DRF) Participation in Exercises. All
   primary and alternate DRF members must take part in at least one exercise per calendar year.
   The EET Chief will provide a list of all emergency management exercises to the 341
   CES/CEX Flight Chief on a quarterly basis to assist the flight chief in verifying what DRF
   members have participated in that quarter’s exercise(s). The memo will also list scheduled
   exercises for next quarter.
7. Scheduling.
   7.1. Exercise/Inspection Schedule Memo. The EET Chief will ensure an integrated wing
   exercise/inspection memo is produced annually. A draft of this memo will be distributed to
   group/unit commanders/agency chiefs for comment. The memo will be staffed through the
   command section for signature by the 341 MW/CV. The EET Chief will ensure an updated
   exercise memo is produced and approved if significant changes occur to the schedule.
   7.2. Exercise Scheduler. The EET Chief will ensure an exercise scheduling aid is produced
   and maintained to assist wing personnel in meeting the exercise requirements contained in
   applicable Air Force Instructions (Attachment 4). The intent of this scheduling aid is to
   integrate the exercise requirements contained in various Air Force Instructions and to provide
   a tool for exercise planning.
   7.3. No-Notice Exercises. Some exercises will be conducted no-notice. The EET Chief
   will coordinate proposals with the 341 MW/CC to determine the scope and timing of specific
   no-notice exercises.
8. Exercise Cycle.
   8.1. Planning.
      8.1.1. Determining Exercise Objectives.          Exercise     objectives   drive   exercise
      scenarios/events. Determine exercise objectives by:
          8.1.1.1. Reviewing group/unit mission/Designated Operational Capability (DOC) and
          Mission Capabilities (MISCAP) statements.
          8.1.1.2. Reviewing readiness criteria in AFI 90-201 AFGSCSUP1 Attachment 6,
          Para A6.2.10.
          8.1.1.3. Reviewing requirements in AFIs applicable to your Group/Unit personnel.
          8.1.1.4. Reviewing HHQ Inspector General reports for other Group/Units.
          8.1.1.5. Reviewing SIP discrepancies.
          8.1.1.6. Reviewing Group/Unit APOE.
          8.1.1.7. Coordinating with Group/Unit commander.
          8.1.1.8. Simulations, Deviations, Exemptions, and Limiting Factors (LIMFACS).
          See attachment 2, para A2.3.3.
10                                                   341MWI10-204 21 DECEMBER 2010


     8.1.2. Non-Scenario Assessments. Consideration should be given during exercise
     planning to incorporate non-scenario assessments of group/unit readiness into an
     exercise. Specifically, use program compliance checks, individual/team proficiency
     evaluations, Technical Order (T.O.) checks, equipment configuration checks, weapons
     inventories and written testing to assess group/unit readiness outside of exercise
     scenarios. Blocks of exercise time will be made available to accommodate these
     assessments. EET members will reference group/unit APOEs to determine appropriate
     non-scenario assessments.
     8.1.3. Planning Meetings.
        8.1.3.1. General. The purpose of EET planning meetings is to design integrated and
        coordinated exercise scenarios to achieve group/units’ exercise objectives, to de-
        conflict exercise events with actual mission activities and to conduct ORM. Planning
        meetings are scheduled and chaired by the EET Chief/Staff. Typically, the initial
        planning meeting is held 45 days in advance of a scheduled exercise (Attachment 5)
        and the frequency of planning meetings will increase closer to the start of the
        exercise. Group/Unit Lead Evaluators and or alternates should attend all planning
        meetings.
        8.1.3.2. Focused. The purpose of focused EET planning meetings is to coordinate
        specific aspects of an exercise scenario that do not require representatives from the
        entire EET. These meetings will be scheduled as determined by the EET Chief/Staff
        who will also determine required attendees.
     8.1.4. MSEL. The MSEL is the documentation of the integrated and coordinated
     exercise scenarios used to achieve exercise objectives (reference Attachment 4). It
     facilitates exercise control by providing all EET personnel a common operating picture of
     the exercise. A draft MSEL will be prepared by EET Staff and forwarded to group/unit
     lead evaluator/alternates after the initial planning meeting.         Group/Unit Lead
     Evaluator/Alternates will ensure the draft MSEL is reviewed. Group/Unit Lead
     Evaluator/Alternates will ensure inputs on the MSEL are forwarded to EET
     Chief/Assistant EET Chief/Staff. The draft MSEL will be reviewed and finalized during
     EET planning meetings. EET Chief/Staff will prepare and distribute the final MSEL to
     group/unit Lead Evaluator/Alternates. Group/Unit Lead Evaluator/Alternates will ensure
     further MSEL distribution within their group/units. A MSEL contains the following
     items:
        8.1.4.1. Event #: Sequenced numbering of events (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 3a, etc.) to allow for
        rapid communications between EET members. Event numbers are assigned by EET
        Staff.
        8.1.4.2. Date/Time: Day, month, and hour (use 24-hour system) an exercise event is
        scheduled to begin.
        8.1.4.3. Event: Brief narrative on the exercise event. For example, “Unauthorized
        Personnel on Launch Facility.” This section is intended to be a title, not a narrative
        explanation.
        8.1.4.4. Implementer/Note: Lists how the exercise participants will know to start
        reacting. In other words, describes how we will “implement” the exercise event (e.g.,
341MWI10-204 21 DECEMBER 2010                                                                11


        “CES EET member will provide telephone input to Emergency Communications
        Center (ECC) former 911 center”). An implementer may consist of “Reaction to
        exercise events” or reaction to notification from an operations center (e.g., command
        post, a group/unit control center, etc.). Use “notes” if there is something you need to
        further explain about the exercise status.
        8.1.4.5. Primary EET/Contact #: Lists the EET member who will be in control of the
        exercise event, normally the senior evaluator at the exercise site, and how this person
        can be reached during the exercise (e.g., cell phone number). Normally, this contact
        number would not be the EET member’s duty phone; the rest of the team needs to
        know how to reach this person during the exercise execution. If the EET member
        cannot be reached by phone, list “LMR” for contact and ensure you are issued a radio
        and call sign.
        8.1.4.6. Secondary EET/Contact #: List the same information as for the primary EET
        if you have additional EET members controlling an exercise event. If not, put “N/A”
        in this block.
        8.1.4.7. Objectives: List the performance being evaluated and the requirements that
        direct the performance. Ensure the objectives are specific enough to capture the
        range of exercise performance and make it clear to other exercise controllers when an
        exercise objective has been achieved.
     8.1.5. Status Presentation. Exercise status presentations mimic the status exercise
     participants would receive if they were faced with actual situations (e.g., phone calls,
     accident wreckage, injured personnel, criminal perpetrators, etc.). EET personnel will
     use several types of status presentations.
        8.1.5.1. Exercise Injects: Exercise injects are statements of status written out on the
        341 MW Form 28 (Attachment 6). They are used to provide information exercise
        participants would normally receive by incoming phone calls, by using
        detection/monitoring equipment, would see, and/or would be briefed by a competent
        authority (e.g., the county coroner pronouncing someone dead, the FBI taking control
        of a crime scene, etc.). Exercise injects are normally prepared by the EET member
        who will be evaluating a particular exercise event.
        8.1.5.2. Role Players: For example, a bereaved spouse for a Next of Kin (NOK)
        notification exercises or casualties for an accident response exercise. Role players are
        normally scheduled by the EET member who will be evaluating a particular exercise
        event and/or the group/unit Lead Evaluator/Alternate. Role players can be recruited
        from any base group/unit.
        8.1.5.3. Props. Props are physical items the exercise participants would encounter if
        responding to an actual event. For example, debris in field from an aircraft mishap or
        an improvised explosive device. Props are normally obtained/scheduled by the EET
        member who will be evaluating a particular exercise event.
        8.1.5.4. SIMSWITCH Operator Responses. SIMSWITCH responses are written
        verbiage a SIMSWITCH operator will use during an exercise when responding to a
        call from an exercise participants. SIMSWITCH operators are not subject matter
        experts so they need a script to function as an outside agency. SIMSWITCH
12                                                       341MWI10-204 21 DECEMBER 2010


         responses are normally prepared by the EET member who will be evaluating a
         particular exercise event using 341 MW Form 28 (Attachment 6).
         8.1.5.5. Building Damage/HAZMAT Release. If an exercise scenario involves
         building damage or a HAZMAT release, EET members should present exercise
         participants with a picture or diagram detailing the building damage or a map
         showing the extent of the HAZMAT release. These pictures/maps are normally
         produced by the EET member who will be evaluating a particular exercise event.
     8.1.6. Evaluator Coverage of Wing-Wide Events. For exercise events involving wing-
     wide reaction such as increases in FPCON and shelter-in-place, the EET Chief/staff
     members will identify facilities of interest for compliance evaluation and direct specific
     group/units to schedule EET members to evaluate exercise participants’ compliance.
     Normally, EET members from the group/units that have responsibility for particular
     facilities of interest will be directed to provide evaluators.
     8.1.7. Land Mobile Radios (LMRs). EET staff members will check out LMRs for EET
     use during exercises. LMRs will be assigned to specific key EET members by EET
     Chief/staff members and may also be requested by other EET members. EET Chief/staff
     members will determine EET call signs. EET Staff members will issue LMRs using
     radio receipt form. LMRs will be issued prior to exercise start and turned in after
     exercise ends to the XP office.
  8.2. Execution.
     8.2.1. Event Staging. Exercise event “staging” consists of making sure all required
     status presentation tools (e.g., props, exercise injects, role players, etc.) are in place at the
     exercise event site, EET evaluators for the event are prepared and communications with
     other exercise controllers (e.g., EET Chief/staff and/or XP position in CAT) are
     functional. Event staging is the responsibility of the EET member who will control the
     exercise event and will be accomplished prior to starting a particular exercise event.
     8.2.2. Control. EET members must exercise control over the events they are evaluating
     as well as the exercise participants to ensure safety, to de-conflict with other exercise
     events and to ensure exercise objectives are met. Exercise control is achieved by:
         8.2.2.1. Coordinating event start and end with EET Chief/staff members. Do not
         initiate an exercise event prior to this coordination/approval
         8.2.2.2. Presenting clear status to exercise participants and clarifying exercise status
         when the participants are confused or are reacting to misinterpreted status.
         8.2.2.3. Intervening in exercise participants’ actions when they have clearly reacted
         improperly to exercise status.
         8.2.2.4. During an exercise emergency management response, ensure an Incident
         Commander (IC) remains on scene until all events associated with the emergency
         response (e.g., search and recovery, casualty notification, etc.) have been completed.
     8.2.3. Observation. The key task for EET evaluators during an exercise is to observe the
     performance of the exercise participants.
341MWI10-204 21 DECEMBER 2010                                                                13


      8.2.4. Validation. Related to observation is validation; EET members must make sure
      what they believe they have observed is actually what the exercise participants did. Also,
      EET members should ask questions of the exercise participants to determine why the
      participants did what they appeared to do. Another aspect of validation is to check the
      requirements; a performance an EET member might think is incorrect may be directed by
      guidance that has changed or that an evaluator is not immediately familiar with.
      8.2.5. Feedback. EET members should provide exercise participants with feedback on
      their exercise performance.
   8.3. Evaluation.
      8.3.1. Assessment. EET members who observe exercise events will assess the exercise
      participants’ observed performance against the applicable standards for that performance.
      These standards can be T.O.s, instructions, plans, local checklists or even Career Field
      Education and Training Plans (CFETP). The assessment should include performance
      against timing standards, if applicable. EET members must assess the impact of the
      exercise participants’ performance on the mission and make a determination on whether
      the impact was of critical, major or minor significance. If the participants simply
      performed to standards, EET members should assess the performance as satisfactory. If
      the participants’ performance exceeded standards and enhanced the mission, EET
      members should assess the performance as a strength. EET members who observe and
      evaluate exercise performance will record their observations and assessments in an
      exercise AAR.
      8.3.2. EET Hot Wash. The purpose of the EET exercise hot wash is to assess overall
      ratings to major readiness areas, to validate observations and to discuss major
      discrepancies. EET Chief/staff will schedule the hot wash for as soon as practical after
      the end of an exercise and will announce time and location to EET members. EET
      members who have evaluated exercise participants during the exercise should attend. If
      unable to attend, EET members will brief their observations to a group/unit EET
      representative who is able to attend the hot wash. To receive EET refresher training
      credit, all EET evaluators must attend one exercise hot wash every 12 months.
      8.3.3. Coordination. Group/Unit EET members will coordinate their observations with
      their group/unit Lead Evaluators/Alternates who will brief commanders/wing staff
      agency chiefs. Additionally, EET members will coordinate their observations with other
      group/unit EET members and OPRs if they need to validate an observation.
9. Remedial Action Program.
   9.1. General. There are two components to the exercise remedial action program; the after
   action reporting process and the SIP. Exercise AARs identify discrepancies which are then
   entered into the SIP to track corrective actions. 341 MW/XP will enter discrepancies into
   the SIP.
   9.2. EET AAR. EET members who have observed/evaluated exercise participants will
   prepare and submit an exercise AAR to their group/unit Lead Evaluator/Alternate, EET
   Chief/staff members and their group/unit commander/wing staff agency chief. If the OPR for
   the observation is another group/unit, the EET member will also submit the AAR to the
   commander/agency chief for that group/unit as well. This AAR will contain their
 14                                                      341MWI10-204 21 DECEMBER 2010


   observation(s) and assign an OPR for the observation. EET member preparing the AAR will
   assess the mission impact of the observation as critical, major, minor, satisfactory or strength.
   EET members will submit AARs IAW the suspense established by the EET Chief/staff
   members, normally two duty days after end of exercise (ENDEX).
   9.3. Consolidated AAR. The EET Chief/staff members will post a draft AAR on the wing
   network shared drive for group/unit EET to enter their observations. While preparing the
   consolidated AAR, EET Chief/staff members will ensure cross functional AARs (e.g.,
   observations where the EET member assigns an OPR from outside their group/unit) have
   been sent to the group/unit commander/agency chief identified as the OPR in the observation.
   During this time, the group/unit commanders/agency chiefs have an opportunity to provide
   inputs on AARs prior to the consolidated AAR being finalized. The final consolidated AAR
   will normally be distributed NLT 14 calendar days after ENDEX.
   9.4. Commander’s Exercise Hotwash. The EET Chief/staff members will organize an
   exercise hotwash for group/unit commanders at the direction of the 341 MW/CC. The 341
   MW/CC will determine the content, format and scheduling of this briefing.
10. Credentialing.
   10.1. Badges.
      10.1.1. EET. Once appointed in writing by their group/unit commander/agency chief,
      and all phases of initial EET training has been completed, EET members will be issued
      an identification badge and outdoor safety vest. EET members will display the badge and
      wear vest during exercises so they can be readily identified as evaluators. EET members
      will return the badge and vest when they are no longer performing EET duties (e.g., PCA,
      PCS, etc.).
      10.1.2. TAs. TAs will only be issued an identification badge if they are required to
      function as a TA during exercise execution and have a need to be distinguished from
      exercise participants. The TA badge will be issued by EET Staff members in the XP
      office using a hand receipt. TAs will return the badge after ENDEX.

11. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.

11.1. Prescribed Forms.

341 MW Form 28, Exercise Inject/Input Card.

11.2. Adopted Forms.

No forms adopted.




                                             ANTHONY J. COTTON, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
341MWI10-204 21 DECEMBER 2010                                                           15


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-204, Participation in Joint and National Exercises, 21 Apr 2010
AFI 10-204_AFGSCSUP, Participation in Joint and National Exercises, 8 Dec 2008
AFI 10-245_AFGSCSUP1, Antiterrorism (AT), 1 May 2010
AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Planning and Operations, 24 Jan 2007
AFI 10-2501_AFGSCSUP, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Planning and Operations,
1 Apr 2010
AFI 10-2603, Emergency Health Powers on Air Force Installations, 13 Oct 2010
AFI 10-2604, Disease Containment Planning Guidance, 3 Sept 2010
AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities, 17 Jun 2009
AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards, 17 Nov 2008
AFMAN 91-201_AFGSCSUP, Explosives Safety Standards, 1 Dec 2010

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAR—After Action Report
AAFES—Army Air Force Exchange Service
AFGSCSUP—Air Force Global Strike Command Supplement
AFIMS—Air Force Incident Management System
CAT—Crisis Action Team
CFTEP—Career Field Training and Education Plan
CI—Compliance Inspection
DECA—Defense Commissary Agency
EAL—Entry Authorization Letter
EET—Exercise Evaluation Team
ENDEX—End of the Exercise
FPCON—Force Protection Condition
FTX—Field Training Exercise
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
IG—Inspector General
LIMFAC—Limiting Factors
MEO—Most Efficient Organization
 16                                             341MWI10-204 21 DECEMBER 2010


MRAP—Mission Readiness Assurance Program
MSEL—Master Scenario Events List
MTF—Medical Treatment Facility
MW—Missile Wing
NAF—Non-Appropriated Funds
NNFI—No Notice Focus Inspection
NLT—No Later Than
NORI—Nuclear Operational Readiness Inspection
NSI—Nuclear Surety Inspection
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OPSEC—Operations Security
ORI—Operational Readiness Inspection
ORM—Operational Risk Management
PAUSEX—Pause of Exercise
PCA—Permanent Change of Assignment
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
POC—Point of Contact
TA—Trusted Agent
T.O.—Technical Order
SIP—Self-Inspection Program
STARTEX—Start of Exercise
UCC—Unit Control Center
UTC—Unit Type Code
XP—Wing Plans
WSA—Wing Staff Agency
341MWI10-204 21 DECEMBER 2010                                                                 17


                                         Attachment 2
                               EXERCISE GROUND RULES

A2.1. General. Direct questions or concerns on these ground rules to an on-scene EET member
and/or 341 MW/XP when preparing for and participating in exercises at the 341st Missile Wing
(base, missile complex and local area). Resolve exercise inputs as if they were an actual
situation.
A2.2. Exceptions. Items not applicable to 341 MW exercises from AFI 90-201_AFGSCSUP,
Attachment 7:
    NOTE: Restricted area badges will be used for entry into restricted areas, not EALs.
A2.3. Malmstrom Specific Additions. The following ground rules will be used by 341 MW
personnel in addition to the ground rules found in AFI 90-201_AFGSCSUP, Attachment 7.
   A2.3.1. Shelter-In-Place.
       A2.3.1.1. All personnel will participate in shelter-in-place exercises. Exceptions include
       mission essential personnel and contractor/MEO personnel IAW AFI 90-201,
       Attachment 7, para. A7.8.
       A2.3.1.2. As a minimum, personnel will demonstrate the capability to execute shelter-in-
       place procedures by:
          A2.3.1.2.1. Assembling in their designated shelter location.
          A2.3.1.2.2. Opening the shelter-in-place kit and running the checklist.
          A2.3.1.2.3. Demonstrating the capability to seal openings (e.g., doors, vents, etc.)
          without actually putting the materials in place (e.g., duct taping plastic over vents,
          doors, windows, etc.).
          A2.3.1.2.4. Accounting for personnel present in the shelter and reporting those
          numbers to the applicable UCCs.
       A2.3.1.3. Personnel will remain in their shelter locations until they have been given
       permission by the wing commander to stand down. This permission can be by approval
       of specific group/unit exemptions after demonstrating capability (e.g., AAFES facilities,
       CDC, etc.) or through a base-wide “exercise all clear from shelters” announcement.
   A2.3.2. Exercise Exemptions.
       A2.3.2.1. AAFES/DECA/NAF business activities (e.g. Bowling Center, Club,
       Community Center, Outdoor Recreation, Child Development Center and Family Child
       Care). When personnel at these facilities have demonstrated capability to accomplish
       required FPCON and shelter-in-place actions, they may request release from the wing
       commander through their chain of command, using the 341 FSS UCC. These facilities
       will maintain proper signage for the remainder of the exercise.
       A2.3.2.2. 341st Medical Group (MDG). In order to balance training, exercises and
       patient care, the 341 MDG will participate in exercises as directed by the 341 MW
       Commander.
18                                                    341MWI10-204 21 DECEMBER 2010


        A2.3.2.2.1. MDG will show capability for no more than 30 minutes. After EET
        observes capability, then real-world patients will be allowed to proceed to their
        appointments.
        A2.3.2.2.2. The 341 MDG will block appointments two (2) months prior to a 341
        MW and or 341 MDG scheduled exercise.
        A2.3.2.2.3. Family Practice will rotate personnel, keeping one (1) team available for
        patient care and one (1) team participating in exercises.
        A2.3.2.2.4. Dental Clinic will keep one (1) provider, one (1) dental technician and
        one (1) front desk technician for patient care throughout any exercise.
        A2.3.2.2.5. Staffing permitting, PRP clinic will keep one (1) provider available for
        patient care throughout any exercise. The only exception is during Return to Duty
        processing, where it is essential to have both providers for processing return to duty
        patients.
        A2.3.2.2.6. Clinics with one (1) provider (GYN, Optometry) will close if their
        support is needed for the exercise.
        A2.3.2.2.7. Mental Health will keep one (1) mental health provider and one (1)
        mental health technician available for real-world patients.
        A2.3.2.2.8. Any other medical necessity (i.e. Pharmacy, Diagnostic Imaging, Lab
        etc) in support of the above Exercise Exempt Patient Care Teams will be on a case-
        by-case basis depending on specific exercise scenarios.
        A2.3.2.2.9. MDG staff parking and the clinic's west entrance parking area will be the
        designated exercise play area. These areas will be where the MDG will demonstrate
        the 25 meter stand-off capability.
     A2.3.2.3. Education Center/FTAC. Do not disrupt “in session” classes (e.g., testing,
     higher education courses, promotion testing, and satellite training courses), to
     perform/implement exercise FPCON and shelter-in-place actions. When present in the
     building, Education Center staff/general training class personnel (not listed above) will be
     required to post all FPCON measures and inform personnel, but students attending higher
     education courses, promotion/end of course computer based testing, and satellite courses
     will not be removed from or disrupted during class/testing time. Briefers/instructors will
     be allowed to move during exercise FPCON measures, and FTAC staff will coordinate
     this with their EET, the EOC and briefer.
     A2.3.2.4. Airman Leadership School (ALS). When in session (course start date through
     course graduation), the ALS facility, staff and students are exempt from participation,
     however they must comply with what the rest of the 341 MW is doing, i.e. closed
     facilities, gate closures, cordoned off areas etc. ALS staff and students will identify
     themselves to SFS/EET personnel what their training status is and they will be allowed to
     move to the extent allowed and that their movement may be restricted by the scenario as
     to locations they want to visit during the exercise.
     A2.3.2.5. Deliveries. Regularly scheduled and/or regularly occurring deliveries (e.g.,
     contracted food service, medical supplies, fuel, etc.) should not be prevented from
     making deliveries during exercises. Supported organizations (e.g., 341 MDG, 341 FSS,
341MWI10-204 21 DECEMBER 2010                                                                19


     etc.) will submit exemption letters for these personnel prior to the exercise. Coordinate
     with Chief, EET for annual exemption letters.
     A2.3.2.6. Movement Restrictions During Increased Force Protection Conditions
     (FPCONs).
        A2.3.2.6.1. Civilian employees will participate in wing exercises to the greatest
        extent possible permitted by contract or statement of work. Civilian, contractor and
        NAF employees will restrict movements (during scheduled breaks, lunch and end of
        duty day) as applicable during increased exercise FPCONs as long as the movement
        restrictions do not cause substantial increased costs to the government (e.g.,
        extra/overtime pay, etc.). Group/Unit commanders will prepare an exemption request
        for all regularly scheduled activities that would violate movement restrictions during
        increased exercise FPCONs and result in substantial increased cost to the
        government. All other movements that need to be conducted during periods of
        exercise FPCON movement restrictions will be coordinated through the applicable
        chain of command for group/unit commander approval as they occur (e.g., release of
        civilian employees at end of duty day).
        A2.3.2.6.2. Spouses, family members and military retirees will take appropriate
        shelter during applicable exercise FPCONs long enough to demonstrate the
        capability. This will normally be approximately 30 minutes after the base goes into
        an increased FPCON and/or a particular facility implements increased FPCON
        procedures. Facility managers will request release for spouses, family member and
        military retirees from the wing commander through their chain of command.
        A2.3.2.6.3. Personnel (including spouses, family members and retirees) with
        scheduled off base appointments/travel (e.g., medical, dental, plane and train etc.),
        will be allowed to move during increased FPCONs to report for these appointments.
  A2.3.3. Exercise Limiting Factors (LIMFAC) Exemption and Simulations.
     A2.3.3.1. LIMFACs. LIMFACs are factors or conditions that impede mission
     accomplishment. group/units shall submit current LIMFACs using the same format
     identified in paragraph A2.3.3.2.1. below.
     A2.3.3.2. Simulations. Simulations will be minimized and reserved for those actions
     which are too costly (resource expenditure, potential risk, etc.) or impractical to perform
     during an exercise. The EET Chief will review the request and make an approval or
     disapproval recommendation to the vice wing commander who approves all simulation
     requests.
        A2.3.3.2.1. Simulation Requests Prior to Exercise Start. The POC requesting a
        simulation will prepare the request and include short title of simulation, event/item to
        be simulated, justification for the simulation request, and the impact if the simulation
        is not approved (Attachment 7). Endorsements must include submitters’ Group/Unit
        commander, group commander, EET Chief, and vice wing commander. Submit
        simulation requests using format in Attachment 7 (Added) from AFI 90-201.
        Simulation requests must be submitted to XPI NLT 5 duty days prior to STARTEX
        for scheduled exercises. Simulations for No-Notice Exercises will be taken from the
        approved standing simulations listed in paragraph A2.3.4.2.2. below.
20                                                   341MWI10-204 21 DECEMBER 2010


        A2.3.3.2.2. Simulation Requests During an Exercise. Simulation requests after
        STARTEX must be the exception not the rule. Simulation requests during an exercise
        will be passed up the applicable chain of command to the wing battle staff. These
        requests can be made verbally initially, but require written follow-up for distribution
        to evaluators. Use the same format including the same information as contained in
        simulation requests made prior to exercise start. The EET Chief will make a
        recommendation on approval/disapproval. The functional area EET, after prior
        coordination with the EET Chief, may direct group/units to demonstrate simulated
        items/procedures to the extent necessary to display capability.
     A2.3.3.3. Standing Simulations. The following simulations identified in AFI 90-201, are
     in effect at all times during wing exercises and higher headquarters inspections.
        A2.3.3.3.1. Do not recall personnel from leave or temporary duty; however, complete
        required recall actions and provide documentation to the IG.
        A2.3.3.3.2. Do not remove underclothing during personnel decontamination
        operations.
        A2.3.3.3.3. Manpower and materials consumed in response to a scenario event
        remain unavailable for inspection purposes for the duration of that inspection.
        A2.3.3.3.4. Simulate moving dumpsters. Consult an EET evaluator before initiating
        any activity that may incur additional costs to the government.
        A2.3.3.3.5. Personnel use training chemical gear during the inspection, but must be
        able to show all required real-world equipment.
        A2.3.3.3.6. Only EET personnel will load, initiate, or two-person verify simulation
        media (ground burst simulators/propane cannons, smoke grenades/machines, etc.).
        Simulation media are exclusively controlled and initiated by EET personnel.
        A2.3.3.3.7. Do not wear training Chemical Biological Warfare Defense Ensemble
        (CBWDE) during response to actual in-flight emergencies or flight line mishaps.
        A2.3.3.3.8. Use masking tape or OD Green duct tape to simulate M8 and M9 paper.
        Mark tape as (M8 PAPER) or (M9 PAPER) with date and time.
        A2.3.3.3.9. Simulate possession of 100 percent serviceable training CBWDE.
        A2.3.3.3.10. Simulate use of M291 skin and M295 equipment decontamination kits
        and M256A1 chemical agent detector kits.
        A2.3.3.3.11. Real world C-bags will be exercise issued, inspected and returned to
        storage. Training Ground Crew Ensemble (GCE), mask, hood, and filters will be
        used.
        A2.3.3.3.12. Contamination control teams will use water to simulate 5% bleach
        solution decontaminating agent.
        A2.3.3.3.13. Simulate closing windows in occupied vehicles without air conditioning
        during Alarm Black/Mission Oriented Protective Posture (MOPP) 4 when       the
        outside air temperature exceeds 75 degrees F.
341MWI10-204 21 DECEMBER 2010                                                         21


       A2.3.3.3.14. Simulate closing flaps on tents without air conditioning during Alarm
       Black/MOPP 4 when outside temperature exceeds 75 degrees F.
       A2.3.3.3.15. Remove CBRNE and field gear. Simulate removing battle dress
       uniforms (BDU)/airman battle uniform (ABU), underwear, and boots at the CCA.
       A2.3.3.3.16. Use training canister/filter for CBRNE protective mask.
22                     341MWI10-204 21 DECEMBER 2010


        Attachment 3
     SAMPLE EET LETTER
341MWI10-204 21 DECEMBER 2010                                                         23


                                   Attachment 4
                               EXAMPLE OF MSEL

Table A4.1. MSEL.

EVE    DA    EVENT       OB  IMPLEME PRIM             SECOND      OBJECT       CHECKL
NT #   TE/     /        CRD    NTER /       ARY         ARY        IVES         ISTS /
       TIM   SCENA        w/    NOTE        EET /      EET / #                 REFERE
        E     RIO       GRO                   #                                 NCES
                        UP/U
                         NIT
                         CC
 1      21 Camp         CEF  Camp          Maj.       SMSgt
        Jul Grizzly          Commander Duke /         Hampton
       0800 set up           will oversee. x6178      X6178
            (all day)        Not
                             evaluated
 2      22 Exercise                        Maj.       SMSgt     Deployers
       July Participa                      Duke /     Hampton   receive
       0630 nts Meet                       x6178      X6168     legal,
            at Bldg.                                            weather,
            3080                                                public
                                                                health
                                                                briefings
 3      22 Compile      Yes   341            MSgt     SSgt      Evaluate       AFI 35-
        Jul news              MW/PA          Nelson   McDonald ability of      101,
       0900 coverage          EET            x4591    x4044     PA rep to      Public
            for                                                 compile        Affairs
            duration                                            adequate       Policies
            of ERE                                              news           and
                                                                coverage       Procedur
                                                                of ERE         es
 4     22Ju PERSCO Yes        341            MSgt     Mr Stull/ Evaluate       AFI 36-
         l  complete          FSS/EET        Jones/   x2700     PERSCO’        3802,
       0900 s initial         will provide   x3253              s ability to   Atch 8
            arrival           inject                            complete       PERSCO
            checklist                                           initial        Team
            (PERSC                                              arrival        Initial
            O only)                                             checklist      Arrival
                                                                               Checklist
24                                                341MWI10-204 21 DECEMBER 2010


                                   Attachment 5
                          EXERCISE TIMELINE CHECKLIST

         ITEM                   EVENT COUNT DOWN                DATE
 Wing Exercise Objectives              E-60

     Initial Planning Meeting
            - Key Events
         Group/Squadron               E-45
          Objectives Due
      EET Working Group               E-30
             Meeting
       Objectives Briefed to          E-20
           Senior Staff
      EET Working Group               E-15
             Meeting
      Final EET Review and             E-2
       MSEL Distribution
            Books Built                E-1

           Event Start              “E” DAY

       Last Event/ENDEX              ENDEX

         EET Hot Wash             NLT ENDEX+1

     EET Observations to XP       NLT ENDEX+2

     EET Event After-Action       NLT ENDEX+7
          Reports Due
     XP Exercise After-Action     NLT ENDEX+14
          Report Due
341MWI10-204 21 DECEMBER 2010                                                         25


                                      Attachment 6
               341 MW FORM 28 - EXERCISE INJECT/INPUT CARD

Table A6.1. Sample Form 28.
EXERCISE INJECT/INPUT CARD
TITLE OF EXERCISE                                           EVENT NUMBER
Name of exercise and event i.e. Short Sprint 08-07          Assigned by XP
EVENT CARD
TO BE PRESENTED          TO Who it will be given to BY Who it will be given by   AT
Date/Time
EXERCISE INJECT
Write the Exact verbiage that you want your exercise participants to react to.

EXERCISE, EXERCISE, EXERCISE
(Verbiage for the exercise inject)

EXERCISE, EXERCISE, EXERCISE

SIMSWITCH If No, leave blank. If Yes, fill out:

   NO      YES      AGENCY________________ PHONE ____________


SIMSWITCH INFORMATION:

EXERCISE, EXERCISE, EXERCISE
(Verbiage for the SIMSWITCH)

 EXERCISE, EXERCISE, EXERCISE
341 MW FORM 28, 2009
26                                           341MWI10-204 21 DECEMBER 2010


                              Attachment 7
     EXEMPTION/LIMITING FACTOR (LIMFAC) /SIMULATION (SIM) REQUEST
                          LETTER EXAMPLE
341MWI10-204 21 DECEMBER 2010               27




                           LIMFAC Example
 28                                                      341MWI10-204 21 DECEMBER 2010


                   341st Missile Wing Agencies Inspection Considerations

                              (Wing Letterhead, Memorandum style)
INSPCONS: The 341st Missile Wing Legal Office requests the exercise events that will be
conducted on 29 Jul 10 not include activities at Building 770 due to office personnel conducting
legal assistance and preparing wills and associated documents for the 819th RED HORSE
deployment ADVON team. Also, we request that JA personnel be excused from exercise event
participation on at least 29 Jul 10, due to the need to provide the above noted legal assistance and
the limited number of legal office personnel (JAGs and paralegals associated with the event).
The SJA also requests excusal from CAT participation to the fullest extent possible so that he
may also provide legal assistance to deploying personnel. Lastly, we request that on base
movements of personnel who getting legal assistance at the base legal office not be impeded if
they are traveling to the legal office.

EXPLANATION: During this day of legal assistance, there are members from the 819th RED
HORSE Squadron’s ADVON team traveling to Building 770 for legal assistance. Any
inspection or exercise activities disrupting our ability to provide such legal assistance and the
member’s ability to get documents needed in associate with the upcoming deployment

INCLUSIVE DATES: 29 Jul 10.

POC:     DSN.

                                     SIM Letter EXAMPLE
                   341st Missile Wing Agencies Inspection Considerations

GROUP/UNIT: 341 MDG

INSPCONS: The 341st Medical Group requests that the Field Response Team (FRT) be
simulated during Short Sprint 10-7.

EXPLANATION: The Flight and Missile Medicine (FMM) clinic--which provides FRT
staffing--is short-staffed during this time. In addition, the FMM had already scheduled a full
patient load before the MSEL was developed and approved.

INCLUSIVE DATES: 28-29 Jul 10

POC:    DSN
341MWI10-204 21 DECEMBER 2010                                                               29


                                        Attachment 8
                         EET CONTINUITY FOLDER FORMAT

              Group/Unit EET Continuity Binder/Folder (hard copy or electronic)

TAB – A: Current copy of Group/Unit EET Appointment Letter, Group/Unit EET Evaluator
recall roster, and current calendar year

TAB – B: Wing exercise schedule.

TAB – C: Current copy of 341 MWI 10-204, Installation Exercise Program, AFI 10-2501, AFI
10-2501_AFGSCSUP , Air Force Emergency Management Program Planning and Operations,
and AFI 90-201, AFI 90-201_AFGSCSUP, Inspector General Activities.

TAB – D: Current copy of specialized subject matter/team training certifications for Group/Unit
evaluators.

TAB – E: Group/Unit CC Desired Training Objectives (DTO’s) for critical mission areas tested
by wing exercises.

TAB – F: Wing EET Evaluator Handbook.

TAB – G: Copy of last IG inspection (CI, NORI, NSI, and ORI, etc) and Wing exercise After
Action Reports (AAR) for the current calendar year.
