BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           341ST MISSILE WING MANUAL 90-802
341ST MISSILE WING
                                                                         22 FEBRUARY 2012

                                                                         Special Management

                                                      ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
                                                  SYSTEM (EMS) FOR MALMSTROM AFB


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 341 CES/CEAN                                                    Certified by: 341 CES/CC
                                                                               (Sarah J. Christ)
Supersedes:   341SWMAN90-8, 27 Oct 05                                                 Pages: 12


This manual establishes principles for the 341st Missile Wing Environmental Management
System (EMS). The effective management of Environmental risks and costs is essential to
achieve the 341st Missile Wing mission; to keep America free and strong by providing

combat-ready people and aerospace forces. Executive Order EO 13423, Strengthening Federal
Environmental, Energy, and Transportation Management, challenges the Air Force to advance
the maturity of its environmental management activities from a compliance driven program that
focuses on proactively managing of environmental risks, including those that are not compliance
driven. In response to this Executive Order the Air Force issued a memorandum, HQ USAF/CV,
Air Force Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Management Systems Implementation,
9 September 2003, directing the creation and implementation of base level EMS. These two
taken together form the basis for the implementation of this manual. The Air Force EMS
Program provides a system to focus resources where they will have the most beneficial impact
on the environment through a continuous process of identification, prioritization, planning,
implementation, checking, corrective action and management review. This manual does not
apply to the Air National Guard (ANG) or Air Force Reserve (AFRC) personnel. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Route the AF Form 847 through the wing publishing office. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with applicable
Air Force instructions, and disposed of as indicated in the Records Disposition Schedule
available on https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Contact your local Functional
Area Records Manager for further information and/or access to the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS).
 2                                                341MWMAN90-802 22 FEBRUARY 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision updates this manual to reflect new regulations governing the EMS program and to
reflect organizational changes within the 341st Missile Wing. The publication control number
was changed to bring the document into compliance with AFI33-360.
1. Purpose. This manual implements Executive Order EO 13423, Strengthening Federal
Environmental, Energy, and Transportation Management, and Air Force Policy requiring the
implementation of an Environmental Management System (EMS) at Malmstrom AFB and the
341st Missile Wing.
2. Background. On 21 April 2000, the President of the United States issued Executive Order
13148, Greening the Government, which required Federal Agencies to develop and implement
environmental management systems. In January 2001, the Secretary of the Air Force and Air
Force Chief of Staff issued a joint memorandum directing the creation and implementation of an
Air Force Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Management System (ESOHMS) that
―ensures that commanders have a holistic view of these separately managed and funded
programs.‖ The ESOHMS implementation policy was modified by a memorandum issued by
HQ USAF/CV, Air Force Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Management Systems
Implementation, 9 September 2003, which requires the services to first implement the
Environmental (EMS) portion of the ESOHMS. On 24 January 2007 the President issued
Executive Order EO 13423, Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy, and Transportation
Management, which replaced EO 13148 and reiterated the requirement for an environmental
management system. On 18 September 2007 the Secretary of the Air Force issued a
memorandum stating that it is Air Force policy to comply with EO 13423. On 8 October 2009
President Barrack Obama issued Executive Order 13514, Federal Leadership in Environmental,
Energy, and Economic Performance, which reinforced the EMS requirements of EO 13423 by
requiring ―continuing implementation of formal environmental management systems at all
appropriate organizational levels.‖
3. Environmental Management System Drivers. This EMS manual was developed to assist
Malmstrom AFB personnel in complying with and executing various externally mandated and
internally directed requirements contained in the documents listed below.
     3.1. Executive Order 13423 (EO 13423) Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy, and
     Transportation Management, directs all federal agencies to implement an environmental
     management system (EMS) that includes measurable environmental goals and objectives that
     are reviewed and updated on an annual basis.
3. 2. Department of Defense Instruction 4715.17, (DODI 4715.17), Environmental Management
Systems, establishes policy, defines responsibilities, and provides procedures for DOD agencies
to achieve conformance with EMS requirements contained in Executive Order 13423. DODI
4715.17 requires EMS integration into the core business areas (i.e., missions, activities,
contracts, functions, business practices and agreements) and encourages the implementation of a
system that incorporates safety and occupational health requirements.
     3.3. The Air Force Audit Agency Report to SAF/IEE on Environmental Management Systems
     recommends that the Air Force move from a compliance-based management system to a
     continuous-improvement based management system in order to achieve the benefits realized
     by many industrial sectors and municipal governments studied during the audit.
341MWMAN90-802 22 FEBRUARY 2012                                                             3


   3.4. Executive Order 13514, Federal Leadership in Environmental, Energy, and Economic
   Performance, requires ―continuing implementation of formal environmental management
   systems at all appropriate organizational levels.‖
4. EMS Model. Malmstrom’s EMS is a proactive, systematic approach for managing the
environmental impacts of the activities of the Wing. The EMS utilizes a Plan–Do–Check–Act
method as shown in Figure 4.1. that provides for continuous program and project execution
improvement. The objective of the Malmstrom AFB EMS is to move beyond compliance and
the traditional focus on regulatory requirements to a broader, more inclusive view of the
interrelated nature of its activities. The Malmstrom AFB EMS draws from the two most broadly
used environmental management system models, the US Environmental Protection
Administration’s (EPA) Code of Environmental Management Principles, (CEMP) as detailed in
the fact sheet at EPA 315-B-97-001; and the International Organization for Standardization
(ISO) ISO 14001. This manual defines the Malmstrom AFB EMS by using the ISO 14001
principles and elements while incorporating both the CEMP and ISO methodologies.
Malmstrom has programs in place that addressed the principles of CEMP and ISO 14001.
However, these programs were not seen as connected parts of a system and were generally
operated in isolation of each other. This EMS facilitates integration of programs already in
place. This EMS also facilitates the identification of areas where Malmstrom’s resources could
be better allocated by directing them towards prevention, rather than for response. Proper
implementation is achieved through ongoing review of environmental programs and commitment
to continuous improvement. While the model closely aligns with the structure and framework of
the EPA’s CEMP and ISO 14001 models, it also contains a certain degree of flexibility to
account for unique and militarily significant requirements.
    4                                                        341MWMAN90-802 22 FEBRUARY 2012


Figure 4.1. EMS Model




        4.1. EMS Structure. The components of the Malmstrom AFB EMS are Planning (Plan),
        Implementation (Do), Checking and Corrective Action (Check), and Management Review
        (Act) as shown in Figure 4.1.
5. Planning
        5.1. Aspects and Impacts. Those activities, products, or services at Malmstrom AFB that
        interact with the environment are known as environmental aspects. The change to the
        environment that results from this interaction is known as the aspect’s impact. Developing a
        list of environmental aspects and analyzing the level of their impact creates the foundation on
        which the EMS program will be built. It allows the Air Force to focus its limited resources
        on those impacts that have the greatest potential negative impact on the environment and the
        mission. The aspects with the largest negative impacts on human health and the environment
        are known as significant aspects. Aspect identification and impact analysis methodology is a
        vital process because the identification of significant1 environmental aspects forms the basis
        for establishing objectives and targets, conducting legal and other reviews, identifying
        training requirements, determining requirements for operational controls, performing risk
        assessments, and completing management reviews.


1
  Significant Aspects – have a greater potential of impact on human health and the environment. This significance is
identified by having the higher impact scores.
341MWMAN90-802 22 FEBRUARY 2012                                                               5


  5.1.1 Significant Impacts and Aspects. The EMS Cross Functional Team (CFT) will
  identify activities with the most significant negative impacts to the environment using
  existing programs that measure pollution, waste, hazardous material use, compliance
  vulnerability, and natural resource degradation. These programs include the Toxic Release
  Inventory (TRI), Air Emission Inventory, Hazardous and solid waste generation reports,
  Enterprise Environment Safety and Occupational Health Management Information System
  (EESOH-MIS), the Compliance Site Inventory, Environmental Safety and Occupational
  Health Compliance Assessment Management Program (ESOHCAMP), and the Natural
  Infrastructure Assessment (NIA) program.
     5.1.2. Rating Criteria for Aspects and Their Subsequent Impacts. The CFT will
     evaluate significant aspects identified using the programs described in Section 5.1 using a
     ranking system to determine which of the significant aspects are the most significant.
     This ranking system is based on the ranking system described in the USAF EMS
     Planning Phase Guide, Module I. The ranking system will assign a score to each
     significant aspect based on the following criteria:
         5.1.2.1. Relative Cost
         5.1.2.2. Environmental Risk
         5.1.2.3. Regulatory Implication
         5.1.2.4. Potential Mission Degradation
         5.1.2.5. Community Concern
         5.1.2.6. The CFT will review the aspects with highest scores and identify several for
         improvement. No more than five significant aspects will be targeted for improvement
         at one time through the formal EMS process. Additional guidance on scoring
         environmental impacts to determine significant aspects can be found in the USAF
         EMS Planning Phase Guide, Module I, Chapter 4.0.
  5.2. Objectives and Targets. Objectives and Targets will be developed for each significant
  aspect targeted for improvement. ―Objectives‖ represent specific goals, whereas ―Targets‖
  provide quantitative indicators of performance against established goals. Objectives and
  targets will be established by the CFT and reviewed annually by the CFT and senior
  leadership through the ESOH Council.
     5.2.1. Pre-Established Targets. EO 13514 and the implementing instructions for EO
     13423 require that the following pre-established targets be included in the EMS program:
         5.2.1.1. Improve energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions of the
         agency, through reduction of energy intensity by 3 percent annually through the end
         of fiscal year 2015, or 30 percent by the end of fiscal year 2015, relative to the
         baseline of the agency’s energy use in fiscal year 2003.
         5.2.1.2. Ensure that at least half of the statutorily required renewable energy
         consumed by the agency in a fiscal year comes from new renewable sources, and to
         the extent feasible, the agency implements renewable energy generation projects on
         agency property for agency use.
6                                               341MWMAN90-802 22 FEBRUARY 2012


       5.2.1.3. Reduce potable water consumption intensity, relative to the baseline water
       consumption in fiscal year 2007, through life-cycle cost-effective measures by 2
       percent annually through the end of fiscal year 2020, or 26 percent by the end of
       fiscal year 2020. Reduce industrial, landscaping, and agricultural water consumption
       intensity, relative to the baseline water consumption in fiscal year 2010, through life-
       cycle cost-effective measures by 2 percent annually through the end of fiscal year
       2020, or 20 percent by the end of fiscal year 2020.
       5.2.1.4. Require in agency acquisitions of goods and services use of sustainable
       environmental practices, including acquisition of bio-based, environmentally
       preferable, energy-efficient, water-efficient, and recycled-content products, and use of
       paper of at least 30 percent post-consumer fiber content.
       5.2.1.5. Ensure that the agency reduces the quantity of toxic and hazardous chemicals
       and materials acquired, used, or disposed of by the agency. Maintain cost effective
       waste prevention and recycling programs. Divert at least 50% of non hazardous solid
       waste by the end of FY2015.
       5.2.1.6. Ensure that new construction and major renovation of agency buildings
       comply with the Guiding Principles for Federal Leadership in High Performance and
       Sustainable Buildings set forth in the Federal Leadership in High Performance and
       Sustainable Buildings Memorandum of Understanding (2006), and 15 percent of the
       existing Federal capital asset building inventory of the agency as of the end of fiscal
       year 2015 incorporates the sustainable practices in the Guiding Principles.
       5.2.1.7. Ensure that fleets of at least 20 motor vehicles, relative to agency baselines
       for fiscal year 2005, reduces the fleet’s total consumption of petroleum products by 2
       percent annually through the end of fiscal year 2015; increases the total fuel
       consumption that is non-petroleum-based by 10 percent annually; and uses plug-in
       hybrid (PIH) vehicles when PIH vehicles are commercially available at a cost
       reasonably comparable, on the basis of life-cycle cost, to non-PIH vehicles.
       5.2.1.8. Ensure that the agency when acquiring an electronic product to meet its
       requirements, meets at least 95 percent of those requirements with an Electronic
       Product Environmental Assessment Tool (EPEAT) registered electronic product,
       unless there is no EPEAT standard for such product, enables the Energy Star feature
       on agency computers and monitors, establishes and implements policies to extend the
       useful life of agency electronic equipment, and uses environmentally sound practices
       with respect to disposition of agency electronic equipment that has reached the end of
       its useful life.
       5.2.1.9. Reduce printing paper use and acquire printing paper containing at least 30
       % post consumer fiber.
    5.2.1.10. Comply with the storm water requirements of Section 438 of the Energy
    Independence and Security Act by incorporating the requirements of the EPA Guidance
    Document Technical Guidance on Implementing the Stormwater Runoff Requirements for
    Federal projects under Section 438 of the Energy Independence and Security Act into the
    design requirements for construction projects.
341MWMAN90-802 22 FEBRUARY 2012                                                               7


   5.3. Environmental Management Plans. Environmental Management Plans (EMP) will be
   developed to achieve objectives and targets. The EMP will act as a ―roadmap‖ or ―action
   plan‖ that identifies operational controls used to achieve the objectives and targets. The
   EMP shall identify the objectives and targets for the significant aspect, list the tasks to
   achieve the target, designate responsibilities, and establish a timeline for each task. EMPs
   that require system changes may establish changes to operating controls and procedures
   through the environmental planning documents. EMPs can be existing plans or a portion of
   existing plans if applicable. EMPs do not need to follow a specific format.
6. Implementation and Operation
   6.1. EMS Organizational Structure and Responsibilities. The implementation of the
   EMS requires the assignment of a team and responsibilities. The EMS Coordinator is
   appointed by the 341st Missile Wing Commander and typically comes from the
   Environmental Section within the Civil Engineer Squadron. The EMS Coordinator
   coordinates the support required to implement the EMS through the installation-wide EMS
   Cross-Functional Team (CFT). The CFT will include Program Managers from the
   Environmental Element along with representatives from key installation organizations.
   Typically, these organizations have a Unit Environmental Coordinator (UEC) who is ideally
   suited to fill this role. The CFT will also include representatives from the Energy
   Management Steering group, which have responsibility for developing and implementing
   plans to implement objectives and targets related to energy and utility conservation. The
   Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Council (ESOHC) Chair, CFT Chair, and
   EMS Coordinator may also ask for volunteers or look to other senior leaders to recommend
   individuals to serve on the CFT. Ideally, each unit, typically at the squadron level, whose
   functions impact the environment, will have at least one representative on this CFT. The unit
   representatives to the CFT aid in the development of the EMS and will be given clear
   responsibilities for representing and coordinating with specific organizations on the
   installation. The CFT, in combination with other ESOH committees, reports to the
   Malmstrom ESOH Council.
      6.1.1. EMS Cross Functional Team (CFT) Responsibility. The successful
      implementation of an installation-wide EMS requires support from all functional areas of
      the installation. The CFT reviews the significant aspects, and develops objectives and
      targets. Supervisors at all levels implement the EMS within their sections, providing the
      needed management support and resources. They coordinate with and provide
      appropriate assistance to the CFT representatives for base-wide requirements or
      initiatives. Environmental management responsibility and accountability is shared by all
      installation organizations. Responsibilities of the CFT include:
      6.1.2. Review and evaluate currency of the Air Force EMS Implementation Guidance,
      this manual, the installation environmental policy, and related EMS documentation and
      criteria.
      6.1.3. Advise, coordinate, and facilitate EMS implementation.
      6.1.4. Develop the aspect inventory
      6.1.5. Determine the significant aspects and subsequent impacts.
      6.1.6. Investigate cause and effect of significant aspects.
8                                                   341MWMAN90-802 22 FEBRUARY 2012


       6.1.7. Develop corrective actions to include objectives and targets.
       6.1.8. Update the ESOH Council on progress of the implementation and/or corrective
       action.
       6.1.9. Ensures the successful implementation of the EMS in their respective
       organization.
    6.2. Training. Successful implementation of the EMS requires that training be provided to
    personnel whose mission activities impact the environment. Training performed as part of
    the EMS program is comprised of three categories, Awareness, CFT Competence, and
    Mission Specific Competence.
       6.2.1. Awareness Training. Environmental awareness training is provided to all
       incoming personnel as part of the Right Start training program provided to base
       newcomers.
       6.2.2. EMS Cross Functional Team (CFT) Competence Training. Training will be
       made available to CFT members to help them perform their tasks. EMS overview
       training will be provided to Malmstrom AFB senior leadership as part of the EMS update
       during ESOH Council meetings. EMS training will also be available on the share drive at
       S:\ESOHMS.
       6.2.3. Mission Specific Competence Training. Personnel whose work activities impact
       the environment must be provided specific training to ensure their activities have the least
       impact to the environment and are in compliance with applicable regulations. This
       training requirement is identified and managed through the installation environmental
       program and implemented through plans such as the Spill Prevention Control and
       Countermeasures (SPCC) Plan. Training requirements for significant aspects specifically
       managed by the EMS will be identified in the Environmental Management Plans.
    6.3. Communication. Existing methods of communication will be used to provide base
    personnel and off base stakeholders with the information required to implement the EMS.
    Internal communication methods that are available include chain of command, bulletins, base
    paper, commanders calls, staff meeting, ESOH Council, Energy Management Steering
    Group, newcomers briefings, etc. External communication methods for use in providing
    information to off base personnel include methods currently used by the Public Affairs
    Office and stakeholder working groups such as the Whitmore Ravine Cooperative
    Conservation Committee.
    6.4. Document Control. Document management and control are key elements of the
    Malmstrom EMS. EMS documents include the following three categories of documents:
       6.4.1. Policy documents to include Air Staff letters, Command policy & guidance
       memos, and 341 MW policy letters.
       6.4.2. Procedures, to include AFIs, EMS Guidelines, Executive Orders, environmental
       management plans, and response plans.
       6.4.3. Working documents, including Operating Instructions, checklists, plans, aspect
       rankings, meeting minutes, and training documents. EMS documents or links to the
       documents are stored on the base share drive at S:\EMS\EMS Documents.
341MWMAN90-802 22 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                 9


   6.5. Operational Controls. Operational controls are work procedures that reduce the
   environmental impact or the potential for environmental impact from a significant aspect.
   Environmental Management Plans will identify appropriate operational controls. Examples
   of operational controls include site specific spill prevention, control, and countermeasures
   plans, spill response plans, inspection checklists, etc.
   6.6. Emergency Preparedness and Response. Proper preparations for and responses to
   emergency situations minimize adverse environmental impacts in the event of an actual
   emergency. Malmstrom AFB maintains emergency preparedness and response procedures to
   identify potential for accidents and emergency situations, respond to accidents and
   emergency situations, and prevent and mitigate the environmental impacts that may be
   associated with accidents and emergency situations. Emergency preparedness and response
   procedures at Malmstrom AFB are detailed in the Malmstrom AFB Comprehensive
   Emergency Management Plan (OPlan 10-2) and its supporting plans including the Spill
   Prevention, Control & Countermeasures Plan (SPCC), and the Civil Engineer Contingency
   response Plan (OPlan 10-211). The 341 MW has a properly trained and certified initial
   response force consisting of fire, security, and medical personnel that can deploy to the scene
   to provide initial command and control, save lives, and suppress and control hazards. Skills
   are honed through participation in emergency response exercises that are conducted on a
   regular basis. As practicable, these exercises are conducted in cooperation with local
   emergency response agencies. These exercises vary from tabletop exercises to full field
   exercises. Scenarios for the exercises are developed for potential emergencies that are most
   likely to occur during real world activities. At each appropriate worksite, site-specific
   emergency response plans are prepared and maintained. Employees at the worksite undergo
   periodic familiarization training in the emergency response procedures outlined in OPlan 10-
   2.
7. Checking and Corrective Action. The checking/corrective action phase of the EMS
provides information on how well the EMS is performing. The three components of this phase
are monitoring and measurement, assessment, and corrective action
   7.1. Monitoring and Measurement. Performance against the objectives and goals
   established during the planning phase will be measured and recorded quarterly.
   7.2. Assessments. The conformance of the Malmstrom AFB EMS to applicable regulations
   will be evaluated annually along with the overall status of compliance with environmental,
   health and safety regulations during ESOHCAMP assessments.
      7.2.1. Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Compliance, Assessment
      and Management Program. The Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health
      Compliance Assessment and Management Program (ESOHCAMP) as defined in AFI 90-
      803 make up the requirements of the ESOHCAMP. ESOHCAMP is a process to help
      commanders assess the status of their ESOH programs, and to identify and track solutions
      to ESOH compliance and conformance deficiencies. Some of the primary objectives of
      ESOHCAMP are to improve Air Force ESOH management to meet compliance
      standards, eliminate underlying ESOH problems through root cause analysis, identify
      systemic ESOH problems, forecast future compliance requirements, evaluate the
      effectiveness of internal environmental management programs, and accommodate the
      common interests in assessing environment, safety, and occupational health programs.
 10                                              341MWMAN90-802 22 FEBRUARY 2012


      The ESOHCAMP also annually assesses EMS implementation. The results of the
      ESOHCAMP assessment are comprised of regulatory and management practice findings.
      Findings are provided to the owning organization for corrective action and are tracked
      through the ESOH Council.
   7.3. Corrective Action. The results of the monitoring and assessments described in this
   section will be reviewed annually by the CFT and used to make changes to the EMS
   program. Progress towards objectives and targets will be evaluated and the corresponding
   environmental management plans adjusted accordingly. Results of the EMS assessment
   completed as part of the ESOHCAMP assessment will be used to identify deficiencies in the
   EMS program. The CFT and the EMS Coordinator will modify the EMS program and
   supporting documentation as necessary to correct any deficiencies. Results of the
   ESOHCAMP compliance assessment, especially high risk findings and program assessments,
   will be reviewed by the CFT and compared with the list of significant aspects. The list of
   significant aspects may be modified to include the significant aspects associated with the
   high risk findings or weak environmental program areas.
   7.4. Records Management. Records created as a result of prescribed processes in this
   publication are maintained in accordance with applicable AFIs and disposed of as indicated
   in the Records Disposition Schedule available at https://afrims.amc.af.mil. EMS records
   shall be maintained with the 341 CES/CEAN records.
8. Management Review. Regular management reviews are a critical component of the EMS.
Senior leadership will periodically evaluate the effectiveness of the Malmstrom AFB EMS to
ensure Wing resources are being focused efficiently on environmental program. The Malmstrom
AFB ESOH Council will be the forum used to perform the reviews
   8.1. ESOH Council Review. The CFT will report quarterly on progress toward EMS
   targets and objective to the ESOH Council. A more complete assessment of the EMS
   program will be provided annually to senior leadership and briefed annually at the ESOH
   Council. This assessment shall provide performance assessment reports summarizing the
   performance progress towards targets, trends, observations, results of the EMS ESOHCAMP
   assessment, and recommendations for changes. At the ESOH Council senior leadership will
   provide feedback and direction to modify or establish new priorities as necessary.




                                          HERALDO B. BRUAL, Colonel,
                                          USAFCommander
341MWMAN90-802 22 FEBRUARY 2012                                                              11


                                          Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
EO 13423        Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy, and Transportation Management,
Clean Air Act
Clean Water Act
Endangered Species Act
National Environmental Policy Act of 1969
National Historic Preservation Act
Oil Pollution Act of 1990
Occupational Safety and Health Act
Pollution Prevention Act of 1990
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act / Emergency Planning and Community Right-
       to-Know Act of 1986
Toxic Substance Control Act
AFI 32-7045 Environmental Compliance Assessment and Management Program
AFI 32-7086 Hazardous Materials Management
AFI 48-145      Occupational Health Program
AFI 91-301      Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health Program
AFPD 32-70 Environmental Quality
AFPD 48-1       Aerospace Medicine Program
AFPD 90-801 Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health
AFPD 91-2       Safety Programs
AFPD 91-3       Air Force Occupational Safety, Health, and Fire Protection Program
EMS The US Air Force Environmental Management System Implementation
Guidance Series, 6 February 2004
ISO 14001       International Organization for Standardization
CEMP            Code of Environmental Management Principles
Forms Prescribed:
None.
Forms Adopted:
 12                                             341MWMAN90-802 22 FEBRUARY 2012


AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
AFP—Air Force Pamphlet
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
CEMP—Code of Environmental Management Principles
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
CSI—Compliance Site Inventory
DoD—Department of Defense
DRMO—Defense Reutilization and Marketing Organization
EESOH—MIS–Enterprise Environmental, Safety, Occupational Health – Management
Information System
EIAP—Environmental Impact Analysis Process
EMS—Environmental Management System
EO—Executive Order
EPA—Environmental Protection Agency
ESOH—Environmental, safety, and occupational health
HMMP—Hazardous Material Management Program
IRP—Installation Restoration Program
ISO—International Organization for Standardization
MAFB—Malmstrom Air Force Base
OPLAN—Operations Plan
RCRA—Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
USAF—U.S. Air Force
