BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       341ST MISSLE WING INSTRUCTION 21-103
341ST MISSILE WING
                                                                                   1 JULY 2010

                                                                                   Maintenance

                                                     REPAIR AND CALIBRATION OF TEST,
                                                      MEASUREMENT, AND DIAGNOSTIC
                                                                  EQUIPMENT (TMDE)


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 341 MXG/MXQAE                                                   Certified by: 341 MXG/CC
Supersedes: 341SWI21-103,                                       (Colonel Jeffrey E. Frankhouser)
            12 February 2005                                                           Pages: 11


This instruction compliments AFPD21-1, Managing Aerospace Equipment Maintenance and
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management; and outlines responsibilities
and procedures applicable to the Precision Measurement Laboratory (PMEL), and all unit
commanders, staff sections, maintenance officers, supervisors, and Test, Measurement, and
Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE) coordinators and monitors at all levels of command that require
support from the PMEL, Malmstrom AFB. See Attachment 1 for a list of abbreviations and
acronyms. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847 through the 341 MW publishing office. This instruction does
not apply to Air National Guard (ANG) or Air Force Reserve (AFRC) personnel. Records
created as a result of prescribed processes in this publication are maintained in accordance with
applicable Air Force instructions, and disposed of as indicated in the Records Disposition
Schedule available at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This is a revision of 341SWI 21-103, 12 Feb 2005. Some adopted forms are no longer used (para
27).
1. Responsibilities. Unit commander, staff sections, maintenance officers, supervisors, and
TMDE monitors/coordinators at all levels of command that possess TMDE are responsible for
ensuring compliance with this instruction.
 2                                                               341MWI21-103 1 JULY 2010


2. TMDE Monitor/Coordinator Appointment. OWCs will appoint a primary and alternate
TMDE monitor/coordinator. The appointment must be in letter format, two copies, with owning
workcenter number and signed by the OWC’s maintenance officer or maintenance supervisor.
One copy will be sent to TMDE Scheduling and the other will be kept by the OWC TMDE
coordinator.
3. TMDE Monitors/Coordinators:
     3.1. The TMDE monitor/coordinator will receive orientation training from the TMDE
     Scheduling Section. Training sessions are scheduled by appointment. TMDE
     monitors/coordinators will bring the OWC TMDE Coordinator Folder to the training class.
     Annual refresher training is recommended and available through the Scheduling Section .
     3.2. The TMDE Coordinator Folder will include as a minimum:
        3.2.1. A current copy of this instruction.
        3.2.2. TMDE Monitor/Coordinator Letter of Appointment.
        3.2.3. OWC Master ID Listing (current corrected copy).
        3.2.4. OWC Equipment Schedule (current corrected copy).
        3.2.5. TMDE hand receipts from PMEL.
        3.2.6. TMDE Monitor/Coordinator’s Handbook and Newsletters.
     3.3. Provide upon request parameters and specifications, required by the OWC for any given
     unit of TMDE. This will allow the PMEL to calibrate TMDE to the user’s system
     requirements saving considerable time and money.
4. OWC Master ID Listing:
     4.1. PMEL scheduler will maintain a current Master ID Listing for all equipment that lists
     PMEL as the performing workcenter (PWC) in PMEL Automated Management System
     (PAMS).
     4.2. OWC Master ID Listing will be produced and distributed quarterly.
     4.3. The TMDE monitor/coordinator will maintain a corrected copy of the OWC’s Master
     ID Listing in the TMDE folder, and will:
        4.3.1. Physically check each item of TMDE against the OWC Master ID Listing for ID
        number, serial number, and date due calibration. The certification label on the TMDE is
        the authority for the date due.
        4.3.2. Make corrections and deletions in red ink in the OWC Master ID Listing and
        return the original copy to the TMDE scheduler within 10 duty days of receiving a new
        listing.
        4.3.3. Retain a corrected copy in the TMDE monitor/coordinator’s folder until the next
        OWC Master ID Listing is received. When a new master is received, ensure corrections
        are made on the new Master ID Listings.
341MWI21-103 1 JULY 2010                                                                       3


5. Equipment Schedule Parts I, II, III:
   5.1. The PMEL scheduler is responsible for producing and distributing equipment schedule
   parts I, II, and III monthly.
   5.2. TMDE monitors/coordinators and workcenter supervisors are responsible for reviewing
   their equipment schedules (part III) for mission essential TMDE. Contact the TMDE
   scheduler if like items of mission essential TMDE are due within 15 duty days of one
   another, or may interfere with exercises,inspections, TDYs, or other unique requirements.
   The TMDE monitor/coordinator must coordinate with the TMDE scheduler 5 duty days in
   advance. This will ensure that calibration resources will be available to support mission-
   essential TMDE due calibration.
   5.3. TMDE monitors/coordinators will accomplish the following on receipt of equipment
   schedule parts I, II, and III:
       5.3.1. Review part III of listing to ensure that all TMDE due calibration is listed. Also,
       review those items listed in parts I and II for correct status.
       5.3.2. Make corrections in red ink and return the original to TMDE scheduler within 10
       duty days after receipt.
       5.3.3. Use equipment schedule part III to pull TMDE scheduled for calibration.
6. Scheduling of TMDE:
   6.1. Hours for pick up and delivery of TMDE will be between 0700 - 1600, Monday through
   Friday. PMEL will be closed on weekends and recognized holidays.
   6.2. Scheduled TMDE will be delivered no later than the date due calibration. Unscheduled
   and initial TMDE will be scheduled by phone prior to delivery and will be delivered on the
   date established by the TMDE scheduler. Early or late deliveries disrupt work flow and can
   delay timely repair and calibration of other TMDE.
7. Unscheduled TMDE. TMDE requires a complete AFTO Form 350, Reparable Item
Processing Tag, attached to the unit when delivered to PMEL (T.O. 00-20-2-10). The name and
duty phone number of the individual who discovered the discrepancy will be put in block 14 of
the AFTO Form 350 for items requiring maintenance.
8. Overdue TMDE:
   8.1. The PMEL scheduler shall contact, by phone, customers who fail to deliver TMDE by
   the scheduled input date. This contact will be made no later than the next work day and shall
   provide the customer with a new delivery date for the TMDE.
   8.2. When TMDE is not delivered to PMEL by close of business on the 15th day overdue, a
   letter will be sent to the OWC’s PMEL monitor/coordinator identifying the workcenter with
   delinquent equipment.
   8.3. Items not received within 30 days overdue, a letter is sent to the PMEL
   monitor/coordinator and the OWC commander and the item will be deleted from the PMEL
   inventory unless a valid reason is provided by the OWC (e.g., TDY, deployed).
   8.4. TMDE scheduling will maintain a file of delinquency notifications.
 4                                                                341MWI21-103 1 JULY 2010


9. Calibration Responsibility Determination. Items of TMDE that are new to the Air Force
inventory may not be listed in T.O. 33K-1-100-2 or applicable weapons summaries. OWCs with
such TMDE will furnish PMEL the same information provided to the Air Force Primary
Standards Laboratory (AFPSL) for determination of calibration responsibility.
10. NCR/PEC and NCR/COM TMDE. All NCR items require marking in accordance with
T.O. 00-20-14. Only NCR items which have limited or full repair capability will be listed on the
Master ID Listing.
11. Types of Priorities:
     11.1. Routine Maintenance. TMDE maintenance accomplished on a first in, first out basis.
     Lack of the TMDE will not cause a life threatening situation, will not cause a work stoppage
     or mission failure, and will not impair mission accomplishment.
     11.2. Mission Essential Maintenance. TMDE maintenance accomplished ahead of routine
     maintenance.    Lack of the TMDE may cause work stoppage or impair mission
     accomplishment.
     11.3. Emergency Maintenance. TMDE maintenance accomplished ahead of routine and
     mission essential maintenance. Lack of the TMDE may cause a life threatening situation,
     work stoppage, or mission failure.
12. Priority Calibration or Repair:
     12.1. This policy is designated to provide equipment service to all OWCs and provide work
     flow through the laboratory. Strict compliance with this policy is required by all OWCs to
     ensure effective PMEL operations, reduce backlog, and provide all OWCs with calibration
     equipment in a timely manner.
     12.2. Workcenter supervisors will review their OWC’s maintenance data collection (MDC)
     equipment schedule to identify priority TMDE due scheduled calibration. The TMDE
     coordinator will contact the TMDE scheduler before TMDE is due calibration.
     12.3. Mission Essential Maintenance. TMDE requiring mission-essential maintenance shall
     be accomplished ahead of routine maintenance during normal duty hours. Customers
     requesting mission essential maintenance shall do so by letter, signed by their unit
     commander or equivalent.
     12.4. Emergency Maintenance. Customers requesting emergency maintenance shall do so
     via letter through the Functional Area Chief (FAC) for approval. Request for emergency
     service will be accepted anytime, day or night, and PMEL will respond within 1 hour. Work
     on TMDE requiring emergency service will continue non-stop until the item has been
     completed and returned to the customer, or until it has been determined that the item requires
     parts or repair which cannot be accomplished in time to satisfy mission requirements. In the
     latter case the customer will be advised through the FAC.
13. Lateral Support Priority. When TMDE is sent to another PMEL for calibration and the
OWC can justify an emergency or mission-essential priority, the PMEL scheduler will contact
the PMEL performing the calibration and request priority service.
341MWI21-103 1 JULY 2010                                                                       5


14. Condition of TMDE Delivered to PMEL. TMDE monitors/coordinators must ensure the
condition of TMDE delivered to PMEL is in compliance with requirements of T.O.s 33-1-127
and 00-20-14.
   14.1. All TMDE will be inspected by PMEL for the following:
       14.1.1. Exterior, including air filters and ancillary equipment are clean.
       14.1.2. Case finishes are correctly painted and stenciled. Hardware, latches, and hasps
       are properly maintained.
       14.1.3. Unmated connectors are capped (do not use tape).
       14.1.4. Missing or defective knobs.
       14.1.5. Exposed chassis are protected and placed in plastic bag or box.
       14.1.6. Leads and power cords are secured to the case.
       14.1.7. Connecting cables and accessories for calibration or repair are clean and properly
       maintained.
       14.1.8. Radioactivity Detection Indication and Computation (RADIAC) TMDE batteries
       are removed and placed in plastic bags, and RADIAC forms (AFTO Form 140, RADIAC
       Equipment Maintenance Record; AFTO Form 163, Request for Limited/Special
       Calibration [TMDE], and AFTO Form 249, TMDE Calibration Data) are complete.
       14.1.9. Fuse holders and power cords are wired in accordance with T.O. 33-1-32.
       NOTE: Common detachable power cords do not accompany TMDE to PMEL.
       14.1.10. Correct fuses, lamps, and lenses are installed.
       14.1.11. Batteries, to include soldered in type, are properly installed, charged, and not
       corroded or leaking.
   14.2. TMDE that cannot be placed into work due to lack of organizational maintenance by
   the owner/ user will not be accepted by PMEL.
15. TMDE Abuse. TMDE that has been abused will be identified by letter to the OWC
Maintenance supervisor for corrective action. Repetitive instances of TMDE abuse will result in
refusal of maintenance or calibration services or require the procurement of replacement parts by
the OWC. Improper transportation of TMDE constitutes abuse.
16. User and Owner Responsibilities. Are listed in T.O.s 00-20-14 and 33-1-27. The
following are for clarification:
   16.1. Should have access to and be familiar with the contents of T.O.s 00-20-14, 33-1-27,
   33K-100-1, and any applicable calibration and measurement summary.
   16.2. Maintain T.O.s or commercial manuals for equipment owned and provide the technical
   data when requested by PMEL. If data is not available or is not received in a timely manner,
   the equipment will be returned to the OWC and rescheduled upon receipt of the technical
   data.
   16.3. Contact the PMEL before attempting any organizational maintenance that would
   require removing internal parts, assemblies, or making internal adjustments that might affect
   calibration of TMDE.
 6                                                               341MWI21-103 1 JULY 2010


     16.4. Ensure that components of complex test stands and checkout consoles designated
     PMEL, USER, USER/PMEL, or See Individual Component Listing (SICL) in T.O. 33K-1-
     100-1 and 33K-1-100-2 are not removed for calibration merely because TMDE components
     are listed individually in T.O. 33K-1-100-2. These items must be identified to the PMEL
     scheduler by the test stand or console part number, work unit code, and Standard Reporting
     Designator (SRD). Removal of these items will be placed when feasible.
     16.5. Furnish PMEL with an informational copy of any action to procure new (not already
     supported by PMEL) TMDE which will or may require PMEL support (AF Forms 601,
     Equipment Action Request, AF IMT 2005, Issue/Turn In Request, and DD Form 1348-6,
     DOD Single Line Item Requisition System Document). This information will be used to
     acquire additional resources needed by PMEL to support the new TMDE. Each OWC will
     coordinate with PMEL before local purchase of any TMDE. Failure to follow the above may
     delay or prevent work from being done.
     16.6. Non Air Force agencies will be responsible for providing the calibration procedure to
     be used or the specifications and accuracy’s required when no Air Force procedure exists. It
     is also the OWC’s responsibility to provide material resources PMEL needs to perform repair
     and calibration if PMEL does not have the required resources.
17. AFTO Form 255, Notice Certification Void When Seal is Broken. The AFTO Form 255
will be used at the option of the TMDE flight chief.
18. Oxygen TMDE (Including Liquid Oxygen). Workcenters having oxygen TMDE will
comply with the inspection and cleaning procedures in T.O. 15X-1-102 prior to turn-in for
calibration. TMDE not in compliance with the specified standards will not be accepted by the
PMEL.
19. Calibration of Peculiar (PEC) TMDE. Primary responsibility for calibration of PEC
TMDE rests with the OWC. OWCs with PEC TMDE calibration requirements beyond their
capability should try other base resources prior to requesting assistance from PMEL. Request for
PMEL support of PEC TMDE will be evaluated on a “one-time-only” basis.
20. TMDE Received from Supply. OWCs receiving TMDE from supply will leave all
condition tags attached to the unit. If the TMDE is determined to be defective during initial
calibration, the following procedures apply:
     20.1. Test equipment issued from depot stock or shipped from manufacture will be
     processed in accordance with T.O. 00-32D-54 (CAT II MDR) by the OWC. PMEL will
     furnish technical details of rejection or failure.
     20.2. If warranty repair is available on new items, they will be returned to the OWC for
     processing. The PMEL will furnish technical details of the rejection or failure as well as
     warranty and processing information.
21. TMDE Awaiting Parts (AWP):
     21.1. PMEL will notify OWC TMDE monitors/coordinators within 3 duty days when their
     TMDE is placed in AWP status. Notification may be by telephone or letter.
     21.2. It is the TMDE monitor/coordinator’s responsibility to ensure that the Force Activity
     Designator (FAD) and Urgency Justification Code (UJC) used by PMEL are compatible with
341MWI21-103 1 JULY 2010                                                                        7


   the OWC’s requirements. If the OWC requires a change, or if a (MICAP) condition has been
   created, then the OWC must provide PMEL a letter requesting upgrade.
   21.3. OWC must submit a mission impact statement to PMEL for parts requests that do not
   have an estimated delivery date within 30 days. Mission impact statements should be as
   detailed as possible. They should state precisely how the lack of the TMDE is affecting the
   OWC’s mission. (Are aircraft being grounded - flights delayed? Is it affecting flight safety?
   How is it affecting manpower, time, and effectiveness? What affect, if any, is this situation
   having on the total base mission?)
   21.4. If PMEL has not received an acceptable estimated delivery date on the parts, or status
   of parts on order is unacceptable, then disposition instructions will be requested from the
   depot Item Manager (IM).
22. TMDE Quality Assurance. When equipment is received from the PMEL with a
discrepancy, the TMDE monitor/coordinator will notify PMEL Quality Assurance and the
Contract Quality Assurance Evaluator (QAE). The TMDE monitor/coordinator should have all
information concerning the discrepancy. If serviceability cannot be determined, the TMDE will
be rescheduled into the PMEL. If the difficulty is not resolved to the OWC’s satisfaction, it
should be reported to the PMEL site manager. The TMDE monitors/coordinators must validate
the accuracy of certification labels on TMDE returned from PMEL. Discrepancies will be
brought to the attention of PMEL Quality Assurance. All reported discrepancies will be
investigated.
23. Transportation of TMDE. TMDE monitors/coordinators are responsible for the protection
of TMDE being transported. Physical characteristics of individual TMDE will dictate the extent
of protection required during transportation. In general, protection from the elements and from
excessive shock and vibration is all that is required. In addition to the requirements in T.O. 00-
20-14, the following guidelines must be followed to protect TMDE and prevent equipment
downtime:
   23.1. Protect knobs, dials, and meter faces.
   23.2. Hog’s hair, foam padding, or similar protection will be used under and between all
   commercial TMDE.
   23.3. Plug-in units will be installed in main frames or containers with padding.
   23.4. TMDE will not be stacked when transported or hand carried.
   23.5. Vehicle routes will be selected to provide as smooth a ride as possible.
   23.6. Only one item of TMDE will be carried in each hand.
   23.7. Caution must be taken to protect equipment containing electrostatic discharge (ESD)
   sensitive components.
24. Mission Changes, Exercises, and Inspections. OWC supervisors will coordinate with the
PMEL Site Manager as far in advance as possible for known mission changes, exercises, and
inspections. This will enable PMEL to provide the best possible support to the OWC.
25. TMDE Modernization and Replacement. The PMEL Site Manager or designated
representative will assist any OWC in updating or modernizing their TMDE inventories with
 8                                                          341MWI21-103 1 JULY 2010


current-generation equipment. This service may be obtained by appointment through the PMEL
scheduler.
26. Condition Tags. TMDE condition can only be determined by PMEL; therefore, all TMDE
condition tags must be signed by PMEL personnel.
27. Forms Adopted.
AF Form 601, Equipment Action Request,
AF Form 2005, Issue/Turn In Request,
AFTO Form 140, RADIAC Equipment Maintenance Record,
AFTO Form 255, Notice Certification Void When Seal Is Broken,
AFTO Form 350, Reparable Item Processing Tag,
DD Form 1348-6, DoD Single-Line Item Requisition System Document




                                         MICHAEL E. FORTNEY, Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander
341MWI21-103 1 JULY 2010                                                                      9


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

A1.1. General. Owning Workcenter (OWC) and Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic
Equipment (TMDE) monitors/coordinators will be familiar with the contents of this instruction
and the references listed below as they pertain to the repair and calibration of TMDE:
References

FAR 66-1, Maintenance Management Policy.
MACRO 66-1, Maintenance Management Policy.
T.O. 00-20-14, Air Force Metrology and Calibration Program.
T.O. 00-25-234, General Shop Practice Requirements for the Repair, Maintenance, and Test of
Electronic Equipment.
T.O. 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting and Investigation System.
T.O. 11H4-1-1, Periodic Inspection and Certification of Federal Stock Class (FSC) 6665
Equipment and Standards.
T.O. 15X-1-102, General Care and Use of Oxygen Gauges and Oxygen Test Equipment.
T.O. 33K-1-100-1 and 33K-1-100-2, TMDE Interval, Calibration and Repair, Technical Order
Guide and Work Unit Code Manual.
T.O. 33-1-5,. Removal of Batteries from Test Equipment in Storage/Shipment.
T.O. 33-1-19, General Care, Use of and Maintenance of Pressure, Vacuum, and Compound
Gauges.
T.O. 33-1-27, Logistics Support of Precision Measurement Equipment.
T.O. 33-1-32, General Instructions for the Input Power and Wiring of Electrical/Electronic
Support Equipment.
T.O. 33-1-35, Inspect Federal Stock Class Equipment and Install Warning Decal.
T.O. 1F-16A-37, Calibration and Measurement Summary for F-16( ) Weapon System.

Abbreviations and Acronyms

AFTO—Air Force Technical Order
AFPSL—Air Force Primary Standards Laboratory
CBU—Calibrate Before Use
AWP—Awaiting Parts
COM—Commercial Data
ESD—Electrostatic Discharge
FAC—Functional Area Chief
FAD—Force Activity Designator
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
FSC—Federal Stock Classification
MDC—Maintenance Data Collection
MICAP—Mission Capable
NCR—No Calibration Required
NDI—Nondestructive Inspection
NPC—No Periodic Calibration
 10                                                                341MWI21-103 1 JULY 2010


OWC—Owning Workcenter
PAMS—PMEL Automated Management System
PEC—Peculiar TMDE
PMEL—Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratory
PWC—Performing Workcenter
QAE—Quality Assurance Evaluator
RADIAC—Radioactivity Detection, Indication, and Computation
SICL—See Individual Component Listing
SRD—Standard Reporting Designator
TDY—Temporary Duty
TMDE—Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic Equipment
T.O.—Technical Order
UJC—Urgency Justification Code

Terms

Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE)—Equipment that is used to
troubleshoot, perform functional test or calibration on weapon systems, aircraft, their
subsystems, or the equipment in support of these systems while on the ground. This category
includes aircraft and engine test cells, shop test stands, nondestructive inspection (NDI)
equipment, electrical test sets, weapon systems of aircraft mock-ups, generator load banks,
associated electrical and electronic supporting equipment, stationary hydraulic test stands, etc.

TMDE Monitor/Coordinator—The TMDE monitor/coordinator is assigned by each
workcenter and serves as the vital link between the PMEL and OWC. The TMDE
monitor/coordinator obtains calibration support for their activity, keeps the OWC informed as to
the status of their TMDE, and provides advice for their Commander, Chief of Maintenance and
OWC supervisors. Normally all communications from the OWC will go through the TMDE
coordinator.

Peculiar (PEC) TMDE or Equipment Category 2—TMDE used to check out, measure, or
maintain mission equipment and is maintained by other than the TMDE Laboratory.
Common (COM) TMDE or Equipment Category 3— Common commercial and military
standard TMDE used for maintenance, troubleshooting, testing, verification, and calibration of
mission equipment.

Scheduled TMDE—All items of TMDE that appear on the current Equipment Schedule.

Unscheduled TMDE—All items of TMDE requiring repair or calibration that do not appear on
the Equipment Schedule.

Initial Calibration—The first calibration of TMDE after its receipt from supply or other
sources.

Equipment Schedule—A monthly listing that reflects all TMDE due calibration during the
scheduled period. The schedule is produced in three parts: Section I is TMDE currently overdue
341MWI21-103 1 JULY 2010                                                                         11


calibration, Section II is TMDE currently in PMEL, and Section III is TMDE due calibration for
the scheduled period listed by date due calibration.

Master ID Listing—This is a listing, produced quarterly, of all TMDE owned by a particular
OWC that is supported by PMEL, listed in ID number sequence.

No Periodic Calibration Required (NPC)—TMDE that is not used to verify performance
factors in support of critical equipment or support equipment can be designated NPC. TMDE
used just to indicate presence of a signal or to make a measurement requiring no accuracy
verification may be designated NPC.

Seldom Used, Calibrate Before Use (CBU)—TMDE that is seldom used may be designated
CBU. Items designated CBU must be calibrated prior to use. CBU equipment will be identified
on the Master ID Listing as “CBU.” Items that are not used at least once during their calibration
interval are good candidates for this designation.

Limited Calibration—Multifunction TMDE can be limited to only those functions actually
used to meet job requirements. For example, a multimeter used only to measure 115 volts
alternating current can be calibrated just for alternating current volts. Limited calibration is an
economical practice and is required in order for the PMEL to provide the highest quality product
and the best possible service.
