BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   341ST SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 31-207
341ST SPACE WING                                                                           30 AUGUST 2004

                                                                                                      Security

                                                                    341ST SPACE WING DEPLOYMENT
                                                                                 WEAPONS ARMORY



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 341 LRS/LGRR (MSgt Holmquist)                         Certified by: 341 LRS/CC (Lt Colonel Jackson)
                                                                                                Pages: 6
                                                                                         Distribution: F

This is the initial publication of this instruction. This instruction provides specific guidance for the opera-
tion of the Space Wing Deployment Weapons Armory. It covers all aspects of the day-to-day mission and
any contingency situations. The established guidelines for security, storage, accountability, issue/turn-in,
handling of weapons, munitions and associated equipment are the responsibility of all personnel. This
operating instruction will be used in conjunction with AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force
Personnel, AFMAN 31-229, USAF Weapons Handling Manual, AFI 31-101, The Air Force Installation
Security Program, 341SWI 31-101, Installation Security Instruction.
This operating instruction requires the collection and/or maintenance of information protected by the Pri-
vacy Act (PA) of 1974. The authorities to collect and/or maintain the records prescribed in this publication
are 10 U.S.C. 8012, 44 U.S.C. 3101 and Executive Order 9397. Forms affected by the PA have an appro-
priate PA statement. System of records notice F030 AF SF A applies. Records created as a result of pre-
scribed processes in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN37-123, Management of
Records, and disposed of as indicated in the Records Disposition Schedule available in WebRIMS.


1. Entry Controls and Procedures. Strictly control and limit armory visitors to official business only.
The primary or alternate Arms, Ammunition and Explosives (AA&E) monitors, Unit Deployment Man-
agers (UDM) and squadron weapons custodians will provide control over all individuals entering/exiting
the facility. All personnel on the armory Entry Authorization Letter (EAL) with two asterisks (**) next to
their name have the authority to escort personnel wanting to enter the armory. Individuals with one aster-
isk (*) by their name are authorized to escort only those personnel on a posted EAL or in the performance
of official duties. Tours or visitations must be cleared through the primary or alternate AA&E monitors.
   1.1. During normal operations, the number of personnel allowed access to the armory will be two
   armorers and one visitor IAW established AF IMT 2047, Explosive Facility License. The number
   may change during contingency actions based upon the armorers determination.
2                                                                     341SWI31-207 30 AUGUST 2004


    1.2. Personnel requesting entry to the deployment weapons armory will contact the primary or alter-
    nate AA&E monitors located in room A118. The individual will then present their DD Form 2/2AF or
    any other form of government identification to the AA&E monitor who in turn will check their infor-
    mation against the EAL. Personnel who are not listed on the EAL will not be granted access to the
    deployment weapons armory without prior coordination with the individuals work center. All visiting
    personnel are required to receive a safety briefing located on the AF IMT 1109, Visitor Register Log,
    clipboard and, once briefed, enter all information on the AF Form 1109/Visitor Register Log prior to
    entry into the armory. Escorted personnel will be monitored at all times while inside the armory.
    1.3. The door to the deployment weapons armory, when open for issue or turn-in, will remain open at
    all times. If for any reason an armorer should become incapacitated, contact the 911 Dispatch Center
    and the primary and/or alternate AA&E monitors immediately.
    1.4. If for any reason the primary or alternate AA&E monitors or any of the squadron weapons custo-
    dians cannot be reached, and emergency entry is required, then the 341st Logistics Readiness Squad-
    ron will post a sentry at the armory. Once armory personnel arrive, a complete inventory will be
    accomplished and security will be taken over by staff personnel.

2. Armory Protection. On-duty armorers are required to be armed at all times. The primary weapon will
be the M-9 (9MM), with 30 rounds of ammunition.
    2.1. If the installation increases its security posture due to advanced warning of a possible or actual
    threat on base, all staff personnel will be armed. Increase security vigilance by monitoring individuals
    outside of the facility, watching for unattended items. No bags/brief cases will be allowed in room
    A113. Additionally, verify the security status of personnel prior to opening the armory door.
    2.2. Weapons racks may remain unlocked anytime there is at least one armed individual inside the
    facility. In the event of facility evacuation, all racks will be locked.
    2.3. Keys and locks to weapons and containers will be controlled at all times. The 341 LRS/CC will
    designate in writing the key and lock custodians; they will monitor custody, handling, and control of
    all armory keys. Personnel authorized access to keys and locks will be identified in writing.
    2.4. Inventory and account for keys each time the deployment weapons armory door is opened. Weap-
    ons custodians and armorers will sign keys in and out on the AF IMT 2432, Key Issue Log. Keys that
    are not in use will remain in the wall key cabinet. Key inventories will be conducted semiannually by
    the primary and/or alternate AA&E monitors and the key and lock custodian with the results being
    documented in writing.
    2.5. The door alarm to the facility will remain in the access mode as long as there is at least one armed
    armorer on duty inside the facility. The facility will be placed in the secure mode when there are no
    armorers present.
    2.6. Duress alarm tests will be conducted on a weekly basis with the 911 Dispatch Center. Every
    Wednesday, test all the facility’s duress alarms. The first Wednesday of each month, the primary or
    alternate AA&E monitors will test the entire alarm system. Annotate checks on the AF IMT 2530,
    Alarm Test Record.
    2.7. If any portion of the alarm system is found to be inoperable, immediately notify alarm mainte-
    nance (ext 6238) with the discrepancy. If the entire system is down for any length of time, conduct
    hourly status checks with the 911 Dispatch Center. In the event of three alarm failures within a 24 hour
341SWI31-207 30 AUGUST 2004                                                                                3


   period, 341 LRS/LGRR will provide security until the fault is repaired and normal alarm operations
   resume.
   2.8. Authentication codes are assigned to all armory personnel. The primary or alternate AA&E mon-
   itors will change them every 90 days or sooner if compromised. The authentication codes will be
   authenticated by the 341 LRS/LGRRR, Security Manager, and copies will be maintained at the 911
   Dispatch Center. Only assigned staff personnel will have access to authentication codes.
   2.9. Authentication must be accomplished anytime the security status of the facility is in question, the
   alarm system is tested, when the 911 Dispatch Center receives an alarm, or when securing the entrance
   door alarm. Once the door is placed into secure mode, armorers will have to authenticate each time
   they enter or exit the armory. The 911 Dispatch Center dispatcher will pass you a portion of your
   assigned code, and you will give the remainder of the number.
   2.10. All personnel will be knowledgeable of the current duress words and how they are used.

3. Alarm Duress Situations. During an unauthorized entry attempt, indication of duress, or attempted
robbery, take the following actions: Without drawing attention to your actions, activate the duress alarm
immediately. Ask the individual for their demands while committing their physical characteristics to
memory. Due to the physical make up of the armory, it may be impossible to secure the door; therefore,
protection of assets are authorized IAW AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel.
Notify the facility of the situation and secure the armory. Fill out the Anti-Robbery Checklist, AF IMT
439.
   3.1. Inform the 911 Dispatch Center of the situation by relaying the information from the AF IMT
   439. Do not erase it until the investigation is completed. Secure the crime scene by using any available
   personnel. If they handed you any items, secure them as evidence to protect any fingerprints.
   3.2. Bomb threats received when working in the armory will be handled in the following manner:
       3.2.1. Keep the individual on the line for as long as possible
       3.2.2. Do not hang up the phone until the situation has been terminated
       3.2.3. Notify all on-duty armorers of the situation and secure the armory
       3.2.4. Do not allow any radio transmissions in or around the armory
       3.2.5. Evacuate all non-essential personnel from the armory/BLDG
       3.2.6. Fill out the bomb threat checklist (AF form 440)
   3.3. Notify the 911 Dispatch Center of the situation by relaying the information from the checklist.
   Make every attempt to notify the rest of the building. Keep all agencies updated as the situation
   progresses. The fire chief will make the decision to evacuate.
   3.4. If a fire should break out within the facility, it will be everyone’s responsibility to fight it. One
   person will immediately notify the fire department of the situation. Relay the type of fire and location,
   along with the actions being taken at the time. The senior person on scene will make the determination
   to evacuate.
   3.5. Notify the 911 Dispatch Center of the situation.
4                                                                      341SWI31-207 30 AUGUST 2004


4. Emergency Evacuations. In the event it is deemed necessary to evacuate the armory, the following
measures will be taken. Working together as a team, one armorer will make the necessary notifications,
(911 Dispatch Center and the primary or alternate AA&E monitors, stating the reason for evacuation).
Another armorer will verify that all racks and containers are secure. Safety of personnel, and preserving
life are the primary concerns.
    4.1. Secure the armory door. Upon return to the armory, a 100% inventory will be conducted on the
    entire facility before ANY transactions occur.

5. Weapons Authorization. All personnel must be qualified to carry their assigned weapon. Each indi-
vidual will be identified on a current weapons qualification roster provided by their respective UDM or
weapons custodian. The roster will be updated quarterly or more frequently as required. If for any reason
an individual is not on the current qualification roster, they will not be armed until an updated addition
sheet is accomplished and signed by the appropriate squadron commander.
    5.1. Individuals who have the authorization to arm personnel must be identified on the DD Form 577,
    Signature Card. Squadron security managers are required to review their unit’s DD Forms 577
    semi-annually for accuracy. Their signature must be the same on all arming rosters. Each squadron
    will provide 341 LRS/LGRRP with an updated arming roster semi-annually. Each time a roster is
    turned in, it is the primary or alternate AA&E monitors responsibility to verify the signature. If the
    authorized signer personally turns in the roster, the signature can be a copy; if anyone else turns in the
    roster, one copy has to have an original signature.

6. Weapons Denial. Any individual who is currently identified on the No Arm letter, has been drinking
8 hours prior to duty, or is acting in an irresponsible manner will be denied access to their weapon(s).
They will not be granted access until the situation has been resolved.
    6.1. Unit commanders have the final authority in the denial or issue of any weapon.
    6.2. Each squadron will provide 341 LRS/LGRRP with an updated No Arm letter by COB of the last
    duty day of each month.
    6.3. If an armorer detects the smell of an alcoholic beverage on a customer’s breath, he/she will notify
    the individual’s UDM or weapons custodian, and weapons issue will be denied.
    6.4. It is the responsibility of all armory personnel to refuse issue of firearms or munitions to any per-
    sonnel who are believed to be emotionally or physically incapable of bearing arms. The flight leader-
    ship will have to vouch for anyone who is questionable. If the individual’s squadron leadership takes
    responsibility for the individual, only then will that individual be armed.

7. Weapons Issue. One individual will be allowed at the issue/turn-in door at a time. Prior to issuing any-
one a weapon, the individual must be properly identified, either by personal recognition or by checking
his or her DD Form 2/2AF. If they do not have their ID card, their supervisor must be present at the
armory to verify the person’s identity.
    7.1. Verify qualification date and complete all blocks on the weapons receipt prior to the designated
    arming time. If there are any questions about an individual’s current qualifications contact their
    respective UDM. These items must be confirmed prior to issuing personnel a weapon.
    7.2. Armorers are responsible to ensure that a clearing barrel supervisor is in place and wearing safety
    goggles before issuing any weapon. If no clearing barrel supervisor is available, the armorer will not
341SWI31-207 30 AUGUST 2004                                                                                5


   issue the weapon. Once the weapon is issued, the individual will proceed directly to the clearing barrel
   at port arms or raised pistol and properly clear the weapon. The individual will then holster or sling the
   weapon as necessary.

8. Issue Priority. The primary or alternate AA&E monitors, if available, will take charge of the clearing
room to ensure the safe and timely flow of personnel. However, if commitments within the Deployment
Control Center prevent the primary and alternate AA&E monitors from fulfilling this role, the wing’s
weapons custodians will assume this role. They will be the clearing barrel officials and will maintain con-
trol of the number of personnel allowed in the clearing room.

9. Arming Times. Unit personnel participating in Mobility or Field Training Exercises will draw their
weapons according to the times established by the Deployment Schedule of Events.
   9.1. Unit Deployment Managers will contact 341 LRS/LGRRP, Contingency Planning and Training
   section to coordinate arming personnel scheduled to deploy in support of an AEF or other contingency
   deployment.

10. Weapons Turn-In. All weapons turn-ins will be coordinated with 341 LRS/LGRRP, Contingency
Planning and Training section, prior to arriving at the weapons vault. This will prevent delays when turn-
ing in weapons and ensuring that the proper personnel are available to monitor turn-in procedures. Each
Individual is responsible to maintain their issued assets in a clean and operational status. If an item is
missing, and/or in need of repair, it is each individual’s responsibility to bring it to the attention of the
their respective weapons custodian. By doing so, those items can be replaced and maintenance performed
to ensure the operational status is maintained. All personnel will turn-in their own equipment, unless there
is an in-field emergency.
   10.1. When individuals return to the armory, they will be required to properly clear their weapons as
   outlined in AFMAN 31-229 and the posted clearing procedures. Responsible clearing barrel supervi-
   sors are needed to ensure proper clearing procedures are strictly adhered to. Armorers are responsible
   to monitor the clearing room for compliance of safety standards, i.e., personnel proceeding to the
   armory window at port arms, no gloves on while clearing or turning in the weapon.
   10.2. Any deviation from the established procedures must be coordinated through the primary or
   alternate AA&E monitors.
   10.3. All weapons will be clean prior to turn-in. The following information will identify the required
   cleaning standards and will be complied with at all times:
       10.3.1. Weapons will be free of all carbon in accessible areas.
       10.3.2. Weapons will be free of excessive dust, dirt, and oil.
       10.3.3. Barrels will be cleaned with a bore brush and patches.
       10.3.4. Weapon sights will be dust free and lightly oiled.
   10.4. Upon return of any weapons to the armory, the weapons custodian will ensure all weapons are
   properly cleaned and a functional check has been accomplished.
   10.5. Weapons being returned will be checked for cleanliness and serviceability. Any items missing
   or damaged will be brought to the attention of the respective weapons custodian. The customer will be
6                                                                    341SWI31-207 30 AUGUST 2004


    required to complete an AF IMT 1168, Statement of Suspect/Witness/Complainant. A report of sur-
    vey will be accomplished, as needed.

11. Inventory Requirements. Physical inventories will be conducted each time the facility is opened but
not less than once per calendar week IAW AFI 31-101. All inventories will be documented on AF IMT
1473, Gun and Equipment Room Inventories or equivalent computer generated form. Local computer
generated forms should include the weapon type, quantities, date inventoried, and individual conducting
the inventory. Dispose of forms IAW AFMAN 37-139.

12. Facility Care and Cleaning. All assigned personnel are responsible for maintaining the armory in
the very best of care. The armory will be cleaned as necessary after issuing or returning weapons; the
facility’s trash will be removed, the floors swept and mopped, and the weapon racks will be dusted and
wiped down with appropriate cleaner.

13. Information Dissemination. All inquiries concerning the armory and its alarm system will be for-
warded to 341 LRS/LGRRP, Contingency Planning and Training section. All weapons inquiries will be
forwarded to the respective unit’s weapons custodian.

14. Annual Training. All armory staff personnel are required to attend annual training to attain the skills
necessary to apply security techniques IAW AFI 31-101 Chapter 7. The 341st Security Forces Group will
conduct this training on an annual basis. To schedule annual training contact 341 SFG/SFRP, ext 4344.

15. Forms Adopted. This instruction adopts AF IMT 439, Anti-Robbery Checklist; AF IMT 1109,
Visitor Register Log; AF IMT 1168, Statement of Suspect/Witness/Complainant; AF IMT 1473,
Guns and Equipment Room Inventories; AF IMT 2047, Explosive Facility License; AF IMT 2432
Key Issue Log; AF IMT 2530, Alarm Test Record; and DD Form 577, Signature Card. See the pre-
scribing directive for each IMT/form for completion instructions.



                                                     EVERETT H. THOMAS, Colonel, USAF
                                                     Commander
