BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                                            354 FW INSTRUCTION 36-501
354TH FIGHTER WING (PACAF)                                                              31 JULY 2006

                                                                                    Civilian Personnel

                                                              MANAGING CIVILIAN PERSONNEL
                                                                                RESOURCES



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:        Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                      www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 354 MSS/DPC                                   Certified by: 354 MSG/CC (Col Janet M. Wallace)
Supersedes 354 FWI 38-201, 9 June 2001                                                    Pages: 8

This Fighter Wing Instruction implements AFPD 36-5, Civilian Personnel Resource Management and
AFPD 38-2, Manpower. It also provides information specific to the implementation of AFI 36-502, Man-
aging Civilian Personnel Resources and AFI 38-201, Determining Manpower Requirements. It estab-
lishes procedures for requesting civilian temporary over-hires and applies to all units assigned to the
354th Fighter Wing on Eielson Air Force Base. This instruction does not apply to US Air Force Reserve
or Air National Guard units or members. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes pre-
scribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with AFRIMS Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://
afrims.amc.af.mil. Public Law 104-13, The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 and AFI 33-360, Volume
2, Content Management Program-Information Management Tool (CMP-IMT), affects this publication.
The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in
this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This change incorporates grammatical error corrections and eliminates over-hire approval authority by
the group commander. It also streamlines requests through 354 MSS/MOF, 354 MSS/DPC, and 354
CPTS. Lastly, its scope and purpose has transitioned from just civilian over-hire request to a broader
guide for civilian resource management.


1. Human Capital Task Force (HCTF).
   1.1. Purpose. From the Office of the Secretary of Defense and down the chain, a Human Capital Task
   Force has been established to assess, advise, and assist in developing a more contemporary human
   resource plan of action in response to a very fluid environment of changes in mission.
2                                                                         354FWI36-501 31 JULY 2006


    1.2. Charter and Authority. The wing HCTF was chartered by the commander to provide a wing focal
    point to plan, execute, and evaluate the 354 FW human resource strategies. It was also given the
    authority to task all wing units to provide the resources necessary to support the HCTF.
    1.3. Focus. This task force is established as a working group to address issues such as:
       1.3.1. balancing manpower authorizations with the Future Year Defense Plan (FYDP).
       1.3.2. aligning military essential positions to core competencies (war-fighting requirements).
       1.3.3. employing "Alternative Sourcing" for non-military essential positions, i.e., civil service
       employees or contracted services.
       1.3.4. evaluating recruitment/retention methodologies pertaining to 354 FW manning.
    1.4. Plan Contents. The HCTF plan is to be comprised of a single strategic chapter and four core sup-
    port chapters: civilian cost management; civilian employment; military employment; and manpower
    management engineering. Each chapter will include a one to three page snapshot of core support
    information. The preface to these chapters will be the strategic chapter, which will be based upon an
    analysis of common themes and issues cutting across the four core chapters, and will serve as an out-
    line of the wing's overall HCTF strategies.

2. Corporate Board (CB). The CB is chartered to ensure civilian resources are used efficiently and
effectively (AFI 36-502).
    2.1. The CB is comprised of a chairperson, voting members and advisors. The Fighter Wing Vice
    Commander (FW/CV) is the chairperson and Group Commanders are the voting members. The Man-
    power and Organization Flight (MOF), 354 Comptroller Squadron (CPTS) and Civilian Personnel
    (DPC) office provide advisors to the CB.
    2.2. The primary responsibilities of the CB are: reviewing wing civilian resource management oper-
    ating budget submissions; periodically reviewing employment plans; comparing civilian pay expendi-
    tures against budgetary targets; and establishing instructions on civilian resource management for the
    installation.
    2.3. Temporary work requirements or requirements that are not recognized by HQ PACAF may be
    priorities at the wing level, and possibly satisfied by a civilian over-hire. An ongoing concern of the
    CB is to provide oversight to civilian over-hire requests and to evaluate the validity of the require-
    ment, cost, personnel implications, and organizational/wing needs in order to determine the priority
    and/or approval of any over-hire request.
       2.3.1. Periodically, the CB advisors will review over-hire matters with the CB chairperson.
       Should local civilian costs become critically constrained, and/or there are civilian personnel
       over-hire requests by two or more groups, the chairperson may elect to convene a CB. Final
       approval authority for all over-hire requests rests with the CB chairperson, the FW/CV. Should the
       chairperson elect to convene a board meeting, DPC will organize and coordinate the meeting.
       2.3.2. Funding for valid over-hire requirements is created locally through "lapse" rates, (surplus
       civilian pay dollars created when civilian positions are vacant, i.e., retirement, separations, trans-
       fer, unfilled vacancies, LWOP, etc.). The validation of workload requirements is critical to this
       process.
354FWI36-501 31 JULY 2006                                                                              3


3. Over-hires. Normally, over-hires may only be approved for the following purposes:
   3.1. Seasonal Workloads. For performance of seasonal workloads exceeding allocated manpower
   requirements and impairing direct mission accomplishment. Examples of such workloads are build-
   ing the ice bridge, snow removal, range build-up, Bird Air Strike Hazard (BASH), etc. Such work-
   loads are programmable because of the nature of the work involved and requests should be processed
   well in advance.
   3.2. Emergency Workloads. For accomplishment of emergency workloads which are beyond the con-
   trol of the local commander/functional manager. Examples of such workloads are fire damage, storm
   damage, etc. Peak workloads that were accounted for during development of manpower standards for
   a given functional area are not considered as emergency workloads for purposes of over-hire, except
   when prolonged or heavy AEF deployments effectively reduce a work center's labor force such that
   peak workloads become the norm and backed-up work threatens to become emergency work.
   3.3. Extended Requirements. Over-hire requirements that exceed 12 months or the 24-month statu-
   tory limitations in a 36-month period should be submitted as potential manpower variances in accor-
   dance with AFMAN 3 8-208, Volume 1, Chapter 12, through the MOF. The over-hire process is not
   intended to serve as a permanent funding source for valid, unfunded manpower requirements. Units
   should work with their PACAF functional representatives to resolve permanent funding issues.
   3.4. Level of Service. Level of service is intangible benefits for work performed beyond what is
   earned by manpower standard and cannot be validated, i.e., summer student positions. Level of ser-
   vice workload will only be quantified by MOF, and CB approval will be based on what the wing can
   actually afford to fund via "lapse rate" percentage. Organizations should clearly state whether their
   request is for a level of service.

4. Overlap of Civilian Employees (Outgoing/Incoming).
   4.1. The Civilian Personnel Officer may approve overlaps up to 2 weeks provided the gaining unit has
   a training agenda in place and CPTS verifies funding availability.

5. Originator. The originator (normally the squadron commander or their designated representative) of a
request for a temporary civilian employee will:
   5.1. ensure there is a valid requirement for the temporary employee, usually not to exceed 12 months,
   and/or the limitations cited in 5 CFR 316.401 (See Attachment 1). Each over hire request should
   include a Not-To-Exceed date (NTE), which reflects the last date the employee is expected to work.
   Normally, NTE dates will not exceed the last day of the current fiscal year.
   5.2. explore other alternatives to satisfy the workload prior to submitting an over-hire request. Evi-
   dence of alternatives explored should be included with each request for an over-hire.
   5.3. analyze the potential impact of an over-hire request on work center personnel to include work-
   load distribution, supervisory ratios, and organizational efficiency.
   5.4. submit an electronic memorandum with all the information described in Attachment 2 to 354
   MSS/MOF.
       5.4.1. Validation of over-hire requirements is accomplished by the MOF. In order for the valida-
       tion process to be timely, the submission should occur well in advance of when the position needs
4                                                                      354FWI36-501 31 JULY 2006


       to be in place. MOF will keep the CPTS and DPC office apprised of the status of each over-hire
       request.
       5.4.2. Once a valid over-hire request has been approved by the CB or its chairperson, an appropri-
       ate Request for Personnel Action should be submitted by the originator. In limited cases, some
       units may have additional resources to pay for valid over-hire requirements. These units are
       authorized to fill over-hires within their funding limitations.
       5.4.3. Requests for extending an over-hire beyond their original NTE date should also be submit-
       ted well in advance. This type of request should be submitted 60 days (preferably 120 days)
       before the incumbent over-hire terminates.
    5.5. upon approval, ensure the over-hire employee is used as requested and terminated no later than
    the NTE date unless the over-hire can be released sooner or is formally extended. The originator
    should work very closely with the civilian personnel office to ensure hiring and termination actions
    are accomplished timely to ensure mission requirements are fully supported. If contract services are
    performed for the function, over-hire workload may not include work already contracted.

6. CB Advisors. Civilian Personnel (DPC), Financial Management (CPTS), and Manpower and Organi-
zation (MOF) jointly help managers and supervisors by: developing, defending, and coordinating bud-
gets, funding, utilization, and projections for civilian resources; allocating manpower resources;
forecasting, executing, and adjusting civilian pay budgets; and advising managers and supervisors on
human resource issues.
    6.1. Manpower and Organization (354 MSS/MOF). The MOF determines and validates manpower
    requirements needed to accomplish the mission; processes authorization change requests to HQ
    PACAF for validated manpower requirements; and advises managers on how best to use manpower
    resources.
       6.1.1. Valid work is defined in AFI 38-201 as work directed by the major command or above.
       Locally generated workload is not defined as valid, but will still be quantified so an acceptable
       level of service may be determined.
       6.1.2. Once an over-hire request is received MOF will conduct/document an operational audit of
       the workload. Within the audit the work activity is broken down into tasks which are measured in
       terms of frequency of accomplishment and per accomplishment times to provide a monthly
       man-hour total. Depending on the complexity of the workload circumstance, MOF may accept a
       detailed narrative description of the workload to be accomplished and a statement describing why
       the existing work force cannot accomplish it, in lieu of completing an audit.
       6.1.3. In either case, MOF will also make sure the proposed workload is not already included in
       the work center's manpower standard.
       6.1.4. MOF will then forward the request to CPTS and DPC via e-mail.
    6.2. Comptroller Squadron (354 CPTS). The primary role of the Financial Managers and Comptrol-
    lers is: developing and defending civilian resource budget projections based on programs approved by
    the CB, advising managers on budgeting techniques and practices, executing their civilian resource
    budget; and using civilian resource funds.
       6.2.1. CPTS validates cost estimates for requested positions including all benefits and incidental
       costs.
354FWI36-501 31 JULY 2006                                                                             5


     6.2.2. CPTS will verify availability of funds. In limited cases some units may have funds to pay
     for a valid over-hire, and will not require CB approval. However, in those cases once MOF and
     DPC have completed their validation processes the unit will be required to initiate the appropriate
     budget transfer source documents.
  6.3. Civilian Personnel Flight (354 MSS/DPC). The primary role of DPC is to assist managers and
  supervisors by: helping them plan employment; validating and processing the fill action; staffing the
  position; bringing the employee on-board; and analyzing the potential impact of over-hire requests on
  work center personnel to include work load distribution, supervisory ratios, and organizational effi-
  ciency.
     6.3.1. New employee selection. Advanced recruitment is encouraged. If the supervisor is made
     aware of an upcoming vacancy, a request for fill can be submitted 120-180 days in advance. An
     early start to recruitment will reduce the number of days the position remains vacant. Supervisors
     have 20 calendar days to make a selection once a list of candidates is issued when filling civilian
     positions. In the event a selection cannot be completed within 20 days, the Civilian Personnel
     Officer may approve an extension (normally no greater than 10 days). Extensions should be
     granted only in the case of unique circumstances and not routinely requested or approved.
     6.3.2. Civilian Training Planning and Programming. The Civilian Personnel Officer will approve/
     disapprove the Civilian Annual Installation Training Plan to include out-of-cycle adjustments.
     The Civilian Personnel Office will brief the Human Capital Task Force on training execution on a
     quarterly basis.



                                             DAVID J. SCOTT, Brigadier General, USAF
                                             Commander
6                                                                            354FWI36-501 31 JULY 2006


                                                Attachment 1

                        EXCERPT OF CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS
Title 5, Volume 1, Parts 1 to 699
Revised as of January 1, 2006
PERSONNEL
CHAPTER I--OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT
PART 31 6--TEMPORARY AND TERM EMPLOYMENT
Subpart D--Temporary Limited Employment
§ 316.401 Purpose and Duration.
(a) Appropriate use. An agency may make a temporary limited appointment—
(1) To fill a short-term position (i.e., one that is not expected to last longer than 1 year);
(2) To meet an employment need that is scheduled to be terminated within the timeframe set out in para-
graph (c) of this section for such reasons as abolishment, reorganization, or contracting of the function,
anticipated reduction in funding, or completion of a specific project or peak workload; or
(3) To fill positions on a temporary basis when the positions are expected to be needed for placement of
permanent employees who would otherwise be displaced from other parts of the organization.
(b) Certification of appropriate use. The supervisor of each position filled by temporary appointment
must certify that the employment need is truly temporary and that the proposed appointment meets the
regulatory time limits. This certification may constitute appropriate documentation of compliance with
the limits set out in paragraph (c) of this section. The reason(s) for making a temporary limited appoint-
ment must be stated on the form documenting each such appointment.
(c) Time limits—general.
(1) An agency may make a temporary appointment for a specified period not to exceed 1 year. The
appointment may be extended up to a maximum of 1 additional year (24 months of total service).
Appointment to a successor position (i.e., to a position that replaces and absorbs the position to which an
individual was originally appointed) is considered to be an extension of the original appointment.
Appointment to a position involving the same basic duties and in the same major subdivision of the
agency and same local commuting area as the original appointment is also considered to be an extension
of the original appointment.
(2) An agency may not fill a position by temporary appointment if that position has previously been filled
by temporary appointment(s) for an aggregate of 2 years, or 24 months, within the preceding 3-year
period.
(d) Exceptions to general time limits.
(1) Agencies may make and extend temporary appointments to positions involving intermittent or sea-
sonal work without regard to the requirements in paragraph (c) of this section, provided that:
(i) Appointments and extensions are made in increments of 1 year or less.
354FWI36-501 31 JULY 2006                                                                                  7


(ii) Employment in the same or a successor position under this and any other appointing authority totals
less than 6 months (1,040 hours), excluding overtime, in a service year. The service year is the calendar
year that begins on the date of the employee’s initial appointment in the agency. Should employment in a
position filled under this exception total 6 months or more in any service year, the provisions of paragraph
(c) of this section will apply to subsequent extension or reappointment unless OPM approves continued
exception under this section. An individual may be employed for training for up to 120 days following
initial appointment and up to 2 weeks a year thereafter without regard to the service year limitation.
(2) OPM will authorize exceptions to the limits set out in paragraph (c) of this section only when necessi-
tated by major reorganizations or base closings or other unusual circumstances. Requests based on major
reorganization, base closing, restructuring, or an official at the headquarters level of the Department or
agency must make other unusual circumstances that apply agencywide. Requests involving extension of
appointments to a specific position or project based on other unusual circumstances may be submitted by
the employing office to the appropriate OPM service center.
[59 FR 46898, Sept. 13, 1994]


         DRAFT - NOT FOR COMPLIANCE OR COMPLIANCE
8                                                                       354FWI36-501 31 JULY 2006


                                             Attachment 2

                         TEMPORARY OVER-HIRE REQUEST FORMAT
Date
MEMORANDUM FOR 354 MSS/MOF
FROM: UNIT
SUBJECT: Request for Civilian Temporary Over-hire


1. Position title, anticipated grade and job series:
2. The workload for this over-hire (is / is not) covered by an Air Force manpower standard. A
description of the workload is attached for 354 MSS/MOF to validate.
3. In accordance with Unit Manning Document (UMD) the Program Element Code (PEC),
Functional Account Code (FAC), and title of the work center where the over-hire will be utilized
is:
     PEC       FAC        Organizational Structure Code
4. Period of over-hire (start and "not-to-exceed" dates).
5. Total number of personnel assigned to the work center. List by Officer (OFF), Enlisted
(ENL) and US Civilian (USC). Officer: ___ Enlisted: ___             Civilian: ____
6. Total number of unit personnel authorized and assigned in the same AFSC as the requested
over-hire. ________
7. List of over-hires currently on board in the unit:
Position                                        Not to
Title    Number Grade FAC AFSC/Job Series              Start Date Exceed Date


8. Estimate over-hire cost.
9. Justification. Include directive, circumstance, or backlog which supports the requirement for
a temporary over-hire.


COMMANDER'S SIGNATURE
