BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       354 FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION 21-104
354TH FIGHTER WING
                                                                                  23 MAY 2012

                                                                                   Maintenance

                                                          SELECTIVE MANAGEMENT OF
                                                       SELECTED GAS TURBINE ENGINES


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil/

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 354 MXG/CC                                                      Certified by: 354 MXG/CC
                                                                            (Col Bryan S Manes)
                                                                                        Pages: 6
Supersedes:   354 FWI 21-104, 13 Mar 09


This instruction implements AFPD 21-1, Managing Aerospace Equipment Maintenance, AFI 20-
115, Selective Management of Selected Gas Turbine Engines, AFI 21-101, Aerospace Equipment
Maintenance Management and is in addition to T.O. 00-25-254-1, Comprehensive Engine
Management System (CEMS) Engine Configuration, Status and TCTO Reporting Procedures
and T.O. 00-25-257, Engine Trending and Analysis General Information User’s Manual. It
provides policies and procedures for the uniform and efficient management of propulsion units
through the designation of unit responsibilities. This designation includes the accurate and
timely reporting to CEMS and the Integrated Maintenance Data System (IMDS) for all assigned
aircraft engines. This publication does not apply to the Air National Guard or US Air Force
Reserve. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional's chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System       (AFRIMS)      Records      Disposition     Schedule      (RDS)       located      at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims.afrims/rims.cfm/. Contact supporting records managers
as required.
 2                                                                  354FWI21-104 23 MAY 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The changes to this instruction include detailed responsibilities for the ET&D/EHM Program
Supervisor/Monitor as directed by AFI 20-115, Selective Management of Selected Gas Turbine
Engines, ACCI 21-152 Engine Trending and Diagnostic Program, and ACCDIR90-2374
Compliance and Standardization Requirements List (C&SRL) Logistics (A4/A4M), Engine
Trending and Diagnostics.
1. 354th Maintenance Squadron (MXS) Propulsion Flight The Jet Engine Intermediate
Maintenance (JEIM) section will:
     1.1. Physically maintain the engine work folder or work package records established for all
     engines possessed until the engine is transferred. Engine Management (EM) section will
     maintain the aircraft engine records.
     1.2. JEIM and EM section will conduct a pre-maintenance meeting or engine pre-dock
     meeting for all engines inducted into JEIM during the base work load processing segment of
     the base repair cycle. The pre-maintenance meeting must occur before work starts on the
     engine. The engine pre-dock meeting will ensure identification and agreement of all
     maintenance requirements/actions to include inspections, Time Compliance Technical Orders
     (TCTOs), Time Change Items (TCIs), modifications and other opportunistic maintenance
     actions.
     1.3. Provide the entire engine work package to EM for engine/module receiving inspections,
     prior to engine test cell operations and before/during final engine/module inspections. This
     procedure will ensure identification of all maintenance actions required during the shop visit,
     a thorough maintenance review before test cell operation, and final verification of all work
     accomplished before the quality assurance final evaluation.
        1.3.1. Prior to test cell operation, verify that all installed TCIs are accurate and properly
        reflected in IMDS.
        1.3.2. Prepare a complete comprehensive post-maintenance summary for EM input into
        the IMDS and CEMS database.
     1.4. Request from EM section disposition instructions for all aircraft engine shipments
     transferring to another Stock Record Account Number (SRAN), returning to depot or any
     other location. EM will coordinate shipment actions with HQ PACAF Command Engine
     Manager (CEM) and receive authorization before issuing shipment documentation. EM will
     include in the automated history a historical entry outlining the total time (EOT, CCYs, etc.),
     the reason for shipment, the destination, and other pertinent information.
     1.5. Coordinate/inform EM of all modules (uninstalled), and major assemblies (uninstalled)
     shipments returning to depot or any other location. EM will include in the automated history
     as a historical entry the total time (EOT, CCYs, etc.) and the reason for shipment, the
     destination, and other pertinent information.
     1.6. Aircraft Engine Status & Inventory Reporting – Immediately report aircraft engine
     status changes for all accountable propulsion systems/assets under unit supervision/control.
     Use an automated product and submit via e-mail to Engine Management (EM) section’s
     organizational e-mail and to the SRAN engine managers accounts by 0700.
354FWI21-104 23 MAY 2012                                                                    3


  1.7. Time Change Item (TCI) and TCTO Management. Provide EM adequate secured
  storage area for TCTO kits, supply point assets, and on-hand TCI components.
     1.7.1. JEIM and MODS sections will provide/turn-in the TCI/DIFM asset to the EM TCI
     supervisor before EM issues the serviceable TCI for the scheduled replacement action.
     This process will ensure firm control and quick turn-in of DIFM assets to base supply for
     depot repair or disposal. On a case-by-case basis, the EM TCI supervisor will issue
     serviceable TCI items before receipt of DIFM asset(s) to support JEIM/module
     maintenance and repair efforts. When JEIM and module repair sections receive
     serviceable TCI assets early, personnel must ensure DIFM assets removed are ready for
     turn-in to base supply the next duty day.
     1.7.2. Check the life remaining on a Line Replaceable Unit (LRU) in IMDS before
     issuing to FS for cannibalization actions.
     1.7.3. JEIM will receive from EM all TCTO kits mandated and agreed upon for this
     maintenance induction/shop visit directly after the pre-maintenance meeting.
  1.8. Engine Trending and Diagnostics (ET&D)/Engine Health Management (EHM) Program
     1.8.1. The ET&D/EHM Program Senior Noncommissioned Officer (SNCO) will execute
     the ET&D program for the 354th Fighter Wing. The ET&D duties are considered the
     major responsibilities of the EHM technician and monitor. EM assigned personnel will
     not perform as EHM monitor/SNCO. These individuals must be knowledgeable in
     engine operation, troubleshooting, and repair procedures. The EHM SNCO uses
     knowledge of assigned engines to develop ET&D recommendations. The EHM SNCO
     analyzes the data available, particularly using the Comprehensive Engine Trending And
     Diagnostics System (CETADS) to analyze marginal or questionable engines and
     recommend maintenance actions. Additionally, the ET&D SNCO will:
        1.8.1.1. Manage and coordinate the ET&D program for the maintenance and
        operations group commanders
        1.8.1.2. Administer the ET&D program in accordance with this 354 FWI and
        applicable technical orders.
        1.8.1.3. Act as the single POC for the 354 FW for all recommended changes to this
        instruction.
        1.8.1.4. Be the primary technical advisor on the ET&D program for the MXG/CC
        and OG/CC.
        1.8.1.5. Manage the ET&D workload, schedule, and ET&D data management and
        analysis to ensure continual evaluation and daily flow of ET&D data.
        1.8.1.6. Validate the ET&D monitor’s recommendations for engine maintenance as a
        result of program trending or analysis.
        1.8.1.7. Maintain a register of where the ET&D equipment is located.
     1.8.2. EHM Monitor Responsibilities: The EHM monitor will enter maintenance data
     into the EHM and make appropriate entries into the 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and
     Work Document, for engines on ―watch‖ status. The monitor submits Deficiency Reports
 4                                                                354FWI21-104 23 MAY 2012


        (DRs) when applicable to EHM discrepancies. EHM monitor will additionally comply
        with ACCI 21-152, section 9 ―ET&D Program Monitor(s).‖
        1.8.3. The Propulsion Flight Chief will ensure that the test cell section has a work center
        computer dedicated exclusively for CETADS.
            1.8.3.1. The CETADS work center computer is used only by Aerospace Propulsion
            Jet Engine (2A6X1A AFSC) personnel for ET&D purposes.
        1.8.4. Download aircraft engine time, temperature and cycle data for reporting purposes
        at the completion of every test cell engine run operation. Process/upload the aircraft
        engine download/event history recording (EHR) data retrieved from the Modernized
        Engine Monitoring System Computer (MEMSC) into the CETADS work center
        computer located at the test cell facility. Using the CETADS work center computer,
        forward the EHR data to the CETADS host computer located in EM. Immediately
        submit the EHR data file by e-mail if the Eielson network is offline or the host computer
        is offline for maintenance.
     1.9. The propulsion flight chief will ensure that EM is equitably manned with authorized
     Aerospace Propulsion Jet Engine personnel (2A6X1A AFSC).
2. 354th Aircraft Maintenance Squadron (AMXS), 18th Aircraft Maintenance Unit (AMU)
     2.1. Engine Health Management/Engine Trending and Diagnostics (ET&D). The AMXS
     commander will ensure that the AMU specialist flight has a laptop computer(s) for
     deployment dedicated exclusively to the CETADS. CETADS is a software program
     designed to receive download data from the aircraft engine allowing operational users to
     view tables and graphs to determine go/no-go information. CETADS enables long-range
     forecasts of impending failures based on trends and operational limits established by depot
     engineers. CETADS use further strengthens management and health of the F-16 aircraft
     engine fleet.
        2.1.1. Engine Management Section is responsible for supplying CETADS host and work
        center computers as well as program installation, setup and troubleshooting. EM will
        provide the AMU Aerospace Propulsion Jet Engine Specialists training on the CETADS.
        The CETADS work center computer is for use only by AMU Aerospace Propulsion Jet
        Engine (2A6X1A AFSC) personnel for ET&D purposes.
        2.1.2. F-16 aircraft F110-GE-100 A/B/C Engine History Recorder data download
        procedures:
            2.1.2.1. Perform aircraft engine downloads and forward to EM section within two
            hours after the last aircraft flight of the day. This includes aircraft engine ground
            operational runs. EM section will process the Event History Recording (EHR) data
            file into IMDS and CEMS in order to quickly compute and accurately determine the
            time remaining/life limits used. EM Section will submit a daily report to enhance
            AMU leadership decisions for aircraft availability/augment flying schedule
            effectiveness.
            2.1.2.2. Upload the Event History Recording (EHR) data downloaded from the
            Comprehensive Engine Diagnostics Unit (CEDS)/Common Engine Transfer System
            (CETS) into the CETADS workstation computer or laptop. Using the CETADS work
354FWI21-104 23 MAY 2012                                                                   5


         center computer, forward the EHR data to the CETADS host computer located in
         EM. Immediately submit the EHR data file by e-mail if the Eielson network is offline
         or the host computer is offline for maintenance.
         2.1.2.3. Reconcile every duty day engine data between the CETADS work center
         computer and the CETADS host computer located in EM.
3. Records Management
  3.1. Required form or document numbers/titles will be maintained according to T.O. 21-01
  R 04.00, (Records Disposition Schedule, https://webrims.amc.af.mil/ apply for this
  records.), used, and disposed.




                                         JAMES N. POST III, Brigadier General, USAF
                                         Commander
 6                                                           354FWI21-104 23 MAY 2012


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 21-1, Managing Aerospace Equipment Maintenance, 25 Feb 2003
AFI 20-115, Propulsion Management for Aerial Vehicles, 12 Jan 2012
AFI 21-101, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management,26 Jul 2010
00-25-254-1, Comprehensive Engine Management System (CEMS) Engine Configuration, Status
and TCTO Reporting Procedures, 1 Feb 2012
00-25-257, Engine Trending and Analysis General Information User’s Manual, 1 Aug 2008
ACCI 21-152, Engine Trending and Diagnostic Program, 20 Apr 2000
ACCDIR90-2374 Compliance and Standardization Requirements List (C&SRL) Logistics
(A4/A4M), Engine Trending and Diagnostics, 03 Sep 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AMU—Aircraft Maintenance Unit
AMXS—Aircraft Maintenance Squadron
CEDS—Comprehensive Engine Diagnostics Unit
CEMS—Comprehensive Engine Management System
CETADS—Comprehensive Engine Trending and Diagnostic System
CETS—Common Engine Transfer System
HER—Event History Recording
EM—Engine Management
ET&D—Engine Health Management/Engine Trending and Diagnostics
JEIM—Jet Engine Intermediate Maintenance
MXS—Maintenance Squadron
SRAN—Stock Record Account Number
TCI—Time Change Items
TCTO—Time Compliance Technical Orders IMDS
