BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             354TH FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION 31-202
354TH FIGHTER WING (PACAF)
                                                                                            30 MAY 2009
                                                                                                  Security

                                                               JUVENILE CORRECTIONS PROGRAM



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:             Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
                           Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY:             There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 354 MSG/CD                                         Certified by: 354 MSG/CD (Mr. Charles D. Ford)
Supersedes: 354FWI31-202, 8 September 2005                                                   Pages: 4


This instruction implements AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense. It provides the framework for disposition
of juvenile misconduct cases and the treatment of juvenile offenders. It applies to all incidents of
juvenile misconduct committed on Eielson AFB. This instruction is affected by the Privacy Act of
1974. Records generated by this instruction are authorized by Title 44 U.S.C., to be completely
documented on AF IMT 3545, Incident/Complaint Report, as prescribed by AFI 31-201, Security Police
Standards and Procedures. The use of a name of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Public Law 104-13, The Paperwork
Reduction Act of 1995 and AFI 33-360, Volume 2, Content Management Program-Information
Management Tool (CMP-IMT), affect this publication. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate
chain of command. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Multiple changes to allow JCB to apply to all juveniles who engage in misconduct on Eielson Air Force
Base.
1. General. All juvenile misconduct may be brought before the Juvenile Corrections Board (JCB).
Every action by the board will be designed to correct the offender’s behavior, when possible, and to
preserve and maintain good order on Eielson AFB. A juvenile is defined as any unmarried non-military
person under the age of 18 years. Misconduct is defined as a violation of a statute, laws, regulations or
instruction. Participation is voluntary; however, all juveniles/parents who do not choose to participate in
the JCB process will be subject to other actions, including barment from base.
2                                                                              354FWI31-202 30 MAY 2009


2. Responsibilities.
    2.1. Parents, guardians, or hosts (in the case of juvenile house guests from off-base) have the
    primary responsibility for the conduct of their children and for ensuring compliance with all
    applicable state and federal laws, as well as Air Force and Eielson AFB instructions.
    2.2. The Installation Commander is responsible for preserving and maintaining good order on
    Eielson AFB and must ensure that the conduct of all persons residing thereon is consistent with that
    goal.
    2.3. The Mission Support Group Commander is responsible for the administration of the Juvenile
    Corrections Board and will serve as final review and appellate authority with respect to all cases
    brought before the board.
    2.4. The Mission Support Group Deputy Commander serves as the Chairperson of the Juvenile
    Corrections Board and presides over all open and closed sessions of the board.
3. Juvenile Corrections Program. The Juvenile Corrections Board will convene as needed to review
cases of juvenile misconduct on Eielson AFB.
4. Composition of the Juvenile Corrections Board. The Mission Support Group Deputy Commander
is the board chairperson. A judge advocate will assist the chairperson as necessary. The chairperson
may select other members of the base community to sit on the board if the nature of a particular case
requires. Other members of the board may include representatives from Security Forces, Chaplain
Service, Mental Health, Family Support Center, and Military Equal Opportunity.
5. Actions of the Juvenile Corrections Board. In most cases, the Mission Support Group Deputy
Commander will administer corrective actions in collaboration with the juvenile’s parents after the
Juvenile Corrections Board has reviewed the case and made recommendations. The Mission Support
Group Deputy Commander may administer actions without convening a board in cases deemed by the
MSG/CD to be time sensitive. The board may impose, but is not limited to, the following actions:
    5.1. Oral reprimand of the juvenile and/or his or her military sponsor.
    5.2. Written reprimand of the juvenile and/or his or her military sponsor, signed by the Installation
    Commander, Mission Support Group Commander, or Mission Support Group Deputy Commander.
    5.3. Referral of the juvenile to the Mental Health, Clinic, Chapel, or other agency for counseling.
    5.4. Imposition of community service work.
    5.5. Referral of the juvenile to the Eielson AFB Drug/Alcohol Abuse Program.
    5.6. Restricting or denying access to certain base areas and facilities.
    5.7. Imposition of curfew.
    5.8. Referral of the juvenile to an appropriate state program or agency dealing with juveniles.
    5.9. Require juvenile to write an essay of up to three pages on a subject relating to the incident, why
    the action was wrong, or other related topic deemed appropriate by the Mission Support Group
    Deputy Commander.
    5.10. Action by the Installation Commander barring the juvenile from Eielson AFB and/or
    terminating government quarters for the juvenile’s sponsor.
354FWI31-202 30 MAY 2009                                                                              3


   5.11. Referral of the case to the local United States Attorney for possible prosecution in the United
   States District Court or to the State of Alaska Attorney General’s Office for possible prosecution in
   the State of Alaska District or Juvenile Court.
6. Parental or Guardian Consent and Participation.
   6.1. Actions such as imposition of community service work or referral to Eielson AFB
   Drug/Alcohol Abuse program do require parental consent. Parents or Guardians may decline
   authorization for these recommendations, however, failure to cooperate and participate in the
   program as administered by the Mission Support Group Deputy Commander could result in more
   serious strategies, such as barment of the juvenile from Eielson AFB, termination of the sponsor’s
   government quarters, and/or referral of the case to the United States Attorney for possible
   prosecution.
   6.2. When directed by the Mission Support Group Deputy Commander, the sponsor, parent, or
   guardian will be required to attend meetings regarding the disposition of their juvenile’s case.
   6.3. If the imposition of community service is accepted, the sponsor, parent, or guardian will be
   required to find and document appropriate community service.
   6.4. The sponsor, parent, or guardian will be required to return the report of compliance on the date
   directed by the Mission Support Group Deputy Commander.
7. Command Action. Any action taken by the Juvenile Corrections Board will be documented on the
appropriate incident report and filed as prescribed by AFI 31-201, Security Police Standards and
Procedures.
8. Appeal. Any decision of the Juvenile Corrections Board may be appealed to the Mission Support
Group Commander. Any appeal must be: (1) in writing; (2) initiated within 10 days of the board’s
action and; (3) specific as to the reason the individual believes the board’s action was in error. The
board’s decision will remain in effect during any delay occasioned by an appeal.
9. Adopted Forms.
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
10. Prescribed Forms.
AF IMT 3545, Incident/Complaint Report




                                            MARK W. GRAPER, Brig Gen, USAF
                                            Commander
4                                                                     354FWI31-202 30 MAY 2009


                                          Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense, 7 July 2007
AFI 31-201, Security Police Standards and Procedures, 30 March 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006
Public Law 104-13, The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995

Abbreviations and Acronyms
JCB— Juvenile Corrections Board
