BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                           354TH FW INSTRUCTION 44-104
354TH FIGHTER WING (PACAF)
                                                                                        20 APRIL 2009
                                                                                               Medical

                                                          BLOODBORNE PATHOGENS EXPOSURE
                                                                                CONTROL


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:            Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
                          Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY:            There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 354 MDG/SGOAM                                  Certified by: 354 MDG/CC (Col. Howard T. Hayes)
Supersedes: 354FWI44-104, 6 May 2005                                                     Pages: 14


This instruction implements AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations. This instruction applies to, but may not
be limited to, the following personnel: Medical personnel whose duties include exposure to blood and
body fluids; Fire Department personnel; Law Enforcement (SFS) personnel; Life Guard personnel
(FSS); and the Office of Special Investigations personnel (OSI). In emergency conditions, sections of
this instruction could apply to other personnel. This instruction does not apply to US Air Force Reserve
or Air National Guard units or members. The use of a name of any specific manufacturer, commercial
product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 37-123, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with Air Force Web-RIMS Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://webrims.amc.af.mil/rds/index.cfm. Public Law 104-13, The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995
and AFI 33-360, Volume 2, Content Management Program-Information Management Tool (CMP-IMT),
affect this publication. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision includes adding “Exposure Control” to the title, adding a supervisor signature
acknowledging awareness of an employee’s declination of Hepatitis B vaccination, changing the post-
blood/body fluid exposure reporting location to Flight Medicine Clinic (formerly primary care provider),
including nitrile as an example of non-porous gloves and updating Public Health contact phone
numbers.
2                                                                           354FWI44-104 20 APRIL 2009



1. REFERENCES.
    1.1. The 29 CFR Part 1910.1030, Occupational Exposure to Bloodborne Pathogens; Final Rule,
    Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA).
    1.2. AFMS Guidance on Needlestick Safety for Healthcare Workers (HA Policy 0000013), Nov 01.
2. TERMS EXPLAINED.
    2.1. Bloodborne Pathogens – Diseases that are commonly spread from one person to another
    through blood or body fluids. Examples include Hepatitis B virus (HBV) and Human
    Immunodeficiency Virus/ Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (HIV/AIDS).
    2.2. Blood – Human blood, human blood components, and products made from human blood.
    2.3. Other Potentially Infectious Materials (OPIM) - The following human body fluids: semen,
    vaginal secretions, cerebrospinal fluid, synovial fluid, pleural fluid, pericardial fluid, peritoneal fluid,
    amniotic fluid, saliva in dental procedures, any body fluid that is visibly contaminated with blood,
    and all body fluids in situations where it is difficult or impossible to differentiate between body
    fluids; any unfixed tissue or organ (other than intact skin) from a human (living or dead).
    2.4. Exposure Incident – This term means a specific eye, mouth, other mucous membrane, non-
    intact skin, or parenteral contact with blood or other potentially infectious materials that result from
    the performance of an employee's duties.
    2.5. Standard Precautions – An approach to infection control. All human body fluids are treated as
    if known to be infectious.
    2.6. Contaminated – The presence or reasonably anticipated presence of blood or other potentially
    infectious materials on an item or surface.
    2.7. Parenteral - means piercing mucous membranes or the skin barrier through such events as
    needlesticks, human bites, cuts, and abrasions.
    2.8. Decontamination – The use of physical or chemical means to remove, inactivate, or destroy
    bloodborne pathogens on a surface or item to the point where they are no longer capable of
    transmitting infectious particles and the surface or item is rendered safe for handling, use, or
    disposal.
3. RESPONSIBILITIES.
    3.1. Unit Commanders will ensure all personnel at risk for occupational exposure to potentially
    infectious material are adequately protected, receive initial orientation and annual training, and
    comply with established guidelines and requirements defined in this plan and OSHA 29 CFR
    1910.1030.
    3.2. Commanders of organizations with personnel at risk for occupational exposures will designate
    an office of primary responsibility (OPR) for monitoring compliance with engineering and work
    practice controls, personal protective equipment (PPE), housekeeping, elements of hazard
    communication, training documentation, and preparing/maintaining an exposure control plan.
    Medical and dental treatment facilities will additionally comply with revised OSHA 29 CFR part
    1910 and all applicable state laws with respect to needle stick safety.
354FWI44-104 20 APRIL 2009                                                                           3


  3.3. Each active duty member, government employee, contract employee, student or volunteer
  assigned or attached to work in any capacity in any affected organization is individually responsible
  for knowledge of and compliance with this plan.
  3.4. The 354th Medical Group will provide:
     3.4.1. Medical oversight for eligible workers exposed to potentially infectious materials in the
     course of their duties to include: medical education, treatment, follow up, a written medical
     opinion and documentation for personnel with exposure to potentially infectious materials.
     3.4.2. Technical advice and supervisory assistance on training, decontamination and types of
     PPE needed to protect workers.
     3.4.3. When requested, initial training to organization supervisors through Public Health (PH)
     (or other formal training organizations if approved by PH) on requirements outlined in CFR 29
     1910.1030, and proper techniques and prevention of exposure to potentially infectious materials.
     3.4.4. When requested, means of disposal of waste contaminated with blood and body fluids and
     in emergency situations, biohazard bags.
     3.4.5. The Hepatitis B vaccination series for eligible workers.
         3.4.5.1. The vaccine series is mandatory for all eligible active duty military personnel.
         3.4.5.2. The vaccine series will be offered to all eligible civilian employees at no cost to
         themselves. If a worker declines the Hepatitis B vaccine, they must sign a Declination
         Statement (Atch 1) to be filed in the individual’s medical record and kept for the duration of
         employment, plus 30 years. Note: Declination is not possible if Hepatitis B vaccination is a
         condition of employment.
  3.5. Organizations with workers exposed to potentially infectious materials will:
     3.5.1. Develop an Exposure Control Plan for their specific worksite and workers in accordance
     with 29 CFR Part 1910.1030 (see Atch 2 and 3 for examples). The medical treatment facility
     must include in their plan, information on needle stick safety. See reference 1.2. of this
     instruction.
         3.5.1.1. Review and update the Exposure Control Plan annually.
         3.5.1.2. Submit the plan to PH for review prior to adopting.
     3.5.2. In accordance with (IAW) CFR 29 1910.1030, develop, schedule, provide and document
     training to workers on the medical aspects of exposure to potentially infectious materials,
     organizational procedures, and the storage and use of PPE.
         3.5.2.1. Maintain documentation of training for a minimum of three years.
         3.5.2.2. Route the training lesson plan through PH.
     3.5.3. Ensure all active duty members with potential exposure in your organization receive the
     Hepatitis B series and all civilians are offered the series. Civilians refusing to receive the
     Hepatitis B series must sign the Declination Statement (Atch 1). Hep B vaccination is a
     condition of employment for selected civilians.
     3.5.4. Ensure adequate PPE is available for workers to use at times of potential exposure to
     blood or body fluids. PPE includes but is not limited to gloves, masks, goggles, face shields,
     rubber aprons, and so forth, depending on the level of potential exposure.
4                                                                        354FWI44-104 20 APRIL 2009


       3.5.5. Have supervisors enforce the wear of PPE during procedures where there is potential
       exposure to blood or body fluids.
4. PROCEDURES.4. 1. Clean-up and disposal procedures for indoor spills of blood/OPIM: 354th
Medical Group recommends the following procedures for the clean-up of spilled blood or potentially
infectious materials (as defined in paragraph 2.3.) that occurs at Eielson Air Force Base. For guidance
or additional information on any blood spill/body fluid clean up, contact PH at 377-6675/6676.
       4.1.1. Clean up materials needed: Household bleach, one gallon bucket or larger, mop,
       towels/rags, PPE as needed to include at a minimum: non-porous gloves and eye protection. It is
       also permissible to use a blood spill clean-up kit that can be obtained through supply or through
       local purchase. The use of cleaning solutions other than bleach is acceptable if the solution will
       kill the HBV and HIV viruses. The use of PPE is mandatory in all instances where exposure to
       blood or body fluids can be reasonably anticipated. Employees will remove PPE prior to leaving
       the area.
       4.1.2. Limit access to the spill area.
       4.1.3. Put on eye protection, if needed, and gloves. Prepare a dilute beach solution by mixing 1
       part household bleach to 10 parts water (this is a 1:10 dilution). Mop area until clean. Prevent
       access to the area until site is dry.
       4.1.4. Dispose of contaminated bleach/water solution by pouring it into the commode, sink or
       sanitary drain. Be cautious to prevent splashing.
       4.1.5. Should items become soiled with blood/body fluids the following should be
       accomplished: Lightly soiled items (small area of contamination/non-saturated) should be
       discarded as solid waste (trash). Moderately or heavily soiled or saturated items are handled as
       infectious waste and are placed in a leak proof bag, labeled as infectious waste, or a red
       biohazard bag may be used. The soiled/bagged items can then be transported to the 354 MDG
       for disposal.
       4.1.6. Should anyone become exposed to blood/body fluids; immediately wash the area with
       soap and water, flush eyes with clean water and report immediately (with the source person, if
       possible) to the 354 MDG Clinic. Both civilians and military personnel will be followed up in
       PH. After hours, the supervisor will call 911 for immediate instructions and care.
       4.1.7. Ensure all employees that have experienced a potential exposure, whether military or
       civilian, are seen at the 354 MDG clinic by a provider as well as PH at the earliest available
       opportunity so that all follow-up is done per OSHA guidelines.
    4.2. Clean-up and disposal procedures for outdoor spills of blood/OPIM: 354 MDG recommends
    the following procedures for the clean-up of spilled blood or potentially infectious materials, as
    defined in paragraph 2.3, which occur outside of buildings (i.e., parking lots, streets and sidewalks).
    The following guidelines are designed for the clean-up of any spill and can be performed by anyone
    equipped with PPE as described in 4.1.1. Eielson Air Force Base Fire Department will be
    responsible for outdoor spills if the circumstances of the incident (other than the spill) require their
    response.
       4.2.1. Clean-up materials needed: Source of water, hose, sprayer, eye protection and latex or
       similar gloves. If the spill is large absorbent material may be needed, i.e., Dura Pads, Moor Dri
       100 etc., biohazard bags and a 1:10 dilution bleach solution.
       4.2.2. Limit access to the spill area.
354FWI44-104 20 APRIL 2009                                                                            5


     4.2.3. Don PPE as needed. If ground or surface conditions allow, place absorbent material (i.e.,
     Dura Pads, Moor Dri 100 etc.) over blood/body fluids. Saturate area with 1:10 bleach solution,
     and then collect absorbent material and place in biohazard bags.
     4.2.4. Apply a low-pressure stream of water to the soiled area until all blood/body fluids are
     visibly washed away; be careful not to splash yourself or anyone else in the area.
     4.2.5. Should items become soiled with blood or other potentially infectious materials the
     directions provided in paragraph 4.1.5. should be followed.
     4.2.6. Should anyone inadvertently become exposed to blood or other potentially infectious
     material, follow guidance as per paragraph 4.1.6.
     4.2.7. If body parts are discovered, place severed parts in ice and transport them with the injured
     employee. If discovered later, send ASAP to the treating facility. If employee is deceased or a
     mass casualty situation exists; notify Security Forces, Office of Special Investigations (OSI),
     Command Post, Casualty Affairs and Mortuary Affairs.




                                           MARK W. GRAPER, Brig Gen, USAF
                                           Commander
6                                                                 354FWI44-104 20 APRIL 2009


                                        Attachment 1
                  HEPATITIS B VACCINE DECLINATION STATEMENT

Figure A1.1. Sample, Hepatitis B Vaccine Declination Statement.
354FWI44-104 20 APRIL 2009                                                                              7


                                             Attachment 2
                             SAMPLE EXPOSURE CONTROL PLAN

A2.1. Exposure Determination.
   A2.1.1. List of job classification where all employees have potential exposure to bloodborne
   pathogens. (List Job Title and Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC))
   A2.1.2. List of job classification where some employees have potential exposure to bloodborne
   pathogens. (List Job Title and AFSC)
   A2.1.3. List of tasks and procedures in which potential occupational exposure to bloodborne
   pathogens occurs for job classifications listed in paragraph A1.1.2, this attachment. (List Task and
   AFSC)
A2.2. Schedule and Methods of Implementation.
   A2.2.1. Standard Precautions. The mandatory use of standard precautions is now in effect. The
   term “standard precaution” refers to an infectious disease control system intended to prevent health
   care and public safety workers from parenteral, mucous membrane, and non-intact skin exposures to
   human pathogens. It is assumed that all blood and body fluids (semen, vaginal fluids, cerebrospinal,
   lymph, pericardial, and so forth) are potentially infectious and therefore appropriate barriers must be
   established between the patient’s blood, body fluids, and other infectious materials and the health
   care or public safety worker.
   A2.2.2. Engineering and Work Practice Controls. Standard precaution in conjunction with effective
   work practice controls will be used to minimize or eliminate potential exposure risk to bloodborne
   pathogens.
      A2.2.2.1. Handwashing Facilities. Handwashing facilities are located throughout the section in
      ______________. In areas where hand washing facilities are not available, antiseptic hand
      cleaners will be provided for limited use; however, hands will be washed with soap and running
      water as soon as feasible. Alcohol-based handrubs containing 60-95% alcohol have been proven
      to be effective against various pathogens, are fast acting, cause less skin irritation, and may help
      improve adherence to hand hygiene protocols. Alcohol-based handrubs do not replace the need
      for sinks or other hand hygiene products. Handrubs cannot be used when hands are visibly dirty,
      soiled with blood or other body fluids, or when personnel feel a “build up” of the product on
      their hands after extended use.
      A2.2.2.2. Handwashing Enforcement. Handwashing is a responsibility of each employee.
      Enforcement of this responsibility falls upon the employee’s supervisor.
          A2.2.2.2.1. At a minimum, hands will be washed immediately or soon after removal of
          gloves or personal protective equipment.
          A2.2.2.2.2. Employees will wash hands or other skin area with soap and water, or flush
          mucous membranes with water immediately or soon after coming in contact with blood or
          other potentially infectious material.
          A2.2.2.2.3. Before and after performing any personal body function, such as eating,
          sneezing, or using the restroom.
          A2.2.2.2.4. Before and after touching wounds, whether surgical, traumatic, or associated
          with an invasive device.
8                                                                  354FWI44-104 20 APRIL 2009


       A2.2.2.2.5. After touching inanimate sources (such as, equipment or surfaces) that are likely
       to be contaminated with blood or body fluids.
       A2.2.2.2.6. After any situation which microbial contamination of hands is likely to occur.
       A2.2.2.2.7. Before departure for home.
       A2.2.2.2.8. Hand washing will be encouraged when employee is in doubt about the necessity
       for doing so.
    A2.2.2.3. Handling contaminated needles, sharp instruments, or other contaminated articles.
    Education programs should stress proper management of needles, sharp instruments, or other
    contaminated articles. Workers should be aware of the occupational health hazards concerning
    their use. Common sense, safety, and environmental concerns should be paramount in the
    workers handling and disposing of needles, sharp instruments, or other contaminated articles.
    Emphasis should be placed on the minimal handling of these items.
       A2.2.2.3.1. Sharp instruments, broken glass, needle/syringe units, or other sharp objects
       which are contaminated with blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials will
       not be picked up by hand, rather they will be picked up using tongs, forceps, broom and dust
       pan, or other method which does not require an individual to come into direct contact with
       contaminated object.
       A2.2.2.3.2. Once picked up, the contaminated objects will be placed into puncture-resistant
       leak-proof biohazard container for disposal. If the organization does not have a suitable
       biohazard container, for an emergency situation, they can contact the 354 MDG Clinic to
       pick one up. Contact Medical Logistics, at DSN 317-377-4108.
       A2.2.2.3.3. Extreme caution must be exercised when disposing of needles and sharp
       instruments. They must be disposed of in puncture resistant, leak-proof containers
       appropriately designated for needles and sharp instrument disposal.
    A2.2.2.4. Eating, drinking, and smoking in potential exposure areas. Eating, drinking, smoking
    and applying cosmetics or lip balm, and handling contact lenses are prohibited in work areas
    where there is reasonable likelihood of occupational exposure to blood or body fluids. All
    personal protective equipment must be removed, hands washed, and contaminated clothing
    changed prior to eating, drinking, smoking, applying cosmetics, or handling contact lenses after
    potential exposure to blood borne pathogens.
       A2.2.2.4.1. Storage of foods and drink. Food and drink will not be kept in refrigerators,
       freezers, counter tops or bench tops where the potential for exposure to infectious materials
       exists.
    A2.2.2.5. Potentially infectious specimen handling, and disposal. Materials which have been
    contaminated with blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials will be placed in
    biohazard-hazard bags, sealed, and transported to the Eielson AFB Clinic in a leak-proof,
    puncture-resistant container marked with the biohazard symbol for disposal.
       A2.2.2.5.1. Color-coded red plastic bags are the primary containers for disposal of
       contaminated wastes.
       A2.2.2.5.2. If specimen leakage is anticipated, double or triple bag primary container using
       color-coded plastic bags.
354FWI44-104 20 APRIL 2009                                                                            9


        A2.2.2.5.3. If a contaminated article could puncture the primary container, the primary
        container will be placed within a secondary container, which is puncture resistant. This
        container should have appropriate biohazard markings.
     A2.2.2.6. Equipment and surface decontamination. Equipment or surfaces, which become
     contaminated with blood or other infectious material, will be decontaminated by the organization
     that has functional responsibility for the building, grounds, or equipment.
     A2.2.2.7. Personal Protective Equipment. All employees will use appropriate PPE to minimize
     or eliminate exposure risks. Equipment will be considered appropriate only if it does not permit
     blood or other potentially infectious materials to pass through or to reach the employee’s work
     clothes, street clothes, undergarments, skin, eyes, mouth, or other mucous membranes, under
     normal conditions of use and for the duration of use.
        A2.2.2.7.1. Providing PPE. It’s the responsibility of the individual organization to provide
        PPE for their employees. _________will provide to all employees at risk, personal
        protection equipment to include but not limited to gloves, gowns, coats, masks, eye
        protection and mouthpieces, resuscitation bags or other ventilation devices based upon their
        expected exposures to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials.
        A2.2.2.7.2. Enforcing wear of PPE.         The supervisor will enforce the use of personal
        protective equipment by all employees.
        A2.2.2.7.3. Accessibility of PPE. The supervisor will ensure availability of PPE in the work
        area. PPE is stored: (List Equipment Type and Storage Location).
        A2.2.2.7.4. Cleaning, maintenance, repair, removal, and disposal of PPE. _________ will
        provide for cleaning, laundering, disposal, repair, and replacement of personal protective
        equipment.
            A2.2.2.7.4.1. All PPE will be removed prior to leaving the work area.
            A2.2.2.7.4.2. If garment is penetrated by blood or other potentially infectious material,
            garments will be removed immediately or as soon as possible afterward.
            A2.2.2.7.4.3. All contaminated PPE will be placed in an appropriate area or container
            for storage prior to decontamination or disposal. The containers for _________ are
            located at _____________. Contaminated disposable PPE will be handled as described
            in the previous context of this attachment.
            A2.2.2.7.4.4. Disposable gloves will be worn when it can be reasonably anticipated that
            the employee will have direct contact with blood or other potentially infectious material,
            mucous membrane, or non-intact skin; and when handling or touching contaminated
            items or surfaces. Gloves will be replaced as soon as practical when contaminated, torn,
            punctured, or when their ability to function as a barrier is compromised. NOTE: Ensure
            gloves are not left at the accident site.
            A2.2.2.7.4.5. Masks, eye protection, face shields, will be used whenever splashes, spray,
            splatter, or droplets of blood or other potentially infectious material may be generated and
            contamination of the eye, nose, or mouth is a possibility.
            A2.2.2.7.4.6. Other protective clothing such as gown, aprons, coats, or jackets will be
            worn in occupational exposure situations. The type and characteristics will depend upon
            the task and degree of exposure anticipated.
10                                                                   354FWI44-104 20 APRIL 2009


        A2.2.2.7.5. Guidance for proper PPE. The type of PPE to be worn will vary with
        situation/procedure performed. The final decision about which PPE appropriate lies with the
        supervisor. Medical procedures may require more strenuous guidelines but here are some
        general guidelines which may help you in deciding what types of PPE are needed:
            A2.2.2.7.5.1. Gloves. Heavy-weight, puncture resistant utility gloves, such as those used
            for dishwashing are best for housekeeping procedures. For patient-care procedures,
            sterile/non-sterile, non-porous gloves (nitrile, latex).
            A2.2.2.7.5.2. Clothing. Cloth or disposable gowns/coats must be used to prevent blood
            contamination. A disposable plastic apron that covers the torso and thighs is
            recommended if there is a significant probability that blood or body fluids may be
            splashed.
            A2.2.2.7.5.3. Facial protection. Facial protection should be worn if splattering of blood
            or body fluids is anticipated. A disposable mask offers protection for the nose and mouth
            in some situations. Plastic, wrap-around safety glasses offer good protection; however; if
            there is substantial risk of splattering, a full-face shield or goggles should be worn.
            Ordinary glasses do not offer adequate protection against splattering. A mouth-piece
            should be used when performing cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR).
            A2.2.2.7.5.4. Shoes. Water-proof shoe covers should be worn if there is a large spill of
            potentially infectious fluid.
        A2.2.2.7.6. All PPE must be put into a biohazard waste bag for appropriate disposal or
        laundering immediately after use.
     A2.2.2.8. Housekeeping. Supervisors are responsible for ensuring work areas are maintained in
     a clean and sanitary condition. Housekeeping procedures are outlined in __________________.
        A2.2.2.8.1. Schedule of Housekeeping Procedures. Operation instructions will be
        established for each section indicating schedule for cleaning and methods of decontamination
        based upon work area and procedures performed in the area.
     A2.2.2.9. Cleaning surfaces contaminated with potentially infectious material. All equipment
     and work surfaces will be cleaned and decontaminated after contact with blood/OPIM.
     Contaminated work surfaces will be decontaminated with approved disinfectant after completion
     of procedures or immediately after any blood/OPIM spills.
     A2.2.2.10. Regulated Waste. Proper disposal of waste contaminated with blood or body fluids
     is essential to minimizing or eliminating the exposure risk to employees and general community.
     A2.2.2.11. Disposal of sharp instruments or glass. Blood or body fluid contaminated sharp
     instruments or glass will be discarded immediately in containers that are closable, puncture
     resistant, leak-proof on sides and bottoms, and labeled or color-coded appropriately as containing
     biohazard material. These will be taken to the 354 MDG Clinic for disposal. Coordinate such
     disposal with Medical Logistics at DSN 317-377-4108.
     A2.2.2.12. Other contaminated wastes. Contaminated or potentially infectious waste will be
     placed in biohazard bags. Care must be taken to prevent leakage. The bags will be sealed prior
     to removal to prevent spillage or protrusion of contents during handling, storage, transport, or
     shipping. The bags will be taken to the 354 MDG Clinic for disposal. See Disposal of Sharp
     Instruments or Glass in section A2.2.2.11.
354FWI44-104 20 APRIL 2009                                                                            11


      A2.2.2.13. Laundry. Contaminated laundry will be handled as little as possible with a minimum
      of agitation to prevent gross microbial contamination of the air and persons handling the laundry.
      Appropriate PPE will be worn at all times when handling laundry.
      A2.2.2.14. Bagging. All contaminated laundry will be bagged at the location it was used and
      will not be sorted or rinsed in the location of use.
      A2.2.2.15. Shipping. Contaminated laundry will be placed and transported in bags or containers
      labeled or color-coded as biohazard. Wet contaminated laundry will be placed in bags or
      containers, which prevent soak-through and leakage. The supervisor will ensure employees
      handling contaminated laundry wear protective gloves and other appropriate personal protective
      equipment. Contaminated laundry will be taken to __________________.
      A2.2.2.16. Hepatitis B immunization. Individuals whose duties involve potential exposure to
      blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials can receive, free of charge,
      immunizations for protection against Hepatitis B. Vaccine series will be offered prior to the start
      of employment involving exposure to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials
      and may be declined by civilian employees if not a condition of their job. Employees declining
      vaccine must sign a Declination Statement.
          A2.2.2.16.1. If duties continue to involve exposure to blood, body fluids, or other potentially
          infectious materials, employees may request to start immunization series at any time.
      A2.2.2.17. Administration. The Hepatitis B vaccine will be administered by the 354 MDG
      Immunization Clinic, Eielson AFB, AK.
      A2.2.2.18. Procedures. Prior to starting duties which involve exposure to blood, body fluids, or
      other potentially infectious materials, the employee must be given bloodborne pathogen training
      and offered/administered the Hepatitis B vaccine.
      A2.2.2.19. Post-Exposure Follow-up. Individuals exposed to blood or body fluids will receive
      medical follow up. They will report to the 354 MDG Flight Medicine Clinic, as soon as
      possible, after an exposure for initial evaluation or treatment. After initial evaluation and
      treatment, the individuals will be referred to PH for counseling and follow- up testing. PH will
      then counsel the individual on the risk and ensure follow-up testing and treatment is
      accomplished. This includes individuals exposed to another’s blood or body fluid while
      performing CPR, other workplace exposures to blood/OPIM even if they have not been
      previously designated as being at risk of exposure to blood as part of their normal duties, and
      other non-work related exposures. Patients will receive follow-up and treatment in accordance
      with Center for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines. Address questions about what
      constitutes an exposure to PH at DSN 317-377-6675/6676.
A2.3. Record Keeping.
   A2.3.1. Medical Records. The 354th Medical Group maintains patient medical records.
   A2.3.2. Training Records. Upon completion of training the employee will sign AF Form 2767,
   Occupational Health Training and Protective Equipment Fit Testing, or other designated form.
   Keep the original filed in a separate section with your lesson plan and exposure control plan. The
   training records must be kept for minimum of 3 years.
      A2.3.2.1. Also, each supervisor must document initial and annual training on each trainee’s AF
      Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record, in Block V.
12                                                                       354FWI44-104 20 APRIL 2009


        A2.3.2.2. Initial training will be documented as “Initial Bloodborne Pathogen Training” and
        annual update training will be documented as “Annual Bloodborne Pathogen Training”.
A2.4. Communication of Hazards to Employees.
     A2.4.1. Labeling. Contaminated items will be designated by placing them in a biohazard bag or
     other appropriate leak proof container which has the biohazard symbol and the word
     “BIOHAZARD” clearly marked on the outside of the container. These containers will not be used
     for any other purposes.
     A2.4.2. Training. All employees who have exposure to blood, body fluids, or other potentially
     infectious materials as part of their regular job (see Exposure Determination, section A2.1 for listing
     of jobs) will receive initial and annual training on exposures to blood, body fluids, or other
     potentially infectious materials prior to assuming duties which involve exposure to blood, body
     fluids, or other potentially infectious materials. At a minimum, training must include the following:
        A2.4.2.1. An accessible copy of the OSHA Standard (29 CFR 1910.1030).
        A2.4.2.2. A general explanation of the epidemiology and symptoms of bloodborne diseases.
        A2.4.2.3. An explanation of the modes of transmission of bloodborne pathogens.
        A2.4.2.4. The installation and your work specific Exposure Control Plan (what’s in it, where it
        is, who’s covered and how employees can obtain a copy of the written plan).
        A2.4.2.5. An explanation of the procedures that might cause exposure to potentially infectious
        materials.
        A2.4.2.6. An explanation of the control methods used to control exposure in your specific
        workplace.
        A2.4.2.7. Personal protective equipment (types, basis for selection, proper use, location,
        removal, handling, decontamination and disposal).
        A2.4.2.8. Post-exposure procedures and follow up required by employer.
        A2.4.2.9. Signs and labels used.
        A2.4.2.10. Hepatitis B vaccine program information (efficacy, safety, benefits, and that vaccine
        will be offered free of charge).
        A2.4.2.11.    An opportunity for interactive questions and answers with person conducting
        training.
     A2.4.3. Reporting Incidents. Any incident, which involves potential exposure to blood, body fluids,
     or other potentially infectious materials, will be reported immediately to the supervisor. The
     individuals receiving exposure, and if possible, the source of the blood, body fluids, or other
     potentially infectious materials, will be taken to the 354 MDG Flight Medicine Clinic.
354FWI44-104 20 APRIL 2009                                                                                13


                                              Attachment 3
           DECONTAMINATION PROCEDURES FOR BLOOD AND BODY FLUIDS

A3.1. General. The following procedures are recommended for “site specific’ clean-up of spills
involving blood or body fluids. Standard household bleach from the jug comes commonly as a 5%
solution. It is diluted as described below. If you use any other disinfectant, the Infection Control officer
or Public Health officer at the 354 MDG must first approve it. Also, outline in your unit’s control plan
the procedures for clean-up, using the disinfectant. You may use the following information to
accomplish this.
A3.2. Make a “spill kit” readily available for site clean-up. Place 1 cup of household bleach in an
appropriately labeled, dark brown or opaque bottle (sunlight will break down bleach). Place 9 cups of
water in a second container. Put the bleach, water (don’t mix the two until you clean up the spill), pair
of heavyweight, puncture resistant utility gloves, such as those used for housecleaning and dishwashing,
2 household sponges, and paper towels or gauze in a plastic container or a box. Label the kit, attach a
hazardous material sticker to the container and place in an area where a spill may occur or in the trunk of
a security vehicle, etc.
A3.3. Clothing. You must use cloth or disposable gowns/coats to prevent blood contamination of
clean-up workers clothing. A disposable plastic apron that covers the torso and thighs is recommended
if there is a significant probability that blood or body fluids may be splashed onto the clean-up workers.
At the completion of clean up, discard disposable apron into the biohazard waste bag. If workers
clothing inadvertently becomes contaminated with blood or body fluids it should be removed as soon as
possible, the skin washed with soap and water, and the clothing placed in a biohazard bag and disposed
of or cleaned by a laundry capable of handling blood-contaminated clothing.
A3.4. Facial Protection. Wear facial protection if splattering of blood or body fluids is anticipated. A
disposable mask offers protection for the nose and mouth. Plastic, wrap-around safety glasses offer
adequate protection; however, if there is substantial risk of splattering of blood or body fluids, wear a
full-face shield or goggles. Ordinary glasses do not offer adequate protection against splattering. After
the completion of clean up, discard disposable facial protection into a biohazard waste bag.
A3.5. Shoes. If the spill is large and/or there is a potential of contaminating the worker’s shoes, wear
waterproof shoe covers.
A3.6. Do not pick up contaminated sharp objects by hand. If the spill contains broken glass or other
sharp objects, these must be picked up without direct contact with hands. Use metal tongs, a broom and
dustpan, or rigid sheets of cardboard used as “pusher” and “receiver” to pick up objects. Place sharp
objects into a puncture-resistant container prior to placing into a biohazard waste bag.
A3.7. Absorb the spill. Absorb the bulk of spilled material prior to disinfection with disposable
absorbent material (paper towels, gauze pads, or if a small spill, sponge). If the spill is large, granular
absorbent material like that used to absorb caustic chemical spills may be used (i.e. kitty litter). Blot (do
not wipe) up the spill allowing the fluids to be absorbed by the towels, etc. After absorption of the
liquid, discard all materials into a biohazard waste bag.
A3.8. Disinfect Spill Area.
   A3.8.1. Mix the cup of bleach with the nine cups of water. Flood the site or wipe down the spill site
   with disposable towels or sponge soaked in bleach to make the site “glistening wet.” Allow the
   bleach solution to remain in contact with the infectious material for at least one minute before
   wiping it up.
14                                                                    354FWI44-104 20 APRIL 2009


     A3.8.2. Absorb the disinfectant with paper towels and dispose of the paper towels in a biohazard
     waste bag. Alternatively, the spill site may be permitted to air dry.
     A3.8.3. If chemical residue is a concern, rinse the spill site with water. Dry the site to prevent
     slipping if air-drying is not feasible.
     A3.8.4. Place all disposable materials used in the decontamination process into a biohazard waste
     bag. Dispose of the remaining disinfectant by pouring down the sanitary sewer. Decontaminate
     reusable materials, and equipment following above procedures.
A3.9. Contaminated waste. Contaminated waste may be disposed of as described under Regulated
Waste. Additional guidance is available in 354 FWI 44-104, Bloodborne Pathogens Exposure Control.
