BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                       354TH FW MISSION DIRECTIVE 10-1
354TH FIGHTER WING (PACAF)
                                                                                           29 MAY 2009
                                                                                              Operations

                                                                                   RED FLAG - ALASKA



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:             Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
                           Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/

RELEASABILITY:             There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 354 FSS/FSMM                                         Certified by: 354 FSS/FSM (MR. HOWARD S.
                                                                                          RIXIE SR.)
                                                                                            Pages: 6


This mission directive implements policy guidance in AFPD 38-1, Organization, AFI 38-101, Air Force
Organization, AFPD 10-1, Mission Directives, and AFI 10-101, Format and Content of Mission
Directives. It does not apply to the Air National Guard or the United States Air Force Reserve. Its
purpose is to define the purpose, mission, capabilities, supporting organizations and resources in conduct
of RED FLAG-Alaska (RF-A). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed
of in accordance with Air Force Web-RIMS Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Public Law 104-13, The Paperwork
Reduction Act of 1995 and AFI 33-360, Volume 2, Content Management Program-Information
Management Tool (CMP-IMT), affect this publication. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate
chain of command.

1. Purpose. RED FLAG-Alaska (RF-A) exists to ensure the Commander-in-Chief has well trained,
equipped, and integrated combat forces from all branches of service ready to deploy into a combat arena.
RF-A provides a means to train the force with proven technology, the most current tactics, and a unique
opportunity to practice integrated force employment.
2. Mission. The RF-A mission is to conduct tactical military exercises comparable and complementary
to those of RED FLAG-Nellis (RF-N). RF-A applies joint and combined war-fighting doctrine in a
dynamic scenario that exploits leading edge technologies and trains all elements of the war-fighting
team (United States, allies and coalition forces). RF-A’s reputation is anchored in its ability to:
   2.1. Provide a forum for face-to-face exchange of ideas and lessons learned between Joint,
   Combined, and Coalition forces.
2                                                                      354FWMD10-1 29 MAY 2009


    2.2. Combine available assets to create the most realistic air, ground, space and information
    operations (IO) threat environment for combat training in the following major focus areas:
    Survivability, Effectiveness, Sustainability, Tactics, Access, Air Dominance, Joint/Coalition
    Integration.
    2.3. Provide off-station training for units before/after or separate from RED FLAG normally called
    DISTANT FRONTIER. Units can coordinate training support for air space, ranges, threats and
    aggressors to enhance unit level training.
3. Competencies. RF-A has adopted two complementary competencies to ground the focus of every
Airman and the planning and programming efforts of the organization.
    3.1. Adversary Replication. Coordinates and supports a unified “Red Force” ready to oppose the
    United States and its Coalition Partners during training exercises.
    3.2. Advanced Scenario Development. Provide in-depth, joint, integrated, and composite training
    scenarios and state-of-the-art venues for full-spectrum wartime training for combat-ready units from
    the USAF, USA, USN and USMC.
4. Supporting Organizations. RF-A is core to the 354th Fighter Wing’s purpose at Eielson Air Force
Base, Alaska (PACAF). Organized as a combat wing, the 354 FW is comprised of 354th Operations
Group (OG), 354th Maintenance Group (MXG), 354th Mission Support Group (MSG) and 354th
Medical Group (MDG).
    4.1. The 354 OG plans and executes RF-A through the 353d Combat Training Sq (CTS) and its
    Detachment 1 at Elmendorf Air Force Base, Alaska. The 18th Aggressor Sq (AGRS) provides
    professional air adversaries, the 353 CTS provides surface adversaries, while the 354th Operations
    Support Sq provides airfield support services.
    4.2. The 354 MXG is comprised of the 354th Maintenance Sq and 354th Aircraft Maintenance Sq.
    The 354 MXG’s primary mission is to maintain the assigned aircraft serving as aggressors. Their
    secondary mission is to provide facilities and support to deployed exercise aircraft as able.
    4.3. Standard base operational support is achieved primarily through 354 MSG and 354 MDG
    operations.
    4.4. Indirect support is provided primarily by 3WG and 11 AF at Elmendorf AFB and RF-N units
    (USAF Warfare Center and 57 WG) at Nellis AFB, Nevada.
5. Core Resources. Key to the near and long-term success of RF-A are critical resources for which the
354 FW is charged with sustaining.
    5.1. Recognized as a national training asset, the Pacific Alaska Range Complex (PARC) is
    dedicated to serve the needs of RF-A.
    5.2. Eielson AFB is home to the ANG’s 168th Air Refueling Wing (168 ARW). The 354 FW’s
    large storage capacity for aircraft fuel coupled with the 168 ARW’s KC-135 Tankers generates an
    inherent, nearly unlimited in-garrison air refueling capability.
    5.3. Aggressors. F-16s (18 PAA, Block 30) are assigned to operate as an air adversary force. This
    force is charged with sustaining the ability to replicate potential threats from simple to complex
    tactics, formations, and weapons capability. When not actively engaged, Aggressor assets are
    available to RF-N, other Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) directed exercises, and to perform "road shows"
    in a TDY status.
354FWMD10-1 29 MAY 2009                                                                                 3


   5.4. Airfield. Eielson AFB’s strategic importance is predicated on its ability to maintain and operate
   an airfield comprised of a 14,530 feet runway; a parking ramp that can support over 150 fighter and
   heavy aircraft, with hydrant refueling capabilities.
   5.5. Joint Mobility Center. Eielson is home to the only joint mobility processing center within the
   interior of Alaska. It has the capability to simultaneously receive or deploy up to nearly 700
   transient troops and their cargo.
   5.6. Classified Operations. Eielson AFB has the facilities to work with and protect classified
   information and equipment. The 353 CTS will serve as the primary custodian.
6. Exercise Operational Capabilities/Assumptions. RF-A support agencies will ensure all measures
are taken to create/sustain the following operational capabilities:
   6.1. The 353 CTS will conduct 3-5 RF-A (or comparable) exercises per year with programmed
   growth to support up to 6 exercises per year.
      6.1.1. Annually conduct at least one COAL WARFIGHTER (CW) exercise.
      6.1.2. As directed by ALCOM, support Exercise NORTHERN EDGE.
   6.2. The following base operations support will also be developed/sustained:
      6.2.1. Host up to 2,000 exercise participants (1,400 at Eielson AFB and 600 at Elmendorf AFB).
      6.2.2. Though Eielson has a capacity to support a large number of fighter and large airframe
      aircraft, resources are not without constraints. Therefore, 353 CTS RF-A standard operating
      procedures and specific exercise special instructions (SPINS) will detail assumptions to be
      integrated into every exercise reception plan.
          6.2.2.1. Security. Eight security forces personnel are deployed into Eielson with specified
          individual equipment items to integrate with 354th Security Forces Squadron (SFS). An
          additional two SFS personnel are deployed for each Protection Level 1 or 2 asset for close-in
          security.
          6.2.2.2. Petroleum, Oil, and Lubricants (POL). 15-25 personnel are deployed into Eielson
          based on planning factor of 1 person per 3 fighters rounded-up to the highest sortie count at
          the turn, and a 1 to 1 ratio for heavy aircraft; with R-11 trucks and their dispatch is provided
          by 354th Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS).
          6.2.2.3. Vehicles. RF-A has access to a fleet of support vehicles for use by transient units,
          however, during larger size exercises, rental vehicle augmentation is also required.
      6.2.3. Units deployed to RF-A will provide Deployed Forces Staff and augmentees for the 354
      FW. Augmentees are normally required for Security Forces, POL, Munitions, and Force
      Support. The number and type of augmentees will be determined at planning conferences
      depending on type and number of units/missions/events planned.
   6.3. Temporary Duty. When not engaged in RF-A exercise events, 353 CTS and 18 AGRS
   capabilities will be available to local contingency operations, RF-N or other JCS directed exercises.
      6.3.1. Plan/program for up to six road shows per year in the RF-A off season (this is IAW the
      Aggressor CONOPS dated 10 Oct 06).
      6.3.2. Road show deployments/redeployments will capitalize on dual role tankers to the
      maximum extent possible. Road show deployments will normally last 2-3 weeks.
4                                                                       354FWMD10-1 29 MAY 2009


    6.4. Exercise Scenarios. At user discretion, RF-A will present scalable scenarios ranging from a
    high-threat scenario to a medium threat scenario to an OIF-like, low-threat/permissive environment.
    6.5. Joint Capabilities. RF-A will develop the infrastructure and robust capability to exercise the
    integrated joint force. Additionally, RF-A will develop the capability to adapt to and exercise
    evolving joint doctrine focused primarily at the tactical level, but potentially spanning into
    operational levels of warfare.
    6.6. Network Capabilities. RF-A will develop and maintain the capability to exercise a fully-
    networked Joint Force, for example Link-16, Situational Awareness Datalink (SADL) and other
    Blue Force Tracker (BFT) systems.
    6.7. Air Operations Center (AOC) Command and Control Integration. RF-A will develop the
    capability to integrate key AOC command and control (C2) operations cell capabilities into RF-A
    exercises.
    6.8. Aggressor Capabilities. RF-A will provide a capable, high-threat adversary encompassing
    aircraft, surface-to-air missiles, information operations, and space operations.
       6.8.1. Air threats. RF-A will provide forces to replicate a full range of adversary weapon
       systems, and capabilities.
       6.8.2. Surface-to-air missile threats. RF-A will maintain capability to meet changes in threats.
       6.8.3. Information Operations threats. RF-A will provide forces to highlight and exploit Blue
       force information operations-related vulnerabilities and critical weaknesses.
       6.8.4. Space Operations threats. RF-A will provide forces to highlight and exploit Blue force
       vulnerabilities and critical space based capability weaknesses.
    6.9. Intelligence Signal Reconnaissance (ISR) Integration. RF-A will develop the capability to fully
    integrate ISR platforms into exercise scenarios in order to exploit Joint force familiarity and
    interoperability, to include Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) and Rivet Joint.
    6.10. Live, Virtual, Constructive Integration. RF-A will develop the capability to exploit the future
    growth in development with Live, Virtual, Constructive (LVC) threats.
    6.11. Coal Warfighter Integration. RF-A incorporates CW capabilities into exercise operations.
    6.12. USJFCOM Accreditation. RF-A will maintain USJFCOM accreditation in Close Air Support
    (CAS), Offensive Counter Air (OCA), Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR) and Suppression of
    Enemy Air Defenses (SEAD). RF-A will seek USJFCOM accreditation in additional Joint force-
    related areas.
7. Command & Control. 353 CTS and its Commander:
    7.1. Serves as principal adviser on matters pertaining to RF-A or other similar contingency
    exercises. Coordinates on matters of mutual interest and refers matters of disagreement to 354
    OG/CC, 354 FW/CC, 11 AF/CC and/or COMPACAF for resolution.
    7.2. Exercises command and control over military operations as assigned or directed by 354 FW/CC
    and 11AF/CC.
    7.3. Responds to 354 OG/CC, 354 FW/CC, 11 AF/CC, and COMPACAF for administration of RF-
    A in accordance with the tasks assigned by those commanders.
354FWMD10-1 29 MAY 2009                                                                              5


   7.4. Represents 354 FW/CC and 11 AF/CC in the interdepartmental, inter-service, and international
   activities associated with RF-A exercises.
   7.5. The 353 CTS is responsible for the following activities:
       7.5.1. Overseeing safe employment and providing realistic war skills training for participating
       units.
       7.5.2. Continuous research and application of development and acquisition projects that improve
       the effectiveness of aircrew training through threat simulation and instrumentation systems by
       creating combat-like environments and providing feedback on aircrew performance.
       7.5.3. Coordinating long-range exercise plans and requirements with MAJCOM, NAF, US
       military sister services, foreign military services and contractor personnel to support RF-A or
       other similar training exercises within the 11AF AOR.
       7.5.4. Executing and providing plans, programs, critiques, and feedback to Air Force and Joint
       service agencies regarding tactical employment and training. Advise the Deployed Forces
       (DF)/CC regarding operational and training effectiveness.
       7.5.5. Coordinating operations, maintenance, and munitions facilities and support for deployed
       aircraft and personnel at Eielson and Elmendorf AFBs.
       7.5.6. Developing long range plans ensuring modernized target arrays, electronic warfare assets,
       instrumentation systems and updated range infrastructure.
8. Adopted Form.
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                            MARK W. GRAPER, Brigadier General, USAF
                                            Commander
6                                                                     354FWMD10-1 29 MAY 2009


                                           Attachment 1
                GLOSSARY OF TERMS, ABBREVIATIONS, AND ACRONYMS

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—-Air Force Instruction
AFPD—-Air Force Policy Directive
ALCOM—-Alaskan Command
ANR—-Alaskan NORAD Region
CW—-Coal Warfighter
COMALCOM—-Commander, Alaskan Command
COMPACAF—-Commander, Pacific Air Forces
FW—-Fighter wing
IADS—-Integrated Air Defense System
IAW—-in accordance with
NORAD—-North American Aerospace Defense Command
OPCON—-operational control
OG—-Operations Group
SAM—-Surface to Air Missile
USAF—-United States Air Force
WG—-Wing

Terms
Mission—-All necessary elements of the organization’s mission and duties
Command—-The relationships if applicable between: The Air Force components and the unified
command that runs it. The organization and other AF organizations, government agencies, US Military
Services, and the armed forces and government agencies of other nations.
Responsibilities—-Mission elements assigned by unified commanders, specified commanders, or
higher authorities. Define the commander’s responsibility for executing those elements of the mission.
Organization Chart—-Self-explanatory
