BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              354th FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION
354TH FIGHTER WING (PACAF)                                                      36-3001

                                                                              26 JANUARY 2011

                                                                                        Personnel

                                                                         CASUALTY SERVICES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 354 FSS/FSFR                                                      Certified by: 354 MSG/CC
Supersedes: 354 FWI 36-3001,                                            (Col. Karlton D. Johnson)
           20 April 1999                                                                 Pages: 10


This publication establishes procedures and responsibilities for casualty notification, reporting,
and assistance to individuals on Eielson Air Force Base. The base office of primary
responsibility (OPR) for initiating and coordinating all casualty reporting, notification, and
assistance actions is Airman and Family Readiness Casualty Assistance Representative (CAR) or
alternate from the Military Personnel Section (MPS). It is used in conjunction with AFI 36-3002,
Casualty Services. It applies to all agencies and personnel serviced by the Eielson AFB military
and civilian personnel offices. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and
supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
 2                                                          354FWI36-3001 26 JANUARY 2011


1. Casualty Reporting. Any person or organization having knowledge of a reportable casualty
occurring on or near EAFB, whether or not assigned to the base, is responsible for immediately
notifying the Command Post at extension 377-1500. Immediate casualty notification is critical to
ensure that next of kin are notified promptly and correct reporting procedures are followed.
2. Categories of Casualties:
     2.1. Declaring a Member Duty Status-Whereabouts Unknown (DUSTWUN).
        2.1.1. Those missing in action, prisoner of war, and those missing due to other causes.
        2.1.2. The responsible commander declares a member DUSTWUN when the
        commander:
        2.1.2. 1 Suspects a member’s absence is involuntary and that the member may be a
        casualty.
        2.1.2. 2 Does not feel there is sufficient evidence to make a definitive determination of
        missing (non-hostile), recommendation of missing (hostile), or deceased. DUSTWUN
        allows the commander to gather additional facts and statements from witnesses in order
        to make a definitive status determination (non-hostile), or recommendation of missing
        (hostile).
     2. 2. Members Who Are Very Seriously Ill or Injured (VSI), Seriously Ill or Injured
     (SI), Have an Incapacitation Illness or Injury (Ill), or Imminent Death Casualties.
          2.2.1. Those very seriously ill or injured (VSI) whose illness or injury is so severe that
          his/her life is imminently in danger.
          2.2.2. Those seriously ill or injured (SI) whose illness or injury is of such severity that
          there is cause for immediate concern but there is no imminent danger to life.
          2.2.3. Incapacitating illness or injury (III) whose illness or injury makes them
          physically or mentally unable to communicate.
     2. 3. Air Force Retiree Deaths.
          2.3.1. The CAR nearest the area in which the NOK resides investigates the possible
          death       of a retiree.
     2.4. Air Force Active Duty Member Death.
     2.5. Air National Guard and United States Air Force Reserve Death.
3. Responsibilities. Refer to Table 3.1 for specific responsibilities.
      354FWI36-3001 26 JANUARY 2011                                                                   3


      Table 3.1. Casualty Responsibilities Chart.
Office                       Action
General Responsibilities     Notify the Command Post (377-1500) immediately upon learning of a
(This applies to all Air     Reportable Casualty.
Force members/DOD
                             Refer all inquiries for casualty reporting, notification, or assistance to
civilian employees and
                             Casualty Assistance Representative (DSN: 377-2178/Cell: 907-388-0394).
agencies listed below)
(Updated Information)        Refer all inquiries for release of casualty information from the media or
                             public sources to the Public Affairs Office (377-2116).

Casualty Assistance          Provides listing of all casualty standby personnel to Command Post for
Representative (CAR)         contact in the event of a casualty.
(Building 2631, Room 121,
                             Acts as the OPR for casualty notification as outlined in AFI 36-3002,
Airman & Family
                             Chapter 1.
Readiness Center) (Updated
Information)
                             Immediately contacts Command Post (if not initial source of casualty
CAR (cont’d)                 notification) upon notification of any reportable casualty on or near EAFB
                             or a very important person (VIP) at Eielson. If casualty is VIP (code 3 or
                             higher) or active duty general officer, advises Command Post for required
                             reporting.

                             Immediately notifies Chief, Airman and Family Readiness of a reportable
                             active duty death within four hours of receipt of information.
                             Assembles and briefs a notification team normally consisting of the unit
                             commander, chaplain, and a medical representative. NOTE: If the primary
                             next of kin (NOK) does not reside in the local area HQ AFPC will be
                             asked to assist in the notification.
                             Accepts collect calls from NOK in order to provide casualty assistance.
                             Responsible for scheduling an assistance briefing with NOK within 24
                             hours of of notification and provide assistance as outlined in AFI 36-3002,
                             Chapter 4.
                             NOTE: Presents gratuity check, briefs application procedures for benefits,
                             arranges for issue of new identification cards, and performs follow-up
                             assistance to NOK.

                             Reviews circumstance/condolence letters before mailing to NOK.
                             Maintains casualty instruction book.
                             Trains Casualty Augmentation Support Team (CAST) members.
                             Renders casualty assistance within assigned ZIP Code area (AFI 36-3002,
                             Att 20).
        4                                                 354FWI36-3001 26 JANUARY 2011


                        Administers the Invitational Travel Order (ITO) Program for VSI, SI, and
                        III members.



Office                  Action
Command Post            Functions as the main point of contact for all reportable casualty
(Updated Information)   information.
                        Immediately notifies CAR of any reportable casualty.
                        Immediately notifies the Mortuary Officer of any reportable or expectant
                        death.
                        Assists the CAR in contacting the casualty notification team members
                        (casualty notification officer, standby chaplain, and medical officer).
                        Immediately advises CAR of any incident or newsworthy event on or near
                        the base that receives extensive media coverage and may result in inquiries
                        from Air Force officials (disasters, aircraft/vehicle accidents, terrorist
                        activities, bombings, etc.).
                        In the event of a mass casualty the Command Post will act as the initial
                        POC for the on-scene commander and will relay all pertinent information
                        to the CAR for reporting purposes. Upon stand-up of the EOC, the EOC
                        Director will act as the primary POC for the on-scene commander and will
                        relay all pertinent information to the CAR, Wing CC and CAT Director for
                        reporting purposes.

                        Complies with the General Responsibilities listed on page 1.
Medical Group           Notifies the Command Post (377-1500) immediately upon learning of a
(Updated Information)   reportable casualty. NOTE: During normal duty hours POC is Patient
                        Administration (377-6623) and coordinates with on-call provider at 377-
                        1847.
                        After duty hours and on weekends call the on-call provider at 377-1847.
                        Provides the CAR with pertinent casualty and medical information (time of
                        death, cause of death, who pronounced member dead, etc.)
                        Designate in writing, a POC to act as the casualty liaison for the CAR in
                        obtaining pertinent medical status updates/casualty information from
                        civilian/military medical facilities concerning all reportable casualties.
                        Determines and provides casualty status of service member when
                        hospitalized.
                        Keeps the NOK of casualty informed of medical status.
                        Selects a medical technician to accompany the Casualty Notification
                        Officer. Medical representative will report to the Casualty Services Office
                        in service dress. (Building 2631, Room 121, Airman & Family Readiness
                        Center)
     354FWI36-3001 26 JANUARY 2011                                                                    5


Medical Group (Cont’d)
                         Furnishes CAR one copy of autopsy when required by AFI 36-3002.
                         Designates, in writing, a POC responsible for providing casualty
                         information
                         to the CAR during operations/emergencies.
                         Ensures medical personnel are knowledgeable and support the ITO
                         Program and provides necessary information to the Casualty Services
                         personnel.
                         Complies with the General Responsibilities listed on page 1.
Unit Commanders (or      Contacts the CAR for proper notification procedures. (NOTE: Notification
Designated               officer must be a major or above. If unit commander is a captain or below,
Representatives)         he/she will accompany the notification officer).

                         Advises the CAR of any derogatory information concerning casualty.

                         Notifies NOK for members assigned to their unit who dies, are missing or
                         DUSTWUN. NOTE: Unit commanders ensure field grade officers in their
                         unit are identified and available at all times to perform notification duties
                         when the commander is not available.

                         Assists NOK when possible, but does not discuss benefits or entitlements,
                         or commit the Air Force to any agreements.

                         Formulates a plan within the unit for notifying NOK in event of a mass
                         disaster and ensures there are sufficient notification officers available.

                         Prepares circumstance/condolence letters, as required, for person(s) listed
                         on deceased member’s DD Form 93, Record of Emergency Data.
                         Coordinates letter(s) with CAR and dispatches within five calendar days of
                         death.

                         Advises the CAR if a posthumous decoration will be recommended for the
                         deceased individual.

                         Appoints summary court officer to collect and secure personal effects and
                         perform other summary court duties upon request by the base mortuary
                         officer.

                         Arranges for military escort of equal or higher rank to deceased, if
                         required.
                         Coordinates with medical personnel to ensure NOK of members of their
                         unit who are VSI/SI/III are notified and kept informed of member’s
                         medical
                         progress. Notification may be delegated to attending physician or first
                         sergeant.
        6                                                 354FWI36-3001 26 JANUARY 2011



                        When ITO has been approved, assigns a unit representative as a personal
                        escort to arrange for reception, quarters, messing, and other assistance as
                        needed by NOK in accordance with AFI 36-3002, para 2.22.
                        Complies with the General Responsibilities listed on page 1.
Chaplain                Maintains an up-to-date list of chaplains available for NOK notification
                        (during and after duty hours) and provides the list to the Command Post
                        and the CAR.
Chaplain (Cont’d)       Assures availability of a chaplain for casualty notification team. When
                        called to perform notification duties, reports to the Casualty Services
                        Office (Bldg 3125, Room 109) in service dress uniform.

                        Complies with the General Responsibilities listed on page 1.
Security Forces         Assists in securing facts and circumstances, gathers investigative data
Squadron                concerning casualty, and provides information to the CAR upon request
                        (i.e., to include local law enforcement).
                        Assists in obtaining reports from off base law enforcement agencies.
                        Provides OSI a copy of the SPAS, Incident Complaint Report, or AF
                        Form 1315, Accident Report, on all on-base deaths if completed.

                        Complies with the General Responsibilities listed on page 1.
Office of Special       Assists in securing facts and circumstances, gathers investigative data
Investigation (OSI)     concerning casualty, and provides information to the CAR upon request
(Updated Information)   (i.e., to include local law enforcement).
                        Complies with the General Responsibilities listed on page 1.
Civilian Personnel      Notifies the NOK for Department of the Air Force civilian employees who
                        die while performing their duties in accordance with AFI 36-809.
                        Complies with the General Responsibilities listed on page 1.
Mortuary Affairs        After notification has been made, contacts NOK for disposition action.
                        NOTE: Mortuary Affairs normally accompanies the CAR to the initial
                        assistance visit with the NOK.
                        Develops a written plan for the care and handling, search and recovery,
                        And identification of remains of deceased AF personnel.
                        Coordinates recovery and identification actions with CAR.
                        Obtains items of clothing and accouterments, as needed.
                        Requests appointment of summary court officer (SCO) and briefs SCO on
                        duties.
                        Assists with travel arrangements for NOK and family members.
                        Works with unit commander and first sergeant to appoint escort. Briefs
                        escort on all responsibilities.
                        Advises NOK on mortuary benefits/military honors/obtains disposition
      354FWI36-3001 26 JANUARY 2011                                                                      7


                            instructions.
                            Counsels NOK regarding transportation entitlement for deceased
                            dependent.
                            Establishes and maintains mortuary case records.
                            Complies with the General Responsibilities listed on page 1.
Public Affairs Office       Releases names of casualties after verifying from CAR that the NOK have
                            been officially notified by the Air Force.
                            Interacts with the media regarding casualties.
                            Immediately advises Command Post of any incident on or near the base
                            that receives extensive media coverage and may result in inquiries from
                            Air Force officials (disasters, aircraft/vehicle accidents, terrorist activities,
                            bombings, etc.).
Logistics Readiness         Provides a vehicle to support casualty notification/assistance on a 24-hour
Squadron                    basis.
(Updated Information)
                            Waives all normal permissive operating distance policies for casualty
                            assistance matters.
Financial Services Office   Takes immediate action (usually within 24 hrs) to have death gratuity
(FSO)                       paperwork available for the CAR to take to the beneficiary for signatures
(Updated Information)       and return to the FSO for EFT payment processing.
                            Provides the CAR and Command Post a letter designating person(s) to
                            serve as POC for death gratuity payments during non-duty hours.
(Updated Information)       Notifies the Command Post (377-1500) immediately upon learning of a
                            reportable casualty as a result of base disasters, accidents, etc.
                            Refers all inquiries for casualty reporting, notification, or assistance to
                            Casualty Assistance Representative (DSN: 377-2178/Cell: 907-388-0394).
                            Refers all inquiries for release of casualty information from the media or
                            public sources to the Public Affairs Office (377-2116).
                            Complies with the General Responsibilities listed on page 1.
Base Telecommunications     Notifies the Command Post (377-1500) immediately upon learning of a
Center/Telephone            reportable casualty.
Operators
                            Refers all inquiries for casualty reporting, notification, or assistance to
                            Casualty Assistance Representative (DSN: 377-2178/Cell: 907-388-0394).
                            Refers all inquiries for release of casualty information from the media or
                            public sources to the Public Affairs Office (377-2116).
                            Complies with the General Responsibilities listed on page 1.
Airman and Family           Provides the CAR a private office for counseling the NOK.
Readiness Center            Activate the EFACC and provide counseling services to survivors, first
(Updated Information)       responders, co-workers and others when the situation dictates the need.

                            Complies with the General Responsibilities listed on page 1.
        8                                                           354FWI36-3001 26 JANUARY 2011


       Table 3.2. Notification Procedures.


Responsibilities                 Do’s – Don’ts                       Checklist
Reports to Casualty Services     Do make positive                    Have I picked up the
Office, Bldg 2631, Room          identification of person to be      Notification package at the
121, in service dress            notified.                           Casualty Services Office?
uniform.
                                 Do identify yourself first, then    Is a staff car available? Do I
Picks up the notification        ask the person to have a seat.      have routing to NOK’s last
package (message, checklist,     Begin with a phrase such as, “I     known address?
briefing card, etc.) from the    have some unfortunate news
CAR before departing with        for you.”                           Am I familiar with the
other notification team                                              details
members to make the              Do be as natural as possible in     Of the casualty so I may
notification.                    speech manner and delivery.         relay
                                 Do introduce the chaplain after     The information in a
In accordance with pre-brief     notification has been made.         Professional manner?
from the CAR, makes              Med Rep should wait at
prompt notification to NOK.      vehicle.                            Did I confirm the address
                                                                     and
Locates the NOK as soon as       Do be alert for the person’s        phone number with NOK
possible and makes the           reaction and offer to help if       after
notification in an unhurried     needed.                             making notification?
manner.
                                 Don’t speak hurriedly or            Did I get the time of
Refrains from attempting to      Extend overly sympathetic           notification?
answer questions concerning      gestures.
disposition of remains.                                              Did I call the Air Force
Advises NOK that a               Don’t use telephone for             Casualty Services Branch
mortuary                         notification.                       (1-800-433-0048) and report
representative will contact                                          time of notification, address,
them shortly.                    Don’t discuss disposition of        and phone number of NOK?
                                 remains. Advise NOK that
Calls the CAR immediately        they will be contacted shortly      Do I have notes of questions
after leaving NOK and report     by Mortuary Affairs.                posed by NOK?
time of notification, address,
and phone number of NOK.         Don’t attempt to answer             Did I return the notification
(907-388-0394).                  questions concerning survivor       package to the CAR, inform
                                 benefits. Tell NOK that they        them of action(s) taken and
Reports back to CAR with         will be contacted by the            relay all pertinent
complete notification            Casualty Assistance                 information (DSN: 377-
package                          Representative within 24            2178, Cell: 907-388-0394)
                                 hours.
354FWI36-3001 26 JANUARY 2011                                                   9



4. Adopted and prescribed forms:
  AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
  AF Form 1315, Accident Report.




                                   JAMES N. POST III, BRIGADIER GENERAL, USAF
                                   Commander
 10                                                        354FWI36-3001 26 JANUARY 2011


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Terms
Casualty Assistance Representative—The office responsible for official notification, reporting,
and assistance for all reportable casualties at or near EAFB.
Mortuary Affairs—The office responsible for mortuary benefits and military funeral honors.
Newsworthy Event—Incidents occurring near or on EAFB that could receive extensive media
coverage and generate inquiries for information on Air Force members and dependents. Natural
disasters, civil disorders, aircraft and vehicle accidents are typical examples of newsworthy
events. Newsworthy events do not always include casualties.
Next of Kin—The Air Force identifies the primary next of kin in this order: spouse; natural,
adopted and stepchildren; parents; persons standing in loco parentis; persons granted legal
custody of the member by court or statute; siblings; grandparents; and other relatives in order of
relationship to the member according to civil laws.
Notification Officer—An officer in the rank of major or above, usually a unit commander, or
someone detailed to represent a commander who is not available or does not meet rank
requirement. If the casualty is a civilian, the notification is made by a representative of the
Civilian Personnel Office.
Reportable Casualty—Any person declared dead, duty status-whereabouts unknown
(DUSTWUN), missing, ill, or injured and is:
           An active duty Air Force member

           A retired Air Force member

           A civilian employed by the Armed Services when the casualty is due to duty

           A Reserve or Air National Guard member on active or inactive duty training, or
           traveling to or from the place of training

           A citizen of a foreign nation in the United States under the care of the United States
           Air Force

           Any person injured in an Air Force aircraft

           A family member of an active duty Air Force member (only when the Air Force is
           going to notify other NOK residing in the CONUS)
Unit Commander—A unit commander is defined as a group, squadron, or detachment
commander that is assigned or attached for duty to EAFB.
