BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                EIELSON AIR FORCE BASE
354TH FIGHTER WING                                                           INSTRUCTION 36-1004
                                                                                          21 MAY 2008

                                                                                              Personnel

                                                                          MANAGING THE CIVILIAN
                                                                          RECOGNITION PROGRAM

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         This publication is available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 354 FSS/DPC                                         Certified by: 354 MSG/CD (Mr. Charles Ford)
                                                                                           Pages: 8

This instruction describes a program to recognize the achievements of civilian employees. It documents a
system to implement AFI 36-1004, Managing the Civilian Recognition Program. Authority to collect or
maintain the records prescribed is 10 U.S.C. 8013. Maintain and dispose of records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication in accordance with AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Sched-
ule.” System of Records F040 ASG A applies.
2                                                                          354FWI36-1004 21 MAY 2008


                                                 Chapter 1

                             HISTORY AND PROGRAM PHILOSOPHY

1.1. When the Air Force was established in 1947, the Army Exceptional Civilian Service Award was
adopted and used to recognize civilians who exhibited clearly exceptional performance of duties, excep-
tional achievements of major significance, great courage, or provided powerful leadership. In 1948, the
Secretary of the Air Force established the Air Force Exceptional Civilian Service Award with similar cri-
teria. This was the only civilian Air Force award until approximately 1954. Since 1948, many awards
have been established with the purpose of recognizing civilian personnel for their outstanding accom-
plishments and achievements.

1.2. The Air Force recognition program is designed to improve government operations by motivating and
rewarding excellence by members of the workforce. Recognizing outstanding performance and achieve-
ment is an essential management responsibility critical to stimulating and sustaining high levels of profi-
ciency and productivity. Historically, whether in honorary or monetary form, recognition has three basic
components: individual or group exceptional achievement, individuals who are sensitive to the value of
recognition, and observers who acknowledge achievement and the merit of recognition.

1.3. Monetary and honorary awards should be granted when merited regardless of the employee's grade,
level of responsibility, or type of responsibility. It is important that awards be granted for job-related con-
tributions only if the contribution is clearly beyond performance requirements. If the recognition is within
job responsibilities, it must be so superior or meritorious that it warrants special recognition. If the award
eligibility is too liberal or stringent, it will lead to a lack of employee and management confidence in the
program.

1.4. The Air Force Incentive Awards Program provides special awards for superior accomplishments.
These Awards should not be used to replace performance awards. The Air Force encourages using mone-
tary incentive awards to increase productivity and recognize outstanding achievements. Broad Award
approval authority should be established to allow award approval at the lowest possible level without offi-
cial committee action. Monetary incentive awards do not substitute for other personnel actions, pay, or
performance awards.

1.5. The incentive program needs funds to comply with the spirit of the law and Air Force policy on civil-
ian productivity and performance. The command, staff, and line managers (commanders) account for
civilian personnel cost management. Each activity should budget a percentage of its yearly civilian pay
budget for funding awards.

1.6. Functional Awards. The Air Force encourages MAJCOMs and comparable organizations to estab-
lish unique honorary awards to recognize superior accomplishments. These functional awards are not
covered by the program outlined in this instruction, with the exception of identifying means to present,
publicize and record the employee’s selection as an Air Force-level recipient.

1.7. Quarterly/Annual Wing Awards. The Air Force also encourages the establishment of local quar-
terly/annual awards programs. The 354 FWI 36-2802, Quarterly/Annual Awards Program, outlines the
354FWI36-1004 21 MAY 2008                                                                           3


procedures for nominating civilian employees for these awards. This instruction does not address these
awards.
4                                                                          354FWI36-1004 21 MAY 2008


                                                 Chapter 2

                            PRESENTING AND PUBLICIZING AWARDS

2.1. The commander, management official, or supervisor recognizes employees and presents awards at a
suitable ceremony. When an Air Force employee receives recognition outside the Air Force (for example,
the DoD Distinguished Civilian Service Award), the Air Force organization to which the employee
belongs makes all arrangements, including protocol, with the awarding party.
    2.1.1. The following awards have equivalent military medals and should be presented to the recipient
    in the same manner of presentation as the equivalent military medal. The exception being that instead
    of calling the audience to attention, the audience would be asked to stand. These awards come in the
    form of a medal with accompanying certificates. The Civilian Personnel Office is responsible for pur-
    chasing medals, lapel pins, and presentation cases. The organization to which the recipient is assigned
    is responsible for purchasing certificates. The below is not a complete list of civilian awards, but a list
    of the most common awards presented. These awards are listed in order of precedence.




    2.1.2. The following are suggestions for presenting other common awards.
       2.1.2.1. Air Force-level Functional Award Winners. The commander could prepare a Letter of
       Commendation to present along with the Air Force Recognition Lapel Pin to the employee either
       during a commander’s call or at the work center. The Letter of Commendations allows the award
       to be annotated in the employee’s electronic personnel record.
       2.1.2.2. Length of Service Award. The commander could present the accompanying lapel pin dur-
       ing a commander’s call to recognize the employees years of service in a semi-formal setting.
       2.1.2.3. Air Force Outstanding Unit Award. The commander should present this lapel pin the
       same as presenting the corresponding military ribbon to assigned military personnel.

2.2. Publicize significant achievements or contributions in the local community as well as on base, but
check with the Public Affairs Office to determine if a Publicity Release Statement is required.
354FWI36-1004 21 MAY 2008                                                                                 5


                                                Chapter 3

                                          CIVILIAN AWARDS

3.1. The following table identifies award approving officials for those awards approved at the Wing Com-
mander level or below. When delegated, as authorized, to a lower approval level, it has been identified.




3.2. The following is a list of civilian awards to be reviewed by the Installation Civilian Incentive Awards
(ICIA) Committee prior to submitting to the Wing Commander for approval. The committee will review
all nomination packages to select a recommended winner or recommend approval to the Wing Com-
mander. Some of these awards also have military categories. Only route civilian nomination packages
through the committee. AF 1768, Staff Summary Sheet, 354 FW routing is as follows: recommending
official, squadron commander, group commander, 354 MSG/CD (ICIA Committee), 354 FW/CCC, 354
FW/CCE, 354 FW/CV, and 354 FW/CC. Refer to AFPAM 36-2861 or distributed guidance to determine
higher headquarters approval authority to determine additional routing. All awards higher headquar-
ters-level awards must be routed through the Numbered Air Force.
   - President’s Award for Distinguished Federal Civilian Service
   - Presidential Medal of Freedom
   - President’s Citizen’s Medal
   - Department of Defense Distinguished Civilian Service Award
   - The Secretary of Defense Meritorious Civilian Service Award
6                                                                     354FWI36-1004 21 MAY 2008


    - Public Service Excellence Award
    - Armed Forces Civilian Service Medal
    - Arthur S. Flemming Award
    - William A. Jump Memorial Award
    - William T. Pecora Award
    - Air Force Association Outstanding Air Force Civilian of they Year
    - Government Employees Insurance Company (GEICO) Public Service Awards
    - National Public Service Award
    - Air Force Commander’s Public Service Award
    - Command Civilian Award for Valor
    - Air Force Civilian Award for Valor
    - Meritorious Civilian Service Award
    - Decoration for Exceptional Civilian Service
    - Special Act or Service Awards for $2,500 or more
354FWI36-1004 21 MAY 2008                                                                             7


                                             Chapter 4

           INSTALLATION CIVILIAN INCENTIVE AWARDS (ICIA) COMMITTEE

4.1. Purpose. The committee is the final recommending body for all higher headquarters, other than Air
Force, and monetary (exceeding $2,500) awards to the wing commander. The committee may also offer
advice and recommendations concerning the civilian awards program to commanders and supervisors at
all levels when requested.

4.2. Responsibilities. The committee will:
   4.2.1. Review, compute, and recommend to the wing commander approval or disapproval of cash
   award amounts that require committee action ($2,500 or more).
   4.2.2. Recommend honorary awards to the wing commander that need higher level approval and
   nominations for Federal or non-Federal awards.
   4.2.3. Educate 354 FW’s civilian and military workforce on the tenants of the civilian recognition
   program.
   4.2.4. Review/modify/update the civilian portion of 354 FW’s quarterly and annual awards program
   instruction.
   4.2.5. Develop creative means to tie awards to performance and to tie the 354 FW’s quarterly/annual
   awards program to higher level awards.
   4.2.6. Standardize award submittal procedures to ensure streamlined administrative requirements.
   4.2.7. Identify appropriate dignified award ceremony procedures commensurate with the level of
   awards.

4.3. Committee formation. The committee will be formed as follows:
   4.3.1. Chairman. The committee chairman will be a Pay Band 3 employee assigned to the 354 FW
   and is approved by the wing commander. The chairman is responsible for developing committee
   goals, guiding committee discussions, approving all meeting minutes, prepares meeting agendas,
   establishing the regular meeting schedule, may call closed meetings to process award recommenda-
   tions, routes meeting minutes to the wing commander for review, and endorses the AF1768 when
   making recommendations to the wing commander. The Chairman has the tie-breaking vote.
   4.3.2. Vice Chairman. The committee Vice Chairman will perform the duties of the Chairman in the
   Chairman’s absence. The Vice Chairman will be a Pay Band 3 employee or squadron deputy director
   assigned to the 354 FW and is selected by the Chairman. With the wing commander’s approval, the
   Vice Chairman will become the Chairman in the succeeding year. The Vice Chairman is a voting
   member.
   4.3.3. Secretary. The committee secretary may be any civilian employee assigned to Eielson and is
   appointed by the Chairman. The secretary records all meeting discussions, prepares minutes of all
   committee meetings, and submits minutes to the Chairman for approval. The Secretary is a voting
   member.
8                                                                          354FWI36-1004 21 MAY 2008


    4.3.4. FWI 36-2802 Sub-committee Chairman. This Sub-committee Chairman may be any civilian
    employee assigned to Eielson and is appointed by the Chairman. This Sub-committee Chairman is
    responsible for updating the civilian employee sections of FWI 36-2802, Quarterly/Annual Awards
    Program in accordance with established goals and regulations. This Sub-committee Chairman is
    responsible for recruiting sub-committee members from the civilian employees assigned to Eielson.
    This appointee is a voting member.
    4.3.5. FWI 36-1004 Sub-committee Chairman. This Sub-committee Chairman may be any civilian
    employee assigned to Eielson and is appointed by the Chairman. This Sub-committee Chairman is
    responsible for updating FWI 36-1004, Managing the Civilian Recognition Program, in accordance
    with established goals and regulations. This Sub-committee Chairman is responsible for recruiting
    sub-committee members from the civilian employees assigned to Eielson. This appointee is a voting
    member.
    4.3.6. Education Sub-committee Chairman. This Sub-committee Chairman may be any civilian
    employee assigned to Eielson and is appointed by the Chairman. This Sub-committee Chairman is
    responsible for developing and marketing training events and publications to increase military and
    civilian employee’s awareness and understanding of the Civilian Recognition Program. This
    Sub-committee Chairman is responsible for recruiting sub-committee members from the civilian
    employees assigned to Eielson. This appointee is a voting member.
    4.3.7. Civilian Personnel Officer. The 354 FW’s Civilian Personnel Officer (CPO) will give program
    support and technical assistance to the committee. The CPO will attend all regular meetings of the
    committee and is a non-voting member.

4.4. Quorum. A quorum exists when at least three voting members are present at a regular or emergency
meeting, as long as all voting members were notified at the earliest possible time of the meeting. A pub-
lished annual schedule of regular meetings will suffice as earliest possible notification for voting during
regular meetings.

4.5. Meetings. Regular meetings will be held Quarterly in February, May, August, and November. Regu-
lar meetings are open to all military and civilian employees. Voting for award recommendations will not
be conducted during regular meetings. Closed meetings will held in time to vote on awards requiring wing
commander approval to meet established suspense’s.
    4.5.1. The Chairman may option to use electronic voting procedures in lieu of calling a closed meet-
    ing for last minute award reviews. In this case, the Chairman will establish a response suspense and
    forward applicable award criteria, scoring sheets, and nomination packages to all voting members.
    Voting members will cast their vote electronically and by digitally signing their e-mail when returning
    their selection to the Chairman. Votes not digitally signed or that are received after the established sus-
    pense will not be counted.
    4.5.2. Nomination packages received after the established suspense will not be considered when mul-
    tiple nomination packages are received for the same award.



                                                 MARK W. GRAPER, Brig Gen, USAF
                                                 Commander
