BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      354TH FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION 34-101
354TH FIGHTER WING (PACAF)                                           15 OCTOBER 2008

                                                                                            Support


                                                              EIELSON BASE HONOR GUARD



               COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 354 FSS/FSO                           Certified by: 354 MSG/CC (Col John G. Stutts)
Supersedes: 354FWI34-101, 9 September 2002                                   Pages: 16


This instruction implements AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program, Chapter 8.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
It revises current policies and clarifies procedures, providing guidance for planning, training, and
using the Eielson Base Honor Guard (EBHG). It describes the functions of the base Honor
Guard, responsibilities of Honor Guard members, procedures for performing Honor Guard
functions and participation standards. It adds internal communication titles and chain of
command procedures. For internal purposes, the Honor Guard will be referred to as HG. This
instruction applies to all personnel assigned to the Base Honor Guard and all agencies supported
by or supporting the program.

1. Function.

1.1. The Eielson Base Honor Guard is an elite team comprised of members from the 354th
Fighter Wing and tenant units. Our mission is to represent the Nation, the Air Force and the
Eielson community when rendering military honors at funerals of active duty, retired, and
veteran members of the Armed Forces who served this nation honorably. Additionally, the
Honor Guard supports the needs of Eielson Air Force Base and the Fairbanks-North Star
Borough community as representatives of the United States Air Force with honor, pride, and
professionalism.

1.2. The Honor Guard supports requests annually to include:

1.2.1. Protocol, honors, and ceremonial functions for military, civilian, and funeral activities.
2                                                        354FWI34-101      15 October 2008



1.2.2. Military funerals and memorial services.

1.2.3. Change of command ceremonies (IAW AFMAN 36-2203, Drill and Ceremonies).

1.2.4. Civilian programs, parades and celebrations.

1.3. The Honor Guard provides appropriate military honors at funerals or memorial services and
ceremonies when requested by the Installation Commander, Base Mortuary Officer, or the Next
of Kin (NOK) of a deceased military member.

1.3.1. USAF active duty or USAF Medal of Honor recipients, within the jurisdiction of Eielson
AFB, as specified by the Military Honors Assignment by County Documents, issued by Air
Force Mortuary Services, available at the Air Force Services Agency Community of Practice link
below:
https://wwwd.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASPs/docman/DOCMain.asp?Tab=0&FolderID=OO-DP-AE-
12-35-25&Filter=OO-DP-AE-12 ).

1.3.2. Deceased USAF retired and veteran personnel within the borough area will receive the
authorized military honors.

1.3.3. Provide honors as authorized by the following:

AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program

AFI 36-2226, Combat Arms Program

AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel

AFMAN 36-2203, Drill and Ceremonies

1.3.4. Next of kin of deceased personnel of sister services, where practical, will be referred to
the nearest military activity of the same service as the deceased.

1.4. Priority of details:

1.4.1. Funerals are the top priority for the Honor Guard under the guidance provided in AFI 34-
242, para 8.1.

1.4.2. In the event of dual funerals, members from all flights may be tasked; however, if the on-
duty flight requires more personnel, the on-call flight will be tasked first.

1.4.3. The Honor Guard NCOIC (HG/NCOIC) will reschedule any overlapping funeral in
coordination with the funeral home and/or the NOK and the Honor Guard Officer in Charge
(HG/OIC) or designee.
354FWI34-101      15 October 2008                                                           3

1.4.4. Other Honor Guard details will be based on the following priority: Colors for change of
command for 354 FW/CC, cordons for dignitaries, Colors for wing-level events, assistance for
retreats during military holidays (when requested by the 354 FW/CC), Colors for other base
events, Colors for retirements on base, Colors for special military events within the North Pole
and Fairbanks 20 mile radius of Eielson AFB, Colors for local community events, Colors for
local non-military events outside the 20-mile radius of Eielson AFB, sabers for military
weddings, and sabers for non-military weddings.

1.4.5. All other requests will be considered on a case-by-case basis by the HG/OIC or
HG/NCOIC. Two weeks’ notice is required due to manning and mission requirements.
Submission of the AF Form 1946, Honor Guard Checklist, can be submitted to
honor.guard@eielson.af.mil. The following information will be needed: the type of request
(Colors, flag fold, bugler, etc.), location of event, type of event, and name and contact of
requester. The Air Force form 1946 must be completed prior to event.

2. Roles and Responsibilities.

2.1. The 354th Fighter Wing Commander will:

2.1.1. Maintain overall responsibility for the Base Honor Guard program.

2.1.2. Ensure military funeral honors are furnished to all eligible decedents.

2.1.3. Provide adequate funding and resources to meet the operational requirements of the Base
Honor Guard program.

2.1.4. Provide storage, training, and administrative space for the Base Honor Guard team.

2.1.5. Determine the size of the Honor Guard team required for the installation, taking into
consideration where the installation is located, the population, and the projected workload.

2.1.6. Request subordinate and tenant unit manpower support. If there are insufficient active duty
volunteers, request MAJCOM approval for ARC/ANG augmentation and/or establish an
organizational quota system and engage with authorized providers.

2.1.7. When applicable, establish a memorandum of understanding between host base Honor
Guard and ANG/AFC organizations.

2.1.8. Provide special recognition programs to include all who participate in Honor Guard
activities.

2.2. The AFRC/ANG Wing/Group CC (unit providing augmentation) will:

2.2.1. Support base-level Honor Guard manpower requirements (IAW AFI 34-242 para 8.20.).

2.2.2. Work with the 354th Force Support Squadron commander and the HG/OIC or
HG/NCOIC to ensure operability of the base Honor Guard.
4                                                        354FWI34-101      15 October 2008

2.2.3. Be the designated authorizing or delegating official to sign and certify all AF
Achievement Medal packages for AFRC/ANG members.

2.3. 354th Force Support Squadron Commander will:

2.3.1. Manage the Honor Guard program for the installation commander.

2.3.2. Be the designated office to staff AF Achievement Medal packages for Active Duty
    members to the MSG/CC.

2.3.3. Ensure data is entered into Funeral Home Database (FHDB) IAW policy set forth in
AFI 34-242.

2.3.4. Provide funding for equipment, uniform purchase, cleaning, and alterations.

2.3.5. Work with the HG/OIC to ensure operability of the Base Honor Guard.

2.4. 354th Security Forces Squadron Commander will:

2.4.1. Advise the Honor Guard on how to store, clean, and maintain weapons and blank
ammunition (IAW AFI 31-101, AF Installation Security Program and AFI 36-2226, Combat
Arms Program.)

2.4.2. Inspect weapons annually and certify for weapons safety and usability.

2.5. 354th Logistics Readiness Squadron Commander will:

2.5.1. Provide government-owned or controlled vehicle(s) in support of functions in the
Fairbanks-North Star Borough community and support any additional transportation
requirements which may be required.

2.5.2. Ensure the EBHG complies with all vehicle operation procedures and regulations.
These requirements are outlined in section 11 of this instruction.

2.6. 354th Public Affairs will:

2.6.1.    Evaluate requests from civilian agencies for Honor Guard ceremonial support and
forward requests to the HG/OIC. The HG/OIC will determine if the mission permits and if the
requests can be supported.

2.6.2. Publicize the Honor Guard program through the base newspaper and other available
sources when requested.

3. Eielson Base Honor Guard Organization and Responsibilities.

3.1. The HG/OIC will:
354FWI34-101     15 October 2008                                                         5



3.1.1. Prepare annual budget requirements for the Base Honor Guard.

3.1.2. Ensure Honor Guard members are trained and properly equipped to perform military
honors.

3.1.3. Approve and maintain a list of performance-ready (trained, uniformed, and equipped)
Honor Guard members.

3.1.4. Serve as the liaison between base activities and the Honor Guard for requesting
ceremonial support.

3.1.5. Ensure data is properly recorded on AF Form 1946.

3.1.6. Provide the means to take funeral honors requests 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and
respond to all requests for funerals not more than 8 hours after the call comes in.

3.1.7. Ensure members are in compliance with AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personnel Appearance
of Air Force Personnel and AFI 10-248, Fitness Program.

3.1.8. Work with base leadership to recognize Honor Guard members.

3.1.9. Remove any member who does not meet performance or appearance standards.

3.1.10. Ensure Honor Guard weapons are inspected annually and certified for weapon safety and
usability.

3.1.11. Forecasts all ammunition requirements for the Base Honor Guard and ensures results are
submitted to 354 FSS/FSOX, as requested.

3.2. The HG/NCOIC will:

3.2.1. Assist the HG/OIC.

3.2.2. Maintain Honor Guard member roster and provide quarterly manning reports.

3.2.3. Document all administrative and disciplinary action and if necessary, forward to the
member’s squadron first sergeant and/or commander.

3.2.4. Schedule and ensure members are trained and available.

3.2.5. Evaluate unit requirements for Honor Guard manning at least quarterly, or more often if
needed.
6                                                         354FWI34-101       15 October 2008

3.2.6. Be the point of contact for each squadron affected by this instruction and maintain an up-
to-date list of personnel qualifications and attendance at ceremonies and training sessions for the
member’s Honor Guard file.

3.2.7. Initiate AF Form 1946 upon request for honors.

3.2.8. Control and maintain the Honor Guard equipment.

3.2.9. Coordinate annual weapons inspection and certification with 354th Security Forces
Squadron.

3.2.10. Monitor each Honor Guard member’s continued acceptability on the team. In the event
a member is considered unsuitable for continued duty, the member’s first sergeant or commander
will be notified in writing of the circumstances leading to the termination and request an
immediate replacement.

3.2.11. Make duty requirements schedule available to all squadrons to keep them informed of
when their personnel are on-call or stand-by.

3.3. The Operations NCO will:

3.3.1. Be responsible for the effective scheduling and appropriate training procedures of the
Base Honor Guard, to include all activities conducted by the detail commander beginning with
coordinating the event and all actions prior to the event and ending when the Honor Guard
members return to Eielson AFB and turn in equipment.

3.3.2. Support and assist the HG/OIC and HG/NCOIC.

3.3.3. Develop and administer training plans and procedures IAW USAF Honor Guard Training
Manual.

3.3.4. Ensure members carry out required functions.

3.3.5. Conduct monthly flight inspections to ensure compliance with current requirements.

3.3.6. Notify the HG/NCOIC of noncompliance with this instruction by subordinate personnel.

3.3.7. Ensure availability of personnel and equipment by maintaining close coordination with
members prior to the assigned detail.

3.4. The Flight NCO will:

3.4.1. Be responsible for the efficient operation and conduct of members during military
ceremonies. This includes all activities conducted by the duty flight, beginning with
coordinating the detail and all actions before the detail begins, and ending when the Honor Guard
members return to Eielson AFB and turn in equipment.
354FWI34-101      15 October 2008                                                           7



3.4.2. Support and assist the HG/OIC and the HG/NCOIC.

3.4.3. Ensure the members carry out required functions.

3.4.4. Ensure Honor Guard members properly perform all duties given.

3.4.5. Conduct flight inspections and facility inspections to ensure compliance with current
requirements.

3.4.6. Notify the HG/NCOIC of noncompliance with this instruction by subordinate personnel.

3.4.7. Ensure availability of personnel and equipment by maintaining close coordination with
the Flight NCO prior to the assigned detail.

3.4.8. Inspect participating Honor Guard members prior to leaving for the detail to ensure
compliance with AFI 36-2903 and that special uniform accessories are correctly worn and in
serviceable condition. Ensure proper military image and Honor Guard discipline is maintained at
all times. Report any deviations to the HG/NCOIC upon return to the base after the detail.
Ensure the AF Form 1946 is properly annotated and given to 354 FSS/FSO.

3.4.9. Instruct and brief participating Honor Guard personnel in their assigned task for each
ceremony.

3.4.10. Upon arriving at a detail, meet with the point of contact and discuss detail requirements
of the detail.

3.4.11. Assign Honor Guard members to details based on abilities, skills, appearance,
experience, and frequency of details preformed. Ensure details are evenly distributed between
all members within their flight. Favoritism will not be tolerated. Ensure at least one NCO is
assigned to each detail as often as possible.

3.4.12 . Ensure adequate time is allotted for the team to arrive at detail location, proper
coordination is made with the requester, and practices are conducted before the actual detail is
performed.

3.4.13. Keep track of personnel performing details by type of detail and hours worked, to
include on and off duty hours. Details are to be evenly distributed as much as possible. Keep
track of flight members missing practices and details to ensure personnel are detailed equally.

3.4.14. Ensure attendance is filed using AF Form 1946, upon completion of each detail.

3.4.15. Develop a roster of Honor Guard members due for an award or leaving the Honor Guard
due to PCS or separation and update the list quarterly.
8                                                        354FWI34-101      15 October 2008

3.4.16. Delegate authority to one of the other flight NCOs for above responsibilities when in the
best interest of the flight.

3.5. Honor Guard Members will:

3.5.1. Comply with the provisions of this instruction.

3.5.2. Perform details as tasked by the Flight NCO and/or Operations NCO, unless excused.

3.5.3. Become knowledgeable of all Honor Guard functions, formations, honors, and
ceremonies. Become proficient in performing all Honor Guard duties, drill and ceremonies.
Perform movements with precision and synchronization.

3.5.4. Ensure all equipment and vehicles entrusted are properly cared for and maintained, and
assist the Flight NCO and Operations NCO in maintaining equipment and supplies.

3.5.5. Ensure the Honor Guard training facility is kept clean and well maintained with all
equipment and materials returned to their proper places.

3.5.6. Maintain an exemplary personal appearance. Honor Guard members are Air Force
ambassadors to the rest of the base populace, as well as the civilian community.

3.5.7. Notify the Flight NCO and/or Operations NCO if they are going TDY, PCS, or have made
a decision to separate.

4. Manning and Obligation.

4.1. The Eielson Honor Guard will be manned by personnel selected from Groups, Wing Staff
Agencies, and base Tenant Units. A minimum 20-member Honor Guard will be maintained for
active duty funerals based on the requirements set forth in AFI 34-242. Should Honor Guard
manning fall under 20 members and manning is unable to be attained through a volunteer
program, a quota will be implemented to augment Honor Guard participation.

4.2. The Honor Guard will be composed of two flights. Each flight will be on-call 2 weeks and
on standby 2 weeks. Additionally, personnel may be tasked to perform duties to support mission
requirements.

4.3. Prior to selection as an Honor Guard member, the applicant must complete an Honor Guard
membership application and forward it to 354 FSS/FSO. Applicant must have approval of both
unit commander and first sergeant.

4.4. Personnel selected for Honor Guard will incur a minimum 12-month commitment.

4.5. Squadron commanders and first sergeants will seek volunteers or appoint members who
meet the following criteria:

4.5.1. Minimum of 12-months retainability (may be waived by 354 FSS/CC).
354FWI34-101      15 October 2008                                                              9



4.5.2. Are of the highest caliber (outstanding bearing, appearance, behavior, and attitude).

4.5.3. No non-judicial punishment under Article 15, UCMJ, pending or completed in the past
year, no control roster or UIF.

4.5.4. Have a passing score on the AF Fitness Test.

4.5.5. No shaving waivers.

4.5.6. Not pregnant.

4.6. Two months prior to expiration of the member’s 12 months service, the Operations NCO
will notify the HG/OIC or HG/NCOIC of the need to reappoint the member for an additional 6
months or request a replacement through the respective squadron’s first sergeant or commander.

4.6.1. In the event of a TDY precluding the member from serving their full term, term of service
will be extended equal to the time the member was TDY (e.g., if a member goes TDY for 3
months, the term of service will be extended 3 months).

4.6.2. In the event of PCS or hardship precluding the member from serving their full term, the
respective squadron commander will replace the member 30 days in advance to allow for proper
training and orientation.

4.6.3. If a member appointed by the unit does not meet the requirements of paragraph 4.4 or
does not complete their term of service, the unit appointing the member will be required to
reimburse 354 FSS for the expense to outfit another member from the unit with Honor Guard
uniforms. This requirement is waiverable by the 354 FSS/CC.

4.7. Honor Guard personnel will cover 100% of funeral honors with teams sufficiently trained,
including simultaneous honors in several distant locations. Any or all of the below listed
elements will be furnished within the guidelines of paragraph 1.3 at the request of the NOK or
requester.

4.7.1. Active duty funerals will require a 20-person team to perform full military honors.

4.7.2. During single retiree funeral there will be a minimum of nine members consisting of an
OIC/NCOIC, 8 pallbearers/firing party (dual use), and a bugler. A contract bugler may be used
or a recorded version of “Taps” may be played with concurrence of the NOK.

4.7.3. In the event of two geographically separated or simultaneous retiree funerals, a minimum
of nine will be sent to each.

4.7.4. During veteran funerals, two or three members will be sent to fold and present the flag.

4.7.5. The minimum personnel requirements for each funeral element are as follows:
10                                                         354FWI34-101       15 October 2008



4.7.5.1. Color Guard. The Color Guard will normally consist of two flag bearers and two
guards, as required by AFI 34-242. The Color Guard will carry both the ceremonial U.S. Flag
and the ceremonial Air Force Flag. When the situation dictates (e.g., sporting events), a three-
member Color Guard may be used carrying only the national Colors.

4.7.5.2. Firing Party. The Firing Party will consist of eight members; seven armed with an M-14
rifle or other authorized weapon, using blank ammunition, and one officer, NCO, or member
selected by the flight commander to call commands.

4.7.5.3. Flag Folders and Pallbearers. The pallbearers will consist of six members and will
double as flag folders for active duty and retiree funerals.

4.7.5.4. Detail. Appoint Flight OIC or NCOIC for each military honors ceremony.

4.7.5.5. Bugler. A bugler will be contracted to play, or a CD player may be used for sounding of
“Taps” with the consent of the NOK or requester, if possible.

4.7.5.6. The member presenting the flag to the NOK will be equal or higher grade to that of the
deceased unless the deceased was retired or veteran. If the deceased is retired or a veteran, the
flight commander will select the best qualified Honor Guard member to present the flag.

5. Training.

5.1. The EBHG Training Facility is located in Bldg 2322 (LRS Dormitory). Practice sessions
are held every Tuesday from 1500-1700.

5.1.1. Training will be standardized between all flights. At least once per quarter, Flight NCOs
will meet and discuss training issues. Training will include all topics covered in the Air Force
Honor Guard Training Manual, including but not limited to the following areas:

5.1.2. Color Guard. To include the types of flags utilized, types of ceremonies, four-man
details, six-man details, Joint Color guard details, presenting Colors, proper positioning of flags,
close interval marching, turning with and posting Colors, rifle movements both port and shoulder
arms, and retreat procedures.

5.1.3. Firing Party. To include familiarization training in the use and care of the M-14 rifle or
other authorized weapon, rifle commands and formation, general firearms safety, loading and
firing positions in which the rifles are to be held, and firing party procedures for a Standard
Honors Funeral and for a Full Honors Funeral.

5.1.4. Flag Folding. To include respect to the flag, flag heritage, types of flags, two-man flag
folds, six-man flag folds, and the required positions of flag folders to include Noncommissioned
Officer in Charge of Pallbearers (NPB), fold, mark, crossmark, carry, and hand-off, proper
procedures for folding and unfolding the flag, and procedures for presentation of the flag to the
NOK.
354FWI34-101      15 October 2008                                                          11



5.1.5. Pallbearers. To include casket familiarization, casket movement to and from the carrier
(hearse), marching with the casket, casket placement at the site of service, and honorary
pallbearer duties. Positions include NPB, fold, mark, crossmark, carry, and hand-off. Everyone
will learn all six positions and be able to perform duties of each.

5.1.6. Funerals. To include types of funerals (cremation sequences, standard honors and full
honors), as well as requirements, movements, and commands for each type of funeral.

5.1.7. Use of Sabers. To include procedures for weddings and special events as well as other
applicable details will be trained periodically as needed for proficiency.

5.1.8. Training Records. Records will be reviewed by trainers with trainees to ensure
understanding of requirements and compliance. As training is conducted on a specified item and
the trainee demonstrates a working knowledge of that item, it is then signed off in the trainee’s
records. If at any point that item becomes deficient, it shall be decertified and retrained on.
Within the JQS records, items require recertification of either every detail, once a quarter, or
once a year. These timelines shall be strictly complied with to ensure proficiency.

5.1.9. Each flight will maintain the training room in pristine condition, including vacuuming and
trash removal, as required during the week. The Flight NCO and/or Operations NCO will ensure
the facility is cleaned prior to the ending of practice and details. Periodic inspections will be
conducted by the HG/OIC or HG/NCOIC.

6. Scheduling and Participation Requirements.

6.1. When Honor Guard members are notified of a detail, they will report to the designated
formation area and secure the necessary accessories. When reporting for a detail, all participants
must be in strict compliance with AFI 36-2903.

6.2. Honor Guard members residing in base dormitories will not be exempt from bay orderly.
Honor Guard members will be released from duty during base exercises to perform military
honors at funerals or memorial services. In the event of real-world alerts or responses, members
will be released from Honor Guard duty and report to their duty section. Every effort will be
made to perform funeral details prior to release or to obtain personnel from other flights.

6.3. Excused Absences. There are four authorized reasons for excused absences from details or
practices.

6.3.1. Leave. Must be coordinated with the Operations NCO. If a member will be on leave
during their scheduled “on-call” week, they are required to contact another member from another
flight to replace them. This member will be “on-call” and will perform all assigned duties. The
member taking leave will notify the HG/NCO and/or Operations NCO of their replacement.
Members will coordinate scheduled leave with their HG/NCOIC three days before taking leave.
12                                                        354FWI34-101      15 October 2008

6.3.2. Mission Essential Duty. For the purpose of this instruction, mission essential means a
member is required to perform a specific task during a specific period of time and another
individual from the member’s duty section cannot perform the task, nor can the member perform
the task at a different time. A statement will have to come from the member’s squadron
commander excusing the absence.

6.3.3. Quarters. The member has been restricted to quarters by a competent medical authority.

6.3.4. TDY. A member is performing temporary duty and is outside of the local area. If
member is TDY during their scheduled on-call week, they are responsible for finding a
replacement for the time they are gone.

6.4. No Shows. Honor Guard members are required to attend and arrive on time for all practice
sessions, details, formations, open ranks, etc., unless permission has been granted for an excused
absence.

6.4.1. The first two “no-show” letters will be sent to the individual’s first sergeant. After the
third no-show, the Flight NCOIC will issue a letter of reprimand and provide a copy to the
member’s first sergeant.

6.5 Tardiness. Tardiness will not be tolerated.

6.5.1. Members are expected to arrive on time to all training sessions and details in the
appropriate uniform with all required equipment.

6.5.2. Failure to participate in details and scheduled practices, coordinate scheduled leaves, or
tardiness will be evaluated and result in appropriate disciplinary action, which may result in an
early release from the Honor Guard.

7. Uniforms.

7.1. All uniforms worn by Honor Guard members must conform to AFI 36-2903 and the
guidelines established by the USAF Honor Guard, unless deviations are authorized and approved
by the 354 FW/CC.

7.1.1. Uniforms. Full Honor Guard-unique ceremonial service dress uniform and Honor Guard
team unique accouterments will be provided at no cost to members.

7.1.2. The following uniform combinations will be worn during the periods specified. NOTE:
Upon approval from the Flight NCO, uniforms may deviate from the schedule dependent upon
climate conditions (unreasonably hot or cold weather conditions) or special ceremonial
requirements.

7.1.3. Summer Dress. Honor Guard slacks, short sleeve blue shirt with epaulets, ribbons,
authorized badges, aiguillette, gloves, web belt, and service cap. For females, the shirt will be
tucked-in.
354FWI34-101      15 October 2008                                                          13



7.1.4. Winter Dress. Service Dress with service cap, aiguillette, and gloves.

7.2. The HG/NCOIC will submit a list of names to the base Quartermaster identifying which
members are entitled to receive cleaning on a weekly basis.

7.3. The Operations NCO or HG/NCOIC, in an appropriate storage location, will maintain
necessary Honor Guard uniform accessories for issue in an orderly manner.

8. Equipment.

8.1. Sufficient Honor Guard equipment will be obtained, maintained, and controlled by the
HG/NCOIC to meet the requirements set forth in AFI 34-242 and 36-2903.

8.1.1. The HG/NCOIC will ensure all Honor Guard equipment is kept in good condition at all
times and that necessary replacement items are ordered and received in a timely manner.

8.2. M-14 rifles or M-16 rifles. There will be serviceable weapons (with back-up weapons to
allow for repairs) to equip two seven-member firing parties. Sufficient quantity of blank
ammunition will be available to provide for honors training and ceremonial requirements (a
minimum of 112 rounds, 56 rounds per ceremony).

8.3. Rifles and blank ammunition will be stored in the SFS Armory. While in transit, weapon
containers will be kept out of view. Bolts will be in the open position prior to being transported
or placed in a storage container.

8.4. During overnight stops away from Eielson AFB, weapons will be stored in a government
storage facility (Reserve, National Guard Armory, or local police armory). Arrangements to
temporarily store these weapons will be made by the Flight Detail NCO. If necessary, and as a
last resort, the weapons may be stored in quarters, motel, or hotel as long as one team member is
always present. Weapons will never be left unattended or stored in a vehicle overnight.

8.5. Upon arrival at the detail site, the flight Detail NCO will issue one weapon, one ammunition
clip, and eight rounds of blank ammunition to each member of the firing party. Prior to insertion
of the loaded clip, weapons will be cleared and the safety placed in the “SAFE” position.

8.6. Weapons will remain in the “SAFE” position at all times, except during the actual
ceremony. After the ceremony and when all elements have marched away from the site, the
weapons will be unloaded, cleared, and returned to the storage container. Upon return to the
base, the firing party member will turn in all weapons.

8.7. Unused ammunition will be collected at the site and inventoried by the Operations NCO to
determine the number of rounds expended. All expended casings will be collected from the
ceremonial site and returned to the Flight NCO for turn-in.
14                                                        354FWI34-101       15 October 2008

8.8. If requested, the spent casings may be provided to the NOK. Three polished expended
casings will be given to the NOK as a representation of the firing party and the 21-gun salute.

8.9. AF Sabers/Swords. There will be 12 serviceable ceremonial sabers and sheaths.

8.10. Harnesses. There will be eight serviceable flag harnesses; four for training purposes and
four for ceremonies.

9. Transportation.

9.1. Transportation will be requested from and provided by 354th Logistics Readiness Squadron,
Vehicle Operations Dispatch Section (377-1843).

9.2. Vehicle provided must present a good appearance and be in good mechanical condition.
When requested, LRS will supply a driver. In the event a driver is not available, a properly
licensed Honor Guard member will drive the vehicle.

9.3. Travel to and from detail will be by government-owned or controlled vehicle only.
Privately owned vehicles (POV) will not be allowed to transport any member to an honors
ceremony that occurs beyond the boundary fences of Eielson AFB without the approval of the
HG/NCOIC.

9.4. Smoking and alcoholic beverages will not be allowed in any government owned or
controlled vehicle, nor at any time during the detail from initial formation to the release of the
members.

9.5. Efforts will be made to return vehicles in the same condition as picked up. If not wearing
service uniform (summer or winter) upon returning the vehicle, Honor Guard members will clean
the vehicle of visible dirt, bugs, salt, mud, and remove all trash.

9.6. Some circumstances may prevent members from cleaning the vehicles prior to turn-in (e.g.,
returning to the area late at night from details, immediate requirements to report to work, wear of
service dress).

9.7. Members will discuss their situation with the 354 LRS vehicle dispatcher to be released
immediately from cleaning the vehicle to some degree. The Honor Guard member(s) will clean
the vehicle on the following day or on a Monday if turning in the vehicle during a weekend (if
the vehicle is not reserved for the next day).

10. Recognition Programs.

10.1. Honor Guard members can be recognized for their outstanding support by a recognition
program. The recognition program includes:

10.1.1. The Air Force Achievement Medal (AFAM) is awarded to deserving members who have
committed distinguished service to the Honor Guard. The HG/NCOIC is responsible for
354FWI34-101     15 October 2008                                                        15

ordering the recommendation for decoration, preparing the award, and submission for staffing
and approval.

10.1.2. The suggested criteria for the AFAM should be as follows:

10.1.2.1. Complete the 12-month contractual commitment.

10.1.2.2. Complete an overall total of 100 Honor Guard hours, to include details and training
hours.

10.1.2.3. Recommended for outstanding achievement by HG/OIC and HG/NCOIC.

10.1.2.4. Be in good standing with the EBHG and their respective squadron.

10.1.2.5. No non-judicial punishment under Article 15, UCMJ, pending or completed in the past
year, no control roster or UIF.

10.2. 354th Fighter Wing Awards Program:

10.2.1. The Honor Guardsman of the Quarter is presented quarterly to the member who has
demonstrated all the qualities of an Honor Guardsman with outstanding precision and
professionalism.

10.2.2. The Honor Guardsman of the Year is presented annually to the member who has
demonstrated all the qualities of an Honor Guardsman with outstanding precision and
professionalism. The winner will be selected from previous quarterly winners but is not limited
to those individuals (e.g., one member may consistently perform superiorly, but not receive a
quarterly award).

10.2.3. Quarterly and annual awards will be decided based on the 354 FW schedule. 1206
submissions will mirror the established 354 FW guidance.


10.3. The Honor Guard member’s parent squadron will recommend nominees who meet or
exceed the above award criteria to 354 FW/CCC. A board will be conducted to select the award
winner (quarter and annual). The board will consist of but not limited to the HG/OIC,
HG/NCOIC, other Honor Guard NCO, and one squadron chief or first sergeant with a Honor
Guard member currently assigned. Honor Guard board will add additional Honor Guard unique
information for consideration in 1206 scoring.

10.3.1. Members selected as Honor Guardsman of the Quarter will be recognized at quarterly
awards ceremonies. Annual awards will be presented at the Wing annual awards ceremony.
16                                                      354FWI34-101      15 October 2008


11. Honor Guard Details.

11.1. Honor Guard members are subject to perform details at any time, regardless if a flight is
on-call.

11.2. Honor Guard members may be required to perform details on weekends and may receive
short-notice notification of an upcoming detail. Each member should be prepared to perform
details and take actions to handle personal obligations and commitments.


MARK W. GRAPER, Brigadier General, USAF
Commander
