BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                             354TH FIGHTER WING
354TH FIGHTER WING (PACAF)                                             INSTRUCTION 32-7003

                                                                            26 JANUARY 2010

                                                                                 Civil Engineer

                                                   EIELSON AFB WASTEWATER SYSTEMS
                                                        AND PRETREATMENT PROGRAM
                                                                      COMPLIANCE

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 354 CES/CEAN                                                    Certified by: 354 MSG/CC
Supersedes: 354 FWI32-7003, 4                                         (Col Karlton D. Johnson)
            December 2004                                                               Pages: 9


This instruction implements AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality. It is used in conjunction with
AFI 32-7041, Water Quality Compliance and AFI 32-1067, Water Systems. It establishes base
procedures and assigns responsibility for wastewater systems and pretreatment program
oversight and operation, and for accomplishing monitoring and reporting requirements of the
Clean Water Act and associated publications. This FWI applies to all units, organizations,
building occupants, and activities that generate domestic and/or non-domestic wastewater, and/or
storm water discharges to the wastewater system on Eielson AFB. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.                  Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. See
Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
1. General. The emphasis on environmental pollution prevention and abatement requires all
base activities, including housing occupants, contractors, and tenants who generate non-domestic
wastewater, to review their processes that generate wastewater and their disposal procedures.
2                                                           354FWI32-7003 26 JANUARY 2010


Efforts must be taken by all to reduce or eliminate the pollutant at the point of generation, control
its discharge, recycle or reuse the pollutant, and/or properly dispose of the pollutant. An
effective base program for eliminating and controlling non-domestic wastewater requires the full
support and cooperation of all activities that generate the wastewater.
    1.1. This instruction:
       1.1.1. Outlines a scoping process for identifying and characterizing wastewater from
       point sources on base and implementing a waste minimization, control, and permitted
       treatment program to reduce and prevent pollution.
       1.1.2. Prescribes segregation, control, and discharge procedures for domestic and non-
       domestic wastewater.
       1.1.3. Outlines procedures for monitoring, testing, and reporting to regulatory agencies.
       1.1.4. Identifies general and specific prohibitions for discharges to the wastewater
       treatment plant.
       1.1.5. Establishes responsibilities for a wastewater pretreatment program.
       1.1.6. Designates offices of primary responsibility for various tasks.
    1.2. Scope. This instruction is consistent with and augments the following base plans:
       1.2.1. Hazardous Waste Management Plan
       1.2.2. Oil and Hazardous Substance Discharge Prevention and Contingency Plan
       1.2.3. Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan
       1.2.4. Pollution Prevention Management Plan
       1.2.5. Solid Waste Management Plan
       1.2.6. Wastewater Treatment Plant Pretreatment Program
2. Eielson AFB Responsibilities:
    2.1. Comply with federal, state, and local requirements pertaining to permitting,
    management, treatment, and discharge of wastewater. These requirements take precedence if
    they conflict with this regulation.
    2.2. Assure timely review and submission of monitoring reports to regulatory agencies to
    avoid regulatory noncompliance.
    2.3. Ensure and implement best management practices for collection of wastewater and
    operation of wastewater treatment systems.
    2.4. Conduct wastewater characterization, toxicity reduction evaluations, and other studies to
    determine the non-domestic pollutant characteristics at each waste generation point.
    2.5. Develop consistent base-wide approaches to non-domestic wastewater management that
    apply to all base and tenant organizations, and base residents.
    2.6. Enforce wastewater discharge policies through the use of point source monitoring, shop
    surveys, and administrative action to prevent treatment system interruptions and discharge
354FWI32-7003 26 JANUARY 2010                                                                     3


   violations.   Compliance problems with non-domestic discharges will be addressed and
   resolved.
   2.7. Utilize waste minimization and source reduction techniques through material
   substitution, process change, and/or administrative change at or near the waste generation
   point. This should be done as needed to protect collection and treatment facilities from
   damage, upset, or discharge violations.
   2.8. Develop, implement, and manage a wastewater treatment and wastewater collection
   operator certification program in compliance with all applicable regulations.
3. Organizational Responsibilities:
   3.1. 354 CES Base Civil Engineer (BCE):
       3.1.1. Establishes and publishes technical guidance through this instruction to base
       organizations for collection, treatment, storage, and disposal of domestic and non-
       domestic waste. Attachment 2 presents the prohibitions that apply to all domestic and
       non-domestic users.
       3.1.2. Assumes the title, duties, and responsibilities as the installation Pretreatment
       Program Manager (PPM). The installation PPM, or designee, will have the legal
       authority to implement, monitor, and enforce the Eielson AFB Wastewater Treatment
       Plant (WWTP) Pretreatment Program.
       3.1.3. Approves requests from organizations that generate non-domestic wastewater.
       Reviews the wastewater constituents and volume in coordination with the Water Program
       Manager to determine if the discharge should be prohibited or have restrictions or
       controls prior to discharge to the collection system.
       3.1.4. Provides the manpower and funding necessary to maintain a Wastewater
       Pretreatment Program.
   3.2. 354 CES/CEA Asset Management Chief
       3.2.1. Serves as an advisor to the PPM.
   3.3. 354 CES/CEAN, Natural Resources Management Element
       3.3.1. Serves as the contact for all activities concerning discharges to the sanitary system.
       Coordinates with the water systems superintendent.
       3.3.2. Works with all generators to control and eliminate, where possible, all non-
       domestic wastewater discharges to the sanitary sewer system.
       3.3.3. Assures wastewater facilities are in compliance with regulatory and base
       requirements; determines whether corrective actions are needed.
       3.3.4. Coordinates negotiations with regulators for discharge limits, monitoring
       locations, and reporting requirements. Maintains permit and reporting records.
       3.3.5. Ensures compliance monitoring and reporting is conducted, reviewed, and
       submitted in a timely manner.
       3.3.6. Provides guidance on waste elimination, product substitution, recycling, and
       process changes.
4                                                          354FWI32-7003 26 JANUARY 2010


       3.3.7. Reviews and updates the discharge prohibitions, and the list of non-domestic and
       significant non-domestic users annually.
       3.3.8. Provides pollution prevention and spill control training.
       3.3.9. Prepares the base wastewater Pretreatment Plan, if required.
    3.4. Unit Environmental Coordinator (UEC) Responsibilities:
       3.4.1. Conduct facility inspections to ensure compliance with the base wastewater
       Pretreatment Plan.
       3.4.2. Prepare and submit reports from non-domestic users as required by the Natural
       Resources Management Element, 354 CES/CEAN.
    3.5. 354 FW and Tenant Organizations Generating Activities:
       3.5.1. Appoint UECs and facility managers responsible for controlling all non-domestic
       waste discharges in their facilities and working areas.
       3.5.2. Contact the Natural Resources Management Element, 354 CES/CEAN, for
       approval, guidance, and non-domestic discharge restrictions prior to initiating any
       physically new non-domestic wastewater connection to the sewer system (i.e. new
       building or remodeled building), any change in the way an existing drain is used (i.e.
       uncovering or unplugging a drain that is permanently covered or plugged), any change in
       the primary function of a facility (i.e. changing storage activities to active equipment
       maintenance), or prior to modifications to the current discharge or pretreatment of
       discharge to the WWTP.
       3.5.3. Prevent any non-domestic discharge not specifically approved by the Natural
       Resources Management Element.
       3.5.4. Reduce the volume and concentration of discharges through the pollution
       prevention program.
       3.5.5. Notify the Fire Department and the Natural Resources Management Element of
       any spills or unauthorized discharges of non-domestic waste to the sewer system.
       3.5.6. Ensure all personnel working in the generation area are aware of the discharge
       restrictions listed in Attachment 2 and in the base Wastewater Pretreatment Plan.
       3.5.7. Ensure that processes generating non-domestic wastewater are operated and
       performed properly.
       3.5.8. Ensure that personnel involved in non-domestic processes have received pollution
       prevention and spill control training.
       3.5.9. Ensure that pollution prevention and spill control measures are enforced at the
       activity to prevent violation of pretreatment standards.
       3.5.10. Provide all notification as required by the Wastewater Treatment Plant
       Pretreatment Program and the Water Program Manager.
    3.6. 354 CES Water Systems Superintendent:
354FWI32-7003 26 JANUARY 2010                                                                  5


      3.6.1. Operates and maintains the base wastewater treatments systems and ancillary
      facilities according to federal and state regulations, Air Force instructions, and industry
      standards.
      3.6.2. Operates and maintains the base wastewater collection systems and ancillary
      processes, facilities, and equipment according to federal and state regulations, Air Force
      instructions, and industry standards.
      3.6.3. Manages the wastewater treatment and wastewater collection operator certification
      program to ensure compliance with federal and state regulations, and Air Force
      instructions.
4. Adopted and Prescribed Forms.
AF Forms 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                           MICHAEL J. JORDAN, Colonel, USAF
                                           354th Fighter Wing
6                                                          354FWI32-7003 26 JANUARY 2010


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Acronyms and Abbreviations
ADEC— Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation
BCE— Base Civil Engineer
BOD— Biochemical Oxygen Demand
CFR— Code of Federal Regulations
DoD— Department of Defense
EPC— Environmental Protection Committee
FOG— Fats, Oils, and Greases
HAZMAT— Hazardous Material Handling and Recycling Facility
HMWMP— Hazardous Material and Waste Management Plan
Mg/L— milligram per liter
MSDS— Material Safety Data Sheet
OWS— Oil Water Separator
POL— Petroleum, Oils, Lubricants
PPM— Pretreatment Program Manager
RCRA— Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SNU— Significant Non-domestic User
TSS— Total Suspended Solids
USACOE— United States Army Corps of Engineers
WWTP— Wastewater Treatment Plant

Terms
Conveyance— as used in this document, a general term that includes all components within the
wastewater collection system (e.g., gravity and pressure sewer lines, lift stations, clean-outs, oil
water separators, septic tanks, sewage holding tanks, and manholes).
Chemical Surety Materials— all chemical warfare agents designated by the DoD to include
blister agents, nerve agents, and other agents identified by the DoD.
Domestic Wastewater— means waterborne human wastes or gray water derived from
dwellings, commercial buildings, institutions, or similar structures; domestic wastewater includes
the contents of individual removable containers used to collect and temporarily store human
wastes; domestic wastewater does not include (a) liquid or solid material removed from septic
tank, cesspool, or similar treatment works, if those facilities receive non-domestic or industrial
wastewater, or (b) grease removed from a grease trap at a restaurant.
354FWI32-7003 26 JANUARY 2010                                                                    7


Hazardous Waste— As defined under RCRA in 40 CFR 261.
Interference— The inhibition or disruption of the WWTP treatment processes or operations,
that may contribute to violation of the ADEC wastewater discharge permit.
Non-domestic User— any facility discharging wastewater that is not of comparable strength,
origin, and/or flow of typical domestic sources; a source of non-domestic wastewater.
Non-domestic Wastewater— means liquid or water-carried wastes other than domestic
wastewater; non-domestic wastewater includes wastes resulting from (a) a manufacturing, food
processing, or production enterprise; (b) an industrial establishment; (c) the development of
natural resources; (d) the construction of a manufacturing, production, or industrial facility; and
(e) storm water runoff.
Pass-through— The presence of any pollutant in the WWTP effluent that is not permitted to be
discharged. This occurs when pollutants are sent to a WWTP that is not designed to remove
them.
Point Source— Any discernible, confined, and discrete conveyance, including any pipe, ditch,
channel, tunnel, well, conduit, container, or vessel from which pollutants are or may be
discharged.
Pollutant— Any substance, often regulated by environmental protection standards, which may
have an adverse impact on the environment. Examples include chemical and biological
constituents of sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, chemical wastes, other biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, oil, grease, solvents, heavy metals, organic compounds, suspended
solids, surfactants, or any toxic or hazardous material discharged into water.
Pretreatment— Treatment of pollutants prior to discharge to the wastewater collection system.
May involve methods to reduce concentrations or alter the chemical/physical properties of the
pollutant.
Sanitary Sewer— A sewer intended to receive primarily domestic sewage and some non-
domestic wastewater.
Significant Non-domestic User— Non-domestic users that meet the criteria delineated in 40
CFR 403 and Protocol for the Preparation of Installation Pretreatment Programs (USACE,
1999); any non-domestic user designated as such by the Pretreatment Program Manager.
Storm Sewer or Storm Drain— A sewer that carries storm or surface waters and drainage, but
excludes sewage and industrial wastes.
8                                                            354FWI32-7003 26 JANUARY 2010


                                            Attachment 2
                    GENERAL RESTRICTIONS FOR ALL ACTIVITIES

The following prohibitions apply to all domestic and non-domestic users regardless of and in
addition to any specific pretreatment standards. These prohibitions are from 40 CFR 403.5, with
modifications recommended in the Protocol for the Preparation of Installation Pretreatment
Programs (USACE, 1999)
A2.1. General Prohibitions: Users shall not discharge pollutants that will pass through the
WWTP or interfere with operation and/or performance of the treatment facility.
A2.2. Specific Prohibitions
Users shall not intentionally introduce the following pollutants into the sanitary sewer system:
a. Pollutants that create a fire or explosion hazard in the WWTP or its conveyance system. In no
case, will a waste stream have a flashpoint of less than 140 degrees Fahrenheit (0F) using test
methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21. These pollutants include, but are not limited to: gasoline,
kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, and pyrogenic or explosive materials.
b. Pollutants that will cause corrosive structural damage to the WWTP. In no case shall
discharges with a pH lower than 5.0 or greater than 10.0 standard units be made.
c. Solid or viscous pollutants in amounts that will or may cause obstruction to the flow in the
WWTP or its conveyance system, resulting in interference. These pollutants include, but are not
limited to: animal/vegetable fats, oils, and greases (FOG); petroleum, oils, and lubricants (POL);
ashes; cinders; mud; lime slurry; straw; shavings; metal; glass; rags; feathers; tar; plastics; wood;
paunch; manure, or disposable diapers
d. Any pollutant, including biological oxygen demand (BOD) or chemical oxygen demand
pollutants, released in a discharge and at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration that will
cause interference with/at the WWTP and its conveyance system. These pollutants include, but
are not limited to aqueous film forming foams (AFFF).
e. Heat in amounts that will inhibit biological activity in the WWTP resulting in interference,
but in no case heat in such quantities that the temperature at the WWTP exceeds 1040F unless the
PPM, in conjunction with ADEC, approves alternate temperature limits.
f. Petroleum-based products, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral oil origin will
not be discharged to the sewer, except for incidental amounts that are generated during
equipment and facility washing operations. Discharge will then only be allowed after the
effluent is pretreated through the use of an OWS or some other device designed to remove oil
from water.
g. Pollutants that result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or fumes within the WWTP
and/or its conveyance systems in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and safety
problems.
h. Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated by the WWTP.
i. Any chemical surety materials, except as noted below. Simulated and experimental surety
agents that produce the characteristic effects of surety materials on living tissue (e.g., blistering,
cholinesterase inhibition, etc.), but have not been designated by the DoD as surety material, also
354FWI32-7003 26 JANUARY 2010                                                                 9


are prohibited from being discharged to the sanitary sewer. De minimis amounts of surety agents
may be discharged to the WWTP and its conveyance system if associated with decontamination
of personnel in accordance with contingency plans for biological or chemical attack.
j. Any RCRA-listed hazardous wastes or mixtures that contain those wastes, that do not meet the
requirements of 40 CFR 261.3(a)(2)(iv), and that do not meet the local discharge limits
established by the WWTP Pretreatment Plan.
k. Any wastewater containing radionuclide concentrations greater than natural background
levels, unless approved by the PPM.
l. Any substance that may cause a violation of the Eielson AFB WWTP wastewater disposal
permit, or render as hazardous the sludge produced by the WWTP.
m. Pollutants incorporated in any State standard for the purpose of protecting the WWTP, and as
specified in the WWTP's wastewater disposal permit, will be enforceable as pretreatment
standards.
A2.3. Specific Treatment Requirements

a. All silver-contaminated wastewater will be collected and disposed of through a silver
recovery unit.

b. Aircraft, AGE, and government or commercial vehicle washing shall be performed in wash
racks connected to an oil/water separator unless authorized by the Base Civil Engineer.

c. Ground water or storm water contaminated with petroleum products cannot be discharged in
sanitary sewers. Contact the Natural Resources Management Element, 354 CES/CEAN, for
approval and guidance.

d. Direct and/or indirect discharge of uncontaminated ground water or storm water to the
sanitary sewer system is prohibited unless authorized by the Base Civil Engineer to clear
utilidors of ground and/or storm water.

e. Shop floor drains will remain plugged until needed to drain authorized waste unless exempted
by CEOI and CEAN.
