BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                            354th FIGHTER WING
354TH FIGHTER WING (PACAF)                                           INSTRUCTION 48-137

                                                                       29 DECEMBER 2009
                                                          Certified Current, 4 February 2012
                                                                         Aerospace Medicine

                                                RESPIRATORY PROTECTION PROGRAM


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 354 MDOS/SGOAB                                                Certified by: 354 MDG/CC
Supersedes: 354FWI48-103, 21 Dec 05                                            (Col H. Hayes)
                                                                                     Pages: 11


This document incorporates the changes made to AFOSH Standard 48-137, Respiratory
Protection Program, and incorporates requirements of the OSHA Voluntary Protection Program.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional‘s chain of
command. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.

1. Responsibilities: General responsibilities for units involved in the Respiratory Protection
Program (RPP) are found in AFOSH Standard 48-137. Additional responsibilities regarding
implementation of Eielson AFB‘s RPP are addressed below:
   1.1. Unit Commanders will:
       1.1.1. Support the funding and installation of appropriate engineering controls to
       eliminate the need for respiratory protection (RP).
       1.1.2. Authorize expenditure of unit funds to purchase and maintain individual
       respirators when the respirators are required or recommended by Bioenvironmental
       Engineering (BE).
       1.1.3. Appoint in writing the workplace Respiratory Protection Program (RPP) manager.
2                                                        354FWI48-137 29 DECEMBER 2009


       1.1.4. Ensure supervisors of the workplaces where respirators are used receive initial
       supervisory respirator training from BE each time the workplace supervisor changes.
       1.1.5. Decide whether or not to purchase loose-fitting powered air purifying or supplied
       air positive pressure type respirators for bearded workers after considering the worker‘s
       position description and potential exposure.
       1.1.6. Enforce the use of respirators for processes identified by BE and take
       administrative actions for personnel that fail to comply with this instruction.
       1.1.7. Ensure that workplace supervisors respond within appointed times to all requests
       for updated rosters or other information.
    1.2. Workplace supervisors, where respirators are used, are responsible for protecting their
    workers. The workplace supervisor will:
       1.2.1. Ensure that the RPP Manager is initially trained.
       1.2.2. The designated individual will be responsible for ensuring proper issue,
       maintenance, inspection, and care of all respirators in the workplace, and will be the
       single point of contact to the base RPP Manager (BE).
       1.2.3. Maintain a copy of AFOSH Std 48-137, applicable OSHA standard(s), this
       instruction, and for supplied air users, AF Technical Order 42B-1-22.
       1.2.4. Develop, maintain, and enforce a workplace operating instruction (OI) per
       guidance in the template available through BE.
       1.2.5. Provide a copy of workplace specific RPP OI to BE for approval annually.
       1.2.6. Notify BE of new workers to initiate medical evaluation, initial fit testing and
       training. Ensure that workers are fit tested and trained prior to beginning operations that
       require RP.
       1.2.7. Ensure workers who wear respirators complete initial and annual medical
       questionnaires and receive fit testing and training at least every 12 months.
       1.2.8. Ensure workers only wear respirators for processes identified by BE.
       1.2.9. Ensure that workers who use any gear that may affect the respirator fit will take
       the gear with them to their fit test appointment: such as any required/optional head gear
       (hard hats, hoods, skull caps, ‗dew rags‘, etc.); and any eye protection or corrective
       lenses/inserts.
       1.2.10. Direct workers to the Base Optometry Clinic if corrective lenses are needed
       while wearing a full-face respirator. Provide the worker with the required kit for
       mounting the corrective lenses into the respirator. The kits are specific to respirator
       manufacturer and must be ordered along with the worker‘s respirator from supply. No
       inserts are required if worker elects to wear contact lenses.
       1.2.11. Maintain a current copy of the fit test certificate in the Occupational Health
       Database (Command Core System or equivalent) or a hard copy of the AF Form 2772,
       Certificate of Respirator Fit Test, or equivalent, with the worker‘s AF Form 55,
       Employee Safety and Health Record.
354FWI48-137 29 DECEMBER 2009                                                                   3


     1.2.12. Document all RP training on the worker‘s AF Form 55.
     1.2.13. Maintain a list of all workers that require respirators, each type of respirator they
     have been qualified on, and their latest fit test date. Upon request, they will provide the
     list to Public Health (PH) and BE within five (5) duty days.
     1.2.14. Only issue wearers the specific respirator for which they have received fit testing
     and training from BE.
     1.2.15. Verify that used respirator cartridges/canisters/filters are disposed of in
     accordance with directions provided by either 354 CES/CEV or BE.
     1.2.16. Coordinate ―voluntary‖ filtering face piece devices in the work place to ensure
     appropriate use and training.
     1.2.17. Notify BE of any problems with respiratory program effectiveness, respirator fit,
     selection, use or maintenance that may render RP ineffective in the workplace.
     1.2.18. Request additional training for a worker if the supervisor determines the worker
     has insufficient knowledge of respirator use or the respirator appears to fit improperly.
     1.2.19. Request initial and annual training from the fire department for Self-contained
     Breathing Apparatus (SCBA) users.
     1.2.20. Identify inconsistencies between AF Technical Orders and the AFOSH Standard
     to BE. Initiate resolution of the inconsistency through official channels with a
     coordinated AFTO Form 22.
     1.2.21. Ensure the collection of bulk air samples for supplied air systems is conducted
     quarterly IAW AF Technical Order 42B-1-22. The shop supervisor must contact BE to
     obtain sample bottle, sample number and location where to submit the sample for
     analysis.
  1.3. Workplace RPP managers will:
     1.3.1. Act as the single point of contact to the base RPP Manager (BE).
     1.3.2. Ensure proper issue, maintenance, inspection, and care of all respirators.
     1.3.3. Notify BE of new personnel requiring respirators and ensure workers are NOT
     issued a respirator until being successfully trained and fitted.
     1.3.4. Review and update, as necessary, the workplace specific RPP OI and submit to the
     workplace supervisor and BE for approval.
     1.3.5. In coordination with the workplace supervisor, provide an updated list of
     respirator wearers to BE quarterly.
  1.4. Individuals who wear respirators will be familiar with the requirements in AFOSH
  Standard 48-137, this instruction, and the workplace RPP OI. They will:
     1.4.1. Report to BE for fit testing and training prior to any use of respirators.
     1.4.2. Use only government provided respirators for the hazard and process identified by
     BE.
4                                                         354FWI48-137 29 DECEMBER 2009


       1.4.3. Remain clean-shaven to ensure a face-to-face piece seal can be maintained when
       using a tight-fitting respirator.
       1.4.4. Clean, sanitize, inspect, and perform the necessary maintenance of the respirator.
       1.4.5. Properly store respirators and perform filter changes as required in the BE process
       description.
       1.4.6. Perform the positive and negative pressure seal checks (as described in 29
       CFR1910.134 Appendix B-1) or the respirator manufacturer‘s recommended user seal
       check (if BE confirms it is equally effective) each time a tight-fitting respirator is donned.
       User seal checks are not substitutes for quantitative fit tests performed by BE.
       1.4.7. Report any problems attaining proper seal checks to their workplace supervisor.
       Consult BE for a new fit-test anytime there are unresolved or recurrent seal problems.
       1.4.8. Not wear any equipment in a manner that interferes with the face piece-to-face
       seal of the respirator.
       1.4.9. Not modify or change the respirator in anyway, which would invalidate the
       National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) certification.
       1.4.10. Report to the workplace supervisor for a new respirator fit-test if you experience
       a change in physical condition that could affect respirator fit (e.g., weight change of more
       than 20 pounds, facial scarring, dental changes, cosmetic surgery, disfigurement, etc.).
       1.4.11. Notify the workplace supervisor of any problems with respirator fit, selection,
       use or maintenance that may render RP ineffective in the work place.
       1.4.12. Notify their supervisors if they wear contact lenses.
    1.5. Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) is the base level authority on respirators. BE will
    evaluate hazards and accomplish respirator training and fit testing, program monitoring, and
    core documentation. BE will:
       1.5.1. Conduct workplace exposure monitoring and determine RP requirements. Will
       review all evaluations and determine appropriate respirator type for potential inhalation
       hazards.
       1.5.2. Recommend the appropriate type of respirator, conduct respirator training (except
       for SCBA), and fit testing (including SCBA) in accordance with paragraphs 3. and 4. of
       this instruction. BE will attempt to ―block‖ schedule workplaces to the maximum extent
       possible.
       1.5.3. Administer respirator medical questionnaire. Will not fit-test potential respirator
       wearers until medically cleared for respirator use.
       1.5.4. Contact the workplace RPP manager to schedule initial fit testing and training
       after the worker(s) is medically approved for respirator use.
       1.5.5. Maintain a record of all workplaces on the RPP, including operations requiring
       respirators, types of respirators used, and potential hazards, and all workers on RPP along
       with their latest fit test and training date.
354FWI48-137 29 DECEMBER 2009                                                                5


     1.5.6. Routinely request updated rosters of all areas on the RPP, on at least a quarterly
     basis, and coordinate these requests with the appropriate squadron commander or
     designated representative.
     1.5.7. Review copies of workplace specific Operating Instructions (OI) on RPP annually
     and maintain the copies of the current OI.
     1.5.8. Accomplish air sampling (if required) for processes requiring RP.
     1.5.9. Inspect workplace respirators to ensure proper use, maintenance, care, and storage
     at least every 12 months.
     1.5.10. Track respirator fit testing and training currency and report status to the
     Combined Occupational Safety and Health Council annually.
     1.5.11. Check the NIOSH web site: http://www.cdc.gov/niosh/homepage.html for any
     new respirator user‘s notices on a quarterly basis and inform relevant respirator users.
  1.6. Commander, Medical Operations Squadron will:
     1.6.1. Ensure a physician or other licensed health care professional (PLHCP), as defined
     in 29 CFR 1910.134 (b), medically clears each worker to wear a respirator in accordance
     with 29 CFR 1910.134 (e). Based on information provided by BE, the PLHCP will
     annotate on the respirator medical questionnaire his/her professional opinion of the
     employee‘s ability to wear the respirator and perform assigned duties.
     1.6.2. Through the Primary Care Optimization (PCO) Panels, complete initial and
     routine medical surveillance of respirator users required by applicable OSHA and
     AFOSH standards. Will conduct additional medical evaluations if:
         1.6.2.1. The respirator user reports medical signs or symptoms that are related to the
         ability to use a respirator.
         1.6.2.2. The PLHCP, supervisor, or the RPP administrator informs BE that an
         employee needs to be reevaluated.
         1.6.2.3. The information from the RPP, including observations made during fit
         testing and program evaluation, indicates a need for reevaluation.
         1.6.2.4. A change occurs in workplace conditions that may result in a substantial
         increase in the physiological burden on the respirator user, such as physical work
         effort, protective clothing, or significant temperature changes.
  1.7. Fire Department will:
     1.7.1. When requested, provide initial and annual training on the use and maintenance of
     SCBA to teams established for the purpose of responding to emergencies or rescues, such
     as the CES Hazardous Waste Team, Hydrazine Response Team, and Explosive Ordnance
     Disposal Team, CE Readiness and BE. This training will be documented on the worker‘s
     AF Form 55.
     1.7.2. Perform all locally authorized filling and servicing of SCBA air tanks, except
     routine user preventative maintenance and inspection checks.
  1.8. Base Supply will:
6                                                        354FWI48-137 29 DECEMBER 2009


    1.8.1. Control the issue of respirators, not purchased with GPC cards, as described in
    AFOSH Std 48-137.
       1.8.2. Ensure any respirators and associated parts issued by supply are approved by BE
       prior to issue.
       1.8.3. Ensure non-GPC purchase requests for respirators and parts are coordinated with
       BE prior to issue.
       1.8.4. Ensure NO ―SUITABLE SUBSTITUTES‖ are issued for respirators or parts.
       1.8.5. Ensure that only approved users are authorized to purchase respirators to the GSA
       store or equivalent (Icemen Outfitters).
2. Respirator Selection, Use, and Limitations:
    2.1. BE determines the proper selection of respirators and cartridges in accordance with
    criteria in AFOSH 48-137 with emphasis on type and concentration of contaminant(s),
    duration of exposures, routine or non-routine use, emergency or rescue use, location of work,
    environmental conditions, etc. All respirators will be NIOSH approved.
    2.2. Voluntary Use Respirators or Filtering Face Piece Devices (FFPD) will ONLY be
    authorized during emergency response where individuals are suspected of potential chemical,
    radiological, or biological contamination and ―strictly for comfort purposes.‖ These
    respirators may only be worn after receiving training from the workplace supervisor on the
    limitations of the devices (training to be documented on AF Form 55) and the shop
    supervisor completes a Respiratory Protection Operating Instruction and all requirements
    outlined in paragraph 1.2. of this instruction. All respiratory protection use at industrial
    areas will be REQUIRED as defined in AFOSH Standard 48-137.
    2.3. Once BE requires a specific type of respirator, the workplace will have the opportunity
    to choose the make of respirator to be used in the workplace and workers should be tested on
    that respirator first. In case a worker cannot be comfortably fit on the respirator chosen by
    the workplace, BE will maintain sufficient variety of respirator models and sizes so that
    another respirator will correctly fit and be acceptable to the worker.
    2.3.1. No employee may wear a respirator for an operation for which RP is not required by
    BE.
    2.4. A worker may request to wear a respirator in accordance with OSHA standards. Prior
    to wearing the respirator, the member must complete a medical questionnaire, which will be
    evaluated by a certified occupational health physician. Once cleared for wearing the
    respirator, BE will review the request and approve it after all pertinent documentation has
    been accomplished. BE will train and fit test the individual. The shop supervisor must
    complete all the required documentation prior to allowing the individual to wear the
    respirator.
    2.5. Respirators will not be shared among workers unless specifically approved by BE and
    identified in the workplace RPP OI.
    2.6. Surgical masks are not authorized for occupational exposures outside the medical
    setting. Surgical masks are only appropriate for infection control.
    2.7. Privately procured respirators will not be worn by any worker.
354FWI48-137 29 DECEMBER 2009                                                                     7


3. Medical Evaluation, Fit Testing and Training: All respirator users are required to have at
least initial medical evaluation and initial and annual training. Tight fitting respirator users are
required initial and annual fit testing. Workers who are not medically approved, not current on
fit testing and/or training may not perform any operations where respirators are required.
   3.1. Medical Evaluation: Potential respirator users will not be fit-tested until they are
   medically approved for respirator use. Medical Group coordination will occur as follows:
       3.1.1. Newly assigned workers requiring use of respirators must first report to BE to fill
       out a Respirator Medical Questionnaire (SF 600 Respirator Overprint).
       3.1.2. PLHCP within 354th Medical Group will review the questionnaire and indicate the
       individual‘s restrictions regarding respirator wear. The SF 600 will then be maintained in
       his medical records.
       3.1.3. BE will contact the worker once the worker is medically approved for respirator
       usage to schedule initial fit testing and training.
   3.2. Fit Testing:
       3.2.1. Tight-fitting positive pressure respirators (e.g., SCBA, supplied-air respirators
       (SAR), or powered-air purifying respirators (PAPR)) shall be quantitatively fit-tested in a
       negative pressure mode. If respirators cannot be reconfigured to a negative pressure
       respirator by using manufacturer-specific or locally developed adapters, replacement RP
       should be procured.
       3.2.2. BE will fit test workers that must wear corrective lenses with their inserts. If the
       individual does not have inserts, they will be scheduled for a follow-up appointment to fit
       test after they receive their inserts.
       3.2.3. Workers will not be fit tested if they have facial hair that obstructs the respirator
       face piece-to-face seal.
   3.3. Training: BE will conduct initial and annual fit testing and training (except for SCBA
   users) concurrent with fit testing. For supervisors of RP workplaces, BE will also provide
   supervisors‘ initial training. All RP training will be documented by the supervisor on the AF
   Form 55.
       3.3.1. As requested, the Fire Department will provide initial and annual training for
       workers who wear SCBA.
       3.3.2. Respirators used for emergency escape do not require fit testing; however,
       workplace supervisors will ensure personnel (including visitors) are trained, in
       accordance with the manufacturer‘s instructions, in the use of the emergency escape
       device.
   3.4. Respirator User Certification. BE will certify workers with an AF Form 2772 or
   equivalent for each authorized respirator. The certification will include all operations
   approved for respirator use.
       3.4.1. Documentation of fit test and training is kept in the respirator database.
       Individuals will receive a copy of the certification to be kept with their AF Form 55s.
8                                                          354FWI48-137 29 DECEMBER 2009


       3.4.2. The certification is valid for one year from the date on the AF Form 2772, unless a
       task changes. Any changes in a task listed on the attachment invalidate the respirator
       authorization for that task. Changes in a task include, but are not limited to: change in
       job duration or frequency, changes of chemicals or materials used, or change of personal
       protective equipment that may interfere with the respirator fit.
       3.4.3. Any condition that may change the fit of the respirator also invalidates the
       certification.
4. Care, Inspection, and Maintenance of Respirator.
    4.1. Care: The user of each respirator will clean, sanitize, and store respirators in accordance
    with AFOSH Std 48-137, paragraph 8.2. or the respirator manufacturers‘ recommendations.
    Respirators must be stored at a location that is convenient, clean, and sanitary, and they will
    not be hanged by the head strap.
    4.2. Inspection: The respirator user shall inspect the respirator before and after each use to
    ensure that it is in proper working condition and that all parts are serviceable.
       4.2.1. Inspection of the respirator will be done in accordance with AFOSH Std 48-137,
       paragraph 8.3. or the respirator manufacturer‘s recommendations.
       4.2.2. All respirators stored for emergency or rescue use and all SCBAs shall be
       inspected at least monthly. The record of inspection shall be maintained on AF Form
       1071, Inspection/ Maintenance Record.
    4.3. Maintenance: Respirator users are not authorized to repair respirators, only replace
    parts (i.e. valves, face shields, cartridges, etc.). Perform maintenance during routine
    inspections (i.e. before and after each use of the respirator). If the respirator is not routinely
    worn (e.g. emergency response respirators), inspections and required maintenance must be
    accomplished at least every 30 days, more often if necessary to maintain the integrity of the
    respirator. Maintenance must follow manufacturer guidance and will include:
       4.3.1. Replacing worn or deteriorated parts with the manufacture specific parts (items
       designed for that respirator). Interchange of parts between types or manufacturers voids
       the certification of the respirator.
       4.3.2. Changing filters/cartridges/canisters as directed by training received, and indicated
       in the workplace RPP OI.
       4.3.3. Maintaining written records (i.e. AF Form 1071, Inspection and Maintenance
       Record) of maintenance for one year.
       4.3.4. No attempt will be made to repair, replace components, or make adjustments
       beyond the manufacturer‘s recommendations. Repairs beyond basic maintenance will be
       returned to the manufacturer or other trained technician.
5. Respirable Air for SCBA and Supplied Air Respirators: Compressed air used for
respiration shall be of high purity and meet at least the requirements of specifications for Type I
– Grade D breathing air and tested according to the T.O. 42B-1-22 and AFOSH Std 48-137,
Attachment 13.
    5.1. Carbon Monoxide alarms shall be installed on all compressor systems used to produce
    compressed breathing air. The alarm shall be located between the purifier and the filling
354FWI48-137 29 DECEMBER 2009                                                                  9


   manifold or air-line respirator. Alarms shall be visible and audible to the respirator wearer.
   It shall be set at 10 ppm. The user shall perform an operational check using the standard
   before each use and schedule calibration every 180 days. If a CO alarm has not yet been
   installed follow the guidance of the T.O.
   5.2. Any workplace using compressed air must conduct breathing air sampling in accordance
   with AF Technical Order 42B-1-22 and send BE a copy of sampling results within two
   weeks of receiving the results.
6. Procedures for Program Evaluation:
   6.1. BE will evaluate Base RPP annually and report the findings in writing to the Aerospace
   Medicine Council and the Wing Combined Occupational Safety and Health Council.




                                            MICHAEL J. JORDAN, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
10                                                      354FWI48-137 29 DECEMBER 2009


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists, Threshold Limit Values for
Chemical Substances and Physical Agents and Biological Exposure Indices
American Industrial Hygiene Association, The Occupational Environment—Its Evaluation and
Control, 1997
ANSI, Z88.2-1992, American National Standard for Respiratory Protection
NEC, National Electric Code Handbook (NFPA 70), Articles 501 and 504, 2002
NIOSH, 87-116, NIOSH Guide to Industrial Respiratory Protection
NIOSH, Certified Equipment List
NIOSH, Pocket Guide to Chemical Hazards
NIOSH, Respirator User Notices
Title 29 CFR, Part 1910, Occupational Safety and Health Standards
Title 29 CFR, Part 1926.62, Lead
Title 29 CFR, Part 1926.1101, Asbestos
OSHA, Standard Interpretations for 29 CFR 1910.134, dated July 30, 2004; subject-Tuberculosis
and Respiratory Protection.
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program
AFPD 90-8, Environment, Safety and Occupational Health Program
AFI 33-360V1, Air Force Content Management Program--Publications
AFI 44-117, Ophthalmic Services
AFI 48-101, Aerospace Medical Operations
AFI 48-145, Occupational and Environmental Health Program
AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection and Health
Program
AFMAN 32-4006, Nuclear, Biological, and Chemical (NBC) Mask Fit and Liquid Hazard
Simulant Training
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
AFOSH Standard 48-8, Controlling Exposures to Hazardous Materials
AFOSH Standard 91-25, Confined Spaces
AFOSH Standard 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard
T.O. 42B-1-22, Quality Control of Compressed and Liquid Breathing Air
354FWI48-137 29 DECEMBER 2009                                 11


Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFIOH—Air Force Institute for Operational Health
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
AFTO—Air Force Technical Order
BEE—Bioenvironmental Engineer
BE—Bioenvironmental Engineering
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
CO—Carbon Monoxide
FFPD—Filtering Face Piece Device
GPC—Government Purchase
NIOSH—National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health
OI—Operating Instruction
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
PAPR—powered air-purifying respirator
PCO—Primary Care Optimization
PLHCP—Physician or Other Licensed Health Care Professional
PH—Public Health
RP—Respiratory Protection
RPP—Respiratory Protection Program
SCBA—Self Contained Breathing Apparatus
T.O.—Technical Order
