BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           354TH FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION
354TH FIGHTER WING (PACAF)                                                   91-212

                                                                                25 JUNE 2009
                                                                                         Safety

                                                      EIELSON AFB BIRD AND WILDLIFE
                                                      AIRCRAFT STRIKE HAZARD (BASH)
                                                                           PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 354 FW/SEF                                                       Certified by: 354 FW/CV
                                                                       (Col Michael J. Jordan)
Supersedes:   354FWPlan91-212, 1 February 2008                                        Pages: 19



This instruction implements AFPD 91-2, Safety Programs, and is used in conjunction with AFIs
91-202, U.S. Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports,
and AFPAM 91-212, Bird Aircraft Strike Hazard (BASH) Management Techniques. This
instruction provides a base program to minimize aircraft exposure to potentially hazardous bird
strikes and applies to all host, associate, and temporary duty (TDY) organizations on Eielson
AFB, including the Air National Guard and US Air Force Reserve members and units. The 354
OG/CC is responsible for the implementation of this instruction. Ensure that all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Public Law 104-13, The
Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 and AFI 33-360, Volume 2, Content Management Program-
Information Management Tool (CMP-IMT), affect this publication. The use of the name or mark
of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication
does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command.
2                                                                   354FWI91-212 25 JUNE 2009


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be reviewed in its entirety. It replaces 354 FW
Plan 91-212, Bird Aircraft Strike Hazard Reduction Plan.
1. Introduction. This instruction establishes a program to minimize wildlife strikes. It
delineates Eielson’s Bird Exclusion and Waterfowl Engagement Zones for dispersal purposes
and defines Vegetation Management Zones designed to make Eielson AFB unattractive to
wildlife.    Furthermore, it defines unit Bird/Wildlife Aircraft Strike Hazard (BASH)
responsibilities and outlines procedures for issuing bird conditions and reporting bird strikes.
    1.1. 354 FW Flight Safety (354 FW/SEF) will manage the overall BASH program at Eielson
    AFB. The United States Department of Agriculture/Wildlife Services (USDA/WS) is 354
    FW/SEF’s primary BASH detection and dispersal agency. USDA/WS will be the primary
    dispersal team for all of the wildlife within the flight line security fence and birds within the
    exclusion and engagement zones following guidance in both the wildlife hazard management
    protocol and the Interagency Agreement between USDA/WS and 354 FW. 354 Civil
    Engineering Squadron (354 CES) will be responsible for vegetation management and overall
    wildlife management within Eielson AFB property. 354 CES’ wildlife biologist will serve as
    the Eielson AFB BASH advisor and will secure the proper federal and state depredation
    permits required for the program.
    1.2. This plan contains two phases of operation: PHASE I and PHASE II. PHASE I
    concentrates on wildlife control and habitat modification and is in effect year round. PHASE
    II concentrates on bird avoidance using operating restrictions and increased dispersal efforts.
    Eielson and many of its associated Military Operating Areas, ranges, and low level routes are
    located near or within primary migration routes. Historical bird migratory patterns are used
    to determine PHASE II periods. PHASE II periods are typically 15 April thru 15 May
    (spring migration) and 15 August thru 20 September (fall migration). These periods are
    subject to change based on climatological variations. 354 FW/SEF, USDA/WS, and the 354
    CES Natural Resources office (354 CES/CEAN) will coordinate to determine if PHASE II
    operations should begin or end on different dates.
2. Environment. Eielson AFB is a 19,789-acre military reservation located approximately 150
miles south of the Arctic Circle and 25 miles southeast of Fairbanks, Alaska. The base is located
on a flat alluvial plain adjacent to the Tanana River. There are two hilly areas on base, one to the
north and one to the east with 15,798-forested acres combined. There are 2,557 acres of
hardwood forest (paper birch and balsam poplar), 1,609 acres of white spruce, 2,078 acres of
mixed forest (white spruce and paper birch), 7,957 acres of black spruce, 1,464 acres of brush
land (willows, alder, dwarf arctic birch), and 133 acres of marsh. About 3,600 acres of
hardwood and mixed forest are mature and provide excellent nesting habitats for raptors. Five
streams, totaling 27.7 miles in length, drain the base. There are 12 lakes totaling 333.5 acres and
84 ponds totaling 228 acres. The area adjacent to the runway is grassland covered with
Kentucky bluegrass, red fescue, smooth brome, dandelions, alpine sweet-vetch, and fireweed. It
is being invaded by small sized balsam poplar, willow, and alder. Three ponds lie adjacent to the
runway. The base refuse transfer station is .8 miles east of the center of the runway. It
occasionally attracts ravens. A 5-year gull survey from 1989 through 1993 shows that the
transfer station does not attract gulls. The grassland and ponds surrounding the airfield and the
transfer station provide habitat which attracts a variety of birds. In particular, if the grass is cut
354FWI91-212 25 JUNE 2009                                                                          3


below 10 inches, it attracts migrating geese. The lakes and ponds attract waterfowl; additionally,
the ponds and low spots provide a mud source for swallows that build nests under the eaves of
buildings near the runway. The grassland supports Savannah Sparrows and is hunted by
American Kestrels and other raptors. The asphalt and concrete areas comprising the runway and
taxiways are used by loafing gulls.
   2.1. Blair Lakes Range. The 1,370-acre Blair Lakes Range, within R2211, is surrounded by
   a 32,594-acre buffer zone, and is located approximately 25 miles southwest of Eielson AFB.
   The range and buffer area are relatively flat and drained by numerous small creeks. The
   uncleared portion (32,594 acres of the Blair Lake Range) is generally dominated by black
   spruce and tamarack forest interspersed with open brush land. The black spruce forest,
   which covers about half the acreage, is usually 15 to 30 feet tall and 4 to 5 inches in
   diameter. The open brush land has an over story of resin birch and willow species. The
   under story contains Labrador tea and bog blueberry. Much of the brush land acreage is
   post-fire vegetation. Two basic forest types are found along the stream courses. One is
   characterized by green alder and the other by paper birch. The paper birch is generally 60
   feet or taller and in a state of decay. The cleared portion (1,354 acres) of the Blair Lakes
   Range is covered with black spruce wetlands maintained in an early stage of vegetation
   succession as the result of periodic brush control. The primary vegetation is small black
   spruce, Labrador tea, resin birch, dwarf arctic birch, willow (all approximately 10 to 40
   inches tall because of periodic maintenance), sedge grass, fireweed, and mosses. The cleared
   portion has three ponds. A .3-acre pond, lies directly in front of the control tower. This pond
   will be filled over the next couple years as fill material is available. A 1.4-acre pond, located
   southwest of strafe pit 1, is an old material borrow site not located in the direct flight path of
   aircraft using the strafe pits. This pond is being filled to discourage use by waterfowl. A
   10.9-acre pond, located by the flank tower, is a new material borrow site. This pond is
   located where the aircraft fly at high altitudes and has been excavated deeper which will
   discourage waterfowl use. The ponds and maintained areas can be attractive to migrating
   waterfowl. Ducks and Canadian Geese account for about 89.4 percent of the migrating
   waterfowl using the range. Sandhill Cranes (9.7 percent), gulls (0.6 percent), and swans (0.3
   percent) use the range to a lesser extent. A few ducks and sandhill cranes reside on the range
   during the summer. Many (75 to 125) Cliff Swallows occupy nests attached to the buildings
   in the range complex. Hawks hunt the cleared portion of the range throughout the summer.
   2.2. Yukon Training Range. The Yukon Training Range, within R2205, is about 2,650 acres
   located approximately 14 miles east of Eielson AFB. Stuart Creek flows southwest to
   northeast dividing 1,000-foot tall hills to either side. The creek valley is covered with tundra
   and scattered small brush. The south sides of both hills are covered with paper birch
   interspersed with scattered white spruce. The north sides of the hills are covered with black
   spruce. The older mature paper birch provides nesting habitat for raptors. A few ducks may
   occasionally use the creek. Both raptors and ducks have been observed on the range.
   2.3. Oklahoma Range. The Oklahoma Range, within R2202, is about 52,000 acres located
   approximately 50 miles southeast of Eielson AFB. Delta Creek forms the western border and
   One Hundred Mile Creek, the eastern boundary. The terrain is generally flat. The range has
   interspersed patches of small-sized black spruce containing a very small amount of small-
   sized paper birch and open areas with resin birch, Labrador tea, bog blueberry, tussock cotton
   grass, and mosses. The creeks are bordered with larger sized white and black spruce and
4                                                                 354FWI91-212 25 JUNE 2009


    balsam poplar. Many ponds lie to the northeast of One Hundred Mile Creek and in the south
    quarter of the range. Few birds use the range. Nesting waterfowl use the ponds northeast of
    One Hundred Mile Creek and in the south quarter of the range. A spring and fall migratory
    waterfowl concentration area lies about 25 miles to the east near Delta Junction. A major
    migratory flyway lies about 15 miles north, adjacent to the Tanana River.
3. Training. All base personnel will be briefed at the newcomer's orientation by Wing Safety
on the responsibility each individual has in reporting bird or wildlife hazards.
    3.1. All 354 FW personnel and tenant units will receive an annual refresher brief just prior to
    the spring migration. 354 FW/SEF will brief groups in conjunction with a safety meeting or
    a commander’s call at the squadrons. If this cannot be accomplished prior to the beginning
    of the spring migration period, unit commanders have the responsibility to ensure their
    members receive the required annual refresher training. 354 FW/SEF will have the training
    available for electronic distribution by request.
    3.2. 354 FW/SEF, in conjunction with squadron safety officers, will maintain a bird hazard
    awareness program. Briefings, films, posters, and other methods will be used to inform
    personnel about local bird hazards and reporting procedures.
    3.3. 354 FW/SEF and trained bird dispersal augmentee personnel will maintain BASH
    dispersal/depredation qualifications. 354 FW/SEF and augmentee teams will maintain
    dispersal qualification to augment USDA/WS’ capability during peak migration periods.
       3.3.1. BASH team augmentation personnel will contact 354 FW/SEF to schedule and
       accomplish the following requirements:
           3.3.1.1. Complete SFS/CATM M870 shotgun qualification training.
           3.3.1.2. Attend USDA/WS dispersal training. This training is mandatory for all
           personnel directing dispersal/depredations. If unable to attend formal training, 354
           FW/SEF will coordinate with the USDA for ad hoc training sessions on using
           pyrotechnic      devices       and      other    dispersal      methods       (POC:
           Jerry.A.Morrill@aphis.usda.gov).     All personnel must be familiar with bird
           identification, wildlife deterrent procedures, and the proper use of pyrotechnic
           devices as outlined in the Wildlife Hazard Management Protocol Manual (March
           2006) USDA-APHIS, WS, Alaska District.
           3.3.1.3. Complete BASH Dispersal Team Member Training and explosive safety
           CBT.
           3.3.1.4. Complete Skeet Range qualification training.
       3.3.2. BASH training records will be created and maintained by 354 FW/SEF. All
       training will be documented IAW AFPAM 91-212.
4. Exclusion and engagement zones. Boundaries have been established to aid all agencies in
defining when a bird hazard exists, dispersal priorities and vegetation management goals. Figure
1 depicts exclusion and engagement zones.
    4.1. Bird Exclusion Zone (BEZ). The BEZ includes all runways and taxiways and the
    immediate area. Movable signs will be placed outlining the BEZ. Normally, the USDA/WS
    Dispersal team will position signs in appropriate locations at the start of the migratory
354FWI91-212 25 JUNE 2009                                                                       5


  season. The signs will have a graphic representation of "no birds" with directions to report
  bird activity to the BASH hotline (377-BIRD). The BEZ identifies an area where any bird
  presence will not be tolerated. Priority dispersals will be large birds, followed by smaller
  species.
  4.2. The physical boundaries of the BEZ are as follows: Begin at the intersection of Old
  Richardson Highway and Central Ave. Go north along the installation fence line, turn east
  along the dirt road north of the main gate ponds and across Transmitter Rd. Continue east
  across Garrison Slough, then south along the east edge of Garrison Slough to the intersection
  with Flightline Ave. Turn southeast on Flightline Ave and follow the east edge of Flightline
  Ave to the intersection of Flightline Ave and Central Ave. Continue along the east edge of
  Central Ave until Garrison Slough crosses Central Ave at the south end of the water
  treatment pond. At the crossing point follow the east edge of Garrison Slough moving south
  until it ends. From the end of Garrison Slough follow a straight line south to the inside edge
  of Loop Taxiway. Follow the inside edge of Loop Taxiway to the intersection of Parking
  Row Charlie. Continue around the southwest edge of Parking Row Charlie back to the inside
  edge of Loop Taxiway. Continue on the inside edge of Loop Taxiway to the southeast corner
  of Loop Ramp from this point travel in a straight line southwest to the intersection of
  Mullins Pit Rd. Follow Mullins Pit Rd north to the intersection of Unnamed Rd. Follow the
  northeast edge of Unnamed Rd to the intersection of Cargain Rd. Follow the north edge of
  Cargain Rd to the west edge of building 1303. From the northwest corner of building 1303
  follow a straight line south to the north edge of the Primary Munitions Delivery Rd. Move
  west along the north edge of Primary Munitions Delivery Rd to the intersection of the
  Richardson Highway. Continue north along the east edge of the Richardson Hwy to the
  intersection of Richardson Highway and Central Ave. Follow east along the north edge of
  Central Ave to the intersection of Central Ave and Old Richardson Highway meeting with
  the starting corner.
  4.3. Waterfowl Engagement Zone (WEZ). The WEZ identifies an area where waterfowl,
  such as geese and ducks, may be dispersed or depredated. Other large birds, such as raptors
  and gulls, may be dispersed as well. Habitat modification, to include minimizing open-water
  and managing large open areas to be unattractive to geese, will be used in conjunction with
  aggressive hazing. All waterfowl activity in the WEZ should be reported.
  4.4. The physical boundaries of the WEZ are as follows: Begin at the point where the
  installation property line intersects with Piledriver Slough. Go east following the installation
  property line to the intersection with Garrison Slough. Follow the west edge of Garrison
  Slough to the intersection with Arctic Ave. Follow the east edge of Arctic Ave to the
  intersection of Arctic Ave and French Creek Dr. Follow the north edge of French Creek Dr
  to the intersection of French Creek Dr and Manchu Rd. Follow the north edge of Manchu
  Rd. to intersect French Creek. Follow the west edge of French Creek to the point where
  French Creek crosses Quarry Rd. Follow the north edge of Quarry Rd to the intersection
  with Mullins Pit Rd. Follow the east edge of Mullins Pit Rd to the intersection with Von
  Rueden Ave. Follow the east edge of Von Rueden Ave to the end. Then follow a straight
  line from Von Rueden Ave to Wildlife Way. Follow the west edge of Wildlife Way to the
  intersection of Wildlife Way and Mullins Pit Rd. Follow the north edge of Mullins Pit Rd to
  intersection with the Primary Munitions Delivery Rd. Then follow a straight line along the
  edge of the Primary Munitions Delivery Rd across the Richardson Highway to the
6                                                               354FWI91-212 25 JUNE 2009


    intersection with Piledriver Slough. Follow the eastern edge of Piledriver Slough back to
    intersect with the starting point.

Figure 1. BASH Exclusion Zones.




5. Habitat Modification. By incorporating specific practices into the base land management,
Eielson AFB can maintain an airfield habitat less attractive to birds and other wildlife. 354
CES/CEAN is responsible for habitat modification. Any recommendations to modify habitats
beyond those presented in this document must be coordinated with 354 CES prior to
implementation.
    5.1. BASH Vegetation Management Zones. Vegetation management will vary by BASH
    vegetation zones as delineated by the following zones. These zones are depicted in Figure 2.
       5.1.1. Airfield Zone. The Airfield Zone is that area inside the airfield perimeter fence.
       Within this zone the primary vegetation will be grasses within 300 meters of the edge of
       runways, taxiways or ramps. The objective is to create an area of dense, erect grass IAW
       paragraph 5.2 this instruction. The primary species of grass should include Smooth
       brome (Bromusinermis), red fescue (Festuca rubra), native wheat grasses Agropyron,
       and Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis). In those portions of the airfield greater than 300
       meters from runways, taxiways and ramps, a similar grass stand is desired, but scattered
       non-berry producing shrubs or small trees may be evenly distributed at a density of 6-10
       plants per acre to help discourage geese. Lawns within the airfield zone may extend no
       more than 1 meter from sidewalks and streets and no more than 20 meters from buildings.
354FWI91-212 25 JUNE 2009                                                                      7


      5.1.2. Remainder of BEZ/WEZ areas. Within the remaining area of the BEZ/WEZ,
      open, non-lawn areas greater than one acre in size should be managed as shrub lands.
      Grass will be the preferred vegetation within 50 meters of the airfield perimeter fence.
      All new trees and shrubs will be non-berry/fruit producing species. Planned landscaping
      and construction projects will replace berry/fruit producing trees and shrubs with non-
      berry/fruit producing species within the BEZ. Lawns are allowed in association with
      buildings, but should be limited to no more than ½ acre. When possible, large lawns
      should have trees and shrubs dispersed at 6-10 plants per acre to discourage geese.

Figure 2. BASH Vegetation Management Zones.




   5.2. Managing grass height. 354 CES/CEAN and 354 CES/CEORH are responsible for
   determining the timing of mowing. Coordinate mowing with periods of low flight activity.
   Airfield grass height will be maintained at 7-14 inches, make sure faster growing weeds are
   cut before they go to seed to discourage seed eating birds from using the airfield. The
   primary focus should be on the grass height and weed seed heads. Grass between 7-14 inches
   discourages flocking species from foraging on the airfield because reduced visibility disrupts
   inter-flock communication and flock integrity by reducing the ability to detect predators.
   Grass exceeding 14 inches (36 cm) will attract some bird species and rodents, which in turn
   attract raptors. The airfield should be mowed when the average grass height, not including
   seed heads, exceeds tolerances. Most grass seeds found on the airfield are less desirable as
   food than available weed seeds. Grasses produce prominent seed stalks, the height of these
   seed heads should not be the sole reason for mowing. Mowing to eliminate grass seeding will
   increase mowing cycles. Eliminating weeds and cultivating a uniform monoculture of
   grasses can be more effective in discouraging seed-eating birds from feeding on the airfield
   than mowing grass seed stalks. Begin mowing adjacent to runways and finish in the infield
   or outer most grass areas. This causes insects and other animals to move away from aircraft
8                                                                 354FWI91-212 25 JUNE 2009


    takeoff and landing areas. Also, avoid mowing grass shorter next to the runway than in other
    areas, as much as possible. Acceptable summer season grass lengths for all non-airfield areas
    of base will be designated by 354 FW/CC each March based on recommendations by the
    Landscape Development Board. Areas recommended for mowing should be kept to a
    minimum while meeting mission requirements to discourage birds.
    5.3. Managing shrub lands. Shrubs should be encouraged/planted to fill gaps to reach
    desired canopy coverage of at least 60%. Shrubs will include native, non-berry producing
    trees and shrubs that easily regenerate after aggressive cutting which include alder, willow,
    and poplar. Shrubs will need to be cut to 6-8 inches above the ground on a 2-3-year
    rotational basis. Cutting should be conducted in early April prior to ground thaw and before
    leaf-out.
    5.4. Controlling broad-leafed weeds. Keep volunteer broad-leafed plants to a minimum in
    grasslands in the Airfield and industrialized/housing areas as they attract a variety of birds,
    may produce seeds or berries, and may limit grass growth. Non-invasive broad leaved plants
    may be allowed in scrubland habitats in the Clear Zones, which are those portions of the BEZ
    located at the end of each runway outside the airfield perimeter fence, and outside the BASH
    vegetation zones.
    5.5. Woodlands. Within the BEZ/WEZ managing woodland density and structure can
    effectively discourage large birds or large concentrations of birds. Woodlands within the
    Airfield Zone should be removed or greatly thinned to prevent moose, bears and canids from
    finding cover, to reduce raptor perches and to prevent birds roosting or nesting near the
    airfield. Within the remainder of the BEZ prune trees that attract roosting birds to reduce the
    number of perches.
    5.6. Berry/fruit producing trees and shrubs. Mature berries can attract several species of
    birds during fall and winter. Minimizing their presence within the BEZ/WEZ is a BASH
    objective. Berry/fruit producing trees within the BEZ/WEZ should be phased out on a
    planned basis. No new berry/fruit producing trees or shrubs that attract birds will be planted
    within the BEZ/WEZ.
    5.7. Bird-proof buildings and hangars. 354 CES/CEP will ensure that all new structures
    within the BEZ/WEZ are designed to avoid attracting nesting birds. These designs will
    minimize open vents, covered ledges, and graveled flat roofs where practicable based on
    need, economics and architecture. Bird proofing of existing buildings and hangars within the
    BEZ/WEZ is required to exclude birds, primarily pigeons and swallows, when a facility is
    repaired or renovated at or above 25% of the replacement value of the facility where
    practicable. Vents or other openings in buildings within the BEZ should be covered with ¼
    or ½ inch hardware mesh to prevent nesting by swallows. Excluding birds from a structure
    they currently use will often displace them to an adjacent structure. Existing bird nests
    should be destroyed prior to egg laying (in accordance with federal and state permits).
    Facility managers are responsible for purchasing and utilizing the equipment necessary to
    keep their buildings free of swallow nests.
    5.8. Leveling of Airfield Zone. Level or fill high or low spots to prevent standing water and
    reduce attractiveness to birds.
354FWI91-212 25 JUNE 2009                                                                         9


   5.9. Maintaining drainage ditches. Regularly inspect ditches to keep them clear. Maintain
   ditch sides as steeply as possible (minimum slope ratio of 5 to1) to discourage wading birds
   and emergent vegetation. Improve drainage as necessary to inhibit even temporary ponds or
   puddles.
   5.10. Minimize open water. All activities affecting wetlands must be coordinated with 354
   CES/CEAN and US Army Corps of Engineers. When properly permitted, eliminate
   snowmelt ponds or standing open water in the BEZ, especially on the airfield. (NOTE:
   These activities will be coordinated with Airfield Operations (354 OSS/OSA) in accordance
   with AFI 13-213, Airfield Management). If unable to relocate snowmelt pond, ensure it is
   drained as soon as possible. Monitor ponds throughout year and drain as necessary.
   5.11. Erosion control vegetation. Outside of the Airfield Zone use vegetation that does not
   attract birds. Woody vegetation species such as willow, birch, poplar, or alder are desired
   species. Non-invasive annual grasses may be planted for initial soil stabilization.
   5.12. Pest controls. Invertebrates and rodents are key food sources for many birds. Of
   special concern in the BEZ are grasshoppers that when abundant, attract several species of
   gulls, ravens, magpies, and passerines. July and August are primary months of grasshopper
   abundance. Another attractant to avian predators, coyotes, and foxes are small mammals,
   primarily microtines. A reduction of mammalian predators will likely promote small
   mammal population outbreaks of greater frequency and higher numbers that will attract
   increased numbers of avian predator. Any persistent gull concentrations on the airfield
   should be considered an indication of a potential insect population outbreak. Appropriate
   pesticides should be on hand to respond to insect outbreaks if deemed practicable.
   Preventive treatments attacking larval stages should be applied within the Airfield Zone
   where practicable.
   5.13. Controlling waste disposal. All dumpsters used within the BEZ/WEZ shall be
   designed to remain closed and inaccessible to wildlife. Non-securable dumpsters shall be
   replaced on a planned basis when economically feasible. Ravens, magpies, gulls and bears
   are frequently attracted to dumpsters that are not closed and secured. Facility managers
   within the BEZ/WEZ will have primary responsibility to monitor dumpster repair and
   removing waste stacked outside the dumpsters.
   5.14. Discourage wildlife feeding. Signs should be placed appropriately to educate the
   public to the legality and hazard posed by feeding any wildlife. Bird feeders will not be
   allowed within the BEZ but may be allowed in the WEZ for small birds only. Hazards of
   feeding wildlife will be presented during newcomer’s orientation by Wing Safety.
6. Bird Hazard Warning System. These procedures establish methods to use for the
immediate exchange of information between ground agencies and aircrews concerning the
existence and location of birds that pose a hazard to flight safety. If a bird hazard exists, notify
the 354 FW Supervisor of Flying (SOF) (354 OG/OGV), the Tower Supervisor (354
OSS/OSAT), or Airfield Management (354 OSS/OSAM). Radio net or telephone can be used to
make this notification. Telephone reports can also be passed to the dispersal team at 377-BIRD
(-2473).
10                                                                354FWI91-212 25 JUNE 2009


     6.1. Bird Watch Condition (BWC) Codes. The following terminology has been established
     for rapid communication of bird activity. Bird locations should be given with the condition
     code.
        6.1.1. Declaring a Bird Watch Condition. The authority to declare a BWC is vested in
        the 354 FW SOF during local 354 FW flight operations. Conditions are declared based
        on ground observations, pilot reports, and all other available information.
            6.1.1.1. When on duty, the 354 FW SOF is the only person authorized to change the
            bird watch condition.
            6.1.1.2. If the 354 FW SOF is not on duty, the Airfield Manager will determine the
            BWC.
        6.1.2. SEVERE . BWC SEVERE will be declared when any of the following occur:
        any large bird or concentrations of birds above or in the vicinity of runway (within 100
        feet) or in arrival/departure routes; flocking birds crossing within 1nm of runway ends;
        any reported bird strike in Class D airspace; large concentrations of birds in the BEZ; any
        time bird dispersal is conducted in the BEZ; or bird levels are at concentrations in the
        BEZ greater than BWC MODERATE.
            6.1.2.1. Low-level routes - Low-level routes reported as BWC SEVERE (by pilots)
            are canceled for the day.
            6.1.2.2. Restricted areas (R2202, R2205, R2211) - Use is restricted above 5,000 feet
            AGL until the SOF/RCO determines the severe bird hazard no longer exists.
            6.1.2.3. Eielson AFB pattern - Takeoffs, patterns, and landings are prohibited (unless
            approval is specifically granted by the 354 OG/CC or in an emergency).
            Formation/chase is prohibited.
        6.1.3. MODERATE. BWC MODERATE will be declared when any of the following
        occur: high daily bird survey numbers; flocking birds are observed in the Class D
        airspace; or moderately increased levels of birds are observed in the BEZ, not meeting
        the BWC SEVERE criteria. BWC moderate requires increased vigilance by all agencies
        and supervisors and caution by aircrews.
            6.1.3.1. Low levels - Minimum altitude will be 1,000 feet AGL on affected route
            segment(s).
            6.1.3.2. Restricted areas (R2202, R2205, R2211) - Flight leads will change events as
            required to avoid bird activity. Minimum altitude is 1,000 feet AGL.
            6.1.3.3. Eielson AFB pattern - Departures and arrivals will avoid identified bird
            activity. Single-ship takeoffs and full stop landings only, unless the 354 OG/CC
            approves otherwise. Formation takeoffs and landings are prohibited.
        6.1.4. LOW . BWC LOW Bird activity on or around the airfield representing low
        potential for strikes.
     6.2. Traffic Pattern Restrictions. The SOF will direct aircraft according to the BWC. If the
     SOF is absent the Tower Supervisor will be responsible for establishing restrictions.
354FWI91-212 25 JUNE 2009                                                                           11


   6.3. Dispersal operations. During the migration seasons, USDA/WS detection and dispersal
   team will operate on the airfield 24 hrs a day. They will manage wildlife in accordance with
   guidance as stated in the wildlife hazard management protocol and the Interagency
   Agreement between the USDA/WS and Eielson AFB. 354 FW/SE and 354 CES/CEAN can
   also be called for further assistance, if required, or radioed on the Ramp net. 354 FW/SEF
   can also perform dispersal duties, if required.
       6.3.1. Prior to initiation of dispersal actions in the BEZ or WEZ, the dispersal team will
       coordinate the location and methods with the Tower Supervisor. If dispersal efforts will
       impact flying operations, Bird Watch Condition SEVERE should be declared prior to
       dispersal activities.
       6.3.2. Birds and mammals will be dispersed using physical harassment, the dispersal
       vehicle, harassment shooting, or with pyrotechnics. The method used will be at the
       discretion of the dispersal team based on the situation.
       6.3.3. When the target birds depart the area, the SOF and/or Airfield Manager will be
       notified so the bird watch condition can be lowered.
7. Specific Responsibilities. This list is not all-inclusive and should be tailored as necessary.
   7.1. The 354 FW Vice Wing Commander (354 FW/CV) chairs the Bird/Wildlife Hazard
   Working Group (BHWG) and is the approval authority for its recommendations.
   7.2. Wing Safety (354 FW/SE):
       7.2.1. Is the office of primary responsibility (OPR) for this instruction. The BASH
       Program Manager will ensure this instruction is reviewed and/or revised annually.
       7.2.2. Ensures 354 FW/SEF personnel are BASH dispersal qualified.
       7.2.3. Maintains current BASH data in the 354 FW/SEF office and electronically for
       distribution upon request.
       7.2.4. Manages all 354 FW bird strike reports. Forward remains IAW AFI91-223. After
       remains are identified, ensure AFSAS reports are finalized. Assist TDY aircrews with
       bird strike procedures as required.
       7.2.5. Coordinates with USDA/WS and 354 CES/CEAN to determine if PHASE II dates,
       listed below, need to be modified in response to significant changes in the local bird
       population or migratory activity.
       7.2.6. Coordinates with 354 OG/OGV and Airfield Management to announce PHASE II
       operations.
           7.2.6.1. BASH PHASE I - All dates not designated as PHASE II.
           7.2.6.2. BASH PHASE II – Declared during predicted migratory surge periods,
           typically 15 April - 15 May and 15 Aug - 20 Sep. Ensure a NOTAM is published
           announcing the start and end of PHASE II. Coordinate with 354 OG/OGV to publish
           a Flight Crew Information File (FCIF) memo implementing BASH as a 354 FW
           Special Interest Item (SII).
12                                                               354FWI91-212 25 JUNE 2009


        7.2.7. Briefs aircrew on bird strike hazards prior to each spring migration season.
        Ensures bird strike hazards and reports are briefed periodically during Flying Safety
        Meetings.
        7.2.8. Serves as the BHWG Coordinator.
           7.2.8.1. Schedules meetings of the BHWG and publishes meeting minutes. Maintain
           BHWG meeting minutes for at least 3 years.
        7.2.9. Ensures sufficient copies of the AF Form 853, Air Force Bird Strike Report, are
        available at Maintenance Debrief, Base Operations, and all flying organizations.
        7.2.10. Ensures Base Ops has a current BASH map that illustrates local BASH hazards
        to transient aircrews. Coordinate with 354 CES/CEAN and the USDA/WS for updates as
        required.
        7.2.11. Engages in constant communication between the USDA/WS and 354
        CES/CEAN to determine the best solution to any wildlife that may pose a threat to
        aircraft.
        7.2.12. Considers all sources for the improvement of this program. There are many
        national and international BASH conventions and committees that 354 FW Flight Safety
        should attend. Many of these opportunities are listed on the Air Force Safety Center’s
        BASH website.
        7.2.13. Reviews this BASH instruction, IAW AFI 91-202, and runs the Self Inspection
        Checklist (AFPAM 91-212, Attachment 2) annually. Document the review and self
        inspection.
        7.2.14. Provides guidance, when requested, on the collection of bird/wildlife remains for
        identification (reference AFMAN 91-223, paragraph 5.4). Reference the Air Force
        Safety     Center     BASH      website  for    the     latest    collection    methods:
        http://afsafety.af.mil/sef/bash/sefw_home.shtml.
        7.2.15. Requests funding to support BASH programs, i.e. training, equipment purchase
        and maintenance, conference attendance, etc.
        7.2.16. Maintains applicable depredation permits IAW AFI 91-202 as supplemented by
        PACAF.
     7.3. 354 FW Command Post (354 FW/CP) will notify inbound aircraft that contact
     Command Post of any bird watch condition above LOW. Include location, movement, and
     other known data of the bird activity that is driving the bird watch condition.
     7.4. The 354th Operations Group Commander (354 OG/CC) will issue specific guidance for
     aircrew, SOF, Air Traffic Control, Airfield Management, and Command Post on procedures
     to avoid areas and times of known hazardous bird concentrations, mission permitting.
     7.5. 354th Operations Group Standardization and Evaluation (354 OG/OGV) will:
        7.5.1. At the start of PHASE II, make BASH an aircrew SII.
        7.5.2. Ensure bird hazard awareness and the Eielson AFB BASH program is briefed to
        all TDY personnel.
354FWI91-212 25 JUNE 2009                                                                    13


     7.5.3. Provide guidance to aircrews for the use of the United States Bird Avoidance
     Model (USBAM) and, when available, the Avian Hazard Advisory System (AHAS)
     during the mission planning process.
         7.5.3.1. AHAS is a national radar bird detection system for the US Air Force.
         Currently it is not available in Alaska but is available in the CONUS. It uses the Next
         Generation Radar (NEXRAD) weather radar system to monitor large-scale migratory
         bird activity in the lower 48 states. The current conditions shown by the AHAS web
         page also include the risk from migration and soaring bird activity, which is
         determined by predictive models using National Weather Service (NWS) weather
         data. More information is available on the AHAS website: http://www.usahas.com.
         7.5.3.2. The USBAM program objective was to develop a predictive bird avoidance
         model using Geographic Information System (GIS) technology as a key tool for
         analysis and correlation of bird habitat, migration, and breeding characteristics,
         combined with key environmental, and man-made geospatial data. More information
         is available on the BAM website: http://www.usahas.com/bam/
  7.6. The 354 FW SOF has responsibility to conduct airfield inspections and direct detection
  and dispersal teams, when necessary. The SOF will:
     7.6.1. Declare a BWC when there is a visual observation of bird activity on or near the
     airfield, when aircraft relay bird hazard information, or when any personnel or agency on
     or near the flight line relay observations to the SOF.
     7.6.2. Notify departing flights of the BWC if they check in on SOF frequency prior to
     takeoff. Notify arriving flights of the BWC when they check in during their arrival.
     7.6.3. Incorporate coverage of this instruction for all SOFs during initial and recurrent
     SOF training.
  7.7. 354th Maintenance Group Commander (354 MXG/CC) will issue specific guidance to
  assigned personnel concerning implementation of this instruction. As a minimum, that
  guidance will include:
     7.7.1. Issue specific guidance to maintenance personnel for reporting hazardous bird
     activity to the SOF, Tower Supervisor, or Airfield Management.
     7.7.2. Issue specific guidance to maintenance personnel for reporting all bird strikes
     discovered on aircraft to Quality Assurance (354 MXG/MXQA) and 354 FW/SEF and
     the preservation of all remains. Even the smallest fragment of remains or blood should
     be forwarded for identification.
  7.8. Squadron Assigned Flight Safety Officers (SAFSO) will:
     7.8.1. Brief aircrews to promptly report all bird strikes and hazardous conditions IAW
     this instruction.
     7.8.2. Ensure any applicable bird activity data is readily available to aircrews during
     mission planning.
     7.8.3. Make seasonal bird hazards a regular topic at flying safety meetings. Use movies,
     articles and other information to maintain awareness.
14                                                               354FWI91-212 25 JUNE 2009


        7.8.4. If 354 FW/SEF is unable to provide the annual BASH training to all Operations
        Group personnel, ensure aircrew complete BASH training which is available
        electronically upon request from 354 FW/SE.
     7.9. Airfield Management (354 OSS/OSAM) has responsibility to conduct airfield
     inspections and direct detection and dispersal teams, when necessary. The 354 OSS/OSAM
     will:
        7.9.1. Ensure all Airfield management personnel review this instruction, as the specific
        OSAM responsibilities have significantly changed in this revision.
        7.9.2. Declare a BWC immediately if no SOF is present when there is a visual
        observation of bird activity on or near the airfield, when aircraft relay bird hazard
        information, or when personnel or agencies on or near the flight line relay observations.
        Advise ATC of changes in BWC.
        7.9.3. Advise ATC and the SOF of bird activity observed on or near the airfield or in the
        traffic pattern.
        7.9.4. Recommend changes of a BWC to the SOF or Tower Supervisor when there is a
        visual observation of bird activity on or near the field, when aircraft relay bird hazard
        information, or when any personnel or agency on or near the flightline relays
        observations.
        7.9.5. Ensure detection and dispersal teams are dispatched to the location of the birds
        creating the hazard.
        7.9.6. Monitor bird/wildlife population, grass height, and standing water within the
        Airfield Zone and report problems to the appropriate OPRs for modifying or eliminating
        the problem.
        7.9.7. After being notified the BWC has changed, pass the updated information to the
        Command Post.
        7.9.8. Notify USDA/WS or 354 CES/CEAN for disposal of wounded animals.
     7.10. Air Traffic Control (354 OSS/OSAT): Air Traffic Control personnel will:
        7.10.1. Ensure all Tower personnel review and are familiar with their specific
        responsibilities as specified in this instruction.
        7.10.2. Advise Airfield Management and the SOF of bird activity observed on or near
        the airfield or in the traffic pattern and adjust aircraft operations accordingly.
        7.10.3. Allow detection and dispersal teams priority access on the runway to disperse
        birds in the primary bird exclusion zone. Ensure BWC SEVERE has been declared as
        warranted for dispersal operations in the BEZ and the WEZ.
        7.10.4. Provide bird advisory information to aircraft in accordance with FAA Order
        7110.65, Air Traffic Control. Ensure bird watch conditions above condition BWC LOW
        are included in Eielson AFB ATIS broadcasts, as appropriate. For rapidly changing
        BWCs, advise aircrews to contact Ground, Tower, or SOF for the latest BWC.
        7.10.5. Advise Fairbanks TRACON if BWC MODERATE or SEVERE is declared for
        extended periods of time that will impact flying operations.
354FWI91-212 25 JUNE 2009                                                                    15


     7.10.6. Ensure all Tower personnel review and are familiar with their specific
     responsibilities as specified in this instruction.
  7.11. 354th Mission Support Group Commander (354 MSG/CC) will issue specific guidance
  to assigned personnel concerning implementation of this instruction.
  7.12. The 354 Civil Engineering Squadron Commander (354 CES/CC) will:
     7.12.1. Initiate bird/wildlife surveys and write environmental assessments and
     environmental impact statements as required by law.
     7.12.2. Provide 354 CES/CEAN support in obtaining Federal and State permits required
     for depredation, salvage, collection, and possession of all migratory or local species.
     Provide guidance and support for biological monitoring of wildlife populations and
     habitat management to improve technical advice for wildlife and vegetation management
     programs.
     7.12.3. Conduct habitat modification operations in accordance with section 5 of this
     instruction.
     7.12.4. Advise USDA/WS and 354 FW/SEF of civil engineering projects that may
     impact airfield operations related to bird and wildlife hazards.
     7.12.5. Monitor bird migration activity and advise both USDA and 354 FW/SEF if
     PHASE II dates should be modified.
  7.13. Aircrew will:
     7.13.1. Check the BWC status before flight. Bird hazards mitigation should be
     considered during mission planning and briefed to the flight. Aircrews should reference
     the Bird Avoidance Model http://www.usahas.com/bam/ and, if operating in the
     CONUS, AHAS http://www.usahas.com.
     7.13.2. Following a bird strike, aircrews should immediately advise ATC and/or the 354
     FW SOF and land as soon as conditions permit to have the aircraft inspected by qualified
     maintenance personnel. Bird strike damage cannot be accurately assessed in-flight and
     may result in a complex airborne emergency. Only maintenance personnel can make
     damage assessments. Bird strikes, which appeared to cause minor damage, have proven
     to be much more substantial and, had the pilots continued the mission, a serious
     emergency would have resulted. Structural damage, such as a dent in the wing, has led to
     fuel and hydraulic systems failure. Prolonged engine operation after known bird
     ingestion has resulted in irreparable damage to the engine.
     7.13.3. Exercise caution when conducting pattern work at airfields other than Eielson
     AFB. The aircraft commander is responsible for securing off-station bird activity status.
     Note: Most other airfields in Alaska do not have the same level of wildlife
     management/mitigation that Eielson does. Therefore, crews should exercise caution--
     particularly during the migratory season (15 April through 31 October).
     7.13.4. Promptly report all bird strikes and hazardous conditions to 354 FW/SEF or your
     unit safety officer as soon as possible. Anytime an aircraft experiences a bird strike, the
     crew will complete an AF Form 853, Air Force Bird Strike Report. These forms are
     available at Base Ops, Maintenance Debrief, and in flying squadrons.
16                                                                 354FWI91-212 25 JUNE 2009


        7.13.5. Aircrews that experience a bird strike while off-station are responsible for filling
        out AF Form 853 and collecting remains. In lieu of AF Form 853, aircrew may contact
        354 FW/SEF via phone and pass the required information to them. For guidance on the
        collection of bird/wildlife remains, contact 354 FW/SEF or reference AFMAN 91-223,
        paragraph 5.4. Also, reference the Air Force Safety Center BASH website for the latest
        collection methods: http://afsafety.af.mil/sef/bash/sefw_home.shtml.
        7.13.6. PIREPS by aircrews and ground observations are essential to adequately assess
        and help identify bird and wildlife hazards on the airfield and in the local flying vicinity.
        When pilots spot birds or other wildlife, notify the controlling agency so others can be
        informed of the hazard. Aircrew should relay the following information:
            7.13.6.1. Location
            7.13.6.2. Altitude
            7.13.6.3. Local time of sighting
            7.13.6.4. Approximate number of birds and direction of flight
            7.13.6.5. Wildlife type, species or size of bird, if known
     7.14. 354th Medical Group Commander (354 MDG/CC) will support this instruction as
     recommended by the BHWG and approved by the 354 WG/CC.
8. Bird Strike Reporting. This section outlines the procedures and forms required to report
bird strikes to enhance the BASH program at Eielson AFB.
     8.1. SAFSOs or aircrew involved in a bird strike will provide the AF Form 853, Air Force
     Bird Strike Report, to 354 FW/SEF within 24 hours of the incident.
     8.2. Bird strikes that cause over $20,000 damage will be reported in accordance with AFI
     91-204. 354 FW/CP will provide incident notification IAW AFMAN 10-206, Operational
     Reporting as supplemented by PACAF.
     8.3. For guidance on the collection of bird/wildlife remains, contact 354 FW/SEF or
     reference AFMAN 91-223, paragraph 5.4. Reference the Air Force Safety Center BASH
     website for the latest collection methods: http://afsafety.af.mil/sef/bash/sefw_home.shtml.
     8.4. Maintenance personnel discovering a bird strike will notify Quality Assurance (354
     MXG/ MXQA) who will notify 354 FW/SEF and USDA/WS. Collect bird remains from the
     aircraft or airfield and forward to 354 FW/SEF.
     8.5. Airfield Management and Transient Alert personnel will assist transient aircrews and
     will obtain unit/organization information and forward the information to 354 FW/SEF.
     8.6. Airfield Management will notify the USDA/WS dispersal personnel if any bird remains
     are found on or in the immediate vicinity of the runway or any area used by aircraft.
     8.7. 354 FW/SEF will forward remains in accordance with AFI 91-223. After remains are
     identified, 354 FW/SEF will finalize the AFSAS report.
9. Bird Hazard Working Group. The function of the BHWG is to collect, compile, and
review data on bird strikes, identify and recommend actions to reduce hazards, recommend
changes in operational procedures, prepares informational programs for aircrews, and assist the
354FWI91-212 25 JUNE 2009                                                                        17


commander by acting as a point of contact for bird/wildlife off-base issues. The BHWG will
submit all recommendations to the 354 FW Commander for approval.
   9.1. BHWG meetings will discuss, but are not limited to the following topics: Eielson AFB
   bird strike statistics, USAF bird strike statistics, USAF BASH team updates, locally observed
   bird activity, local wildlife habitat management/modification, local BASH instruction
   procedures, responsibilities and changes, BASH awareness, education and training, and
   status and activities of the USDA/WS teams. BHWG meetings should concentrate on taking
   a proactive role in preventing future strikes, and not focus solely on reviewing historical data.
   9.2. Meetings will be held two times a year. Recommended schedule is an initial meeting in
   March to focus on the upcoming BASH season and spring migration, and an October
   meeting to summarize the BASH season and any outstanding issues prior to the next season.
   Any other meetings will be held as directed by the 354 FW Vice Commander if unusual bird
   or wildlife conditions warrant. BHWG minutes will be maintained for a minimum of 3
   years.
   9.3. The chairperson of the BHWG will be the 354 FW Vice Commander. As a minimum,
   the group will consist of a representative from 168 ARW/SE, 354 OG/CC, 354 MSG/CC,
   354 MXG/CC, 354 CES/CC, 354 OSS/CC, 18 AGRS/CC, 353 CTS/CC, 354 OSS/OSA, 354
   OSS/OSAT, 354 OSS/OSAM, 354 MXG/FOD, 354 CE/CEORH, 354 CE/CEAN, 354
   SFS/CC, 354 OG/OGV, 354 FW/JA, 354 FW/SE, 354 FW/PA, USDA/WS, and a
   representative from the FAA. Attendance will be included in the BHWG minutes.

10. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 867, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 853, Air Force Bird Strike Report




                                             MARK W. GRAPER, Brigadier General, USAF
                                             Commander
18                                                                                             354FWI91-212 25 JUNE 2009


                                                             Attachment 1
                                    BIRDWATCH CONDITION FLOWCHART

Figure A1.1. Birdwatch Condition Flowchart.



               BIRDWATCH CONDITION FLOWCHART
                            Use with SOF Checklist (pages X-1-1 & X-1-2)
            This flowchart provides objective criteria to assist the SOF in determining BWC

                                                                IF ANY OF THESE
                                                               CONDITIONS EXIST



               High daily bird survey numbers                             Any large bird or concentrations of birds above or in the vicinity of runway
     Any flocking birds observed within Class D airspace                                (within 100 feet) or in arrival/departure routes
        Increased concentrations of birds in the BEZ                                      Any reported birdstrike in Class D airspace
                                                                                           Large concentrations of birds in the BEZ




          Any other indication of high bird activity                                 Flocking birds crossing within 1nm of runway ends
                                                                                          Any other indication of severe bird hazard
                                                                                      Bird dispersal in progress in the BEZ (See Note 1)

                           THEN                                                                             THEN


          DECLARE BIRDWATCH CONDITION                                                     DECLARE BIRDWATCH CONDITION
          MODERATE FOR EIELSON AFB                                                        SEVERE FOR EIELSON AFB




                                                            IF ANY OF THESE
                                                           CONDITIONS EXIST

    Pilot reports of high bird activity on any range or low level                     Pilot reports of hazardous bird activity
  Reports from ground personnel on the ranges of high bird activity         Reports from ground personnel of hazardous bird activity
              Any other indication of high bird activity                           Any other indication of severe bird hazard


                                 THEN                                                                  THEN


         DECLARE BIRDWATCH CONDITION MODERATE                                     DECLARE BIRDWATCH CONDITION SEVERE
            FOR AFFECTED RANGE (1,000 AGL min)                                     FOR AFFECTED RANGE (5,000 MSL min alt)
            OR LOW LEVEL (1,000 AGL min on segment[s])                                 OR LOW LEVEL (Close for the day)


                 THE BWC WILL REMAIN IN EFFECT UNTIL THE DECLARING
                      AUTHORITY RE-ASSESSES BIRD ACTIVITY AND
                       DETERMINES A NEW BIRDWATCH CONDITION.
                  THIS RE-ASSESSMENT AUTHORITY MAY BE DELEGATED.

                 LARGE BIRD=WATERFOWL, GULLS, RAVENS, AND BIRDS OF
                                 COMPARABLE SIZE
                   SMALL BIRD=STARLINGS, SPARROWS, OR SWALLOWS

                  NOTE 1-BWC SEVERE NEED ONLY BE DECLARED DURING
                 DISPERSAL IF ACTIONS ARE EXPECTED TO AFFECT FLYING
                                     OPERATIONS
354FWI91-212 25 JUNE 2009                                                                         19


                                           Attachment 2
                          BIRD ACTIVITY/HAZARD CHECKLIST

Table A1.1. Bird Activity/Hazard Checklist.
        SUPERVISOR OF FLYING (SOF) BIRD ACTIVITY/HAZARD CHECKLIST

1. Notify 354 OG/CC when time permits.

2. 354 FWI 91-212 authorizes the following personnel to declare bird-watch conditions:

  a. SOF

   b. Airfield Management

3. Designate BWC IAW with the BWC Flowchart.

4. Notify AMOPS if birds are observed and considered a hazard to flying operations.

5. If conditions warrant, consider delaying departures, directing full stop landings, or straight in
approaches.

6. Do not hesitate to downgrade the BWC as the bird hazard decreases.

7. Notify 354 OG/CC of actions taken.

NOTE: BWC Moderate or Severe at Eielson AFB does not mean that low-level routes and
restricted areas are BWC Moderate or Severe. Flight leads should use caution on the ranges or
low level routes and pass information to the SOF if conditions warrant increasing or decreasing
the BWC. Pilots should consult the bird migration map prior to flying. The SOF can pass to
pilots that certain areas are considered BWC Moderate or Severe due to PIREPS (e.g., the Salcha
River Valley is BWC Moderate).

CLARIFICATION: 354 OG/CC is the point of contact for all requests by all aircraft to deviate
from this plan. For example, if a 168 ARW tanker requests to accomplish multiple low
approaches during BWC Moderate, the sole approving authority will be 354 OG/CC.
