BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                                              354 FW INSTRUCTION 32-1002
354TH FIGHTER WING (PACAF)                                                        19 SEPTEMBER 2000

                                                                                           Civil Engineer

                                                                        EXTERIOR SIGN STANDARDS




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 354 CES/CEOE (Mr. David L. Alexander)                                   Certified by: 354 SPTG/CC
                                                                              (Colonel David J. Lawton)
                                                                                                 Pages: 7
                                                                                          Distribution: F

This instruction is consistent with the provisions of AFP 32-1097, Sign Standards Pamphlet; the Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices; Alaska State law; and the PACAF Facilities Excellence Guide. This
instruction implements AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities. This instruction prescribes standards for
the design, construction, and placement of all exterior signs located on Eielson AFB and establishes cost
effective procedures for creating a unified system of base signs. These signs shall reflect the discipline
and pride of the 354th Fighter Wing. This instruction applies to all organizations, whether military or
civilian, which occupy facilities on Eielson AFB.


1. OVERVIEW.
   1.1. Signs must provide clear, consistent, and necessary direction or information. Unfortunately they
   tend to proliferate, leading to confusing, redundant, or unnecessary detraction from the appearance of
   the base. Correctly designed and controlled exterior signs are a positive aspect of the base’s overall
   professional image and contribute to unit pride and morale. The standards defined in this instruction
   will ensure Eielson AFB signs are necessary, of professional quality, properly located, and also reflect
   the unique character of the ICEMAN TEAM.
   1.2. The right sign in the proper location plays an important role in identifying buildings and aiding
   traffic control. However, the unchecked proliferation of signs clutters the base, degrades base appear-
   ance, and reduces the beneficial impact of needed signs. Consequently, the number of exterior signs
   installed on Eielson AFB will be kept to a minimum. The principles of this instruction are:
       1.2.1. Reduce the number of signs--use only where essential.
       1.2.2. If a sign is needed, get a quality sign--no homemade signs!
       1.2.3. Attention to detail is a must for a professional image.
       1.2.4. Use quality, long-life, low-maintenance materials.
2                                                                354FWI32-1002 19 SEPTEMBER 2000


       1.2.5. First impressions start at the gate.
       1.2.6. ONE BUILDING, ONE SIGN!
    1.3. This instruction is not applicable to interior signage. Due to the unique characteristics of individ-
    ual units and their facilities, interior signs are the responsibility of the facility occupants. The base
    civil engineer staff is available to provide technical and architectural assistance when needed.

2. RESPONSIBILITIES.
    2.1. 354 SPTG/CC, or designee 354 CES/CC. Final approval authority for exterior signs.
    2.2. 354 CES/CC, through his/her Maintenance Engineer. Responsible for developing, implementing,
    and maintaining the exterior sign master plan. With support and advice from the 354 SFS/CC and 354
    FW/SEG, ensures requirements for directional and traffic control devices are established and main-
    tained according to wing instructions, the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD),
    and Alaska state law.
    2.3. Maintenance Engineer. Charged with execution of the exterior sign master plan. This responsibil-
    ity includes the need to balance the reasonableness, sensibility, and necessity of requested signs
    against stewardship of available funding.
    2.4. Each commander. Ensures all signs within their span of control conform to the standards set in
    this instruction, to include maintaining all signs in a clean and serviceable condition.

3. PROCEDURES.
    3.1. All exterior signs shall be approved by 354 CES/CEOE, regardless of mode of procurement and
    installation. Requests for exterior signs, including traffic control devices, shall be submitted on AF
    Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, to the CES Customer Service desk (354 CES/CEOEC,
    2258 Central Ave, Eielson AFB AK 99702-2225).
    3.2. Once approved, signs shall be purchased and installed by 354 CES/CEOE using available base
    funds.
    3.3. No other organization is authorized to purchase, manufacture, or install exterior signs on Eielson
    AFB.
    3.4. 354 OSS/OSAM will be the focal point for all signs on the airfield. 354 CES/CEOE will accom-
    plish technical review and sign type selection.

4. GENERAL GUIDANCE.
    4.1. To make it easier for visitors, emergency response personnel, and others to find their way, all
    facilities shall have some type of identifying markings when viewed from the street. These markings
    may include simple numbers attached or painted on the facility sides, architectural letters, or free-
    standing, post-mounted signs. Depending on usage and traffic volume, each facility shall have as a
    minimum the facility number displayed on each side of the building. Facilities which have consider-
    able vehicle traffic to them (i.e. the fitness center, the dining facility, etc.) are authorized one of the
    more visible methods of identification. Unfortunately, due to cost and the need to present an unclut-
    tered appearance, not every facility or organization needs a freestanding sign.
354FWI32-1002 19 SEPTEMBER 2000                                                                          3


  4.2. Awards, decorations, and squadron mottoes or logos are not to be used on exterior signs or
  mounted on the exterior of buildings. These items are more appropriately displayed in trophy cases,
  commander’s offices, break rooms, entryway walls, and other interior spaces. Organizational
  emblems, if used, should be placed inside next to the main entrance.
  4.3. Super-graphics or shields painted on facility exteriors are prohibited due to the initial creation
  costs and maintenance expenses.
  4.4. All color and material choices will be architecturally compatible and comply with base standards.

5. SIGN TYPES AND SPECIFICS.
  5.1. Facility Numbering and Addressing:
     5.1.1. All facilities have a designated facility number. 354 CES/CERR maintains a list of building
     numbers and addresses.
     5.1.2. Facilities will be identified with brown metal sign(s), affixed to the facility exterior walls,
     displaying the facility number in white. One sign will be affixed on each side of each facility.
     5.1.3. All facility numbers will be mounted to be visible over exterior landscaping. Where possi-
     ble, numbers will be mounted 7 feet above ground level, on the right side of the facility as viewed
     from the street to which it is addressed.
     5.1.4. The font type for facility numbers and for raised lettering will be “Helvetica Medium”.
  5.2. Facility Identification:
     5.2.1. Buildings that serve as the main or headquarters facility of a single unit will be identified
     with the unit’s name attached to the building, or on a freestanding sign. Freestanding signs shall be
     installed IAW AFP 32-1097, chapter 4; wing HQ sign shall be “B-1”, group and squadron HQs
     shall be “B-2”, and all others shall be “B-3”. Facility identifications will use names commonly
     used and referenced in day-to-day conversation, and will exclude excess or unnecessary words or
     letters. Numeric unit designation and/or “Squadron” may be used for those units with a designa-
     tion other than “354th” or where “Squadron” is required to “round out” the name (e.g., “18th
     Fighter Squadron” versus “Fighter Squadron”). Numeric unit designation may be used for tenant
     organizations (e.g. “168th Civil Engineer”). A main facility of a unit is considered to be the loca-
     tion where a unit’s incoming mail is received or a facility where the unit interfaces with the major-
     ity of its customers.
     5.2.2. Buildings housing more than one organization or function will be identified with only one
     exterior sign. Selection of the sign will be determined by a number of factors including the number
     and type of visitors (e.g., newcomers, off-base, on-base, vendors, etc.), whether it’s a customer
     service organization or not, number of occupants by organization, etc. The exterior sign will gen-
     erally be mounted at the main or center entrance, and a directory board will be mounted inside this
     entrance to display the floors and room numbers of other units occupying the facility. For those
     buildings with more than one major tenant, reverse-cut pressure sensitive letters affixed to the
     glass door shall be the method of identification. For those buildings where there is no clear major
     tenant, or where the major tenant includes high priority component units (the destinations most
     often sought by people who are new to the base), multiple exterior signs may be approved up to a
     maximum of three. Prestige, status, or convenience to the facility occupant(s) will not be deter-
     mining factors for approving multiple signs.
4                                                               354FWI32-1002 19 SEPTEMBER 2000


       5.2.3. Facilities requiring visitors at Eielson to easily locate them (e.g., Amber Hall, Lodging,
       etc.) shall bear the name of their function, not their owning squadron or unit. Only one exterior
       sign will be used. A directory inside the main entrance will be used to identify locations of other
       organizations or offices.
       5.2.4. For facilities architecturally designed around an Alaskan theme, their building signs may
       consist of a rough sawn spruce slab either engraved with the facility name or with mounted raised
       letters.
       5.2.5. For ancillary facilities not covered above, reverse-cut pressure sensitive letters affixed to
       the glass entryway or mounted raised letters with the facility name shall be the preferred method
       of identification.
       5.2.6. Due to the variety of facility designs on Eielson, the 354 SPTG/CC or designated represen-
       tative shall have final authority in selecting the wording, type and location of any exterior
       wall-mounted sign.
    5.3. Sizing:
       5.3.1. If used, unit names mounted on facilities shall be displayed in raised capital letters, nor-
       mally 10 inches high. Variations in size may be necessary due to a number of factors including the
       size of a facility and distance of the facility from the street. Raised letters shall be constructed
       from plastic or metal. Any metallic mounting hardware shall be stainless steel. All mounting sys-
       tems must be approved by 354 CES/CEOE.
       5.3.2. Facility numbers shall be on a metal plate, 8 inches by (approximately) 24 inches, attached
       to the facility facing the street to which it is addressed. Facility numbers shall be 6 inches in
       height. Variations in size may be necessary due to a number of factors including the size of a facil-
       ity and distance of the facility from the street. The metal sign background color shall be dark
       brown with white numbers applied to the surface. The white letters shall be highly reflective.
    5.4. Marquees are an effective way to spread information and welcome distinguished base visitors.
    This sign type may be used inside the main entrances to the installation or in other locations deemed
    appropriate based on certain considerations such as purpose of sign, visibility, etc. The use of portable
    marquees at any location on Eielson is discouraged and must be approved by the 354 SPTG/CC.
       5.4.1. All new marquee signs shall have an electronic or digital display board that can be updated
       and changed with a remote keyboard.
       5.4.2. Existing marquees, which are building specific, shall be maintained until they are replaced
       by electronic marquees (e.g. chapel, clubs, etc.).
       5.4.3. Temporary promotional/morale signs shall be professionally constructed and approved by
       354 SPTG/CC before manufacturing and posting of such signs. Posting of these signs will be lim-
       ited to a specific period of time.
    5.5. Base Entry Signs. Base entry signs shall be made from brick or block matching the facility or
    area construction. The sign should present the professional image of the installation, mission, and
    command. When metal is used for the background, the sign shall be highly reflective standard dark
    brown with white lettering. When the background is split face block or brick, raised plastic or metal
    lettering shall be used and be highly reflective dark brown.
354FWI32-1002 19 SEPTEMBER 2000                                                                            5


  5.6. Traffic Control Signs. All traffic signs shall conform to the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
  Devices (MUTCD).
     5.6.1. Directional Signs:
         5.6.1.1. Directional signs shall only be provided for medical facilities, facilities providing ini-
         tial services to newcomers, or facilities frequently required by personnel transiting through
         Eielson (e.g. Lodging, etc.).
         5.6.1.2. Directional signs shall be mounted on metal posts and consist of 72-inch wide by
         12-inch tall metal plate. The posts will be either sleeved or painted standard dark brown. The
         back of the metal plate will be standard dark brown; the front shall be highly reflective white
         on dark brown. A white border will be placed on the front of these signs.
         5.6.1.3. The top edge of a directional sign shall be mounted 7 feet above the ground. If more
         than one direction sign is mounted on a set of posts, the bottom most sign will be placed with
         its bottom edge no less than 4 feet above the ground. Additional signs shall be placed above
         the first sign with no more than 1 inch between sign edges. No more than four entries may be
         displayed on a single set of posts.
         5.6.1.4. Directional signs will be placed at least 300 feet apart and at least 10 feet (14 feet pre-
         ferred) from the edge of the nearest road. Directional signs should not be placed near building
         or organizational signs to prevent clutter and confusion.
         5.6.1.5. Lettering font and size will be as determined by the MUTCD for the speed limit and
         size of the road.
     5.6.2. Street Signs:
         5.6.2.1. Street name signs shall be metal plates, 8 inches in height with length determined by
         street name. The metal plate will be sheeted with highly reflective white 4-inch lettering on
         dark brown background. Street names shall be in all capital letters. A white border will be
         placed on both sides of these signs.
         5.6.2.2. Street signs shall bear the PACAF shield, street name, and street type (AVE, RD, ST,
         in 2 1/2-inch upper case).
         5.6.2.3. The bottom edge of street signs shall be mounted 7 feet above the ground. When
         mounted on the same post as another sign, the bottom of the lowest sign shall be 7 feet above
         ground.
     5.6.3. Reserved parking signs:
         5.6.3.1. Reserved parking spaces will be held to an absolute minimum on Eielson AFB.
         5.6.3.2. Reserved parking signs shall be metal plates, 12 inches by 12 inches. The back of the
         metal plate shall be standard dark brown. The front shall be highly reflective white 1.5-inch
         lettering on dark brown. The bottom edge of reserved parking signs will be mounted 4 feet
         above the ground.
         5.6.3.3. Where possible, reserved parking signs shall be placed 4 feet off the edge of curb and
         centered on the parking slot it designates. If signs are to be placed in a median, the post shall
         be placed in the center of the median to facilitate dual use from both sides of the median.
         5.6.3.4. Reserved parking spaces are allocated in six categories: handicapped signs, visitor
6                                                       354FWI32-1002 19 SEPTEMBER 2000


    signs, unit signs, headquarters signs, community areas and government /contractor vehicles.
       5.6.3.4.1. Handicapped signs. Each handicapped employee will be authorized a reserved
       parking space at their primary work location. Additional handicapped spaces will be allo-
       cated at each facility to come into compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act.
       5.6.3.4.2. Visitor signs. Visitor parking is intended for short term, short time parking. A
       maximum of 30 minutes will be allowed for these spaces. Each facility will be authorized
       two visitor parking signs near their entrances. Additional visitor parking signs may be
       authorized if sufficient justification is submitted to and approved by the Traffic Engineer.
       In addition, each squadron is authorized a General/Colonel visitor sign at their main facil-
       ity.
       5.6.3.4.3. Unit signs. Unit signs are signs each organizational commander will have the
       flexibility to assign reserved parking for. The total number of these signs will be deter-
       mined by organizational manning. Unit signs may only be placed at facilities assigned to
       the respective units. Units will not manufacture, install, alter, or relocate reserved parking
       signs. Only 354 CES is authorized to manufacture, install, alter, relocate or remove signs.
           5.6.3.4.3.1. Squadrons are authorized two reserved parking signs, plus a number not to
           exceed two percent of the squadron’s total authorized manning (e.g. a squadron with
           370 authorized positions is authorized a total of 9 signs). Squadron reserved parking
           signs will be designated with the unit name and numbers corresponding to the number
           of signs authorized (e.g. 18FS-1, 18FS-2, SVS-1, SVS-2, etc.). Squadron commanders
           may assign signs to squadron members at their discretion. Assignment and control of
           squadron reserved parking signs will be handled internally within each squadron.
           5.6.3.4.3.2. Tenant and Associate units smaller than squadron level are authorized one
           reserved parking sign if the unit head is authorized title of commander. In addition,
           signs not to exceed two percent of the unit’s total manning are also authorized. Facility
           managers will accommodate tenants within their facilities.
       5.6.3.4.4. Group and Wing Commanders. Reserved parking signs shall be authorized for
       the Group and Wing commanders at their respective primary duty location. For security
       reasons, signs will not be designated by positions (e.g. 354 FW/CC, 354 SPTG/CC, etc.).
       Signs shall be designated similar to squadron-level signage above (e.g. SPTG-1, LG-1,
       etc.). Also for security reasons, it is recommended that the “-1” spaces not be assigned to
       the commanders.
           5.6.3.4.4.1. Group and Wing Staff. Deputy group commanders, vice wing commander,
           wing and group executive officers, and chief enlisted managers are authorized a
           reserved parking sign. In addition, other colonel positions on the wing staff are autho-
           rized a reserved parking sign.
       5.6.3.4.5. Community areas. In addition to the number of handicapped signs required to
       comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the following areas are authorized
       reserved parking signs as shown:
           5.6.3.4.5.1. Base Exchange: One General Officer, two Colonels, two CMSgts, and one
           Volunteer of the Month parking space.
           5.6.3.4.5.2. Commissary: Three General/Colonel, two CMSgt, and one Volunteer of
354FWI32-1002 19 SEPTEMBER 2000                                                                       7


               the Month parking space.
               5.6.3.4.5.3. Fitness Center: One General Officer, two General/Colonel and one CMSgt
               parking space.
               5.6.3.4.5.4. Aurora Club: One General Officer, five Colonel, two CMSgt, and one
               “any 2nd Lt”.
               5.6.3.4.5.5. Yukon Club: One General Officer and ten changeable (primarily for CMS-
               gts and Colonels).
           5.6.3.4.6. Government/Contractor Vehicles: Organizations will only be authorized
           reserved parking for government vehicles assigned to their units. These signs will be
           restricted to common areas where GOVs must share space with POVs. Emergency vehi-
           cles will have spaces authorized as needed at facilities such as dining facilities. Reserved
           parking spaces will be provided for contractor vehicles only when such slots are deter-
           mined mission essential by the unit and are specifically required by contract.
        5.6.3.5. Procedures for Reserving Spaces. Reserved parking spaces beyond those listed above
        that appear to have merit and are within the intent of this instruction may be approved by the
        354 CES/CEOE. The official having control over the parking area will submit a letter of justi-
        fication, including the number of personnel in the facility, and an AF Form 332, with a dia-
        gram showing the proposed reserved slot location to 354 SFS/SFO, and 354 FW/SEG for
        coordination. The Traffic Engineer is the approving authority and will maintain a current ros-
        ter of authorized reserved parking signs. If the requester disagrees with the Traffic Engineer’s
        decision to disapprove a work request, it may be forwarded to 354 SPTG/CC for a final deci-
        sion. All reserved signs will be of standard design, and will be constructed and posted by 354
        CES.



                                                  KENNETH M. DECUIR, Brig Gen, USAF
                                                  Commander
