BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                        35 FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION 24-301
35TH FIGHTER WING                                                  12 NOVEMBER 2008
                                                                  Certified Current, 3 May 2011




                                                                                 Transportation

                                  OFFICIAL USE OF GOVERNMENT MOTOR VEHICLES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 35 LRS/LGRD                             Certified by: 35 MSG/CC (Colonel Mark E. Burns)
                                                                                   Pages: 3

This instruction implements AFPD 24-3, Operation and Use of Ground Transportation Vehicle.
This document addresses the authorized and unauthorized uses of government vehicles and
establishes the installation’s vehicle misuse program. It applies to all USAF personnel assigned
to Misawa AB and includes USA, USN, or USMC personnel that utilize USAF government
motor vehicles (GMV). The law provides penalties for the willful use or authorization of any
government-owned, government-leased or government-rented motor vehicle for other than
official purposes. Civilian employees who misuse GMVs will have action taken in accordance
with the Civilian Personnel Manual. Penalties for military personnel are prescribed in the
Uniform Code of Military Justice.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms
managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AF Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

1. General. Statutory law contained in 40 U.S.C. Section 491 prescribes DoD policy and
establishes an effective means of limiting the use of GMV to official governmental purposes
only. One simple rule applies with respect to official use of government vehicles:
2                                                       35 FWI 24-301 12 November 2008

1.1. Restrict the use of DoD motor vehicles, including those rented or leased, to official
purposes only, that is, uses that would further the mission of the Air Force. Providing a
government vehicle solely for or even to enhance the comfort or convenience of the member(s)
is not permitted.
1.2. Contact the 35 LRS Distribution Flight/Vehicle Operations, 226-3328 for additional
guidance.

2. Reporting. All personnel have a responsibility to report fraud, waste, and abuse which
encompasses GMV misuse. The report can be taken anonymously or you can leave your name
and number in case additional questions arise. Forward information listed at 2.1 below to the
Operators Records and Licensing (OR&L) office at 226-3535 or via email at
35LRS.OR_L@Misawa.af.mil. 35 LRS/OR&L will initiate their investigation within 1 duty-day
of notification.
2.1. Information required to initiate misuse case:
2.1.1. Date/time
2.1.2. Specific location (BX parking lot, Burger King, Post Office, etc…)
2.1.3. Vehicle registration (plate number)
2.1.4. Name and rank of all vehicle occupants if possible
2.1.5. Action of vehicle occupants if known (Buying lunch, dropping off personnel, etc…)
2.2. Common Misawa Misuses:
2.2.1. Private Organization use (e.g. Booster Clubs, Top 3, Focus 5/6)
2.2.2. Sports Teams without FW/CC approval
2.2.3. Unit events (i.e.; Holiday Parties, Physical Fitness, Hail/Farewell, Luncheons, etc…)
2.2.4. Procuring DECA/AAFES items for unit snack bar sales

3. Unit Responsibility.
3.1. Unit commanders shall: Provide evidence to refute the LRS commander's finding or
acknowledge the validity of the case with actions that will be taken to prevent further infractions
within 15 calendar-days of receipt.
3.2. Vehicle Control Officer/NCO (VCO/VCNCO) shall: Take appropriate measures to educate
assigned personnel on official use of GMVs to include misuse policies and prevention.
Unauthorized or willful misuse of GMVs by military and civilian personnel may be cause for
disciplinary action. Refer to AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, for further clarification on misuse
of GMVs.

4. Temporary Duty Personnel. The following local policies, concerning TDY personnel have
been implemented to help minimize misuse, better ensure efficient support, and help expedite
misuse investigations.
4.1. The TDY status of an individual does not necessarily justify the use of a U-Drive-It (UDI)
vehicle. Justification will always be predicated on need, distance involved, and other mission-
related conditions.
4.2. The base taxi service, transient aircrew service and base shuttle are considered viable
transportation options unless proven otherwise.
4.3. Personnel TDY for less than 7 days will normally be supported via methods in 4.2.
35 FWI 24-301 12 November 2008                                                               3

4.4. Personnel TDY for more than 7 days will coordinate support through the sponsoring unit’s
VCO/VCNCO. TDY personnel must attend Course II, Local Orientation Drivers Briefing and
be licensed to operate a GMV in Japan. VCOs will arrange this training with 35 FW/SEG.
4.4.1. Personnel without a sponsoring unit will contact 35 LRS/Vehicle Operations directly.
4.5. The sponsoring unit will sign for and assume full responsibility for the vehicle(s) to include
reported misuse/accident investigations.
4.6. TDY personnel may travel via GMV to:
4.6.1. Lodging
4.6.2. On-base eating establishments only. Exception: when performing official business
outside Misawa City limits.
4.6.3. AAFES facilities
4.6.4. Places of worship
4.6.5. Non-appropriated fund facilities
4.7. TDY personnel may NOT travel via GMV to:
4.7.1. Off-base establishments when billeted on-base.
4.7.2. Private quarters on or off-base.
4.7.3. On-base eating establishment drive through windows.

5. Permanently Assigned Personnel. Use of GMVs for personnel assigned to Misawa AB will
be for official use only and limited to mission accomplishment.
5.1. Examples of unauthorized use of GMVs for permanently assigned personnel are:
5.1.1. Personal business or pleasure to include on-base eating establishments.
5.1.2. Transportation between domicile and duty to include dormitories, military housing,
temporary lodging facilities and off-base private residences.
5.1.3. Terminal transportation to commercial airports, train and bus stations.
5.2. No policy can cover every possible situation that could arise. When official use of a GMV
is in doubt, contact 35 LRS/Vehicle Dispatch, 226-3328 for clarification.

6. Permissible Operating Distance (POD). The POD is that distance from the installation that
GMVs travel before competing with commercial carriers (Ref. DoD Directive 4500.9). The
POD for Misawa AB extends from the northern most portion of the main island of Honshu to
5Km North of Morioka City. Travel beyond these limits requires written justification and
authorization prior to commencement of travel. Submit requests to Vehicle Dispatch for review
and final approval by the 35 LRS Commander acting as the Misawa Air Base POD designee
IAW DoD Directive 4500.36R, para C2.2.3.3.4.

7. Adopted Form.
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




DAVID R. STILWELL, Colonel, USAF
Commander
