BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                          35 FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION 33-103
35TH FIGHTER WING                                                                  4 November 2008
                                                              Certified Current 24 November 2010
                                                                Communications and Information


                                                      TELEPHONE SYSTEMS MANAGEMENT



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and form s are available on the e-P ublishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 35 CS/SCO                                      Certified by: 35 CS/CC (Major Oscar Delgado)
Supersedes: 35FWI33-103, 8 August 2008                                                  Pages: 6

This fighter wing instruction implements AFPD 33-1, Command, Control, Communications, and
Computer (C4) Systems and contains local guid elines and procedures for m anaging Air Force
Telephone Systems at Misawa Air Base. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Prim     ary Resp onsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of comm and. Ensure that al l records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are m aintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in acc ordance with the Air Fo rce Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
Changes include: Updated TCO responsibilities, re sidential customer responsibilities, AF For m
649, commercial “99” procedures, and use of cordless telephones.

1. Control of Defense Switched Network (DSN) and Commercial Toll Calls.
1.1. Use of DSN and comm ercial toll calls is authorized for command elem ents and agencies
requiring long-distance telephone co mmunications support of their m ission and is restricted to
essential official calls requiring a timeliness that cannot be achieved by other means (i.e., official
or electronic mail). The length of a call is lim ited to the m inimum time required to conduct the
official business and should not normally exceed 10 minutes for each DSN call and 5 minutes for
each commercial call.
1.2. Official comm ercial long -distance telep hone calls will be m ade only when m ilitary
telephone service to the destina tion is not available, the needs are extrem      ely urgent, and a
memorandum or electronic message cannot meet mission needs. Commercial long-distance calls
2                                                              35FWI 33-103      4 August 2008

for personal m atters are strictly p rohibited in accordan ce with AFI 3 3-111, Voice System s
Management par 15.5.
1.3. Long distance ca llback servic es provided to base custom ers from stateside vendors are
authorized to base c lass “B” cus tomers only. This se rvice will no t be used f rom of ficial bas e
telephones. All service agreem ents at Misawa Air Base are restricted to “Custom              er-to-
Company” only. All problem s with service will be handled between custom ers and the service
provider. There are no exceptions or waivers to this rule.

2. Unit Commanders’ Responsibilities.
2.1. Ensure their organizations comply with this instruction.
2.2. Appoint in writing, IAW AFI 33-111, Para 10.1, Appoi nts Primary and Alternate TCOs to
manage the unit’s telephone system s m anagement program . Appoi ntment letters m ust be
submitted to the 35th Communications Squadron Wire Section (35 CS/SCOIP).
2.3. Be responsible for DSN and comm ercial toll calls placed from their uni t and ensure all
assigned personnel are briefed on and comply with the provisions of this instruction.

3. TCO Responsibilities.
3.1. Unit TCOs will perform all duties as outlined in AFI 33-111, Para 10.2 through 10.2.6.
3.2. The 35th Communications Squadron Telephone Billing Office (35 CS/SCOIPC) will s end
out by e-mail, a detailed call 1isting to unit TCOs on a monthly basis.
3.3. Unit TCOs should verify the call listing       against the AF For m 1072, Authorized Long
Distance Telephone Calls, that th ey m aintain; draft a m emorandum stating that all calls are
official/authorized, sign and return to 35 CS/SCOIPC Telephone Customer Service.
3.4. The deadline for returning signed memorandums to 35 CS/SCOIPC is 2 weeks from receipt.
A m issed suspense will result in a second no        tification to the unit TCO and t heir flight
commander and another 2-week deadline. Failure to meet the second deadline will result in unit
commander notification.
3.5. TCOs are required to perf orm and subm it an annual inventory of installed telephone
equipment items and services on an annual basis to 35 CS/SCOIPC as outlin ed in AFI 33-111,
Para 10.2.4. First notification will go to the unit TCO, failure to subm it on tim e will result in a
second notification to the Flight Commander, and the third and fina l notification wi ll be sent to
the unit commander.
3.6. TCO train ing will be cond ucted, at a minimum, on an annual basis by the 35th
Communications Squad ron. All as signed un it TCOs will be requ ired to attend this training.
Newly appointed TCOs will need to conta ct 3 5 CS/SCOIPC to schedule tra ining at an earlier
date. Units failing to ensure their T COs are properly trained can be deni ed or delayed telephone
services.

4. 35 FW Guidance on Cordless Telephones
4.1 Cordles s telephones will not b e used on M isawa Air Base unless p rior approval has been
granted by 35th Communications S quadron. Air Force guidance discourages use of cordless
instruments for IA purposes.
4.2 Cordless telephone purch ase/use will only be granted on a case by case bas is. Requests for
cordless telephones will be subm itted on AF Form 3215, IT/NSS Requirem ents Docum ent or
other approved method. Requests will be acco mpanied with a m emorandum signed by the unit
commander validating that the cordless phone     is required for m ission purposes. Approval
35FWI 33-103      4 August 2008                                                                 3

resides solely with th e b ase Communications In formation and System s Officer. Requests will
only be approved if all requirements are met in accordance with AFI 33-111, Para. 20.2, 20.3.

5. Responsibilities for Class “B” Residential Customers
5.1 All custom ers that posses residential tele phone servi ce are resp onsible for deactivating
service upon PSC or re-location. Dor m residents m ust stop by Telephone Custom er Service
located in bldg. 506 to form ally request deactivati on of Class-B service. Before dorm residents
are allowed to out-process th e dorm s, Telephone Custom er Service m ust sign a release
memorandum provided by the Dorm Managers.
5.2 Base housing residents are al so required to s ign an offi cial request to deactiv ate residential
Class-B service.
5.3 Telephone C ustomer Service out processing is also an MPF require ment. Failure of any
member to properly out-proces s Telephone Custom er Service will result in m onthly recurring
telephone bills. All offenders will b e held accountable and financially ob ligated to pay any fee s
associated with failure to out-proc ess. These processes will rem ain in place until Class “B”
residential service is no longer provided by the 35th Communications Squadron.

6. Collect Calls.
6.1. Outgoing/in coming collect calls are ONL       Y allowed from /to class “B” telephones.
However, 35th Communications Squadron HIGHLY discourages accep ting collect calls due to
extremely high charges associated with them . Personal or unofficial long-d istance calls will not
be allowed from official telephones. This includes requests that the call s be charged to private
residents.
6.2. Base operators will not process incom ing collect calls to official base li nes. Callers will be
directed to use direct-dial procedures.

7. Fraud, Waste, and Abuse (FW&A) Hotline. Calls made from organizations on Misawa Air
7.1. Base to the FW &A hotlin e routed throu gh the base switchbo ard w ill be made on a “n o
names asked” basis. T oll tickets will not be used for DSN calls m ade to FW&A hotlines. Base
switchboard supervisors will ensure an up-to-date list of authori zed FW&A hotlines is available
upon reques t. As a m inimum, the list will incl ude DSN num bers of FW &A hotlines for the
Department of Defense, Air Force, Army, and Navy.

8. Commercial and Home Business Lines.
8.1. The unit TCO will process requests          for commercial busines s lines th rough the 35th
Communications Squadron Telephone Customer Service Office, Bldg 506, using AF Form 3215,
IT/NSS Requirements Document. Commercial lines will have a “B-2”, “B-5”, “B-6”, “B-7”, or
“B-8” telephone classification.
8.2. Only authorized person nel within th e 35th Communications Squadron can request
information or services f rom local or internat ional telephone agencies. All base communication
needs will be coordinated with 35 CS/SCOIP.
8.3. All home business operators should reque st service directly from the 35th Communications
Squadron Telephone C ustomer Service. Hom e business lines will have a “B-1” or “B-4”
telephone classification. All requests will require prior approval from the base Legal Office.

9. On/Off-Netting Through the Base Switchboard.
4                                                             35FWI 33-103      4 August 2008

9.1. Off-netting calls from a DSN num ber to an off-base number will only be perm itted to the
local 0176 prefix. Off-netting to cellular telephones or ot her long distance lo cations is strictly
prohibited.
9.2. On-net ting from off-base comm ercial numbers to th e DSN will be controlled by the 35 th
Communications Squadron Commander.
9.3. Only personnel m aintained on the b ase DSN access listing or un it morale call list will be
allowed access to the D SN through the base switchboard when ca lling from other than a class
“A” line. Access to b ase switchb oard DSN lines m ay be obtain ed by subm itting an acce ss
memorandum signed by the unit commander to 35 CS/SCOIP.

10. Health, Morale, and Welfare (HMW) Calls.
10.1. HMW call policy at Mis awa will be limited t o two phone calls per week. Each call is no t
to exceed 1 5 m inutes in duration. In this case, a week is defined as Sunday, 0001 hrs to th  e
following Saturday at midnight.
10.2. Each unit will be required to provide 35 CS/SCOIP an alphabetical listing of personnel (to
include name, rank, last 4 of SSN, tour type a nd DEROS/TDY dates) authorized to place m orale
calls. This list will be used by base operato rs to m aintain positive control over the HMW call
program. Units should subm it updated m emorandums at least m onthly or as changes in
personnel status require.
10.3 A further breakdow n can be found on the 35 FW “Misawa Air Base hearts Apart Morale
call policy” memorandum dated 16 July 2007.

11. Official Commercial Calls and Use of Personal Identification Numbers (PIN).
11.1. Official governm ent phones will no t have dire ct long-distance dialing capability. Direct
dial commercial calls will be availab le only within the local area. Excep tions must be approved
by the 35th Comm unications Squadron Comm ander based on m ission requirem ents. All
requests for “99” comm ercial access will b e subm itted on AF Form 3215 or other locally
approved method with required attachments. Attachments include a memorandum signed by the
Unit Commander vouching for the m ission need as well as a breakdown listing the telephone
number, LEN num ber, and justification for each        teleph one requiring the serv ice. These
documents must be submitted by the Unit TCO as they are trained on the proper processes.
11.2. Individuals who fr equently make long-distance toll calls as part of their official duties can
be issued PIN num bers by their TCO to access th is service. Unit TC Os will issue telephone
control numbers to individuals who make infrequent long-distance toll calls.
11.3. Individuals receiving PIN nu mbers will be briefed by thei r unit TCO that the PIN is for
official use only. Use of the PI N for personal calls charged to the Air Force could result i      n
punitive actions and require the m ember to reimburse the Air Force f or all to ll calls charged to
that PIN. It is the PIN holder’s responsibility to prevent disclosure of the PIN to unauthorized
individuals.
11.4. To be issued a PIN, an AF Form 3215 in approv ed for mat, must be sub mitted to 3 5
CS/SCOIP. The requesting unit’s comm ander and TCO must endorse the AF Form 3215. A
separate A F Form 3215 m ust be subm itted for each individua l requesting a PIN. Th e
requirement for the PIN must be f ully justified and the justification m ust demonstrate how this
capability is requ ired by the ind ividual to complete their m ission. After processing, 3 5
CS/SCOIP will issue the PIN to the autho rized PIN holder with a m emorandum providing
instructions on its use.
35FWI 33-103      4 August 2008                                                                 5



12. DSN Call Data Review Process: All telephone data requested by the Defense Inform ation
Systems Agency or oth er ag encies shall be pr ovided by developing a report from the base
telephone switch. No DSN toll tickets will be us ed by the base telephone operators for this
purpose.

13. Base Billing Information.
13.1. All active duty Air Force m embers will h ave their Class B b ills co llected by payro ll
deduction.
13.2. Only internation al and domestic teleph one charges will be provided to bas e custom ers.
Billing inf ormation m ust be reque sted in pers on with proper identif ication requ ired at 35th
Communications Squadron Telephone Billing Office, Bldg 506.
13.3. Base security personnel (i.e., 35th Security Forces Squadron Investig ations or Air Force
Office of Special Investigations) will handle all other telephone call information requests.
13.4. Billin g discrepancies will be h andled on a case-by-case basis. Bas e telephone custom ers
will report all billing dis crepancies to the 35th Comptroller Squadron Telephone Billing S ection
(35 CPTS/FMFL) in Bldg 656.

14. Monthly Unofficial Toll Charge Limits.
14.1. To control the num        ber of non-collec tions on excessive toll charges, the 35th
Communications Squad ron and the 35 CPTS will limit total m onthly toll calls to a pre-se t
amount based on rank/grade.
14.2. Pre-set total monthly limits are:
E1 - E4 - $500.00
E5 - E6 - $700.00
E7 and above (including civilian employees) - $900.00
14.3. 35th Commu nications Squadron Telephone Billing Office will notify customers by mail or
phone when their toll charge limit has been exceeded. Customers will have 10 days from time of
notification to make payment through 35 CPTS Telephone Billing Section. If prompt payment is
not made, toll charge dialing capabilities will be restricted until payment is made. Early payment
of accrued toll charges can be made through 35 CPTS/FMFL to prevent service interruption.

15. Delinquent Telephone Bills.
15.1. The 35 CPTS will provide follow-up billin gs to all customers approximately 30 days after
the due date of the original b ill. These billin gs will reflect the o riginal invo ice am ount plus
interest that is charged base d on the num ber of days the orig inal bill is overdue. A second
follow-up bill will be s ent to the c ustomer appr oximately 60 days af ter the du e date of the
original b ill. At th at tim e, telephone serv ice w ill be sus pended until the bill is paid in full,
including any charges incurred after the original bill went over 60 days. Accounts th at reach the
60-day delinquent poin t on m ore than one occas ion will be unconditionally suspended for 6
months. For activ e duty Air Force m embers only, if their b ill exceeds their end-of -month pay,
all telephon e services will be susp ended until the bill is p aid in full. These acco unts will be
suspended for 6 months if their bill exceeds the end-of-month pay on more than one occasion.
15.2. Custom ers departing Misawa for an exte nded period of tim e (i.e . over 60 days) are
permitted to temporarily suspend their telephone service, retain their existing phone number, and
be relieved of the regular monthly service charges. Customers wishing to do so must request this
6                                                             35FWI 33-103      4 August 2008

service suspension in person by bringing a copy        of the orders to the 35th Communications
Squadron Custom er Service Office in Bldg 506. Custom ers not on payroll deduction will be
provided a current bill of all calls made to date th at they can pay at base finance. U pon return,
customers can request reactivation of their serv ice and will be charged a $1.00 service activ ation
fee.

16. Releasing Installation Telephone Directories to the Public.
16.1. Class “A” users (Official). Only unit TC Os may pick up installation telephone directories
for their units. Unit T COs are responsible fo r disposing of old dire ctories when no longer
needed.
16.2. Class “B” users (Unofficial). Users are authorized one in stallation telephone directory per
household and should exchange th eir old directory for a new one at the 35th Communications
Squadron Telephone C ustomer Service Office.         Off-base m ilitary and DoD civilians are
authorized one installation telephone directory per household.
16.3. Release of unclassified tele phone directories to the general public is authorized IAW AFI
33-111, Para 70.1, 70.2 and DOD 5400.7R/AFSUP., DoD Freedom of Information Act Program.

17. Adopted Forms:
AF Form 649, Verification of Long Distance Telephone Calls
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1072, Authorized Long Distance Telephone Calls
AF Form 3215, IT/NSS Requirements Document




JOEL E. MALONE, Colonel, USAF
Commander
