BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              35TH FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION
35TH FIGHTER WING                                                              48-107

                                                                               29 AUGUST 2012

                                                                             Aerospace Medicine

                                                                  BLOODBORNE PATHOGEN
                                                                 EXPOSURE CONTROL PLAN

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no release restrictions on this publication


OPR: 35 AMDS/SGPM                                                       Certified by: 35 MDG/CC
                                                                                (Col Terry Haske)
Supersedes:    35 FWI 48-107,                                                            Pages: 26
               12 August 2005


This instruction implements AFPDD 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program, and is used in
conjunction with AFIs 44-108, Infection Control Program, and 48-101, Aerospace Medical
Operations. This instruction establishes guidelines for personnel who have reasonably
anticipated occupational exposure to bloodborne pathogens (BBP) in the course of their duties on
Misawa Air Base (MAB). It applies to all organizations on bases whose personnel have
reasonably anticipated occupational exposure to blood, body fluids, or other potentially
infectious materials (PIM) in the course of their assigned duties. This instruction also applies to
the Air Force Reserves or Air National Guard units and members performing temporary duty at
MAB. It primarily involves personnel working in the Medical Group, Fire Department, Security
Police, and Office of Special Investigations (OSI). Also included are employees required to
provide first aid response as part of their duties. However, all personnel working on MAB should
understand how bloodborne pathogens are transmitted in case they must respond to an injured/ill
coworker, dried blood found on an object, or a biohazardous spill. Waivers to this instruction
must be requested through 35 MDG/CC. This instruction does not require functional OPR
review. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS)           Records         Disposition        Schedule          (RDS)        located     at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Additionally, if the publication
generates a report(s), alert readers in a statement and cite all applicable Reports Control Numbers
in accordance with AFI 33-324. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
 2                                                                                         35FWI48-107 29 AUGUST 2012


Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Procedures were
reorganized, updated and validated to coincide with Air Force, and Federal Government
regulations. Attachment 1, Glossary of References and Supporting Information, and Attachment
4, Hepatitis B Declination Statement were added. All other attachments were renumbered.

        1.     Exposure Determination: .......................................................................................              2
Table 1.       Category II .............................................................................................................    3
        2.     Responsibilities: .....................................................................................................      4
        3.     Procedures: .............................................................................................................    7
        4.     Contracted Operations: ..........................................................................................            9
        5.     Record Keeping: ....................................................................................................         9

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                             10

Attachment 2—SAMPLE BBP EXPOSURE CONTROL PLAN                                                                                              13

Attachment 3—BLOODBORNE PATHOGEN TRAINING                                                                                                  22

Attachment 4—HEPATITIS B VACCINE DECLINATION STATEMENT                                                                                     23

Attachment 5—DECONTAMINATION PROCEDURES                                                                                                    24

Attachment 6—EMERGENCY BLOOD OR BODY FLUID SPILL KIT CONTENTS LIST
                                                                                                                                           26


1. Exposure Determination:
     1.1. Exposure Categories. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) has
     established three risk exposure categories for protection against occupational exposure to
     infectious diseases to include Hepatitis B virus (HBV), Hepatitis C virus (HCV), and human
     immunodeficiency virus (HIV). These categories are as follows:
        1.1.1. Category I (High Risk). High risk tasks are those that involve routine exposure
        to human blood, body fluids, or tissues. All procedures or other job-related tasks that
        involve an inherent potential for mucous membrane or skin contact with human blood,
        body fluids, tissues, PIMs, or a potential for spills or splashes. Use of personal protective
        equipment (PPE) will be required for employees engaged in Category I tasks. Category I
        job classifications will include the following: physicians, dentists, nurses, physician’s
        assistants, medical laboratory officers and technicians, dental technicians, dental
        hygienists, dental assistants, dental volunteers, radiology technicians, optometrist,
35FWI48-107 29 AUGUST 2012                                                                       3


       optometry technicians, immunization technicians, medical technicians, and emergency
       medical technicians.
       1.1.2. Category II (Moderate Risk). These are routine tasks that involve no exposure
       to human blood, bodily fluids, tissues, or other PIMs, but employment may require
       performing unplanned/ emergency Category I tasks. Normal work routine involves no
       exposure to blood, body fluids, or PIMs, but exposure or potential exposure may be
       required as a condition of employment. Appropriate PPE, as determined by the
       supervisor, in consultation with Bioenvironmental Engineering, will be readily available
       to every employee engaged in Category II tasks. Listed below in Table 1 are Category II
       job classifications and tasks which may incur exposure:

Table 1. Category II
JOB                                      TASK
Utility Workers                          Plumbing, working on sewage systems
Firefighters                             First responders, emergency rescue
                                         procedures/rendering first aid
Security Forces                          First responders, emergency rescue
                                         procedures/rendering first aid
AFOSI                                    Crime scene investigations
Hospital Employees not in Category I     Potential contact with infectious patients/ equipment
Hospital Volunteers-Patient Care         Potential contact with infections patients/equipment
Areas
Hospital Housekeeping                    Sorting laundry/trash
Designated First Aid Responders          First aid response in the workplace
Dental Lab Technicians                   Create dental prosthetics, prepare fillings
Biomedical Equipment Repair              Repairing potentially contaminated medical Equipment
       1.1.3. Category III (No Anticipated Risk). Tasks that involve no exposure to human
       blood, body fluids or tissues. Category III tasks are not a condition of employment. The
       normal work routine involves no exposure to human blood, body fluids or tissues
       (although situations may be imagined or hypothesized under which anyone, anywhere,
       might encounter a potential exposure to body fluids). Persons who perform these duties
       are not called upon as part of their employment to perform or to assist in emergency
       medical care or first aid, or to be potentially exposed in some other way. These workers
       may perform care as “Good Samaritans”. Category III tasks and procedures may result in
       occupational exposure of almost any person in any job classification (for example,
       administrative workers, food handlers, routine laborers, industrial shop personnel, and so
       forth). Duties that may involve potential exposure for Category III personnel include:
          1.1.3.1. Disposing of soiled tissues or debris soiled with visible blood from restrooms
          or offices.
          1.1.3.2. Physical contact with other employees or visitors with exudative lesions or
          weeping dermatitis.
          1.1.3.3. Provision of emergency first aid or cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR)
          until professional help arrives. NOTE: Personnel who must be immunized against
 4                                                             35FWI48-107 29 AUGUST 2012


            HBV on MAB include all Category I personnel and all active duty personnel and
            civilians who work in Category II shops including medical, fire fighting, security
            police, explosive ordinance disposal, and other identified work centers with job tasks
            that potentially expose assigned workers to human waste and/or blood and body
            fluids. All other personnel in Category III will be evaluated for post-exposure
            prophylaxis to HBV if an exposure incident occurs that is related to their occupational
            tasks.
2. Responsibilities:
     2.1. The 35th Fighter Wing Commander:
        2.1.1. Is responsible for ensuring all units with personnel in Categories I and II (see
        paragraphs 1.1.1 and 1.1.2) develop and review annually a unit-specific Bloodborne
        Pathogen Exposure Control Program (see Attachment 2).
        2.1.2. Ensure initial and annual training (see Attachment 3) is accomplished for
        personnel considered at risk.
        2.1.3. Ensure each unit commander complies with the guidance referred to in the
        following references: 29 Code of Federal Regulation (CFR) 1910.1030, Occupational
        Exposure to Bloodborne Pathogens, Occupational Safety and Health Administration
        (OSHA); AFPD 48-1, AFIs 44-108, 48-101; 91-204, Safety Investigations and Mishaps;
        and 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Prevention, and
        Health (AFOSH) Program; Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, Guidelines for the
        Management of Occupational Exposures to HBV, HCV, and HIV and Recommendations
        for Postexposure Prophylaxis, Vol. 50, No RR-11, 29 June 2001; Morbidity and
        Mortality Weekly Report, Guidelines for the Management of Occupational Exposures to
        HIV and Recommendations for Postexposure Prophylaxis, Vol. 54, No RR-9, 30
        September 2001; Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, Notice to Readers: Updated
        Information Regarding Antiretroviral Agents Used as HIV Postexposure Prophylaxis for
        Occupational HIV Exposures, Vol. 56, No. 49, 14 December 2007; as well as the
        expanded policies set by this program.
     2.2. Unit Commanders. Will ensure that all personnel at risk for occupational exposure to
     blood, body fluids, or other PIMs are adequately protected, receive initial orientation and
     annual training, and comply with established guidelines and requirements defined in this
     program and 29 CFR 1910.1030.
     2.3. Commanders of Organizations with Personnel at Risk for Occupational
     Exposures. Will designate an OPR for facilitating completion of the unit’s BBP Exposure
     Control Program (using Attachment 2), monitoring compliance with engineering and work
     practice controls, PPE, housekeeping, elements of hazard communication and training
     documentation as stipulated by this program. NOTE: For contracted services, it’s the
     contractor, not the Air Force, who assumes responsibility for compliance with OSHA
     standards and for the safety and health of their employees. Air Force contract specifications
     for services and materials must stipulate strict adherence to 29 CFR 1910.1030 and must
     specify who provides PPE to whom, who provides Hepatitis B vaccinations, who gives the
     training, and who investigates and documents bloodborne or other potentially infectious
     pathogen exposure incidents.
35FWI48-107 29 AUGUST 2012                                                                  5


     2.3.1. Refer all incoming Category I or II personnel to the Immunizations Clinic
     (35MDOS/SGPMI) for Hepatitis B vaccine series, as applicable.
     2.3.2. Purchase, properly store, replace or repair , clean, dispose of and ensure the use
     of PPE needed to protect Category I and II workers from exposure to blood, body fluids,
     and other potentially infectious materials. There must be enough PPE on hand to protect
     all workers involved in procedures with potential exposures. Additionally, PPE must
     be available in all sizes which appropriately fit all workers potentially exposed.
  2.4. At Risk Individuals. Each at-risk individual (active duty member, government
  employee, contract employee, student or volunteer assigned or attached to work in any
  affected organization) is responsible for knowledge of and compliance with this program.
  Each supervisor must document personnel training on AF Form 55, Employee Safety and
  Health Record, or its equivalent.
  2.5. Training for Self-Aid and Buddy Care. All training for self-aid and buddy care
  (SABC) and CPR will include basic information concerning bloodborne and other potentially
  infectious pathogens, their transmission, and method of exposure control.
  2.6. The 35 MDG will provide:
     2.6.1. Medical oversight for eligible workers exposed to blood, body fluids, or other
     PIMs in the course of their duties. Medical oversight for potentially exposed workers
     includes:
         2.6.1.1. Immunizations (with documentation) to protect Category I and II workers
         against bloodborne pathogens.
         2.6.1.2. Medical follow-up, treatment, and documentation for authorized personnel
         exposed to blood, body fluids, or other PIMs in the course of their duties.
         2.6.1.3. Written risk assessment opinions for employees exposed to blood, body
         fluids, or other PIMs.
     2.6.2. Medical education to authorized workers following potential exposure to
     infectious materials in routine course of their duties.
     2.6.3. Review and approval by Public Health (PH) (when requested by organizations) of
     unit exposure control programs and educational programs developed for workers
     potentially exposed to blood, body fluids, or other PIMs in the course of their duties.
     2.6.4. Disposal of contaminated waste (upon request) through the medical waste disposal
     contract when waste contaminated with blood and body fluids. Any contaminated waste
     collected, gathered and transported in biohazard containers will also be disposed.
     2.6.5. PH provides initial training upon request to organization supervisors on proper
     techniques and prevention of exposure to blood, body fluids, and other PIMs. Units may
     employ their own selected BBP initial training curriculum with review and approval by
     PH. PH also provides:
         2.6.5.1. Technical advice and supervisory assistance on:
            2.6.5.1.1. The types of PPE needed to protect workers from exposure to blood,
            body fluids, or other PIMs. Bioenvironmental Engineering and Infection Control
6                                                             35FWI48-107 29 AUGUST 2012


               personnel may also provide recommendations regarding PPE.
               2.6.5.1.2. Training of workers exposed to blood, body fluids, or other PIMs in the
               course of their duties.
               2.6.5.1.3. Training of workers on decontamination of surfaces contaminated with
               blood, body fluids, or other PIMs.
       2.6.6. A medical consultant who will evaluate exposure incidents.
       2.6.7. A medical representative available to answer questions on exposure incidents.
    2.7. All units with workers in Category I and II job classifications and any workers exposed
    to blood, body fluids, or other PIMs will:
       2.7.1. Develop an Exposure Control Program for their workers using the template in
       Attachment 2. The completed program will be reviewed by PH (35 AMDS/SGPM,
       Occupational Health Section) upon request.
       2.7.2. Ensure the unit’s written Exposure Control Program and its documentation are
       available to workers who may have questions and to authorized program evaluators for
       required review.
       2.7.3. Develop, schedule, provide training materials, and document training for workers
       about the medical aspects of exposure to blood, body fluids, or other PIMs,
       organizational procedures, and the storage and use of PPE. PH will provide consultation
       as requested.
       2.7.4. Purchase, properly store, and ensure the use of PPE needed to protect workers
       from exposure to blood, body fluids, or other PIMs. There must be enough PPE on hand
       to protect all workers involved in procedures with potential exposures. Additionally, PPE
       must be available in sizes that appropriately fit all workers potentially exposed.
       2.7.5. Clean, launder, and/or dispose of PPE at no cost to the employee.
       2.7.6. Repair or replace PPE as needed to maintain its effectiveness, at no cost to the
       employee.
       2.7.7. If a blood or body fluid exposure takes place in the workplace:
           2.7.7.1. Ensure that the affected worker washes the exposed area thoroughly with
           soap and water. Soap should not enter the eyes or the nose or mouth.
           2.7.7.2. Immediately notify supervisor on duty; the supervisor will send the worker,
           and if possible, source individual to the 35 MDG Urgent Care Clinic (UCC) as soon
           as possible.
           2.7.7.3. Appropriately decontaminate surfaces soiled with blood, body fluids, or
           other PIMs, as soon as feasible using personnel trained in the management of
           bloodborne pathogens to limit exposure of others.
           2.7.7.4. To dispose of contaminated waste, call 35 MDG Facility Management at
           DSN 317-580-6136 for guidance. Transport the contaminated waste to 35 MDG for
           proper disposal. Bagged waste need not be transported immediately. It can be
           containerized and held in a secure manner until regular duty hours.
35FWI48-107 29 AUGUST 2012                                                                       7


3. Procedures:
   3.1. All Category I civilians will report to PH to be offered the Hepatitis B vaccine at no cost
   to the employee. Civilian employees are required to be vaccinated in accordance with Air
   Force SG Policy Letter #03-004. Volunteers must receive the vaccine prior to working in
   Category I areas.
      3.1.1. The Immunizations Clinic will document receipt of each vaccine for employees/
      volunteers who receive the Hepatitis B series in the Air Force Complete Immunizations
      Tracking Application (AFCITA) or other appropriate record maintenance system. For
      Category I personnel, PH also documents the HBV immunization status and follow-up
      activities into the Preventive Health Assessment and Individual Medical Readiness
      Database. Civilians declining this vaccine must sign a declination statement (see
      Attachment 4). If the employee later wishes to receive the vaccine, they may receive it at
      no cost.
   3.2. At-risk workers will be given initial training prior to working in a work center with risk
   of exposure to blood or body fluids, or other PIMs and annual training as required by 29 CFR
   1910.1030, Occupational Exposure to Bloodborne Pathogens, (see Attachment 3 for training
   requirements).
   3.3. Supervisors will ensure that initial and annual training is documented on the employee's
   AF Form 55 or equivalent (and appropriate computerized training record if used by the
   organization) as Initial Bloodborne Pathogen Training and Annual Bloodborne Pathogen
   Training. PH is available to assist supervisors in training on Bloodborne Pathogens to help
   meet both initial and annual training requirements.
   3.4. All work areas with Category I or II personnel or tasks will develop and maintain a
   written unit-specific Exposure Control Plan. Initially all plans must be reviewed by PH, and
   annually thereafter (Attachment 2).
   3.5. PPE. Supervisors will:
      3.5.1. Ensure adequate PPE (gloves, masks, goggles, face shields, outer protective
      garments, and so forth) is available for workers to use at all times where there is a
      potential for occupational exposure to blood, body fluids, or other PIMs.
      3.5.2. Enforce the wearing of PPE during procedures in which there is a potential for
      occupational exposure to blood, body fluids, or other PIMs. Noncompliance of workers
      to adhere to policies and directives of this program must be immediately addressed
      through appropriate administrative procedures. This policy is established to protect the
      government's financial interest and to protect the worker's health.
   3.6. If a worker is actually exposed to blood, body fluids, or other PIMs in the course of their
   duties, (for example, a needle puncture wound, getting cut with a contaminated object such
   as glass, having blood splash on the skin or mucous membranes of the eyes, nose or mouth)
   the supervisor will ensure that the worker thoroughly washes the affected area; for eyes, rinse
   with copious amounts of water. The supervisor will immediately send the exposed worker
   and, if possible, the source individual, to 35 MDG Urgent Care Center (UCC) for appropriate
   evaluation, treatment, and follow-up. If it’s not possible to send the source individual to the
 8                                                             35FWI48-107 29 AUGUST 2012


     UCC, the supervisor will ensure that the UCC receives the source individual’s name and
     contact information.
        3.6.1. The UCC provider will evaluate the worker's potential exposure to bloodborne
        pathogens using criteria developed by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and
        prevention based on the type of exposure and source's risk factors.
           3.6.1.1. If indicated, ensure appropriate testing of the source as well as testing,
           treatment, and follow-up care for the exposed worker are accomplished in a timely
           manner.
           3.6.1.2. Notify worker and their employing organization of the necessity of treatment
           and follow-up of the exposed worker.
        3.6.2. A health care provider will provide a written opinion on the individual's exposure
        incident and recommended follow-up care within 15 days after all initial evaluations
        have been completed. Ensure that the written opinion is placed in the     individual's
        medical record.
        3.6.3. PH will ensure that appropriate follow-up is accomplished using CDC and OSHA
        guidelines for blood, body fluid, and PIMs exposure.
        3.6.4. The unit where the exposure incident occurred will:
           3.6.4.1. Ensure areas, equipment, clothing, and materials contaminated by blood,
           body fluids, or other PIMs are appropriately decontaminated. Small
           spills/contamination may be cleaned by properly trained unit employees or by
           certified contractors.
           3.6.4.2. Contact Contracting for spills that may be beyond the scope of the unit to
           manage internally as appropriate.
           3.6.4.3. Unit employees trained in decontamination procedures will decontaminate
           and dispose of any blood, body fluids, or other PIMs using appropriately trained
           personnel and the procedures outlined in Attachments 5 and 6.
           3.6.4.4. Place all contaminated articles to be disposed of in a biological hazard bag.
           This task will be accomplished by appropriately trained unit personnel wearing
           proper PPE, including: puncture-resistant waterproof gloves, a protective outer
           garment, and shoe coverings, if there is a potential for contaminating the worker’s
           shoes. If aerosolization or splattering of blood, body fluids, or other PIMs is expected,
           individuals must wear a mask and goggles or face shield. The biohazard bags will be
           handled and transported appropriately to 35 MDG (consult with 35 MDG Facility
           Management, 226-6095). If waste contains sharp items, such as broken glass, needles,
           or knives, these must be placed in a puncture resistant container which is sealed prior
           to placing it in a biohazard bag.
NOTE: A regular plastic garbage bag can be used instead of a biohazard bag, if it is clearly
marked with a biohazard label and double bagged. Contact Medical Logistics at 226-6008 to
request a biohazard label.
35FWI48-107 29 AUGUST 2012                                                                      9


4. Contracted Operations:
   4.1. Protection for contract employees and appropriate disposal of collected waste should be
   the responsibility of the contractor.
   4.2. Units planning to use contract services for cleanup of blood, body fluids or other PIM
   spills, must proactively establish a standing contract that will be quickly initiated when
   required. Ideally, contract workers should be on scene within an hour of their notification. Do
   not wait until a BBP incident occurs to try and establish an adequate contract.
5. Record Keeping:
   5.1. The supervisor will document training on either an AF Form 55 (or equivalent) or
   computerized database for all units with Category I and II workers for the duration of the
   worker’s employment.
   5.2. At the end of the worker’s employment, the unit will maintain the training record and
   any documentation of non-compliance by the worker for three years. Upon permanent
   change of station (PCS) or permanent change of assignment (PCA), the individual will take
   the AF Form 55 to the gaining unit.
   5.3. Medical record. The 35 MDG will:
      5.3.1. For workers involved in a bloodborne pathogen exposure incident, in the course of
      his/her duties on MAB, the following will be maintained in each individual's medical
      record:
          5.3.1.1. A copy of the employee's Hepatitis B vaccination status including the dates
          of Hepatitis B vaccinations and any medical documents relative to the employee's
          ability to receive the vaccination or the employee’s declination statement.
          5.3.1.2. A copy of all results of examinations, medical testing, and follow-up
          procedures pertaining to an occupational exposure.
          5.3.1.3. Health professional's written opinion if exposure has occurred during
          employment.
      5.3.2. Provide upon request from an authorized authority (as required by law) and in
      accordance with organizational procedures the pertinent portions of the employee's
      medical record for examination and copying. This task will be accomplished under the
      guidance of 29 CFR 1910.20, Access to Employee Medical and Exposure Records and
      must follow requirements of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of
      1996.




                                            MICHAEL D. ROTHSTEIN, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 35th Fighter Wing
 10                                                         35FWI48-107 29 AUGUST 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008.
AFI 44-108, Infection Control Program, 1 July 2000.
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program, 3 October 2005.
AFI 48-101, Aerospace Medical Operations, 19 August 2005.
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Mishaps, 24 September 2008
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Prevention, and Health
(AFOSH) Program, 1 June 1996.
29 CFR 1910.20, Access to Employee Medical and Exposure Records.
29 CFR 1910.1030, Occupational Exposure to Bloodborne Pathogens.
Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, Guidelines for the Management of Occupational
Exposures to HBV, HCV, and HIV, and Recommendations for Postexposure Prophylaxis, Vol.
50, No RR-11, 29 June 2001.
Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, Updated U.S. Public Health Service Guidelines for the
Management of Occupational Exposures to HIV and Recommendations for Postexposure
Prophylaxis, Vol. 54, No RR-9, 30 September 2005.
Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, Notice to Readers: Updated Information Regarding
Antiretroviral Agents Used as HIV Postexposure Prophylaxis for Occupational HIV Exposures,
Vol. 56, No. 49, 14 December 2007.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record. 5 Aug 2011
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. 22 Sep 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFCITA—Air Force Complete Immunizations Tracking Application.
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System.
BBP—Bloodborne Pathogens.
CDC—Centers for Disease Control.
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations.
CPR—cardiopulmonary resuscitation.
HBV—Hepatitis B virus.
HCV—Hepatitis C virus.
HIV—Human Immunodeficiency Virus.
35FWI48-107 29 AUGUST 2012                                                                       11


MAB—Misawa Air Base.
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility.
OSHA—Occupational safety and health administration.
OSI—Office of Special Investigations.
PCA—Permanent Change of Assignment.
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PH—Public Health.
PIM—Potentially Infectious Materials.
PPA—Personal Protective Attire.
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment.
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule.
SABC—Self-Aid and Buddy Care.
TB—Tuberculosis.
UCC—Urgent Care Center.

Terms
Additional Terms— For additional terms, see Occupational Safety and Health Standards
(OSHA) Title 29 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) 1910.1030.
Bloodborne Pathogens (BBP)— Disease-causing microorganisms that are present in human
blood and can cause disease in humans. Examples include (but are not limited to) Hepatitis B
Virus (HBV), Hepatitis C Virus (HCV), and Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV).
Contaminated— Refers to the presence or the reasonably anticipated presence of blood or other
PIMs on an item or surface.
Decontamination— Use of physical or chemical means to remove, inactivate, or destroy blood-
borne pathogens on the surface or item to the point where they are no longer capable of
transmitting infectious particles and the surface or item is rendered safe for handling, use, or
disposal.
Employee— All personnel working in any capacity for the United States Government at MAB,
Japan (that is, military, hired civilians, civilian/military volunteers, housekeeping personnel, and
students).
Engineering Controls— Exposure control measures that isolate or remove the bloodborne
pathogen hazard from the workplace (for example, sharps containers, self-sheathing needles,
hand washing facilities).
Exposed Individual— Any individual who comes in contact with blood or other PIMs.
Exposure— Any encounter, direct or indirect, with an injured person’s blood or body fluids, or
their personal items (that is, clothing, bed linens, bandages, and so forth) contaminated by blood
or body fluids.
 12                                                           35FWI48-107 29 AUGUST 2012


Exposure Incident— An incident in which blood or PIMs contact the mucous membranes of the
eye, nose, or mouth, or make contact with broken, non-intact, or irritated skin. It also includes
any incident where a potentially contaminated item penetrates the skin (for example, needle-
stick). Human bites are also considered an exposure incident for purposes of screening and
follow-up.
Occupational Exposure— Eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral (through the skin/mucous
membrane barrier) or non-intact skin exposure to blood or PIMs during the course of an
employee’s duties. Non-intact skin includes skin with dermatitis, hangnails, cuts, abrasions,
chafing, and so forth.
Parenteral— Piercing mucous membranes or the skin barrier through such events as needle
sticks, punctures, human bites, cuts, and abrasions.
Personal Protective Equipment/Attire (PPE/PPA)— Specialized clothing or equipment
(gowns, gloves, masks, goggles) worn by an employee for protection against a hazard. General
work clothes (for example, uniforms, pants, shirts, or blouses) are not intended to function as
protection against hazards and are not considered PPE/PPA.
Potentially Infectious Materials (PIM)— PIMs include: All body fluids; any unfixed tissues or
organs (other than intact skin) from a human (living or dead); and HIV cell/tissue/organ cultures
and HIV or HBV containing culture medium or other solutions; blood, organs or other tissues
from experimental animals infected with HIV or HBV.
Sharps— Any object that can penetrate the skin, including but not limited to needles, scalpels,
broken glass, broken capillary tubes, and exposed ends of dental wires.
Source Individual— Any individual (living or dead) who’s blood or other PIMs may be a
source of occupational exposure to the employee. Standard Precautions— An approach to
infection control in which all human blood and PIMs (discussed above), or contaminated items
that would release blood or PIMs, are treated as if known to be contaminated with bloodborne
pathogens. The approach includes the use of barriers or other personal protective
equipment/attire (PPE/PPA) between the body fluid of the patient and skin or mucous
membranes of the employee.
Work Practice Controls— Measures that reduce the chances of exposure by altering the
manner in which a task is performed (for example, prohibiting the recapping of needles using a
two- handed technique, avoiding picking up broken glass with bare hands, using proper
procedures for collecting and disposing of PIMs).
35FWI48-107 29 AUGUST 2012                                                                       13


                                          Attachment 2
                       SAMPLE BBP EXPOSURE CONTROL PLAN

MISAWA AB BLOODBORNE PATHOGEN UNIT EXPOSURE CONTROL PLAN
(SAMPLE PROGRAM WITH DETAILED EXPLANATIONS)

UNIT: ___________________________________

PREPARATION DATE:____________________

CERTIFYING OFFICIAL:__________________

(THIS SAMPLE PROGRAM IS PROVIDED ONLY AS A GUIDE TO ASSIST IN
COMPLYING WITH 29 CFR 1910.1030, OSHA'S BLOODBORNE PATHOGENS
STANDARD. ADD/CHANGE/DELETE INFORMATION IN THIS SAMPLE PROGRAM AS
NECESSARY TO DEVELOP AN EFFECTIVE, UNIT-SPECIFIC EXPOSURE CONTROL
PROGRAM. ORGANIZATIONS MUST REVIEW THE STANDARD FOR PARTICULAR
REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO THEIR SPECIFIC SITUATION. THE EXPOSURE
CONTROL PROGRAM MUST BE REVIEWED ANNUALLY AND UPDATED WHEN
NECESSARY).
In accordance with the 29 CFR 1910.1030, OSHA Occupational Exposure to Bloodborne
Pathogens Standard, the following exposure control program has been developed.
A2.1. Exposure Determination. OSHA requires employers to perform exposure determination
concerning which employees may incur occupational exposure to blood, body fluids, or other
potentially infectious materials. The exposure determination is made without regard to the use of
PPE. This exposure determination requires a listing of ALL job classifications in which ALL
employees may be exposed, regardless of frequency.
   A2.1.1. List job classifications where ALL employees have been determined to have a
   reasonably anticipated occupational exposure to bloodborne pathogens.
JOB TITLE                                                     JOB SERIES/AFSC
(List Title and Job Series or AFSC)
(e.g., Public Health (PH) Technician) (4EOX1)
In addition, if the organization has job classifications in which SOME employees may have
occupational exposure, a listing of those classifications is required. Since not all the employees
in these categories would be expected to incur exposure to blood, body fluids, or other
potentially infectious materials, a listing of tasks or procedures is required to clearly understand
which employees are considered to have occupational exposure.
   A2.1.2. List job classifications where some employees have been determined to have a
   reasonably anticipated occupational exposure to bloodborne pathogens while performing
   specific job tasks and procedures.
JOB CLASSIFICATION                                   TASKS/PROCEDURES
(List Title/Job Series or AFSC) (List Task/Procedure such as emergency rescue/first aid
procedures)
 14                                                              35FWI48-107 29 AUGUST 2012


A2.2. Implementation Schedule and Methodology. This plan also requires a schedule and
method of implementation for the various requirements of the standard. The following complies
with this requirement:
   A2.2.1. Standard Precautions: The mandatory use of standard precautions is in effect. The
   term "standard precaution" refers to an infectious disease control system intended to prevent
   health care and public safety workers from parenteral, mucous membrane, and non-intact
   skin exposures to bloodborne pathogens. Assume all blood and body fluids (e.g., semen,
   vaginal fluids, cerebrospinal, lymph, pericardial, etc.) are potentially infectious and
   appropriate barriers must be established between the patient's blood, body fluids, and other
   infectious materials and the health care and public safety worker. Under circumstances where
   differentiation between body fluid types is difficult or impossible, consider all body fluids
   potentially infectious. Consider all blood, body fluid, or other potentially infectious materials
   infectious regardless of the perceived status of the source individual.
   A2.2.2. Engineering and Work Practice Controls: Utilize engineering and work practice
   controls to eliminate or minimize exposure to employees.          Where occupational
      exposure remains after institution of these controls, use PPE.
THE FOLLOWING ENGINEERING CONTROLS WILL BE UTILIZED:
CONTROLS
(List controls, e.g., sharp containers, hand washes, eye washes, etc.)
The above controls will be examined and maintained on a regular schedule. The schedule for
reviewing the effectiveness of the controls is as follows: (e.g., list schedule such as daily,
weekly, etc). List who (individual or section) has responsibility to review the effectiveness of
the individual controls.
INSPECTIONS WILL BE CONDUCTED FOR THE FOLLOWING CONTROLS:
CONTROL                                 INSPECTION/VERIFICATION
(Hand washes)                           (Weekly/Inspected by _____/or list responsible section)
       A2.2.2.1. Hand Washing Facilities: Employees who incur exposure to blood, body
       fluids, or other infectious materials will wash at a readily accessible area. If hand
       washing facilities are not feasible, the organization is required to provide either an
       appropriate antiseptic hand cleanser in conjunction with a clean cloth, paper towels, or
       antiseptic towelettes. If these alternatives are used, wash the hands with soap and
       running water as soon as feasible. Also, after removal of protective gloves, employees
       shall wash hands and any other potentially contaminated skin area immediately or as
       soon as feasible with soap and water. If employees incur exposure to mucous
       membranes, wash or flush those areas with running water immediately following contact.
       Organizations shall list locations of readily accessible hand washing facilities and
       alternatives to hand washing facilities. Organizations that must provide alternatives to
       readily accessible hand washing facilities must ensure the maintenance and accessibility
       of these alternatives.
HAND WASHING STATIONS ARE LOCATED IN THE FOLLOWING LOCATIONS:
(List locations, e.g., patient rooms, procedure areas, vehicles, specific areas in hangars, etc.)
       A2.2.2.2. Procedures:
           A2.2.2.2.1. PPE.
35FWI48-107 29 AUGUST 2012                                                                    15


              A2.2.2.2.1.1. All employees will use PPE to minimize or eliminate exposure
              risks. Consider equipment appropriate only if it does not permit blood, body
              fluids, or other potentially infectious materials to pass through or to reach the
              employee's clothing, skin, eyes, mouth, or other mucous membranes under normal
              condition of use and for the duration of use.
              A2.2.2.2.1.2. Providing PPE:         It is the responsibility of the individual
              organization to provide PPE for its employees at no cost to the employee. (List
              here who in the organization will provide PPE) will provide to all employees at
              risk, PPE to include, but not limited to gloves, gowns, coats, masks, eye
              protection, and mouthpieces, resuscitation bags, or other ventilation devices.
              Choose PPE based on the anticipated exposure to blood, body fluids, or other
              potentially infectious materials. Make hypoallergenic gloves, powderless gloves,
              or other similar alternatives available for those employees who are allergic to the
              gloves normally used.
              A2.2.2.2.1.3. Enforcing the wearing of PPE: The supervisor or section head will
              enforce the use of PPE by all employees. Not wearing PPE when exposed to
              blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials is only allowed under
              rare and extraordinary circumstances where specific use of PPE will prevent
              delivery of health care or pose a safety hazard to the employee or co-workers.
              When the employee makes this judgment, the circumstances shall be investigated
              by the supervisor and documented on a ____________________, (use an
              appropriate form for official documentation) to determine whether changes need
              to be instituted to prevent further incidents where PPE is not worn.
              A2.2.2.2.1.4. Accessibility of PPE: The supervisor or section head will ensure
              availability of PPE in the work area and provide protective clothing to employees.
              The following (organization, person, unit, etc.) is responsible for distribution of
              PPE.
              A2.2.2.2.1.5. Coordinate with Medical Supply on types of PPE available for
              purchase.
A2.3. PPE Storage: PPE TYPE STORAGE LOCATION: (list equipment type and storage
locations)
   A2.3.1. Remove all PPE penetrated by blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious
   materials immediately or as soon as feasible. Remove all PPE prior to leaving the work area.
   A2.3.2. Place all contaminated PPE in an appropriately designated area or container for
   storage prior to decontamination or disposal. Handle contaminated disposable PPE as
   follows:
      A2.3.2.1. Buddy system should be used if more than one individual is involved.
      A2.3.2.2. Remove outer protective garment, (e.g., gown, apron, lab coat, etc.) fold
      garment in on itself as the garment is being removed, and place in the biohazard bag.
      A2.3.2.3. Remove shoe covers and place in the biohazard bag.
      A2.3.2.4. Remove face shield or goggles and place in designated storage area identified
      for holding contaminated PPE prior to decontamination for reuse.
 16                                                             35FWI48-107 29 AUGUST 2012


       A2.3.2.5. Remove gloves by turning inside out and place in designated storage area
       identified for holding contaminated PPE prior to decontamination for reuse or place in
       biohazard bag for disposal.
A2.4. The following protocol has been developed to facilitate leaving the equipment at the work
area:
PLACE/ROOM CONTAINER/DISPOSAL SITE
(List where employees are expected to place the PPE upon leaving the work area, and other
protocols, etc).
   A2.4.1. Organization will clean, launder, and dispose of all PPE at no cost to employees.
   The organization will make all repairs and replacement at no cost to the employee.
   A2.4.2. Employees will wear gloves when it is reasonably anticipated that hands could make
   contact with blood, body fluids, other potentially infectious materials, non-intact skin, or
   mucous membranes and when handling or touching contaminated items or surfaces.
   A2.4.3. Gloves will be made available at the following locations:
GLOVE DISPERSAL SITE RESPONSIBLE PARTY
(State location and person responsible for distribution of gloves)
       A2.4.3.1. Wear heavy duty, industrial grade utility gloves when any activity such as
       handling trash, decontamination of instruments or equipment, or environmental cleaning
       is performed.
Wash utility gloves when minimal soiling occurs. Change utility gloves when heavily soiled or
when the integrity of the barrier has been compromised. After removing gloves, employees will
wash their hands with soap and water immediately or as soon as possible. Utility gloves may be
decontaminated for reuse provided the integrity of the gloves is not compromised. Discard
utility gloves when cracked, peeling, torn, punctured, or exhibiting signs of deterioration or when
their ability to function as a barrier is compromised.
       A2.4.3.2. Do not reuse disposable gloves. Do not wash or decontaminate disposable
       gloves for reuse. Replace gloves as soon as practical when they become contaminated,
       torn, punctured, or their ability to function as a barrier is compromised.
       A2.4.3.3. You must wear masks in combination with eye protection devices, such as
       goggles or glasses with solid side shields, or chin length face shields, whenever splashes,
       spray, splatter, or droplets of blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials
       may be generated and if you anticipate eye, mouth, or nose contamination.
       A2.4.3.4. The OSHA standard also requires the use of appropriate protective clothing,
       such as lab coats, gowns, aprons, clinic jackets, or similar outer garments. The type and
       characteristics will depend upon the task and degree of exposure anticipated.
A2.5. The following situations or procedures require protective clothing be utilized:
SITUATION/PROCEDURE PPE USED
(List situation/procedure and PPE to be used like emergency first aid, lab procedures, dental
procedures, etc. and use of gloves, lab coat, face shield, etc.).
35FWI48-107 29 AUGUST 2012                                                                        17


   A2.5.1. Handling contaminated needles, sharp instruments, or other contaminated articles:
   Education programs are to stress proper management of needles, sharp instruments, or other
   contaminated articles. Workers are to be aware of the occupational health hazards
   concerning their use. Common sense, safety, and environmental concerns are paramount in
   the workers’ handling and disposal of needles, sharp instruments, or other contaminated
   articles. Place emphasis on the minimal handling of these items.
       A2.5.1.1. Do not use hands to pick up sharp instruments, broken glass, needle or syringe
       units, or other sharp objects contaminated with blood, body fluids, or other potentially
       infectious materials. Pick the object up using other methods not requiring an individual
       to come in direct contact with the contaminated object (e.g., tongs, forceps, a broom and
       dust pan, cardboard, etc.).
       A2.5.1.2. Place the contaminated objects in a puncture resistant, leak-proof biohazard
       container, or other impervious, puncture resistant container to be placed in a biohazard
       bag and take to the 35 MDG, Building 99, for disposal. If the organization does not have
       a suitable biohazard container, contact the 35 MDG to pick one up. You must exercise
       extreme caution when disposing of needles and sharp instruments or objects.
       A2.5.1.3. Place contaminated nonsharps, (e.g., contaminated gauze, towels, clothing,
       etc.) in a leak-proof biohazard bag.
   A2.5.2. Needles: Do not bend, recap, remove, shear or purposely break contaminated
   needles and other contaminated sharps. OSHA allows an exception to this if the procedure
   requires the contaminated needle be recapped or removed, no alternative is feasible and the
   medical procedure requires the action. Use a mechanical device or one-handed technique if
   recapping or removal is required.
A2.6. The Following Procedures Require Recapping or Removal of Needles:
PROCEDURE CONTROL METHOD USED
(List the procedures and also list the mechanical device or alternately the one-handed technique
used).
   A2.6.1. Reusable Sharps Containers: Place reusable contaminated sharps immediately, or as
   soon as possible, into appropriate sharps containers to await cleaning and sterilization. At
   this facility, the sharps containers are puncture resistant, labeled with biohazard label, and are
   leak proof.
LOCATION OF                           RESPONSIBLE INSPECTION
SHARPS CONTAINERS                     PARTY FREQUENCY
(List where sharps containers are located as well as whom has responsibility for removing sharps
and how often the containers will be checked for sharps removal)
   A2.6.2. Work Area Restrictions:
       A2.6.2.1. Employees are not to eat, drink, apply cosmetics, apply lip balm, smoke, or
       handle contact lenses in work areas where there is a reasonable likelihood of exposure to
       blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials.
       A2.6.2.2. Do not keep food and beverages in refrigerators, freezers, shelves, cabinets, on
       counter tops or bench tops where blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious
       materials are present.
 18                                                             35FWI48-107 29 AUGUST 2012


       A2.6.2.3. Mouth pipetting or suctioning of blood, body fluids, or other potentially
       infectious materials is prohibited.
       A2.6.2.4. Conduct all procedures in a manner that will minimize splashing, spraying,
       splattering, and generation of droplets of blood, body fluids, or other potentially
       infectious materials.
A2.7. The Following Methods will be Used to Accomplish Work Area Restrictions:
PROCEDURE                        METHOD OF CONTROL
(List procedures and methods used [e.g., covers on centrifuges, usage of dental dams if
appropriate, etc.] to control spraying, splattering, splashing, etc. Also list other appropriate work
area restrictions, e.g., designated break rooms, no eating, smoking signs, etc.).
   A2.7.1. Specimens:
       A2.7.1.1. Place specimens of blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials
       in containers which prevent leakage during the collection, handling, processing, storage,
       transport, or shipping of the specimens. Label or color code the containers used for this
       purpose IAW the requirements of the OSHA standard. Red bags or red containers may
       be substituted for labels.
(Organizations should note the standard provides a labeling or color coding requirement
exemption, provided the facility utilizes standard precautions in the handling of all specimens
and the containers are recognizable as containing specimens. This exemption applies only while
the specimens remain in the facility).
(IF THE ORGANIZATION CHOOSES TO USE THIS EXEMPTION, THEN STATE IT
HERE.)
       A2.7.1.2. Place any specimen that could puncture a primary container within a puncture
       resistant secondary container. This container must have appropriate biohazard markings.
       If the organization does not have an appropriate container, contact the 35th Medical
       Support Squadron Facility Management (35 MDSS/SGSLF) to pick one up.
The Following Containers will be Used for the Listed Specimens:
SPECIMEN; TYPE OF CONTAINER USED; CONTAINER LOCATION (List specimens, if
any, which could puncture a primary container, the containers used as secondary containers, and
the location of these secondary containers)
       A2.7.1.3. If outside contamination of the primary container occurs, place the primary
       container within a secondary container which prevents leakage during the handling,
       processing, storage, transport, or shipping of the specimen. If specimen leakage is
       anticipated, double or triple bag the primary container using color-coded plastic bags or
       sturdy, clear plastic bags.
   A2.7.2. CONTAMINATED EQUIPMENT AND SURFACES:
       A2.7.2.1. Examine equipment contaminated with blood, body fluids, or other potentially
       infectious materials prior to servicing or shipping and decontaminate as necessary unless
       the decontamination of the equipment is not feasible.
       A2.7.2.2. Only trained personnel within the organization will                 decontaminate
       contaminated equipment and surfaces.
35FWI48-107 29 AUGUST 2012                                                                     19


       A2.7.2.3. Individuals who are responsible for decontaminating equipment and surfaces
       will wear appropriate PPE, including but not limited to: gloves, protective eye wear, and
       a smock.
       A2.7.2.4. At a minimum, clean contaminated surfaces and equipment using the
       following procedures:
           A2.7.2.4.1. Absorb the contaminated material.
           A2.7.2.4.2. Disinfect the contaminated area with household bleach.
           A2.7.2.4.3. Absorb the disinfectant.
           A2.7.2.4.4. Rinse the contaminated area with water.
           A2.7.2.4.5. Place paper products used in the clean-up operation in an appropriate
           biohazard container and take to the 35 MDSS/SGSLF for disposal.
A2.8. List the Procedures Used for Decontaminating Equipment and Surfaces:
PROCEDURES:
(When listing procedures used by your organization, include disinfectants used, location of "spill
clean-up kits," etc.) If you cannot decontaminate the equipment or surfaces in this fashion,
contact the 35 MDG Infection Control Officer for advice.
   A2.8.1. Attach a readily observable biohazard label to the portion of the equipment which
   remains contaminated.
   A2.8.2. Submitting organizations must inform all affected employees, the servicing
   representative, and/or the manufacturer of the biohazard potential prior to handling,
   servicing, or shipping, so appropriate precautions can be taken.
The Following is a List of Equipment that would not be Feasible to Decontaminate Prior to
Shipping or Servicing:
EQUIPMENT: List any equipment that cannot be decontaminated prior to servicing or shipping.
A2.9. Housekeeping:
   A2.9.1. Supervisors or section heads are responsible for maintaining their work areas in a
   clean and sanitary condition.
       A2.9.1.1. Schedule of housekeeping procedures: Establish operating instructions for
       each section, indicating schedule for cleaning and methods of decontamination based
       upon work area and procedures performed in the area.
This Facility will be Cleaned and Decontaminated According to the Following Schedule:
AREA TO BE CLEANED                      SCHEDULE
(List areas and schedule)
Accomplish Decontamination by Utilizing the Following Materials:
PERSONNEL DECONTAMINATING                      TYPE OF SOLUTION                     FACILITY
(List the materials utilized, such as bleach solutions or EPA registered germicides)
       A2.9.1.2. Decontaminate all contaminated equipment and work surfaces after completion
       of procedures and immediately or as soon as feasible after any spill of blood, body fluids,
       other potentially infectious materials, and at the end of the work shift if contamination
 20                                                           35FWI48-107 29 AUGUST 2012


       occurred since the last cleaning. (Employers should add in any information concerning
       the usage of protective coverings, such as plastic wrap used to assist in keeping surfaces
       free of contamination.)
       A2.9.1.3. Immediately replace protective coverings such as plastic wrap, aluminum foil,
       or imperviously backed absorbent paper used to cover equipment and work surfaces
       when they become overly contaminated, or at the end of the work shift if contamination
       occurs.
       A2.9.1.4. Inspect all bins, pails, cans, and similar receptacles intended for reuse, for
       blood, body fluid, or other potentially infectious materials. Decontaminate the
       receptacles on a regularly scheduled basis (e.g., daily, weekly) and decontaminate
       immediately or as soon as feasible if contaminated. Inspect all bins, pails, cans, and
       similar receptacles and decontaminate on a regularly scheduled basis:
RECEPTACLE DATE             INSPECTED FREQUENCY LOCATION INSPECTOR
(List  receptacle,    frequency,   location,   date, and by whom, e.g., Trash
can/Weekly/Pediatrics/Name of the person/date)
   A2.9.2. Regulated Waste Disposal:
       A2.9.2.1. Discard all contaminated sharps as soon as feasible in sharps containers
       located in the Facility. Sharps containers are located:
LOCATION: (Specify locations of sharps containers)
       A2.9.2.2. Place regulated waste other than sharps in appropriate containers.
LOCATION OF CONTAINERS: (Specify locations of containers)
A2.10. Laundry Procedures:
   A2.10.1. Handle laundry contaminated with blood, body fluids, or other potentially
   infectious materials as little as possible. Place such laundry in appropriately marked bags at
   the location where it was used. Do not sort or rinse such laundry in the area of use.
   A2.10.2. All employees who handle contaminated laundry will utilize PPE to prevent
   contact with blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials.
Laundry at This Facility will be cleaned at:
(List cleaning location to include contractors Name, Phone Number, and Point of Contact)
   A2.10.3. When contaminated laundry is shipped off site to a second facility that does not
   utilize standard precautions in handling all laundry, the facility generating the contaminated
   laundry must place such laundry in bags or containers which are labeled or color-coded IAW
   29 CFR 1910.1030, paragraph (g)(1)(i).
A2.11. Hepatitis B Vaccine: The Hepatitis B vaccine will be given to all appropriately
designated individuals free of cost. The vaccine will be offered within 10 working days of initial
assignment to work unless the employee has previously had the vaccine.
A2.12. Post-Exposure Evaluation and Follow Up: When the employee incurs an exposure
incident, the supervisor will report the exposure to PH and direct the employee to the 35 MDG
Urgent Care Clinic for initial evaluation and treatment. Post exposure evaluation and follow up
35FWI48-107 29 AUGUST 2012                                                                    21


will be done IAW the OSHA occupational exposure to bloodborne pathogens standard, 29 CFR
1910.1030 and followed up by the individual’s Primary Care Manager.
A2.13. Training: Supervisors will ensure training of all employees prior to initial assignment to
tasks where occupational exposure may occur. Conduct the training in the following manner:
   A2.13.1. The OSHA standard for bloodborne pathogens.
   A2.13.2. Epidemiology and symptomatology of bloodborne diseases, and tuberculosis, if
   required by occupation.
   A2.13.3. Modes of transmission of bloodborne pathogens and tuberculosis, if potential for
   risk of exposure exists.
   A2.13.4. This exposure control program will cover all major aspects (e.g., key points of the
   program, lines of responsibility, how the program will be implemented, etc.) and also explain
   how an individual can obtain a copy of the program.
   A2.13.5. Procedures which might cause exposure to blood, body fluids, or other potentially
   infectious materials.
   A2.13.6. Control methods which will be used to control exposure to blood, body fluids, or
   other potentially infectious materials.
   A2.13.7. PPE available.
   A2.13.8. Post exposure evaluation and follow-up.
   A2.13.9. Signs and labels used.
   A2.13.10. Hepatitis B vaccination program.
   A2.13.11. All employees will receive annual refresher training. (Note: This training is to be
   con-ducted within1year of the employee's previous training.)
NOTE: Employers should list here if training will be conducted using videotapes, written
material, etc. Also the employer will indicate who is responsible for conducting the training.
THE OUTLINE FOR THE TRAINING MATERIAL IS LOCATED:
(List where the training materials are located)
A2.14. Record Keeping. All records required by the OSHA Standard will be maintained by (All
records and documents are subject to the Privacy Act of 1974):
   A2.14.1. Insert name or department responsible for maintaining and securing records.
   A2.14.2. The 35 MDOS/SGORO will maintain all military and civilian medical records.
   A2.14.3. Each organization is responsible for maintaining training records.
A2.15. Dates. All provisions required by the standard will be implemented by: Insert date for
implementation of the provisions of the OSHA standard.
Have Responsible Work center Official Sign
APPROVED/DISAPPROVED
35 MDG Infection Control Review Function.
 22                                                              35FWI48-107 29 AUGUST 2012


                                           Attachment 3
                          BLOODBORNE PATHOGEN TRAINING

UNIT:

PREPARED BY:

CERTIFIED BY:

OSHA standard on bloodborne pathogens 29 CFR 1910.1030. (Briefly outline standard.)

Epidemiology and symptomatology of bloodborne diseases. (Testing for exposure and symptoms
of related diseases).

Modes of transmission (e.g., needle sticks, sharps, punctures, splashes, direct contact, etc.).

Exposure Control Program. (Outline and explain the plan, what is covered and by who, also
explain how the individual may obtain a copy of the plan).

Procedures that might cause exposure (e.g., rescue, surgery, dental procedures, CPR, etc).

Control methods. (PPE requirements, safe handling of material, and standard precautions).

PPE. (Types, wear, use, and basis for selection.)

Post exposure and follow-up. (Outline what is done.)

Signs and labels. (Meaning, where to order, and how to use).

Hepatitis B vaccine. (Requirements, declination form, and how to request after an initial
declination).

Questions. (Interactive question and answer session.)

NOTE: The above is only an outline of what should be included in the units’ training (OI). Each
unit will have to tailor their OI to meet their unit’s needs. Furthermore, the OI must be approved
by the 35 MDG Infection Control Review Function.
35FWI48-107 29 AUGUST 2012                                                                  23


                                        Attachment 4
                HEPATITIS B VACCINE DECLINATION STATEMENT

Figure A4.1. Hepatitis B Vaccine Declination Statement

I _____________________________, understand that due to my occupational exposure to

blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials, I may be at a higher risk

of acquiring Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. I have been given the opportunity to be

vaccinated with Hepatitis B vaccine, at no charge. However, I decline Hepatitis B vaccine

at this time. I understand that by declining this vaccine, I continue to be at risk of

acquiring Hepatitis B, a potentially serious disease. If in the future I continue to have

occupational exposure to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials

during my employment on/with Misawa Air Base and I decide to be vaccinated with

Hepatitis B vaccine, I can receive the vaccination series at no charge.




Signature and date ________________________________________________



Printed Name __________________________________________________
 24                                                            35FWI48-107 29 AUGUST 2012


                                          Attachment 5
                           DECONTAMINATION PROCEDURES

A5.1. The following procedures are recommended for “site specific” clean up of spills involving
blood or body fluids. Five percent household bleach is used here, but the 35 MDG Infection
Control Officer must first approve any disinfectant used. Also, outline in your unit’s control
program the procedures for clean up using the disinfectant.
   A5.1.1. Make a “spill kit” readily available for site cleanup. Place 1/2 cup of household
   bleach in a dark brown or opaque bottle (sunlight will break down bleach). Put the bleach,
   1/2 gallon of water (don’t mix the two until you clean-up a spill), pair of heavyweight,
   puncture resistant utility gloves, such as those used for house cleaning and dish washing, two
   household sponges, and paper towels or gauze in a plastic container or a box. Label the kit;
   attach a hazardous material sticker to the container and place in an area where a spill may
   occur or in the trunk of a security vehicle, and so forth. Also have the following available for
   large spills or spills that have the potential for splattering:
       A5.1.1.1. Clothing. Must use cloth or disposable gowns or coats to prevent blood
       contamination of clean-up workers’ clothing. A disposable plastic apron that covers the
       torso and thighs is recommended if there is a significant probability that blood or body
       fluids may be splashed onto the clean-up workers. At the completion of clean up, discard
       disposable clothing protection into a biohazard waste bag.
       A5.1.1.2. Facial Protection. Wear facial protection if splattering of blood or body fluids
       is anticipated. A disposable mask offers protection; however, if there is substantial risk
       of splattering of blood or body fluids, wear a full-face shield or goggles. Ordinary
       glasses do not offer adequate protection against splattering. After the completion of clean
       up, discard disposable facial protection into a biohazard waste bag.
       A5.1.1.3. Shoes. If the spill is large and/or there is a potential of contaminating the
       worker’s shoes, wear waterproof shoe covers.
       A5.1.1.4. Do Not Pick Up Contaminated Sharp Objects by Hand. If the spill contains
       broken glass or other sharp objects, these must be picked up without direct contact with
       hands. Use metal tongs, a broom and dust pan, or rigid sheets of cardboard used as
       “pusher” and “receiver” to pick up objects. Place sharp objects into a puncture-resistant
       container prior to placing into a biohazard waste bag.
A5.2. Absorb the Spill. Absorb the bulk of spilled material prior to disinfections with
disposable absorbent material (paper towels, gauze pads, or if a small spill, sponge). If the spill
is large, granular absorbent material like that used to absorb caustic chemical spills may be used
(for example, kitty litter). Blot (do not wipe) up the spill, allowing the fluids to be absorbed by
the towels, and so forth. After absorption of the liquid, discard all materials into a biohazard
waste bag.
A5.3. Mix the 1/2 cup of bleach with the 1/2 gallon of water. Flood the site or wipe down the
spill site with disposable towels or sponge soaked in bleach to make the site “glistening wet.”
Allow the bleach solution to remain in contact with the infectious material for 10 minutes.
35FWI48-107 29 AUGUST 2012                                                                  25


A5.4. Absorb the disinfectant with paper towels and dispose of the paper towels in a biohazard
waste bag. Alternatively, the spill site may be permitted to air dry.
A5.5. Rinse the spill site with water to remove a chemical residue. Dry the site to prevent
slipping.
A5.6. Place all disposable materials used in the decontamination process into a biohazard waste
bag. Dispose of the remaining disinfectant by pouring down the sanitary sewer.
A5.7. Decontaminate reusable materials and equipment following the above procedures.
A5.8. If clothing becomes contaminated with blood or body fluids, it should be removed as soon
as possible, the skin washed with soap and water, the clothing placed in a biohazard bag, and
disposed of or cleaned by a laundry capable of handling blood contaminated clothing.
NOTE: The above disinfecting solution is approximately a 1:10 dilution of household bleach.
Larger or smaller amounts may be made following this dilution rate.
 26                                                           35FWI48-107 29 AUGUST 2012


                                         Attachment 6
        EMERGENCY BLOOD OR BODY FLUID SPILL KIT CONTENTS LIST

A6.1. Suggested components.
   A6.1.1. One tyvek type (impervious) coverall w/hood and boots.
       A6.1.1.1. Three pairs disposable nitrile gloves.
       A6.1.1.2. One face shield w/head strap.
       A6.1.1.3. One CPR microshield rescue breather.
       A6.1.1.4. One disposable dust/mist respirator mask.
       A6.1.1.5. Two biohazard bags.
       A6.1.1.6. One sheet of biohazard labels.
       A6.1.1.7. One small brown or opaque bottle containing 1/2-cup of household bleach
       (Bottle must be tightly sealed and appropriately labeled), and two household sponges.
       A6.1.1.8. One zip closing bag containing paper towels or gauze.
       A6.1.1.9. One pair of disposable (plastic) tongs or other rigid tool to use for picking up
       contaminated sharps (Explanation of this tool is explained in greater detail in
       decontamination procedure protocol).
A6.2. Kit should not be reused.
A6.3. Kit is nonsterile.
A6.4. Please dispose of contaminated, noncleanable material properly.
A6.5. Use biohazard labels on all containers used to transport biohazardous materials as well as
bags containing contaminated waste.
NOTE: Components of this kit which are not contaminated during its use may be reused when
building another kit.
