BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              35TH FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION
35TH FIGHTER WING                                                              48-137

                                                                                  23 JULY 2010
                                                               Certified Current 13 August 2012
                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                   RESPIRATORY PROTECTION PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 35 AMDS/SGPB                                                       Certified by: 35 MDG/CC
Supersedes: 35FWI48-103,                                                   (Col Guillermo Tellez)
            11 November 2005                                                              Pages: 8


This instruction establishes procedures for administering the Misawa Air Base (MAB)
Respiratory Protection Program in accordance with AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program
and Air Force Occupational Safety and Health (AFOSH) Standard 48-137, Respiratory
Protection Program. It implements 29 CFR 1910.134, Respiratory Protection and covers
procedures to implement a respiratory protection plan at Misawa Air Base, Japan. It applies to
all 35th Fighter Wing military, civilian personnel, and Japanese National MLC personnel placed
on the respiratory protection by Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE), 35 AMDS/SGPB. This
instruction applies to all units and organizations assigned to or associated with MAB and
requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974.
The authority to collect and maintain the records prescribed in this instruction is 10 U.S.C. 8013.
(Privacy Act statements required by AFI 33-332.) System of Records notice 035 AF MP 0--Unit
Assigned Personnel Information applies. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/.       Additionally, if the publication generates a
report(s), alert readers in a statement and cite all applicable Reports Control Numbers in
accordance with AFI 33-324. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s
chain of command.
 2                                                                35FWI48-137 23 JULY 2010


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been significantly revised and should be reviewed. Updates include:
contingency use of respiratory protection; revised supervisor responsibilities; workplace specific
written plan elements; unit deployment manager (UDM) responsibilities; revised drop off
location for completed medical evaluation questionnaires; restriction for privately procured
respirators by government employees in Air Force workplaces; revised training requirements;
revised fit testing requirement; quantitative fit testing (QNFT) procedures for M-50 gas mask
testing; revised medical clearance and medical evaluation questionnaires process.
1. DEFINITIONS.
     1.1. Refer to AFOSHSTD 48-137, Respiratory Protection (RP) Program, Attachment 1, for a
     list of definitions of terms used in connection with this program.
     1.2. Workplace supervisors are defined as supervisors with oversight of shop operations of
     individuals placed on the RP Program. These individuals may or may not be on the RP
     Program themselves and include shop chiefs, shift leaders, team leaders, etc.
     1.3. Program Managers are defined as individuals appointed to maintain the workplace RP
     program.
2. RESPONSIBILITIES. Responsibilities are described in AFOSHSTD 48-137, Respiratory
Protection Program. Additional local responsibilities regarding the implementation of this base
respiratory protection program are addressed below.
     2.1. Supervisors will:
        2.1.1. If he or she is the overall workplace supervisor (flight commander or shop chief),
        appoint a program manager to maintain a workplace-specific RP Program and provide a
        signed appointment letter to BE.
        2.1.2. Ensure personnel on the RP program fulfill their annual respirator fit testing
        requirements as described out in section 7.1. Appointments are made on the BE
        SharePoint page: https://misawa.eim.pacaf.af.mil/sites/BEF/default.aspx.
        2.1.3. Receive RP supervisor training from BE when assigned to a new workplace with a
        RP program.
        2.1.4. Provide shop members with workplace-specific RP training upon initial
        assignment to the RP program and annually thereafter.
        2.1.5. Ensure personnel wear the respirators specified for the tasks certified by BE as
        documented in shop the RP OI. Respirator use other than what has been specified in the
        RP OI is prohibited.
     2.2. Workplace RP Program Mangers will:
        2.2.1. Maintain a RP Program as described in section 4 of this instruction and other
        governing regulations.
        2.2.2. Contact BE as needed for information and guidance regarding respiratory
        protection matters. In case of emergency after duty hours, a BE representative may be
        reached through the hospital Urgent Care Center at 226-6647.
35FWI48-137 23 JULY 2010                                                                        3


      2.2.3. Provide a copy of the respirator medical clearance and medical evaluation
      questionnaires (MEQ), Section 7, whenever new personnel are assigned to their unit. The
      completed questionnaires will be dropped off by each individual to Flight Medicine for
      screening. MEQs translated in Japanese are also available.
      2.2.4. Provide a current copy of the workplace-specific written program to the Flight
      Medicine Clinic to review during medical evaluations.
      2.2.5. Maintain a shop-specific Respiratory Protection Program operating instruction
      (OI) using the template provided by BE. If there are any changes in the shop operations,
      the supervisor will inform BE of these changes so BE can evaluate the process
      accordingly and the RPP OI can be updated by the supervisor.
      2.2.6. Instruct personnel not to smoke, chew gum, eat, and/or drink caffeinated or
      carbonated beverages at least 30 minutes prior to a respirator fit test as these activities
      can negatively affect the results of test.
      2.2.7. Update BE of personnel roster changes to the shop roster monthly.
   2.3. Unit Deployment Managers (UDM) will (IAW AFMAN 32-4006):
      2.3.1. Ensure all unit personnel are issued a CBRN mask and scheduled for Quantitative
      Fit Test (QNFT) within 60 days of arriving at MAB.
2.3.2. Schedule unit personnel CBRN mask fit tests through the Emergency Management
SharePoint site: https://www.my.af.mil/afknprod/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-XP-
PC-06.
      2.3.3. Ensure a copy of each individual’s CBRN mask QNFT documentation is located
      in the appropriate mobility folder (or equivalent) and gas mask carrier.
      2.3.4. UDMs are responsible for tracking unit personnel QNFT status and maintaining
      records of fit tests.
3. SELECTION, USE, AND LIMITATIONS.
   3.1. BE will work with workplace supervisors regarding the selection, use, and limitations of
   respirators and respirator filters on MAB, in accordance with AFOSH STD 48-137, Chapter
   4. These decisions will be based on the potential hazards present in the workplace.
   3.2. Workplace supervisors and RP managers will call BE whenever they have a question
   about the need for a respirator or the proper type of respirator for a particular operation.
   3.3. Air Force workplaces shall use only government-authorized respirators. No privately
   procured respirators or filtering face piece devices (dust masks) will be used in Air Force
   workplaces.
   3.4. Only respirators and filters and/or cartridges certified to adequately control inhalation
   hazards may be used. Before procurement obtain certification of respiratory protection from
   BE.
4. WORKPLACE-SPECIFIC RESPIRATORY PROTECTION PROGRAMS.
   4.1. Maintain current copies of governing regulations and program justification including:
      4.1.1. AFOSH STD 48-137
 4                                                                 35FWI48-137 23 JULY 2010


        4.1.2. 29 CFR 1910.134
        4.1.3. This instruction.
        4.1.4. Copies of workplace-specific BE exposure monitoring and surveillance results
        (BE assessments.)
     4.2. Develop and maintain shop-specific RP Program Operating Instruction (OI) covering:
        4.2.1. A list of hazardous processing requiring RP and the respirators and
        filters/cartridges authorized for each.
        4.2.2. Respirator care and maintenance, and filter swap-out procedures.
        4.2.3. Proper wear of the respirators in routine and emergency situations.
        4.2.4. Hazards encountered while wearing respirators, including extreme heat and
        humidity.
5. CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS RESPIRATOR PROTECTION. In general,
respiratory protection for contingency operations requiring use of respirators will be handled on
a case-by-case basis and will involve input by BE along with information about hazards gathered
by disaster response forces and with the direction of incident management leadership.
6. TRAINING.
     6.1. BE will conduct respiratory protection training for MAB personnel as follows:
        6.1.1. BE will provide supervisor-level training for workplace supervisors and assigned
        RP Program Managers of shops with a RP Program. Training will include the
        requirements of 29 CFR 1910.134 (k). Training must be given when newly assigned to a
        workplace on the RP Program. This training will be documented on the supervisor or
        program manager’s AF IMT 55, Employee Safety and Health Record.
        6.1.2. Initial and Annual Training - Workplace supervisors or RP program managers who
        have received training from BE will provide workplace-specific respirator training upon
        initial assignment to the RP program and annually thereafter. The individual’s shop will
        document this training on the individual’s AF IMT 55. BE will document the fit testing
        using DOEHRS.
     6.2. Teams that are established for the purpose of responding to emergencies or rescues,
     such as fire and emergency services personnel, shall be properly trained in the use of their
     respirators. Each team will develop a workplace-specific written plan to address respiratory
     training requirements.
7. FIT TESTING.
     7.1. BE manages all industrial respirator fit testing, both initial and annual. Fit testing by
     BE is done by appointment, and is scheduled after receiving the individual’s medical
     clearance from Flight Medicine. No fit testing will be allowed prior to receiving medical
     clearance.       Appointments      are     made       on     the     BE    SharePoint     page
     (https://misawa.eim.pacaf.af.mil/sites/BEF/default.aspx ).
     7.2. BE will issue an Industrial Respirator Fit Test form to individuals upon completion of
     the fit test. This form is to be kept on record per shop procedures.
35FWI48-137 23 JULY 2010                                                                        5


  7.3. BE will conduct initial CBRNE mask fit testing and re-accomplished if a new size or
  type of mask is issued, the individual gains/losses 10% or more of body weight following
  completion of the initial QNFT or the individual experiences extensive dental work, facial
  surgery, scarring or disfigurement.
  7.4. BE will maintain electronic CBRNE fit test records within DOEHRS for documentation
  purposes only.
8. CARE, INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE OF RESPIRATORS.
  8.1. All workplaces involved in the Respiratory Protection Program must follow the
  guidelines stated in AFOSH STD 48-137, Chapter 9. Shops using supplied air respirators
  are required to conduct breathing air sampling as determined by T.O. 42B-1-22, Quality
  Control of Compressed and Liquid Breathing Air. A copy of the sampling results must be
  sent to BE (35 AMDS/SGPB) and filed in the workplace Respiratory Protection Program
  binder.
9. MEDICAL CLEARANCE & MEDICAL EVALUATION QUESTIONNAIRES (MEQ)
  9.1. INITIAL: Individuals need to be medically cleared prior to respirator wear, fit testing,
  and training. Individuals will be given respirator medical evaluation questionnaires to fill out
  and deliver to the Flight Medicine Clinic for review and approval. Once medically cleared,
  fit testing and training can be scheduled for the individual.
  9.2. BE will maintain the date of the individual’s MEQ in a RP database.
  9.3. Pages 2 and 3 of the MEQ will be filed in the individual’s medical record. Flight
  Medicine is responsible for filing the evaluation questionnaires in the medical records.
  9.4. ANNUAL: During the annual Preventative Health Assessment (PHA), the individual
  will be required to fill out a MEQ if one has not been filed in their medical record. This
  MEQ will go through the same medical clearance process as mentioned above and will be
  documented in PIMR (Preventive Health Assessment and Individual Medical Readiness)
  database.
  9.5. Personnel can call the BE at 226-6010 with any questions concerning this subject.
10. FILTERING FACE PIECE DEVICE (FFPD).
  10.1. With the stipulations in this section, FFPDs (i.e., N-95) are the only type of voluntary
  use respiratory protection that may be worn at the discretion of a government employee “for
  comfort purposes” in an Air Force workplace. They cannot be worn for any industrial task
  that requires the wear of a respirator for protection against inhalation hazards.
  10.2. Individuals who elect to wear FFPDs must receive initial and annual training from the
  workplace supervisor.
  10.3. Supervisors shall clearly train workers on the limitations of these devices. The training
  will be documented on the individual’s AF IMT 55 or equivalent.
  10.4. Supervisors will be trained on the limitations of the FFPD by BE during the
  Supervisor-Level Respirator Training. The supervisor’s training will also be documented on
  the AF IMT 55. Individuals who wear FFPDs must be trained on all information included in
  Attachment 1.
 6                                                               35FWI48-137 23 JULY 2010


11. ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
     11.1. All Respirators should be ordered through base GSA mart when possible.
     11.2. When new respirators are purchased shops must procure necessary fit testing
     attachments for BE if necessary.
     11.3. Respirators are assigned a local Exception Code R or Z to allow BE to control and
     track use and issue of respirators.
12. PROCEDURES FOR PROGRAM EVALUATION.
     12.1. BE will conduct an annual evaluation of the 35 FW Respiratory Protection Program
     and report the findings in writing to the Aerospace Medicine Council.
     12.2. BE will review or check for the following during routine health risk assessments:
     shop’s RPP OI; condition of respirators on hand; and storage location of respirators in the
     shop. BE will also re-evaluate the need for RP based upon current work practices.
13. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
     13.1. Prescribed Forms:
No forms prescribed.
     13.2. Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                             DAVID R. STILWELL, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
35FWI48-137 23 JULY 2010                                                                        7


                                      ATTACHMENT 1
                    FILTERING FACE PIECE DEVICES & TRAINING

A1.1. Filtering face piece devices (FFPD) are not considered by the US Air Force to be
respiratory protection for purposes of AFOSHSTD 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program.
These devices may be worn strictly for comfort purposes if an Air Force employee desires to
wear them.
A1.2. Filtering face piece device users must be trained by their supervisor initially and annually
on the limitations of these devices.
A1.3. FFPD Limitations:
   A1.3.1. FFPDs shall be NIOSH (National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health)
   approved N95 FFPDs for protection against dusts and mists ONLY. That is, they remove
   some particles, but not gases and vapors.
   A1.3.2. FFPDs will NOT remove carbon monoxide, solvents, paint vapor, cleaning solutions
   vapor, fuel vapors, alcohol vapors and acids.
   A1.3.3. FFPDs may remove wood dust, cement dust, dirt (from sweeping or work that kicks
   up the soil), mists and fiberglass. This will only happen IF you are able to maintain a good
   face-to-face piece seal.
A1.4. FFPDs are NEVER to be worn during tasks for which respiratory protection is required,
as specified by the Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight.
A1.5. FFPDs are NEVER to be used in atmospheres that could be immediately dangerous to life
and health (IDLH).
A1.6. FFPDs are NEVER to be used in atmospheres containing less than 19. 5 percent
oxygen.
A1.7. Follow the manufacturer’s instruction for replacing FFPDs. In general, if you detect
breathing resistance (i.e., it becomes more difficult to breathe through the FFPD, you must
replace the FFPD.)
A1.8. Procedures for Donning FFPD:
   A1.8.1. Inspect the FFPD prior to each use. Check the elasticity and tightness of headbands,
   fasteners and adjusters. Check exhalation valves (if FFPD has them) for cracks, tears, dirt, or
   build-up of material between valve and valve seat. Check the filter material for tears or
   cracks.
   A1.8.2. Fit face piece on nose-bridge making sure that you are able to breathe through nose.
   Then swing bottom of face piece into contact with the chin. Position headbands with one
   strap above the ears and over the crown of the head, and the other strap below the ears,
   around the nape of the neck. Adjust for comfortable fit by lengthening or shortening straps.
   Adjust the straps just snug enough so that no air leaks around the face piece. The nose piece
   should be molded into your face by using the two hand method. Pinching the bridge over
   your nose with one hand often results in uneven pressure and a poor seal.
 8                                                                 35FWI48-137 23 JULY 2010


     A1.8.3. Hair (stubble, mustache, sideburns, and beard) which passes between the face and
     the sealing surface of the FFPD will interfere with the seal and will reduce the FFPD
     effectiveness. A head covering which passes between the sealing surface of an FFPD and the
     wearer's face (stocking cap, ball cap) will reduce the effectiveness of the FFPD.
A1.9. Cleaning and Storage.
     A1.9.1. Cleaning and sanitizing FFPDs is not necessary. At the end of the shift or when the
     FFPD is dirty or breathing resistance has increased, the FFPD should be discarded.
     A1.9.2. FFPDs shall be stored to protect against dust, sunlight, heat, extreme cold, excessive
     moisture and chemicals. FFPDs shall not be stored in chemical storage cabinets, lockers,
     rooms or areas.
A1.10. If you suspect you or your co-workers may be overexposed to a particular chemical (for
instance, if you are experiencing physical symptoms), you must contact BE at extension 226-
6010 so air sampling can be performed and chemical exposure levels determined. In addition, if
you are experiencing a suspected occupational illness, it must be reported to Public Health at
extension 226-6116 and investigated.
