BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                        35 FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION 24-203
35TH FIGHTER WING                                                  10 NOVEMBER 2008
                                                                  Certified Current, 3 May 2011

                                                                                 Transportation

                                                 SHIPPING AND RECEIVING EXPLOSIVES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and form s are available on the e-P ublishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 35 RS/LGRDDC                             Certified by: 35 LRS/CC (Lt Col Gary L. Jackson)
                                                                                      Pages: 4

This ins truction im plements Air Force Po licy Directive (AFPD) 24-2, Pre          paration an d
Movement of Air Force Material. It establ     ishes policies and respons ibilities governing the
control, inspection and hand ling of inbound/outbound surface/ai r shipments of 1.1, 1.2, 1.3 and
1.4. class explosives. This instruction     applies to 35 MXS, 35 LRS, 35 SFS and AMC
contractor. Security will be IAW DoD 5100.76M, Physical Secu rity of Sensitive C onventional
Arms, Ammunition and Explosives and AF         I 31-209, The Air Force Resource Protection
Program. Refer recommended c hanges and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847,             Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field thr ough the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are m aintained in accordance with AF      MAN 37-123 (will convert to AFM          AN 33-363),
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.


1. Inbound Shipments via Surface:
1.1. All munitions move      ments originatin g fr om off-base will be coordinated by the
35th Maintenance Squadron (35 MXS) Munitions Control with the 35 th Security Forces Control
Center (SFCC) a m inimum of 3 hours prior to its estimated time of arrival to Misawa Air Base.
Incoming munitions laden trucks with 1.1, 1.2, 1.3 a nd 1.4 class explosives are required to enter
through the Misawa Air Base Apple Gate. Upon arrival at the gate , drivers will advise the gate
guard to notify Munitions Control for an escort/inspector.
1.2. The ga te guard will in-turn notify the SFCC of the truck’s arrival and instruct the driver to
standby at the vehicle staging area for arrival of the escort/ins pector from the 35th Logistics
Readiness S quadron (35 LRS), Deploym ent and Distribution Flight (L GRD), Cargo Movem ents
2                                                        35FWI24-203       10 November 2008

Section. T he SFCC will then notify 35 MXS Mun itions Control whom will in-turn notify, the
Cargo Movements Section.
1.3. Upon arrival of the Cargo Movem ents Sectio n Inspector, the driver will be directed for
processing through the vehicle search area. The Cargo Movement Inspector will conduct a joint
inspection with the SF S searcher of all sea ls on cargo containers and then of the vehicle using 17
ASG Form 709, Drive away Inspection Report, befo re further routing on base. Once the vehicle
has passed the initial inspection, a visual inspecti on of the external condition of the cargo m ay be
accomplished in the munitions s torage area. The cargo move ment personnel w ill release the
shipment to munitions personnel after the inspection is completed.


2. Outbound Shipments via Surface:
2.1. The Stockpile Surveillance Element will provide three copies of the DD Form 1348-1A, Issue
Release/Receipt Document, to the Outbound Cargo Section.
2.2. The Outbound Cargo Section will review th e DD Form 1348-1A, retain two copies and
provide munitions with one signed copy. The shipment will then be logged in the munitions excel
log sheet.
2.3. The Outbound Cargo Section will contact th e Stockpile Surveillance Elem ent NLT 5 dut y
days after documents are signed to coordinate on a date/time to inspect and label the cargo offered
for m ovement. On the m utually agreed date , cargo m ovement personne l will report to the
Stockpile S urveillance Elem ent to inspect cargo.   Cargo will b e in spected to verify prop er
markings (Department of Defence Identification Code number, United Nations number and proper
shipping name) to ensure cargo is packed properly for movement.
2.4. Cargo m ovement personnel who inspected a nd labelled cargo will prepare transportation
control movement document and forward it to the Water Port Authority (WPLO) for booking.
2.5. WPLO will contact the Cargo Movements Section to transport munitions to the port once they
have a vessel to transport cargo. The Cargo Movem ents Section will coordinate with comm ercial
carrier to set up vehicles to transport m unitions to the Hachinohe or A tokure water port. The
Cargo Movem ents Section will provide Stockpile        Su rveillance with the da te th e m unitions
departed station.
2.6. Vehicle inspections m ust be perform ed using 17 ASG For m 1750EJ, Motor Vehicle
Inspection Transporting Hazardous Materials, a nd 17 ASG For m 1751EJ, Special Instruction for
Motor Vehicle Drivers, prior to the loading of munitions. A DD For m 1907, Signature and Tally
Record, is required to accomplish the truck manifest.
2.7. Placards will be as directed IAW Japanese law (law # 149, 4 May 1950).


3. Shipments Moved via Air/AMC:
3.1. The Stockpile Surveillance Element will provide three copies of the DD Form 1348-1A and
four copies of the shippers declaration for da ngerous goods note for each shipm ent (one copy
will also be required for each ind ividual piece on a multi-piece shipment) offered for m ovement
to the Outbound Cargo Section.
35FWI24-203       10 November 2008                                                            3

3.2. The Outbound Cargo Section will review each DD Form 1348-1A and shipper’s declaration
for accuracy. If accu rate, the O utbound Cargo Section will retain one copy and provid e
munitions with one signed copy of the DD Form 1348-1A. The shipment will then be annotated
in the munitions shipment excel log sheet.
3.3. If the DD For m 1348-1A or shippers declar ation for dangerous goods has an error, the
Outbound Cargo Section will annotate the shipment(s) as “frustrated” in the munitions shipment
excel log sh eet. The Outbound Cargo Section will contact the Munitions Storage Section to
make the appropriate correction(s) prior to releasing the shipment(s) from frustrated status.
3.4. Once the shipm ent(s) hav e been properl y received, the Outbound Cargo Section will in -
check them into th e Cargo Movem ent Operati ons System (CM OS) and prepare all shipping
labels. The Outbound Cargo Section will contact th e Stockpile Surveillance Element NLT 2
duty days after shipm ent(s) are in-checked into CMOS to coordina te on a date/time to inspec t
and label the cargo offered for m ovement. On an agreed date, cargo movem ent personnel will
report to the Munitions Storage Section to         ensure cargo m    atches prepared shipping
documentation and insp ect f or tran sportability. Shipm ent docum entation will the n be turned
over to the Outbound Cargo Section to coordinate movement via AMC.
3.5. The Outbound Cargo Section will then m          anifest the shipm ent(s) and provide the air
clearance authority with a diskette from     CM OS to advance shipm ent(s) into the Def ense
Transportation System . The Outbound Carg o S ection will reques t for air clearance wit h
contracted AMC/Special Handling, and provide th em with the original plus one copy of the
shipper’s declaration for dangerous goods note a nd one copy of the DD For m 1387-2, Military
Shipment Label, if class ified. The Outbound Cargo Section will suspen se documentation while
awaiting air clearance. Based on related h azard(s) of the sh ipment(s), contracted AMC/Special
Handling will notify the Outbound Ca rgo Section with a determ ination on which shipm ents can
be m oved i nto their vault prior to air clea rance. All other shipm ents m ust rem ain in the
munitions storage area until ready for transporting.
3.6. Upon notification of air cl earance from contracted AM C/Special Handling, the Outbound
Cargo Section will rela y m ovement inf ormation to th e Stockpile Sur veillance E lement. The
Stockpile Surveillance Elem ent is then responsible to provide transporta tion of the cargo to the
appropriate location (contracte d AMC/Special Handling or cargo hot pad) on the specified
date/time. On the specified date/tim e, th e Outbound Cargo Section will m eet with Special
Handling an d the Stock pile Surv eillance Elem ent to rev iew the m anifest and cargo (Special
Handling will have the final approval on shippers declarations certification.). If accurate, Special
Handling will sign receipt for cargo on the manifest and sign the DD Form 1907, Signature Tally
Record, associated with movement. Munitions personnel will not depart unt il all cargo is turned
over. The Outbound Cargo Sectio n will acco mplish any report of shipm ents associated with
movement. The report of shipm ents checklist, once completed, will be forwarded for review by
the cargo terminal manager or his/her designated representative. The Cargo Movem ents Section
will provide the Stockpile Surveillance Element with the date the munitions departed station.


4. Personnel Limits: Only explos ive qualified personnel will hand le explosiv es. Personnel
unloading, loading or handling m unitions items will be kept to an absolute m inimum. Loading
and unload ing m unitions will b e accom plished after all other shipm         ents have been
loaded/unloaded.
4                                                      35FWI24-203      10 November 2008



5. Safety Requirements:
5.1. There will be no s moking within 50 feet of explosives. Au thorized person al protectiv e
equipment will be worn at all tim es while loading and unloading m unitions. Items will include,
but not limited to wor k gloves and saf ety toe shoes. Additiona lly, saf ety ite ms will be
determined based on mission r equirements. Smoking is not perm itted during loading and
unloading operations. Com patibility of m unitions item s will be IAW AFMAN 91-201,
Explosive Safety Standards.
5.2. Inspection, blocking and brac ing of containers/seavans: 35 LRS/LGRD pe rsonnel will
provide technical expertise when securing m unitions in seavan containers. Munitions personnel
will pe rform actual lo ading of co ntainers. 3 5 LRS/LGRD and m unitions personnel will build
block and bracing m aterials need ed to support the sh ipment during transport. 35 LRS/LGRD
personnel will interpret drawings and ensure munitions are properly secured accord ing to
technical orders.


6. Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
ASG Form 709, Drive away Inspection Report,
17 ASG Form 1750EJ, Motor Vehicle Inspection Transporting Hazardous Materials
17 ASG Form 1751EJ, Special Instruction for Motor Vehicle Drivers
DD Form 1348-1A, Issue Release/Receipt Document,
DD Form 1387-2, Military Shipment Label
DD Form 1907, Signature and Tally Record


DAVID R. STILWELL, Colonel , USAF
Commander
