BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                               35TH FIGHTER WING
35TH FIGHTER WING                                                        INSTRUCTION 21-103

                                                                                 26 JUNE 2009
                                                          Incorporating Change 1, 28 April 2010
                                                                 Certified Current 25 August 2011
                                                                                  Maintenance

                                                   FOREIGN OBJECT DAMAGE, DROPPED
                                                       OBJECT PREVENTION AND TOOL
                                                        ACCOUNTABILITY AWARENESS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 35 MXG/MXQ                                                         Certified by: 35 FW/CV
                                                                       (Colonel Robert L. Craig)
                                                                                        Pages: 7


This instruction implements AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, and AFI 21-101, Aircraft
and Equipment Maintenance Management and is applicable to all units assigned or attached to
the 35th Fighter Wing. This instruction establishes the responsibilities and procedures governing
Foreign Object Damage, Dropped Objects and Tool Accountability at Misawa Air Base. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change implements new guidelines that redefine the use of devices used for ice
traction authorized on the Misawa AB flight line. A margin bar (I) indicates newly revised
material.
1. General Foreign Object Damage (FOD) prevention:
   1.1. Attempt to remove all foreign objects (FO) from the flight line whenever you see it. For
   FO that cannot be removed (including damaged pavement and hazardous ground), contact
 2                                                                 35FWI21-103 26 JUNE 2009


     Airfield Operations on the ramp net or extension 226-3110 and advise them of the severity of
     the FO and the location. Airfield Operations will request an airfield sweeper to respond to
     the area as required.
     1.2. Restricted area badges will be removed when performing intake/ inlet/ exhaust
     inspections if personnel physically enter these areas. Restricted area badges will be secured
     with a subdued nylon/cotton cord or plastic armband.
     1.3. (COMBATAIRFORCE) Remove restricted area badge within 25 feet of an aircraft
     with engine(s) operating. Ensure line badge clips are secured to prevent loss. For those
     individuals using the cord/rope for security, pass the cord/rope through the clip eyelet.
     1.4. Wear of headgear is prohibited on the flight line, except required safety items and the
     following:
        1.4.1. Knit caps, B9B winter hat (chinstrap secured), helmet liner, and as authorized by
        the installation Commander during inclement/cold weather.
        1.4.2. During special events such as ceremonies and festivals, hats may be worn
        provided there are no aircraft operating in the immediate area.
        1.4.3. Security Forces while performing official duties may wear the beret with insignia
        attached; however, berets will be removed and secured within 50 feet of operating
        aircraft/engines.
        1.4.4. BDU Gortex, ABU APECS, rain gear and cold weather parka jacket hoods will be
        stowed when within 25 feet of aircraft operations.
     1.5. Ice cleats may be worn on the flight line. Ice cleats will not be worn when climbing on
     or in aircraft or while on maintenance stands. All personnel will perform pre and post use
     inspections on ice cleats. If any portion of the cleat is discovered missing, personnel will
     follow lost tool/item procedures IAW AFI21-101_COMBATAIRFORCESUP_I. See Table
     1. below for approved ice cleats for use on Misawa AB flight line. All other models are not
     approved for use on Misawa AB flight line.

Table 1. Approved Ice Cleats List.
     MANUFACTURE                       MODEL                         RESTRICTIONS
 Stabilicers                   Ice walkers Original/Lite   Prohibited for Munitions Operations
 Yak Trax                      Walker/Pro                  Prohibited for Munitions Operations
 Nora Contitech                Spiky/Spiky Plus
     1.6. All unidentifiable FO found on taxiways or the runway should be turned in to the wing
     FOD monitor for comparison with the dropped object and lost tool records.
     1.7. The MOS/MXOT will provide initial and recurrent Foreign Object Damage/Dropped
     Object awareness training during initial and annual Block Training.
     1.8. Glass bottles are not authorized on the flight line. Plastic beverage containers and cans
     are authorized, but must be secured prior to engine operation.
35FWI21-103 26 JUNE 2009                                                                          3


2. Composite Tool Kit (CTK) Procedures:
   2.1. All personnel using tools in aircraft related maintenance areas both on and off the flight
   line will have a permanent identifier on all tools that can be traced back to the owning work
   center. While present in aircraft related maintenance areas, both on and off the flight line, all
   personnel will account for 100% of their tools upon entry and before exiting these areas.
      2.1.1. Emergency vehicles responding to real world emergencies from a flight line
      location to an off flight line location can account for tools upon termination of the
      emergency incident.
   2.2. Lost Tool Procedures:
      2.2.1. Notify the section supervisor and flight OIC/NCOIC of a lost tool/item
      immediately. The section supervisor and/or flight OIC/NCOIC will initiate a CAF IMT
      145 which can be located on http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/ and will contact the
      Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) at 6-4833 to obtain a control number. MOC will
      run QRC #29, Lost Tool/Item checklist and notify all applicable members.
      2.2.2. Complete the CAF IMT 145 IAW AFI 21-101_COMBATAIRFORCESUP_I.
      2.2.3. Once initiated, the CAF IMT 145 must be completed regardless of the status of the
      item.
      2.2.4. Conduct a search using the individual and supervisor. If the lost tool or object was
      in a shop and aircraft components were involved, the appropriate components will be
      inspected.
      2.2.5. The search will be terminated upon request of the section supervisor with
      concurrence of the flight OIC/NCOIC.
      2.2.6. The CAF IMT 145 will be kept for 12 months in the tool room/work center CTK
      continuity folder.
      2.2.7. The original completed CAF IMT 145 will be delivered to the MXG/QA office in
      building 1387 (MXG/CC Bldg) within 5 duty days of initiation.
      2.2.8. If a previously lost item is found, contact the Wing FOD Monitor to update the
      lost tool report.
      2.2.9. Theft or suspected theft of a tool or CTK will be reported to the tool room or work
      center supervisor immediately, who in turn will report the loss to the flight OIC/NCOIC
      for investigation.
   2.3. Personal Tools/Equipment:
      2.3.1. Tools not controlled through CTK procedures are NOT authorized on the flight
      line, or in any maintenance area (e.g., mini-mag flashlights, leathermans, buck knives,
      etc.)
      2.3.2. Ensure individual issued equipment (i.e. ear defenders, reflective belts, etc) are
      marked with the owner’s first initial, last name, and employee number (i.e. J. Doe,
      12345). If the individual does not have an employee number, use last 5-digits of SSN.
 4                                                                   35FWI21-103 26 JUNE 2009


3. 35th Civil Engineer Squadron:
     3.1. Develop a schedule for use of mechanical airfield sweepers in coordination with
     Airfield Operations (35 OSS/OSAM). Provide equipment and personnel to support this
     schedule and distribute the schedule to all agencies concerned.
     3.2. Maintain the capability to clean paved flight line areas after mishaps or upon request
     (24-hour basis with 30-minute response).
     3.3. Install or remove FOD prevention items as required, with a Base Civil Engineer Work
     Request, AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request.
4. Maintenance Operation Center (MOC):
     4.1. Issue ice FOD alerts when advised by the 35 OSS Weather Flight and as changes occur.
     Additionally, will rebroadcast current weather conditions every 4 hours.
     4.2. If intake ice buildup is confirmed, notify the 35 MXS, 13 AMU and 14 AMU
     Production Superintendent.
     4.3. Coordinate with Airfield Operations for an airfield sweeper upon request.
     4.4. For Lost Tools/Items the MOC will initiate QRC #29, Lost Tool/Item checklist, issue a
     control number and notify all applicable personnel of reported lost tools/items.
     4.5. For FOD incidents, the MOC will initiate QRC #20, Foreign Object Damage checklist
     and notify all applicable personnel.
     4.6. For Dropped Objects:
        4.6.1. Accomplish the Dropped Object QRC #13 checklist for items reported lost during
        aircrew operations from assigned or transient aircraft.
        4.6.2. Request Airfield Operations to accomplish an immediate sweep of the runway if
        the location of the Dropped Object is unknown.
        4.6.3. Generate a Dropped Object control number (unit, year, and month, followed by
        sequence number—example 35FW-0801001) and forward to applicable units.
5. Flight Line Area Vehicle Operators:
     5.1. Proper FOD checks and FOD awareness: Always clean vehicle floor and tires before
     entering the airfield area or leaving the construction site. Visually inspect vehicle and tires,
     and clean up as necessary before crossing the taxiway. If the contractor posts a FOD monitor
     at taxiway crossings, the monitor will check the taxiway after each vehicle crosses. If no
     monitor is posted, the driver of the vehicle must stop and visually inspect the taxiway after
     each crossing.
     5.2. FOD Control and Prevention Responsibilities:
        5.2.1. All vehicles entering the flight line from a non-FOD free area must perform a
        thorough FOD check to ensure vehicle is free of FO. Vehicle operators will perform a
        vehicle (roll-over) check on all tires. Vehicle roll-over is defined as checking all areas of
        the vehicle’s tires, to include the portion contacting the ground while parked. This is
        accomplished by moving the vehicle forward enough to expose the portion of tire that
        was in contact with the ground. Inspect tires, inside and outside of vehicle, and bumper
35FWI21-103 26 JUNE 2009                                                                       5


      magnet (if installed). Failure to accomplish FO checks may result in temporary
      suspension of AF Form 483, Certificate of Competency, Flight Line Certification IAW
      35FWI 13-202.
      5.2.2. Emergency vehicles responding to emergencies are exempt from vehicle FOD
      checks unless time permits (i.e., if emergency aircraft will not land for more than 15
      minutes).
      5.2.3. A flashlight will be utilized to accomplish FO checks during hours of darkness.
      5.2.4. For vehicles transporting equipment and other items, operators will inspect
      vehicles to ensure items are secured.
      5.2.5. Metal valve stem caps will be removed (plastic caps required on GOV tires).
      5.2.6. During winter operations, remove snow/ice build-up from vehicle wheel well,
      bumper and under carriage.
      5.2.7. Flight line vehicle operators will only use authorized Entry Control Points (ECPs).
      5.2.8. Pintle hook pins will be secured to the vehicle with chain and installed in the hook
      locking mechanism at all times.
      5.2.9. Metal tire chains and/or studded traction devices are not authorized on the flight
      line road, ramp, taxiways, or runway. EXCEPTION: Aircraft tow, aircraft servicing
      vehicles, and snow removal chemical dispensing vehicles may use metal chains in
      extreme weather conditions, such as packed snow or ice, after coordination with Airfield
      Management, Safety and CES IAW AFI 113-213.
   5.3. Support Equipment/Vehicles:
      5.3.1. Inspect equipment for FO after any maintenance and prior to flight line entry.
6. FOD Check Points:
   6.1. A roll-over FOD check will be accomplished on all vehicles prior to entering aircraft
   movement areas (e.g., runway, taxiway and parking aprons) from access roads, paved
   shoulders, and other non-paved surfaces.
7. FOD Prevention Councils:
   7.1. All units associated with the airfield will appoint Junior FOD Prevention Council
   representatives.
   7.2. Appointees will attend Junior FOD prevention meetings quarterly or when deemed by
   the wing FOD monitor.
   7.3. Unit Junior FOD Prevention Council representatives will be E-1 to E-6. The Junior
   FOD Prevention Council works issues at their level for FOD abatement and resolution of
   problem areas.
   7.4. The Wing FOD Prevention Council reviews the progress of the FOD Prevention
   Program and makes policy recommendations to the 35 FW/CV to ensure success of the
   program.
 6                                                                35FWI21-103 26 JUNE 2009


     7.5. Group commanders, director(s), commanders of units with maintenance personnel,
     Safety, CE, Airfield Manager and Security Forces are identified as primary FOD Prevention
     Council members.
     7.6. All unit commanders will actively support the FOD awards program.
8. FOD Prevention Recognition Program:
     8.1. FOD Fighter of the Quarter:
        8.1.1. FOD Fighter of the Quarter is awarded to the person whose actions contributed
        most to the FOD prevention program during the quarter.
        8.1.2. The individual is selected from a written nomination provided to the Wing FOD
        monitor by the section/flight supervisors.
        8.1.3. The Junior FOD Council selects, by popular vote, the individual with the most
        impact for FOD prevention. In case of a tie, the FOD monitor will cast the deciding vote.
        8.1.4. The winner of the FOD Fighter Award receives a one day pass, letter of
        appreciation and other incentives upon availability.
     8.2. FOD Poster of the Quarter:
        8.2.1. FOD Poster of the Quarter is awarded to the person whose poster most contributes
        to FOD prevention awareness during the quarter.
        8.2.2. Poster will be submitted to the Wing FOD Prevention NCO. Poster size will not
        exceed 8.5"x11", must be conservative, and of minimal cost.
        8.2.3. The Junior FOD Council selects, by popular vote, the winning submission. In case
        of a tie, the FOD monitor will cast the deciding vote.
        8.2.4. The winner of the FOD Poster Award receives a two day pass, letter of
        appreciation and other incentives upon availability.
     8.3. Golden Bolt Program:
        8.3.1. Awarded to the individual who discovers a golden bolt that was placed by the
        FOD Monitor or representative.
        8.3.2. The golden bolt will remain under constant observation if it is placed or hidden in
        an area that, if not found, would create a FOD hazard.
        8.3.3. The winner of the Golden Bolt Award receives a one day pass, letter of
        appreciation and other incentives upon availability.
9. Dropped Object Program (DOP):
     9.1. A dropped object is any aircraft part, component, surface, or other item lost during
     aircrew operations, from engine start to engine shutdown, unless intentionally jettisoned.
     Inadvertently released munitions or munitions released in excess of the quantity selected by
     the aircrew, or a multiple release, are not considered dropped objects and will be reported
     IAW AFI 91-204.
     9.2. When a Dropped Object is discovered on assigned or transient aircraft:
        9.2.1. The identifying squadron will notify the MOC immediately.
35FWI21-103 26 JUNE 2009                                                                    7


      9.2.2. Use ACC Dropped Object Investigation EXCEL Worksheet to document findings.
      9.2.3. The squadron Operations Officer/Maintenance Superintendant will ensure the
      Dropped Object investigation worksheets are completed and forwarded to the Wing DOP
      monitor/QA within 24 hours.
      9.2.4. Supervisors will ensure unit maintenance personnel are briefed weekly on dropped
      object trends/investigation results. This briefing should include a brief summary of the
      week’s incidents and preventive measures.

10. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF Form 483, Certificate of Competency
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
CAF IMT 145, Lost Tool/Object Report




                                          DAVID R. STILWELL, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
