BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                    35TH FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION 36-3003
35TH FIGHTER WING                                                 12 NOVEMBER 2008
                                                               Certified Current, 11 Febuary 2011

                                                                                        Personnel




                      EMERGENCY FAMILY ASSISTANCE CONTROL CENTER (EFACC)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and form s are available on the e-P ublishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 35 FSS/DPF                                   Certified by: 35 MSG/CC (Col Mark E. Burns)
                                                                                    Pages: 4

This publication im plements the Air For        ce Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-        30, Military
Entitlements. This instr uction ou tlines proced ures for operation of the Em     ergency Fam ily
Assistance Control Center (EFACC). EFACC i s a facility s taffed with disaster-response trained
professionals and volunteers who provide c ommunity assistance in crisis situ ations whic h
involve (or potentially involve) a large number of casualties. The EFACC serves as a focal point
for victim and family assistance services. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this pub lication are m aintained in acco rdance with (IAW ) AFM AN 33-363,
Information Resources Managem ent, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at       https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. Refer recommended c        hanges and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of comm and. Ensure that al l records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will
convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accord ance with the
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

1. Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR). The 35th F orce Support Squadron Airm an and
Family Readiness Center (A&FRC) (35 FSS/FSFR), has responsibility for oversight of EFACC
operations, including developm ent of operating instructions and ensuring appointm ent and
training of EFACC members.

2. General. In mass casualty situations, the 35th Fi ghter Wing Comm ander (35 FW /CC) will
decide whether exis ting base agencies are ab le to accomm odate the expected number of fam ily
2                                                       35FWI36-3003        21 November 2008

and community m embers needing assistance and info rmation. In the event that base agencies
become (or have the potential to becom e) overwhelmed, activation of the EFACC is an option
for leadership. In those situations in which the anticipated needs are beyond the capability of the
agencies primarily tasked to provide immediate crisis intervention, the EFACC may be activated.
Crises involving a relatively small number of casualties (e.g., accidents involving two cars or the
loss of a single-seat aircraft) can generally be handled in a rapid hum anitarian manner through
services pro vided by Pu blic Af fairs, Chaplains, Mental Health professio nals and the Am erican
Red Cross. When crises involve large numbers of potential casualties (e.g., a report that a wide-
body aircraft has been lost or that a school bus full of Department of Defense Dependents School
[DoDDS] students has careened ove r a cliff), existing services are quickly overwhelm            ed.
EFACC provides a con solidated f acility th rough which the f amilies of potentia l c asualties c an
receive supportive services. These services will include:
2.1. Initial Response and Assistan ce. The EFACC will serve as a centra l gathering point for
families awaiting inf ormation about the crisis. Fam ilies and community m embers will be
directed to report to th e EFACC for the m ost up-to-date information. EFACC staff will provid e
a supportive environment for individuals rem aining at the Airman and Family Readiness Center
(A&FRC). Sign-in and sign-out log s will be m aintained to keep tr ack of the loca tion of family
members who m ay prefer to wait for inform ation at their own hom es or in alternate settings.
Progress reports will be provided at the EFAC C through appropriate senio r leadersh ip or
representatives of the 35 FW Public Af fairs Office (35 FW /PA). The EFACC will estab lish a
Volunteer Control Center to m atch volunteers with identified needs (e .g., manning phones, child
care, and logistic support ). Private facilities will be m aintained for individuals in need of on-
one-one support. The designa ted EFACC personnel will be on            hand to provide supportive
counseling services for those needing em otional support following receipt of confirm ation of
casualties. EFACC can also serve as the central ized location for management of incoming calls
from individuals seeking information on the crisis and from those offering assistance.
2.2. Long-Term Assistance. After initial arrangements are m ade for t he affected fa milies, the
focus of the EFACC will sh ift to lo ng-term assist ance. Th is assis tance will in clude continued
grief counseling, assistance with       funeral arrangem ents, entitlem ent briefings, financial
assistance, and legal assistance. Counseling support for grieving family m embers, services to
non-casualty fa milies, su rvivors, “first res ponders,” staff and volunteers will also be provided .
Continued coordination of suppor t services and com pletion of an after-act ion will be
accomplished.

3. Responsibilities. EFACC staff will in clude an EFACC Director and EF ACC non-
commissioned officer in charge (NCOIC). In addition to the A&FRC personnel, EFACC will be
staffed with assigned representatives from Public Affairs (35 FW/PA), Chaplains ( 35 FW/HC),
Legal Office (35 FW /JA), Mental Health ( 35 MDOS/SGOM), Force Support (35 FSS), and the
American Red Cross (ARC). Detailees and           volunteers will pro vide additional support.
Representatives from 35 FSS Military Personne l Element (35 FSS/FSM), the 35th Com ptroller
Squadron (35 CPTS), the 35th Logistics Readin ess Squadron (35 LRS), and the 35th Medical
Group (35 MDG) will provide serv ices at EFACC as required by the s pecific casualty situation.
Responsibilities of the EFACC staff will include:
3.1. EFACC Director. Th e Director will be responsible for the overall im plementation and
operation of EFACC during the cris is. The Directo r will ensu re that rosters of personnel
35FWI36-3003       21 November 2008                                                          3

assigned to EFACC are curren t and that recall procedures are in place. The Director will ensure
that EFACC staff is trained in disaster response and that EFACC operations are exercised at least
annually. Included in the traini ng will be rumor control techni ques, role-p laying, telephon ic
response and inform ation retrieva l techniques, and sensitivity training. Upon a ctivation of
EFACC, the Director will ensure that EFACC st aff are recalled and tha t arrangements are made
for coverag e of shifts for a 24-hour operatio        n. The Di rector will orchestrate appropriate
community response is following th e initial response to confirm mass casualties. The Director
will se rve a s a consulta nt to the B attle Staf f regarding ne eds of the f amilies and community
utilizing EFACC services.
3.2. EFACC NCOIC. The EFACC NCOIC will assi st the EFACC Director and b e responsible
for coordinating logistical support for EFACC.       The N COIC will ensure that adequate
refreshments and supplies are available and that de tails are coordinated to ensure the safety and
comfort of fam ily m embers. The NCOIC will ensure th at adequate comm unication assets are
available for EFACC operation, especially in the call center.
3.3. 35 FW /PA. 35 FW /PA wi ll be responsibl e for ensuring widespread dissem ination of
information regard ing activ ation o f EFACC. 35 FW /PA repres entatives to EF ACC will be
responsible for clearance of all information released through EFACC pertaining to the crisis.
3.4. A&FRC. The A& FRC will trai n all staff in EFACC operations an d detail th em to EFACC
for the duration of EFACC operatio ns. A&FRC personnel will be res ponsible for providing
manpower to work check-in stations, coordinate assignment of tasks to volunteers, provide Air
Force Aid S ociety ass istance, and s upervise de tailees, as needed. A&F RC staff wi ll augm ent
other agencies in providing supportive and grief c ounseling. If long-term assistance is needed,
A&FRC staff will assis t 35 MDOS/SGOH providers in con ducting Traumatic Stres s Response
(TRS) interventions.
3.5. 35 FW/HC. At least one chaplain will be      assigned to EFACC to provide emotional and
spiritual support to family members and affected community members.
3.6. 35 MDOS/SGOH. A representative will be avai lable to provide suppor tive services and to
serve as consultant in situations in w hich family members may require m edical intervention. 35
MDOS/SGOH will have a p rimary responsibility for o rganization of TRS services. The
representative will request assistance from other helping agency personnel to accomplish this, as
needed.
3.7. ARC. ARC will assis t A&FRC in Disast er Respons e training and executio n. An ARC
station will be established to serv e as a communication li nk between EFACC and fa mily
members who are not located in Ja pan. Financ ial and f uneral ass istance will be pr ovided as
needed in accordance with HQ Air Force Aid Society and ARC directives.
3.8. 35 FW/JA. 35 FW/JA staff will provide legal assistance to affected families.
3.9. 35 CPTS. Representatives fro m 35 CPTS will be available to provide financial counseling
and assistance.
3.10. 35 LRS. Representatives fro m 35 LRS will be available to help fa mily m embers with
travel and relocation assistance.
3.11. 35 MDG. Representatives fro m 35 MDG will be available to add ress emotional needs of
families of potential DoD casualties and DoD personnel affected by the disaster.
4                                                       35FWI36-3003        21 November 2008

3.12. The 35th Comm unications Squadron (35 CS). The EFACC will contact 35 CS to provide
telecommunication support.
3.13 35 FSS. Representative from FSS Flight responsible for food and lodging will be available
to help family members with food and lodging.

4. Procedures.
4.1. The Emergency Operations Center Director or 35 FW/CC directs the activation of EFACC.
4.2. The pr imary location of EFACC is the A&FRC. Alternative facilities will be used if the
scope of the crisis is likely to exceed the capacity of A&FRC.
4.3. EFACC configuration includ es large space for inform ational briefings, comm and and
control, call center, business center, private coun seling rooms, private resting room s, child care
area, food service and eating areas.
4.4. EFACC will be open 24 hours a day during the initial crisis response period.
4.5. 35 CS support will include connectivity for unofficial internet service and official telephone
service (vo ice and FA X) for use by service provider staff, volunt eers, a nd fa mily me mbers.
Specific requirements will outlined in an AF3215, IT/NSS Requirements Document or electronic
equivalent.
4.6. All service provider staff and volunteers should be clearly identified with a badge.
4.7. An EFACC sign-in and sign-out logs will be utilized to capt ure such information as full
names o f s ervice me mber a nd fa mily me mbers, relationship of waiting parties to po tential
casualty, and phone numbers and locations where family members may be reached.
4.8. All entrances and exits to EFACC should be m onitored to ensure the safety and privacy of
all family members and friends.
4.9. In large scale disasters, the EFACC will en    sure coordination of assistance to fa      mily
members residing outside Japan who elect to come to Japan to assist with family needs.
4.10. EFACC personnel will release no inform ation regarding the disaster without clearance
from 35 FW/PA. No information will be released on the status of casualties until confirmation is
received that next-of-kin have been notified by the CNOs and the n ames of casualties are
released by 35 FW/PA.
4.11. The EFACC Director will a dvise the E mergency Operations Center or 35 FW /CC when
specialized service provider augmentees from other installations are indicated.

5. Adopted Form.
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




DAVID R. STILWELL, Colonel, USAF
Commander
