BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                35TH FIGHTER WING
35TH FIGHTER WING                                                       INSTRUCTION 32-1001

                                                                         23 SEPTEMBER 2009
                                                              Certified Current 9 February 2012
                                                                              Civil Engineering

                                                                  SELF-HELP MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 35 CES/CEOSC                                                        Certified by: 35 CES/CC
                                                                       (Lt Col Laura M. Johnson)
Supersedes:    35 FWI 32-1001, 6 June 1995                                               Pages: 4



This instruction implements AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities, and defines the Wing
Self-Help Program. It provides directive requirements for the operation of all installation self-
help projects. Although the principal focus is the Civil Engineer Operations Flight, this
publication applies to all Misawa Air Base units. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/.”              Additionally, if the publication
generates a report(s), alert readers in a statement and cite all applicable Reports Control Numbers
in accordance with AFI 33-324. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command.”

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been significantly modified and should be reviewed in entirety.
1. Scope of Self-Help Program.
   1.1. Main Objectives. Due to the significant number of requests beyond the Civil Engineer
   Squadron’s manpower and funding capability, not all work requests can be accomplished.
   The requester has the option to defer the work or to help supplement Civil Engineer
   resources by furnishing personnel, material, or both to accomplish the work request by self-
2                                                       35FWI32-1001 23 SEPTEMBER 2009


    help. The Base Civil Engineer (BCE) is responsible for all work accomplished on the
    installation and real property regardless of method of accomplishment and will determine the
    requester's ability to accomplish self-help work. Unit commanders and delegated facility
    managers are the primary self-help customers and are authorized to obtain self-help
    materials. The 35th Civil Engineer Squadron (CES) Self-Help Center also services Family
    Housing (FH) occupants and issues FH U-Fix-It materials.
    1.2. Restrictions. All self-help work requests will be submitted on AF Form 332, Base Civil
    Engineer Work Request, through the CES Customer Service Section with the following
    restrictions:
       1.2.1. Family Housing self-help work requests require coordination through the Housing
       Office and Civil Engineer Capitol Asset Management office for Family Housing projects
       prior to submittal to the Self-Help Center.
       1.2.2. Self-help projects accomplished with contract resources are not classified as self-
       help. The use of contract labor is not within the intent of the self-help program and
       incurs additional labor costs to the government, while in-house labor is a fixed cost to the
       government.
       1.2.3. Self-help work should not be completed by civilian over hires. Employment of
       over hires for the means other than primary mission accomplishment is not a prudent
       management practice and cannot be considered donated labor within the intent of self-
       help.
       1.2.4. Self-help work can be accomplished by use of US civilian or military members.
       Self-help work accomplished during duty hours must not conflict with local labor union
       contracts or impose additional risk to the government for injury sustained while
       accomplishing the self-help project. Military personnel are authorized to accomplish
       work at any time when required or authorized by the requestor’s chain of command.
       1.2.5. User organizations may donate materials. Donated materials are materials accrued
       from other than appropriated sources (i.e. logistics, Civil Engineer Material Control and
       self-help) because these were obtained without cost to the government. These are items
       are paid for by the using organization.
2. Responsibilities.
    2.1. Requesters are responsible for the accomplishment and quality of the completed self-
    help project in compliance with all building codes. Specific responsibilities include the
    following:
       2.1.1. Requestors must submit AF Form 332 for proper approval and authorization
       requirements prior to starting any self-help project and ensuring coordination through the
       facility manager and commander as applicable.
       2.1.2. Requestors account for all material and tools issued during the self-help project.
       Unused materials and tools will be returned to the Self-Help Center upon project
       completion.
       2.1.3. Requestors ensure all safety precautions are taken during all phases of the self-
       help project. Requestor should not disturb asbestos, lead-based paint, PCB containing
       itmes and any other hazardous materials without proper training.
35FWI32-1001 23 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                               3


      2.1.4. Requestors keep Self-Help Center monitors advised on in-progress and completion
      status. Interim and final project inspections along with completion of the AF Form 327,
      Base Civil Engineer Work Order, will be made jointly with the unit and Self-Help Center
      monitors.
   2.2. Civil Engineer Squadron. Responsible for management and execution of the 35 FW
   self-help program following current PACAF guidance.         Specific civil engineer
   responsibilities are as follows:
      2.2.1. BCE. Responsible for all maintenance, renovation, and minor construction of real
      property on the installation. All work requests will be processed through the Work
      Request Review Board (WRRB) for review.
      2.2.2. Operations Flight Commander/Superintendent. Responsible for executing the
      wing self-help program. Ensures dedicated manning is provided to the Self-Help Center
      and in-house civil engineer logistical and operational support is available for self-help
      operations.
      2.2.3. Self-Help Operations, NCOIC or designee. Responsible for managing all wing
      self-help resources, operating the wing Self-Help Center, ensuring validity of each
      request, establishing financial budgets, managing self-help Civil Engineer Material
      Acquisition System (CEMAS) and Interim Work Information Management System
      (IWIMS) programs, coordinating with civil engineer maintenance elements for in-house
      support, providing quality indicators to major command, and conducting Quality
      Assurance (QA) to include coordination with Fire Safety, Wing Safety, electrical,
      structural, HVAC and utility on all wing and tenant self-help projects.
      2.2.4. CES Customer Service.       Single point receiver of all self-help requests.
      Responsible for managing IWIMS to insure proper approval, material/labor costing, file
      maintenance, closure of self-help projects, processing warranty documents and project
      drawings with the engineering element. Forwarding completed projects to the Asset
      Management Flight for costing and capitalization as required in accordance with UFC 1-
      300-08, Criteria For Transfer And Acceptance Of Military Real Property.
      2.2.5. Material Control. Forward store manager of CEMAS. Responsible for ordering
      and maintaining operating levels of materials for self-help operations. Ensures proper
      accounting and material issues to each self-help customer.
      2.2.6. Self-Help Center Monitor. Responsible for planning and estimating self-help
      work requests, identify any suspected hazardous materials (asbestos, lead-based paint,
      PCBs), establishing start/stop dates for approved projects with the requester, issuing
      materials and tools as required , providing technical engineering and general Air Force
      Occupational Safety and Health standards support, conducting in-progress inspections for
      QA and documents status in project folders, receiving unused materials and tools upon
      completion, adjusting issue/turn-in documents to provide an accurate project cost,
      establishing final inspections, signing AF Form 327 (on-site job coordinator) for project
      close-out, and filing as-built drawings with CEPT.
3. Location and Hours of Self-Help Center.
4                                                     35FWI32-1001 23 SEPTEMBER 2009


    3.1. The Self-Help Center is located in building 794. Store hours will be determined by the
    BCE and published periodically. Self-Help customers may call Self-Help Office directly at
    226-4992.

4. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.

4.1. Prescribed Forms:

None

4.2. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF Form 327, Base Civil Engineer Work Order
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                            DAVID R. STILWELL, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
