BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                               35 FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION 35-102
35TH FIGHTER WING                                                                        29 JUNE 2005

                                                                                          Public Affairs

                                                            35TH FIGHTER WING COMMANDER’S
                                                                      ACCESS CHANNEL (CAC)



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 35 FW/PA                                                                  Certified by: 35 FW/CC
       (MSgt Bradley H. Sprague)                                             (Brig Gen William J. Rew)
Supersedes 35FWI37-2001, 27 July 2001                                                           Pages: 2
                                                                                         Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 35-1, Public Affairs Management. This instruction explains the proce-
dure for posting information on the CAC. It applies to all US personnel, regardless of branch of service,
within the confines of Misawa Air Base.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This instruction was re-accomplished to implement changes to the CAC approval process. It gives spe-
cific guidance on revised CAC procedures, general information, and contact information. This instruction
supersedes 35 FWI 37-2001, 27 July 2001.


1. Purpose.
   1.1. The CAC is the commander’s tool to reach Misawa AB members with command and control and/
   or emergency information. During non-emergency times, the CAC can be used to inform the instal-
   lation of security notifications and various base-wide events and programs.

2. Releasable information.
   2.1. There are two types of information that can be posted on the CAC:
   2.2. Command and Control Items, to include: severe weather, natural disasters, and real world or
   exercise Force Protection Conditions (FPCONs), Mission-Oriented Protective Postures (MOPP), and
   alarm conditions.
   2.3. Commander’s Special Interest Items (SII) are items that the commander designates as important
   information for installation-wide dissemination but do not fall into the command and control category.
   These include: upcoming exercise announcements, customer service closures affecting majority of
   base populace, power outages, road construction, and other announcements as approved by the 35
2                                                                  35FWI35-102_BASE 29 JUNE 2005


    FW/CC or his designated representative. SII’s will be posted on a time-available basis and may not be
    posted when higher priority command and control activities or events are in progress.

3. Limitations.
    3.1. Although not all-inclusive, the following are examples of information that will not be run on the
    CAC: birthdays, birth announcements, farewell parties, retirement ceremonies, promotion parties,
    changes of command other than group and wing level, sales and concessionaire promotions, tickets
    and tour trips, individual or unit awards, job announcements, yard sales and announcements promot-
    ing commercial businesses.

4. Procedures.
    4.1. To submit slides, the office of primary responsibility (OPR) will create the slide(s) using the
    CAC template available for download via the 35th Fighter Wing Public Affairs intranet site (https://
    intranet.misawa.af.mil/Orgs/35FWPA/CAC.htm) and e-mail them to the 35th Fighter Wing Com-
    mander’s Access Channel e-mail box, (35FW.CAC@misawa.af.mil). CAC submissions will be in
    bullet format and must answer who, what, when, where, and why. Submissions will have a valid point
    of contact and telephone number. Public Affairs reserves the right to make changes to submitted
    slides for brevity, clarity, and style.
    4.2. The OPR is responsible for ensuring their chain of command is notified of the pending CAC sub-
    mission before turning it in to the 35 FW/PA office.
    4.3. Included in the e-mail to the FW/PA office will be the inclusive dates to run the slide(s).

5. General information.
    5.1. The Commander’s Access Channel is updated twice daily on duty days, once a day on weekends
    and extended holidays; or as needed. Submissions to the CAC are due 7 working days prior to the
    event, and will air for no more than 2 weeks, unless otherwise directed by the
    35 FW/CC or designated Public Affairs representative. Slides containing emergency or time-critical
    information will be posted sooner, if needed.

6. Contact information.
    6.1. Please direct any questions concerning the Commander’s Access Channel to the 35 FW/PA, or
    e-mail 35FW.CAC@misawa.af.mil.



                                                WILLIAM J. REW, Brigadier General, USAF
                                                Commander
