BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                35TH FIGHTER WING
35TH FIGHTER WING                                                       INSTRUCTION 36-2803

                                                                                  1 APRIL 2010
                                                                   Certified Current 4 April 2012
                                                                                       Personnel

                                                       SECURITY MANAGER OF THE YEAR
                                                                    AWARD PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 35 FW/IPO                                                             Certified by: 35 FW/IP
Supersedes: 35 FWI 36-2803,                                                  (Mr. James C. Edge)
            5 November 2008                                                               Pages: 3


This instruction implements AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs. It explains
eligibility criteria, nomination procedures, and selection procedures for recognizing Misawa
Security Managers who have made significant contributions to mission accomplishment. It is
applicable to all personnel appointed Security Manager (Primary or Alternate), Security
Representative (Primary or Alternate), Office Security Manager or Safe Custodian assigned or
attached to Misawa Air Base. There is no rank limitation. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/.” Additionally, if the publication
generates a report(s), alert readers in a statement and cite all applicable Reports Control Numbers
in accordance with AFI 33-324. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command.”

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision updates
the instruction to reflect the realignment of the Information Protection Office. Revises the
location of award presentation from Wing Commander’s Call to the first Security Manager’s
Meeting after selection (paragraph 1.2.3.); Clarifies the nomination period to a minimum of 4
months of assignment to security manager duties prior to nomination (paragraph 1.3); Mandates
units for which nominee is representing during the nominating period must not have had a
2                                                                 35FWI36-2803 1 APRIL 2010


security incident during the reportin g period (paragraph 1.3.); Reassigns the office of
responsibility from the 35 SFS/S5IS to the 35 FW/IP (paragraph 1.4.2.); Reassigns board
selection responsibilities from 35 SFS/S5IS to the 35 FW/IP (paragraph 1.5.); Changes the board
president from the Security Forces Manager to the Wing Information Protection Program
Manager (paragraph 1.5.); Places responsibility for funding awards on the Wing Information
Protection Office (paragraph 1.6.)
1.1. Purpose of Awards. Enhances the visibility of Information Security Professionals and
their contributions to the mission.
    1.1.1. Recognizes and encourages superior achievement and performance.
    1.1.2. Generates supervisory awareness and support for the Air Force Information Security
    Program.
    1.2. Responsibilities. The Wing Information Security Program Manager will:
       1.2.1. Monitor the awards program and ensure it is conducted in an objective manner.
       1.2.2. Convene a board to select award winners and notify the applicable squadron
       commander, staff agency chief and/or directorate of staff of winners.
       1.2.3. Provide all winners with a certificate and plaque to be presented by the Wing
       Information Security Program Manager at the first Security Manager’s Meeting following
       the selection.
       1.2.4. Ensure all units with eligible personnel are afforded the opportunity to participate.
       1.2.5. Ensure adequate publicity is given to the awards program.
    1.3. Eligibility. Nominees must have been assigned Security Manager, Security
    Representative, Office Security Manager or Safe Custodian Duties at Misawa AB or a
    participating tenant unit during the period for which nominated (a minimum of four months
    assigned to duties). The unit for which the nominee is representing must not have had a
    security incident during the nominating period. Personnel are submitted in the following
    categories (Table 1):

Table 1. Nominations Categories.

CATEGORY                         APPOINTED POSITION                AWARD

Security Manager                 Security Manager (Primary or      Security Manager
                                 Alternate) or
                                 Security Representative
                                 (Primary or Alternate)

Information Security Assistant   Office Security Manager or        Information Security Assistant
                                 Safe Custodian
    1.4. Nomination Procedures. Nominations may originate at any level; however, each unit
    commander, staff agency chief, and/or directorate of staff must limit their nominees to one
    per category, per calendar year.
35FWI36-2803 1 APRIL 2010                                                                 3


     1.4.1. Submit nominations on AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award, single-spaced
     bullet format, 10 lines maximum. When completing the form, leave the SSN blank. The
     nominees' accomplishments are judged based upon performance during the period for
     which the person is nominated. The period shall begin 1 January and end 31 December of
     each calendar year.
     1.4.2. Forward the nomination package to 35 FW/IPO by the 15 January for the
     proceeding calendar year period.
  1.5. Selection Board. 35 FW/IPO is responsible for selection of board members. The board
  will consist of a mixture of three Senior Non-Commissioned Officers/Company Grade
  Officers. The board president will be the Wing Information Security Program Manager; the
  other members will come from units throughout the Wing, preferably from units which do
  not have nominees during the selection period. Board members will evaluate nominees'
  packages and select winners.
     1.5.1. In case of a tie, the board president's score will be used as a tiebreaker.
  1.6. Awards Described. Winners will be presented with a certificate and plaque. The
  awards will be funded by the Wing Information Protection Office.
  1.7. Records. Dispose of records:           https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims
  (Records Disposition Schedule).
  1.8. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
     1.8.1. Prescribed Forms: No forms prescribed.
     1.8.2. Adopted Forms. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                            DAVID R. STILWELL, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
