BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                             36TH AIR BASE WING INSTRUCTION 31-202
36TH AIR BASE WING                                                                    28 OCTOBER 2003



                                                                        ANDERSEN AFB/CONTROL
                                                                     OF PETS AND STRAY ANIMALS



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 36 SFS/SFOP (Tsgt John Jackson)                                            Certified by: 36 SFS/CC
Approved By: 36 ABW/CC                                                     (Maj Raymund M. Tembreull)
       (Col Joseph F. Mudd, JR.)
Supersedes 36 ABWI 31-202, 25 Jun 98                                                              Pages: 5
                                                                                           Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 31-2, Law Enforcement. It establishes policy, responsibility and pro-
cedures for controlling privately owned pets and stray animals. It applies to all persons who live, work or
visit Andersen Air Force Base (AFB) and property under its jurisdiction.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

This ABWI 31-202 replaces the previous ABWI 31-202 dated 25 Jun 98. Updates 36th Support Group
(SPTG) to 36th Mission Support Group (MSG). Keep vicious animals indoors or in approved fenced
areas. Do not tie pets to government property. Pets are not authorized in parks or playgrounds.


1. Policy : Pets and stray animals must be strictly controlled on Andersen AFB. Pets not cared for and
strays jeopardize the health, safety, and security of people who work, live and play on Andersen AFB.
Under no circumstances are base residents allowed to feed stray animals without complying with registra-
tion and immunization requirements.
   1.1. The 36th Mission Support Group Commander (36 MSG/CC) is the delegated authority for all
   matters pertaining to pet control on Andersen AFB. This includes authority to order removal,
   impoundment, or destruction of pets and/or stray animals.
   1.2. Owning a pet on Andersen AFB is a privilege granted by the 36th Air Base Wing Commander
   (36 ABW/CC). A maximum of three pets per family will be permitted. Pets are considered dogs, cats,
   gerbils, birds, and hamsters. Any combination of three is authorized. To exceed this limit, written
   authorization must be received from the 36 MSG/CC. Farm, ranch or wild/exotic (monkeys, snakes,
   etc) animals are prohibited in Military Family Housing. Breeding or raising of animals for shows or
2                                                                  36ABWI31-202 28 OCTOBER 2003


    commercial purposes is prohibited, as is operating a commercial-type kennel in MFH. A litter may be
    kept for seven days after the age of mandatory registration has been reached.
    1.3. Pets such as cats and dogs must be on a leash or in a fenced area at all times when outside the
    family quarters. The leash or fence must be sturdy enough to prevent escape. If the pet is leashed out-
    side, the leash will be no longer than 8 feet, must in the rear of the quarters opposite the street, and
    unable to reach sidewalks, streets or other public access areas. Pets will not be leashed outside unsu-
    pervised for more than 8 hours. Pets will not be left outside during inclement weather without suffi-
    cient shelter or protection from the weather. Additionally, pets will not be left unattended in
    automobiles.
    1.4. Under no circumstances are base residents allowed to feed or house stray animals without com-
    plying with registration and immunization requirements. Additionally, base residents may not kill or
    destroy registered or stray animals on base. Euthanasia is authorized and administered by United
    States Department of Agriculture (USDA) or veterinarians only.
    1.5. For stray animal control, first contact Andersen Security Forces Control Center at 366-2910/11/
    12, secondly contact USDA 366-3261, pager 720-7578.
    1.6. Under no circumstances are base residents allowed to feed or keep brown tree snakes as pets.

2. Responsibilities:
    2.1. The 36 MSG/CC reviews pet violation reports.
    2.2. 36 MSG/CC will order owners to remove animals from the installation if the animals have been
    involved in repeat incidents or other inappropriate behavior or if the animal have been determined to
    be dangerous or uncontrollable.
    2.3. Unit commanders will:
       2.3.1. Brief unit personnel on the requirements of this regulation and ensure compliance.
       2.3.2. Enforce this regulation and notify security forces and 36 MSG/CC when a person’s privi-
       lege should be revoked.
       2.3.3. Make sure people register their pets at the base veterinarian clinic within 30 days of arrival.
       2.3.4. Enforce violation and termination letters issued by 36 MSG/CC.
       2.3.5. Ensure all personnel with registered pets out-process the base veterinarian prior to PCS
       moves.
    2.4. Pet owners will:
       2.4.1. Ensure pets don't disturb or annoy anyone by excessive barking, howling, digging lawns, or
       leaving excrement on other lawns.
       2.4.2. Keep pets properly fed, watered, housed and safeguarded at all times.
       2.4.3. Notify the base Conservation Officer immediately when a pet escapes.
       2.4.4. Remove female dogs and cats in estrus (heat) from base or confine them within the owner's
       quarters.
36ABWI31-202 28 OCTOBER 2003                                                                               3


     2.4.5. Reimburse the base animal shelter or Yigo Animal Shelter for the cost of keeping the pet in
     custody.
     2.4.6. Remove animal waste from yards immediately and bag prior to putting it in the trash.
     2.4.7. Be fully responsible for immunizing their pets and registering all pets with the base veteri-
     narian within 30 days after arrival. This includes having a microchip implant, if not already done.
     The military sponsor is the responsible person in each household. For military couples, the senior
     member is responsible for ensuring compliance with this instruction.
     2.4.8. Notify the 36th Medical Group’s Family Care Clinic and the Andersen Security Forces
     Control
     Center anytime a pet bites or scratches someone.
     2.4.9. Keep rabies/registration tag attached to the collar or harness worn by the pet at all times.
     2.4.10. Be held responsible for pets, which attack or harass someone.
     2.4.11. Keep vicious animals indoors or in approved fenced areas behind the quarters (opposite
     street side). Note: Vicious means any animal, which by nature, disposition, or training could rea-
     sonably be expected to cause injury to humans, especially children that inadvertently wander into
     the area.
     2.4.12. Ensure pets remain on leash while being walked and escort is at least 10 years old.
     2.4.13. Not tie pets to government property, such as trees, shrubs, fences, or quarters.
  2.5. Chief of Security Forces will:
     2.5.1. Provide personnel and equipment to transport and house stray animals with no apparent
     owners.
     2.5.2. Stray animals will be transported either by USDA, Security Forces, or Yigo Animal Shelter
     for final disposition.
     2.5.3. Prior to using firearms to destroy stray animals, personnel will notify ASFCC and the Air
     Traffic Control Tower when operating in areas adjacent to the flightline.
     2.5.4. When pets with tags are recovered, security forces personnel will attempt to contact the
     owner of the pet using the Pet Owner Roster provided by the base veterinarian. If the owner cannot
     be contacted, the first sergeant or supervisor of the sponsor will retrieve and hold the animal until
     the owner can be contacted. Pet owners are responsible for cleaning the kennel/holding area prior
     to departure with their pet.
     2.5.5. Pet owners will be charged with failure to control their pet IAW this instruction.
     2.5.6. Will request 36th Civil Engineering Squadron support when dead animals are found which
     have died by other means.
     2.5.7. Enforce this regulation.
     2.5.8. Work with the base veterinarian and civil engineering to capture or destroy stray animals.
     2.5.9. Advise 36 MSG/CC of pet violation incidents and any history of prior incidents involving
     the same pet and pet owner.
4                                                                  36ABWI31-202 28 OCTOBER 2003


    2.6. 36 CES/CC will:
       2.6.1. Work with the base veterinarian to develop methods to control stray animals.
       2.6.2. Employ traps to capture stray animals, ensuring they are checked daily. Traps may be safely
       used anywhere on the installation. When Yigo Animal Shelter cannot accommodate stray animals,
       36 CES/CEV, when authorized by the 36 SFS/CC or 36 SFS/SFO, is authorized to use firearms to
       dispose of stray animals. When the owner of an animal with a tag/microchip cannot be identified,
       it will not be destroyed. It will be transported to Yigo Animal Shelter at the earliest opportunity.
       2.6.3. Pick up dead carcasses found on base and dispose of them in coordination with the base vet-
       erinarian.
       2.6.4. Provide support as necessary in disposing of stray animals that have been destroyed. Ani-
       mals may be disposed of at the installation landfill.
       2.6.5. Provide 36 SFS with a holding area for pets and proper guidance for disposal of waste.
    2.7. 36 SVS/CC will:
       2.7.1. Serve as the installation OPR for registering all pets. All personnel residing on base will be
       required to register their pets and have a microchip implanted for identification purposes. If pets
       have a microchip implant that can be read, having another microchip implant is not necessary.
       2.7.2. Animals quarantined in the base kennel, will not be released until they have had a micro-
       chip implanted. Pet owners will be responsible for any fees associated with implanting micro-
       chips.
       2.7.3. Provide rabies immunization and registration for all privately owned pets at owner’s
       expense.
       2.7.4. Examine animals involved in biting or scratching incidents when the victim reports to the
       clinic for treatment.
       2.7.5. Provide a computerized list of registered pets to 36 SFS/SFOP.
       2.7.6. Work with 36 SFS and 36 CES to develop methods for controlling stray animals.
    2.8. MDOS/CC will ensure USAF Clinic notifies Andersen Security Forces Control Center and Mil-
    itary Public Health when persons report for treatment from animal bites or scratches.

3. General Requirements:
    3.1. Animals are not permitted (except seeing eye dogs and military working dogs) in clinic build-
    ings, food service facilities, base exchange, commissary, theaters, service clubs, dormitories, transient
    billets, swimming pools, beaches, parks or play grounds, or other places where they may create a
    health, safety, or security hazard, or be a nuisance. Animals that create a nuisance will be removed
    from the base and impounded. If there's no apparent owner, the animal will be taken to USDA or the
    Yigo Animal Shelter for disposition.
    3.2. Andersen Security Forces Controller makes entries in the security forces blotter and accom-
    plishes a security forces report on all negligent biting or scratching incidents and a blotter entry on
    captured animals.
36ABWI31-202 28 OCTOBER 2003                                                                             5


  3.3. Andersen residents, employees, and visitors are prohibited from boarding or training civil-
  ian-owned animals on base in the 36th Security Forces kennels.
  3.4. Any animal control violation may be grounds for loss of pet privileges. Biting or scratching inci-
  dents may result in removal of the animal from base and possible loss of privileges.
  3.5. Personnel who abandon or fail to control their pets may face administrative or punitive action.



                                                    JOSEPH F. MUDD, JR., Colonel, USAF
                                                    Commander, 36th Air Base Wing
