BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                            36TH AIR BASE WING INSTRUCTION 32-7003
36TH AIR BASE WING (PACAF)                                                         12 DECEMBER 2000

                                                                                  Environmental Quality

                                                         CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT OF
                                                                   NATURAL RESOURCES (PA)



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 36 CES/CEV (Ms Heidi Hirsh)                       Certified by: 36 CES/CC (Lt Col Randy D. Eide)
Supersedes 36ABWI 32-7003, 21 June 1999                                                     Pages: 26
                                                                                       Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFI 32-7064, Integrated Natural Resources Management, and DODI 4715.3,
Environmental Conservation Program. It establishes policy, procedures, and responsibilities to manage
and conserve natural resources on Andersen Air Force Base (AAFB). These resources will be managed in
accordance with all applicable Federal and territorial laws and consistent with the military mission. Addi-
tionally, this instruction prescribes 36 ABW Form 25, Request to Hunt on Air Force Property, 36 ABW
Form 26, Special Access Permit, and 36 ABW Form 27, Andersen AFB Conservation Officer Identi-
fication Card. These forms are affected by the Privacy Act, when filled in. This instruction applies to all
assigned, attached and associate units. Violations may result in punitive or adverse administrative action.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document prescribes three new forms: 36 ABW Form 26-A, Coconut Crab Collecting Permit, 36
ABW Form 25-A, Hunting Permit, and 36 ABW Form 26-B, Fishing Permit. Special Access permit
holders are required to physically sign-in and sign-out at the Security Forces desk at building 21000,
unless they are fishing and hold a valid fishing permit. Fishermen do not need to call or physically
check-in at the Security Forces desk at Building 21000, if they hold a valid fishing permit. Access to
Andersen South for pig or deer hunting, hiking or coconut crab collecting, through the issuance of a Hunt-
ing or Special Access permit is no longer authorized. Exceptions to access Andersen South for plant mate-
rials collection or other recreational purposes may be made when approved by the Chief Conservation
Officer or Natural Resource Planner. A Special Access Permit is not required for individuals who want to
hike on the designated Tarague Embayment Interpretive Trials. To hike on the designated trails, individu-
als must pick up a self-guided trail brochure and sign in at the Tropicana Recreation Center, the Chief
Conservation Officers’ office, or at Oscar’s Beach House on the weekends. Public hunter access for
archery hunting is authorized seven days per week during the Andersen AFB hunting hours (this provi-
sion has been authorized by the 36 ABW Commander since 29 Jul 96 but was inadvertently omitted from
the 9 Dec 96 and 21 Jun 99 revisions. Access for archery hunting in the Munitions Storage Area (MSA) is
no longer permitted through the Potts Junction gate, but only through the main MSA gate. Only those
individuals possessing a valid Government of Guam handicapped-parking permit assigned to the individ-
2                                                                                     36ABWI32-7003 12 DECEMBER 2000


ual by the Government of Guam due to physical disability are allowed to hunt the handicapped (disabled)
hunting areas. All hunters must have firearm unloaded within 25 yards of any main roadway or occupied
building. All archery hunters must not have bow or crossbow quivered within 50 yards of any main road-
way or occupied building. A bar (|) indicates revision from the previous edition.
      1.     General. ......................................................................................................................    3
      2.     Reference Publications. .............................................................................................              3
      3.     Terms Explained. .......................................................................................................           3
      4.     Responsibilities. .........................................................................................................        3
      5.     Access to Air Force Land and Water Areas. .............................................................                            9
      6.     Special Access Permits. .............................................................................................              9
      7.     Coconut Crab (Birgus latro) Hunting Regulations and Procedures. ..........................                                        10
      8.     Fishing Regulations and Procedures. .........................................................................                     11
      9.     Plant, Wood, Vegetation Removal. ...........................................................................                      12
    10.      Threatened and Endangered Species Management. ..................................................                                  12
    11.      Exceptions. .................................................................................................................     12
    12.      Fire Prevention. ..........................................................................................................       13
    13.      Training Exercises. ....................................................................................................          13
    14.      Violations. ..................................................................................................................    13
    15.      Disposition of Documents. ........................................................................................                14
    16.      Forms Prescribed. ......................................................................................................          14

Attachment 1—ANDERSEN AIR FORCE BASE HUNTING RULES                                                                                             15

Attachment 2—MAPS                                                                                                                              23

Attachment 3—LIST OF FEDERAL AND GUAM ENDANGERED SPECIES
             FOUND ON ANDERSEN AFB                                                                                                             26
36ABWI32-7003 12 DECEMBER 2000                                                                               3


1. General. In accordance with AFI 32-7064, Integrated Natural Resources Management, Andersen
AFB is classified as a "Category 1" installation, with suitable habitat for conserving and managing fish
and wildlife, including threatened, endangered, and nongame species. The objective of this program is to
protect and enhance the environmental quality of these lands.

2. Reference Publications. AFI 32-7064; 36 ABWI 34-102, Andersen Beach Recreation Areas; Public
Law 93-205, The Endangered Species Act of 1973; Sikes Act, 16 USC 670a-670f-Cooperative Agree-
ments.

3. Terms Explained.
   3.1. Authorized Hunting Areas: Authorized areas on Andersen AFB are limited to those areas specif-
   ically designated in Attachment 1 of this regulation.
   3.2. Archery Area: An area where the taking of game is limited to the use of bow and arrow or cross-
   bow during daylight hours.
   3.3. Endangered Species: Those species listed by the Federal Government or the Territory of Guam as
   being in danger of extinction throughout all or a significant portion of their range.
   3.4. Exotic Species: Any plant or animal not native to a region, state, or county.
   3.5. Fish: As defined in this text, fish includes salt water fin fish, aquatic vertebrate and invertebrate
   organisms, as well as crustaceans and mollusks.
   3.6. Game: Any species of fish or wildlife for which a season and/or bag or creel limits have been
   described and/or which are hunted or usually taken under territorial or federal laws and regulations.
   3.7. Take: Take means to cut, collect, uproot, destroy, injure, or possess any protected, threatened, or
   endangered species of plant(s), or to attempt to harass, harm, pursue, hunt, wound, kill, trap, capture,
   snare, seize, shoot, or collect wildlife or fish by any person; every attempt to do such act(s) or to assist
   any other person in the accomplishment or the attempt to do such act(s).

4. Responsibilities.
   4.1. Base Civil Engineer (BCE).
       4.1.1. Supervises, controls, and manages the natural resources program at Andersen AFB to
       ensure compliance with 36 ABWI 32-7003. This includes managing all aspects of the installa-
       tion's fish and wildlife program, including direct habitat improvement, conservation and rehabili-
       tation, hunting and fishing programs, enforcement of this regulation, and applicable Federal and
       Guam Fish and Wildlife laws and regulations.
       4.1.2. Coordinates all research project requests, access requirements, and conditions for investiga-
       tion activities.
       4.1.3. Prepares, coordinates, and implements the Integrated Natural Resource Management Plan
       (INRMP), budgets, and cooperative agreements at Andersen AFB. The INRMP ensures the suc-
       cessful accomplishment of the military mission by integrating all aspects of natural resources
       management with ongoing base operations and base development programs. The INRMP compo-
       nents are:
           4.1.3.1. Environmental Impact Analysis Process, Natural Resources Database Development,
4                                                              36ABWI32-7003 12 DECEMBER 2000


          Coastal and Marine Resources, Fish and Wildlife Management, Threatened and Endangered
          Species Management, Forest Management, Agricultural Outleasing, Outdoor Recreation Man-
          agement, Land Management, Natural Resources Budgeting, Public Relations for Natural
          Resources Programs, and Natural Resources Management and Research Development.
       4.1.4. Sets access policies for hunting, fishing, and CE managed outdoor recreation programs, and
       determines degree of use.
       4.1.5. Reviews all AF Forms 332, BCE Work Requests, and AF Forms 813, Request for Envi-
       ronmental Impact Analysis, for approval/disapproval prior to starting projects. This policy is
       necessary to ensure that the BCE can properly allocate and schedule resources.
    4.2. Natural Resource Planner (NRP, 36 CES/CEV).
       4.2.1. Acts as the base liaison with the Guam Division of Aquatic and Wildlife Resources
       (GDAWR) and US Fish & Wildlife Service (USFWS) in accordance with cooperative agreements,
       is assigned the following duties:
          4.2.1.1. Implements the INMRP.
          4.2.1.2. Is designated Office of Primary responsibility (OPR) to administer funds from sales
          of hunting and fishing permits.
          4.2.1.3. Ensures base activities are in compliance with Federal Endangered Species Act,
          National Historic Preservation laws, and all other federal and territorial laws related to natural
          resources.
          4.2.1.4. Works in coordination with the Superintendent of Security Forces Operations to
          enforce base natural resources conservation regulations.
          4.2.1.5. Supervises the Chief Conservation Officer and is responsible for directing the Volun-
          teer Conservation Officer Program at Andersen AFB.
          4.2.1.6. Serves as Chairperson of the Natural Resources Working Group.
          4.2.1.7. Formulates for the BCE's approval, all policies with respect to fish and wildlife con-
          servation on US Air Force property.
          4.2.1.8. In coordination with GDAWR, proposes hunting areas, seasons (Attachment 1 ), and
          fishing regulations, subject to approval of the Base Commander.
          4.2.1.9. Promotes and publicizes information through the Base Public Affairs Office concern-
          ing natural resources on Andersen AFB.
          4.2.1.10. Prepares financial plan/budget for the Natural Resources Management Program for
          appropriated funds (operations and maintenance or research, development, test, and evalua-
          tion) and from funds in special account 57X5095 (from fees collected from hunting permits,
          fishing permits, land crab permits and wood removal permits.)
          4.2.1.11. Annually reviews this instruction for updating to maintain adequate conservation of
          wildlife resources on USAF property.
    4.3. Natural Resources Working Group (NRWG).
       4.3.1. The NRWG is primarily concerned with reviewing the fish, wildlife, and outdoor recreation
       resources, brown tree snake control, and enforcement of these elements on Andersen AFB. This
36ABWI32-7003 12 DECEMBER 2000                                                                        5


     includes reviewing results of wildlife censuses, game harvest reports, outdoor recreation use data,
     brown tree snake research and control programs, fish and game violations, and other relevant
     reports prepared by Air Force and cooperating agency professionals. Recommended changes are
     to be forwarded to the Natural Resource Planner (36 CES/CEV), for consideration of inclusion to
     the Integrated Natural Resources Management Plan, this instruction, and for briefing to the Envi-
     ronmental Protection Committee.
     4.3.2. The NRWG will meet quarterly or as necessary. Copies of proposed agendas and meeting
     minutes will be circulated to all NRWG members and advisors.
     4.3.3. The Natural Resources Planner is designated POC to monitor all conservation activities and
     maintain status and minutes of NRWG meetings.
     4.3.4. The NRWG will monitor base programs to ensure implementation of Natural Resources
     Conservation Plans.
     4.3.5. The NRWG is a subcommittee of the base Environmental Protection Committee (EPC).
     4.3.6. The NRWG is designated responsible for the following forms:
        4.3.6.1. AFFM 3545, Incident/Complaint Report and AF Form 52, Evidence TAG, stocked
        by the Superintendent pf Police Services (36 SFS/SFOP). A Field Interview Card, stocked by
        36 CEV, will be used to annotate minor illegal actions, kept on file, and used to reference
        repeat offenders for prosecution.
        4.3.6.2. 36 ABW Form 25, Request to Hunt on Air Force Property (Attachment 1 ), and
        36 ABW Form 26, Special Access Permit (Attachment 2 ), issued by Chief CO.
        4.3.6.3. 36 ABW Form 27, Andersen AFB Conservation Officer ID Cards issued by the
        NRP and Chief Conservation Officer (CO), 36ABW Form 28, 36 ABW Form 25-A, and 36
        ABW 095.
     4.3.7. NRWG Membership: Membership will consist of representatives from the following
     offices:
        4.3.7.1. Environmental Flight (36 CES/ CEV).
            4.3.7.1.1. Natural Resources Planner (36 CES/CEV) - Chairperson.
            4.3.7.1.2. Chief Conservation Officer (36 CES/CEV) - Recorder.
        4.3.7.2. Wing Safety (36 ABW/SEG).
        4.3.7.3. Staff Judge Advocate (36 ABW/JA).
        4.3.7.4. Services Squadron (36 SVS/SVR).
        4.3.7.5. Operations Support Squadron, Commander (36 OSS/CC).
        4.3.7.6. Maintenance Squadron (36 MXS/LGM).
        4.3.7.7. Engineering Heavy Repair (36 CES/CEOR).
        4.3.7.8. Security Forces (36 SFS/SFO).
        4.3.7.9. Office of Public Affairs (36 ABW/PA).
        4.3.7.10. Guam Division of Aquatic and Wildlife Resources (GDAWR).
6                                                              36ABWI32-7003 12 DECEMBER 2000


          4.3.7.11. Guam National Wildlife Refuge
          4.3.7.12. USDA/Wildlife Services
          4.3.7.13. USGS/Biological Resources Division
       4.3.8. Representatives from the following organizations are advisors to the committee as required:
          4.3.8.1. University of Guam/Life Sciences Department and/or Marine Lab
          4.3.8.2. Veterinary Services (36 MGD/SGV).
          4.3.8.3. US Coast Guard.
    4.4. Volunteer Conservation Officer (VCO) Program.
       4.4.1. The purpose of this program is for volunteers to participate in implementing the Andersen
       AFB public hunting program, to support various animal control projects, to enforce the Andersen
       AFB conservation laws as outlined in this instruction, and to assist with endangered species, wild-
       life and habitat management, and marine resource projects, as directed by the Chief CO and NRP.
       4.4.2. The Chief CO will review all applications and recommend to the NRP volunteer conserva-
       tion officers for appointment. To be eligible, an applicant must be either active duty, retired mili-
       tary, military reservists with the Air or Army National Guard, or DOD employees on Guam.
       Dependents of military personnel may also apply. Exceptions may be made on a case by case basis
       if deemed beneficial to the program.
       4.4.3. Andersen AFB Volunteer Conservation Officers duties and responsibilities:
          4.4.3.1. Assist and support the Chief CO in control and regulation of all hunting, fishing, and
          trapping on Air Force property.
          4.4.3.2. Support Andersen AFB Security Forces or the Civil Engineering Pest Management
          Branch in the disposal of injured or dead wildlife and removal of illegal traps or snares when
          found. Report all cases to the Chief CO who will in turn notify Guam Division of Aquatic and
          Wildlife Resources in accordance with Guam Law.
          4.4.3.3. Generate and participate in projects designed to improve environmental conditions
          for fish and wildlife on Air Force property in accordance with approved Natural Resources
          Management Plans.
          4.4.3.4. Perform conservation officer duties when required.
          4.4.3.5. Control sign-in and sign-out of all hunters on Air Force property.
          4.4.3.6. Inspect hunting weapons, ammunition, and required safety gear used by hunters.
          4.4.3.7. Verify hunter documentation during hunting season.
          4.4.3.8. Inspect vehicles leaving hunting areas for illegal game.
          4.4.3.9. Assist hunters in tracking injured/wounded game animals.
          4.4.3.10. Conduct hunter safety courses for hunters and issue hunter safety certification.
          4.4.3.11. Support and enforce this ABWI.
          4.4.3.12. Settle disputes between hunters as necessary.
36ABWI32-7003 12 DECEMBER 2000                                                                         7


         4.4.3.13. Operate private vehicles off roads only when necessary to perform conservation
         duties.
         4.4.3.14. Monitor special wildlife areas such as endangered species habitat.
         4.4.3.15. Immediately report poaching or any illegal activities to the Andersen AFB Security
         Forces, and to the GDAWR Enforcement Conservation Officers.
         4.4.3.16. Of the total number of Volunteer COs, half shall be active duty Air Force personnel
         and half shall be civilians, Reservists, National Guard, retirees, or dependents.
     4.4.4. Personnel appointed conservation officers will be issued identification cards by 36 CES/
     CEV, Form 36 Form 27, and charged with a thorough knowledge of pertinent portions of the
     Guam Aquatic and Wildlife Resources regulations, Federal Migratory Bird laws, firearms safety,
     elementary first aid procedures, 36 ABWI 32-7003, 36 ABWI 34-102, and other current publica-
     tions when applicable, as determined by the NRP.
  4.5. Chief Conservation Officer.
     4.5.1. The Chief Conservation Officer will be responsible for implementing and enforcing the
     Andersen AFB Hunting and Volunteer Conservation Officer Programs and will work under the
     supervision of the NRP.
     4.5.2. Duties include:
         4.5.2.1. Soliciting and supervising volunteers for many conservation projects, as outlined in
         the Integrated Natural Resource Management Plan.
         4.5.2.2. Provides training for Volunteer Conservation Officers.
         4.5.2.3. Oversees procedures to grant access to authorized hunters on to the base during the
         official hunting season.
         4.5.2.4. Coordinates all special hunts. Notifies concerned agencies of regular and special hunt
         dates and locations, a minimum of five working days prior to all scheduled hunts.
         4.5.2.5. Advertises for, interviews, and recommends to the NRP qualified volunteer COs for
         appointment.
         4.5.2.6. Administers apprentice program for training and appointment of volunteer COs.
         4.5.2.7. Holds monthly Volunteer CO meetings, records minutes, and reports to NRP.
         4.5.2.8. Coordinates all logistics for conducting the AAFB Hunter Safety Course, collecting
         fees, and issuing permits.
         4.5.2.9. Compiles monthly report of all hunt data (i.e., names, permit numbers, areas and
         hours hunted, and kill/take information).
         4.5.2.10. Enforces the conservation rules in this instruction and supports Andersen AFB Secu-
         rity Forces, and GDAWR Enforcement Officials in the enforcement of this instruction and
         applicable territorial and federal laws and regulations.
         4.5.2.11. Coordinates hunting area closures, as required, to facilitate scheduled exercises with
         36 OSS/OSX and 36 SFS/SFOL.
         4.5.2.12. Coordinates hunter access, sign-in/out procedures, and notification of closed areas
8                                                              36ABWI32-7003 12 DECEMBER 2000


           with Security Forces Control Center/Law Enforcement (LE) desk or LE Operations Superin-
           tendent.
           4.5.2.13. Responds to nuisance and injured game reports and assists in disposal of animals.
           4.5.2.14. Implements animal and habitat management projects as directed by the NRP.
           4.5.2.15. Assists 36 SFS with wild dog control program.
           4.5.2.16. Puts down injured, sick, or nuisance animals on AAFB.
           4.5.2.17. The Chief CO will be trained in law enforcement and meet all Air Force require-
           ments to enforce the conservation regulations on Andersen AFB, and comply with the natural
           resource law enforcement provisions of Sikes Act, 16 USC 670a, DOD Instruction 4715.3,
           Environmental Conservation Program, and Air Force Instruction 32-7064, Integrated Natural
           Resource Management.
    4.6. Superintendent, Police Services (36 SFS/SFOP).
       4.6.1. Ensures that spot checks are made of all areas of Andersen AFB for enforcement of regula-
       tions concerning firearms, off-limit areas, and off-road vehicles.
       4.6.2. Responds to violations of this regulation when reported to the Andersen Security Forces
       Control Center and assists with applicable apprehension, confiscation, or documentation proce-
       dures.
       4.6.3. Takes all actions necessary to obtain assistance from Guam Division of Aquatic and Wild-
       life Resources or other authorities as may be requested from the NRP or Chief Co.
       4.6.4. Coordinates on access requests to Northwest Field and Andersen South.
    4.7. Guam Department of Aquatic and Wildlife Resources.
       4.7.1. In accordance with the "Cooperative Agreement for the Protection, Development, and
       Management of Fish and Wildlife Resources at Andersen AFB, Guam", within the limitations of
       funds and personnel, will:
           4.7.1.1. Conduct surveys, censuses, and biological research on fish and wildlife resources to
           determine population trends and obtain biological data on which to base management actions.
           4.7.1.2. Manage fish and game populations on a sustained yield basis to provide recreational
           opportunities in a manner that would prevent safety hazards and damage to other resources.
           4.7.1.3. Protect and promote recovery of endangered species and their habitats.
           4.7.1.4. Enforce Government of Guam and applicable federal fish and wildlife laws and regu-
           lations.
           4.7.1.5. Support enforcement of this instruction.
           4.7.1.6. Provide technical guidance in developing and furthering the INRMP for protecting
           and promoting recovery of endangered and threatened species and their habitats.
    4.8. US Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS).
       4.8.1. As agreed upon in the Cooperative Agreement for the Guam National Wildlife Refuge
       Overlay, the Refuge Administrator within the limitations of funds and personnel, will:
36ABWI32-7003 12 DECEMBER 2000                                                                             9


          4.8.1.1. Provide technical guidance and direct assistance in developing and furthering the
          INRMP, and for protecting and promoting recovery of endangered and threatened species and
          their habitats.
          4.8.1.2. Support enforcement of base and local fish and wildlife laws and regulations.

5. Access to Air Force Land and Water Areas.
   5.1. Access for hunting, fishing, and other natural resource enjoyment is encouraged.
   5.2. All hunting and fishing will be controlled and held within manageable quotas depending on the
   extent of the natural resource base. Opportunities for recreational purposes will be equitably distrib-
   uted by impartial selection procedures, such as drawing lots, or a first-come, first served basis.
   5.3. Air Force will grant access to employees of the US Fish and Wildlife Service and the Department
   of Agriculture who need access to the base on a regular basis for purposes of management, conserva-
   tion, and harvesting of fish and wildlife resources under the provision of Title 10, U.S. Code, Section
   2671. Upon coordination with the Wing Commander, such employees shall be issued the appropriate
   Department of Defense (DOD) identification card for base access. DOD base access identification
   cards issued by the US Navy will be accepted as a substitute. Every effort shall be made to schedule
   such access in advance to facilitate this process.
   5.4. Special Agents of the US Fish and Wildlife Service, the National Marine Fisheries Service, and
   Conservation Officers of the Department of Agriculture, the Chief CO, in coordination with 36 SFS/
   SFOL, will be granted access to the base with the right to bear arms in order to enforce applicable fed-
   eral and territorial laws and regulations in accordance with their respective jurisdictions. Certain areas
   of Andersen AFB may be placed off limits to the Law Enforcement Agents by the commander when
   security so requires.
   5.5. Off Limits Areas: Northwest Field, Small Arms and Explosive Ordnance Disposal Range, Sani-
   tary Landfill, AAFB flight line controlled area, and Munitions Storage Area (MSA) I & 11 are off lim-
   its to all personnel not performing official duties or participating in a base sponsored event. The Wing
   Commander or his representative may open or close any area at his discretion.

6. Special Access Permits.
   6.1. Permission may be granted to enter jungle areas for crab hunting, fishing, hiking, special field
   trips, or gathering of plant life, by obtaining a 36 ABW Form 26, Special Access Permit. Special
   Access permits are issued by the Chief CO and the NRP. Permits will be issued by the Chief CO at the
   Self-Help Center, Bldg 22007, weekdays. Identification of individuals will be checked against the
   debarment listing to ensure they have not been debarred from the base and that they meet the qualifi-
   cations noted in paragraph. (Attachment 2 , Figure A2.1. , Map).
   6.2. Vehicle access will be limited to paved roads only as indicated on attached maps. Users will park
   in designated parking areas only. These areas will be marked by signs. If signs are not posted, then
   vehicles shall be parked no more than eight feet from the road shoulders. Exemptions to this require-
   ment include GDAWR personnel, AAFB Volunteer Conservation Officers, 36 CES, 36 SFS, 36 CS
   and any other Military or GovGuam personnel while performing official duties.
   6.3. Special Access Permits authorize access to only the areas shown on attached maps, which will be
   issued with the permit. Access to all other areas must be coordinated with the NRP, 36 CES/CEV, who
10                                                                36ABWI32-7003 12 DECEMBER 2000


     will in turn coordinate with the Guam DAWR, due to the presence of Threatened or Endangered spe-
     cies and their habitat, the Real Estate Officer, 36 CES/CERR, and 36 SFS/SFOP when applicable.
     6.4. The following rules apply to the issuance of a Special Access Permit.
        6.4.1. Passes will be issued only to those individuals who are:
            6.4.1.1. Active duty members and retirees of the U.S. Armed Forces.
            6.4.1.2. Reserve members of the US Armed Forces, while they are on active duty.
            6.4.1.3. Employees of the US Air Force at Andersen AFB.
            6.4.1.4. DOD civilian identification card holders which includes AF Form 354, Civilian
            Identification Card, and DD Form 2765, Department of Defense/Uniformed Services
            Identification and Privilege Card.
            6.4.1.5. Dependents of individuals who qualify under paragraphs 6.4.1.1. ,6.4.1.2. , and
            6.4.1.3. above.
        6.4.2. Identification of all individuals requesting permits will be checked to verify that they have
        not been debarred from the base and that they meet the qualifications noted.
        6.4.3. Special Access permit holders must physically sign-in and sign-out at the Security Forces
        desk, in building 21000, unless they are going fishing and hold a valid fishing permit.
        6.4.4. There will be a maximum of four guests per permit.
        6.4.5. The permit will be issued for a one-year time period.
        6.4.6. The collection of historical or archeological artifacts is strictly prohibited.
        6.4.7. Special Access Permits can be issued for group functions at the discretion of the Chief CO
        or NRP.
        6.4.8. Access to Andersen South for hunting, hiking, or crabbing is no longer authorized, however
        exceptions may be made for plant materials collection or other recreational purposes when
        approved by the Chief CO or NRP.
        6.4.9. The permit holder is responsible for the actions of all guests.
        6.4.10. A Special Access Permit is not required for individuals who want to hike on the desig-
        nated Tarague Embayment Interpretive Trails. To hike on the designated trails, individuals must
        pick up a self-guided trail brochure and sign in at the Tropicana Recreation Center, the Chief Con-
        servation Officers office, or at Oscar’s Beach House on the weekends.

7. Coconut Crab (Birgus latro) Hunting Regulations and Procedures.
     7.1. Coconut crab permits will be issued for a $10.00 fee and be valid for a one-year period from the
     date of issue. Funds are deposited into the AAFB Fish and Wildlife Conservation Fund 57X5095.
     7.2. Each person hunting crabs may sponsor one additional person to assist. A third person or anyone
     assisting with crabs must have a permit.
     7.3. Persons intending to hunt crabs must drop off their 36 ABW Form 26, at the Andersen Security
     Forces Control Center and inform them of their approximate departure time.
36ABWI32-7003 12 DECEMBER 2000                                                                           11


   7.4. When picking up the special access permit upon area departure, the hunter must report how many
   crabs were taken and approximate locations. Security Forces personnel may inspect the actual number
   and size of crabs taken. This information will be used in obtaining biological data on the land crab
   population.
   7.5. The crab hunter who fails to check in/out and provide the aforementioned biological data will
   have his/her special access permit revoked, and the individual may be barred from the base at the dis-
   cretion of the Wing Commander.
   7.6. Coconut crabs must be no less than 3 inches across the carapace, with a limit of 10 per day.
   7.7. Coconuts may be used to attract coconut crabs, however, the use of artificial containers and lures
   is prohibited.
   7.8. The season for coconut crab hunting is year round. Coconut crab hunting includes the entire spe-
   cial access permit area, as shown on the map (Attachment 2 , Figure A.1.2, Map).
   7.9. A person must be at least 13 years old to hunt coconut crabs on USAF property. All persons
   between the ages of 13 and 17 must be licensed and accompanied by a licensed parent or legal guard-
   ian.
   7.10. All coconut crab hunters on USAF property will be held responsible for knowing and obeying
   this instruction. Failure to obey this instruction may result in loss of hunting privileges and confisca-
   tion of game, weapons, vehicles, and other apparatus.

8. Fishing Regulations and Procedures.
   8.1. All Andersen AFB coastline is a designated Marine Resources Preserve according to Andersen
   and Guam Department of Agriculture Fisheries Regulations, as established in Public Law 24-21.
   8.2. Fishing Special Access permits cost $10.00 and are valid for a one-year period from the date of
   issue.
   8.3. All individuals will be required to possess a permit while fishing. Sponsored guests or family
   members, maximum of four, may fish while in the presence of their sponsor, who is in possession of
   the Special Access Permit for fishing.
   8.4. While fishing, the permit holder must place their Special Access Permit inside their vehicle, on
   the dash or another visible location, where it can be seen from outside the vehicle. A fisher does not
   need to call or physically check-in at the Security Forces Desk. The fisher who fails to follow this pro-
   cedures will have -his/her special access permit revoked, and the individual may be barred from the
   installation at the discretion of the Wing Commander.
   8.5. All of the Andersen AFB coastline is a designated Marine Resources Preserve. The taking of any
   type of marine life, dead or alive, by any method other than by pole fishing from the shoreline, is pro-
   hibited.
   8.6. On shore pole fishing is allowed from the west end of AAFB property at Tarague beach (except
   the authorized swimming area), to Pati Point recreational beach. Beyond that point is the Explosive
   Ordnance Disposal Range which is off-limits.
   8.7. Spearfishing is prohibited in waters that are under the control of Andersen AFB.
12                                                               36ABWI32-7003 12 DECEMBER 2000


     8.8. The possession of spears, spearguns, or nets, within 20 meters inland of the mean high tide mark
     signifies the intent to use and violators will be prosecuted.
     8.9. All net fishing is prohibited in waters that are under the control of Andersen AFB.
     8.10. "Chumming" is prohibited in waters that are under the control of Andersen AFB.
     8.11. Onshore hook and line fishing from Tarague to Pati Point Beach is permitted during all hours.
     8.12. Trolling may be conducted from the reef margin seaward, but only for pelagic fish. Persons
     catching non-pelagic fish shall release them immediately upon capture. Where the reef margin is not
     well defined because of gaps or undulations in the reef, the margin shall be defined by drawing a point
     between the two marine markers.

9. Plant, Wood, Vegetation Removal.
     9.1. The removal of plants, wood, and vegetation such as palm fronds, coconuts, moss, etc., for per-
     sonal use, will be permitted by issuance of a Special Access Permit with a fee of $10.00 and based on
     the following conditions:
     9.2. No live, whole plants or vegetation shall be removed or unnecessarily destroyed from its natural
     location unless written the NRP or the CHIEF CO gives approval. Boonie peppers are allowed to be
     harvested without a permit, but the plant must remain intact.
        9.2.1. No listed plant or those proposed for federal or local listing will be removed.
     9.3. Ifit wood removal (dead or alive) is strictly prohibited.
     9.4. Other types of wood and woody vegetation can be removed on a case by case basis with prior
     approval from the Chief CO or NRP.
     9.5. The removal of plants, moss, coconuts, etc., is intended for personal use and not for resale. The
     Special Access Permit issued will indicate the dates and locations authorized for vegetation or wood
     removal.

10. Threatened and Endangered Species Management.
     10.1. Federally listed threatened and endangered species will be protected under Public Law 93-205,
     the Endangered Species Act.
     10.2. State-listed species will be protected as advised by GDAWR, reference Attachment 3 .
     10.3. Any Andersen AFB actions must not jeopardize the continued existence of threatened or endan-
     gered plants and wildlife, nor result in the destruction or adverse modification of habitat identified as
     “essential habitat" by the US Fish and Wildlife Service.
     10.4. Any Andersen AFB actions that may affect federal or state-listed species referenced in Attach-
     ment 3 or their "essential habitats" will require notification of 36 CES/CEV.

11. Exceptions.
     11.1. The restriction on taking fish and game set forth in this instruction does not apply to the US Fish
     and Wildlife Service, and Guam DAWRRANDY officials in the performance of approved scientific
     research projects. These activities must be coordinated with the Base Natural Resource Planner.
36ABWI32-7003 12 DECEMBER 2000                                                                        13


   11.2. Special conditions or exemption restrictions may be granted, in coordination with other com-
   mands, as applicable. Waiver requests from GDAWR or USFWS regulations must be coordinated
   through the NRP, 36 CES/ CEV, who will in turn coordinate with other agencies, as applicable.
   11.3. The designation of authorized hunting methods, areas, and hunting seasons is subject to change
   and is dependent upon the discretion of the Wing Commander and USAF policy. Changes in autho-
   rized hunting areas and seasons on Air Force property will be coordinated with the GDAWR and pre-
   ceded by 10 days advance notice to the public, whenever practical.

12. Fire Prevention. Open fires are authorized only in picnic/camping areas with barbecue grills that are
designed for outdoor cooking. All other open fires require approval of 36 CES/ CEV and 36 CES/CEF
(Base Fire Department).

13. Training Exercises. Training exercises, i.e. jungle warfare, air base ground defense, rapid runway
repair, etc., must be in compliance with the environmental conditions required to conduct training exer-
cises on AAFB lands and be coordinated through 36 CES/CEV and 36 OSS/OSX (for air operations) or
AAFB sponsoring organization. After coordination, the Risk Assessment Board for final approval will
review exercises. The NRP will review requests and provide recommendations to the board. The Chief
CO will be notified and close recreational or hunting areas as applicable.

14. Violations.
   14.1. Anyone who violates any of the provisions of this regulation or commits any acts inconsistent
   with good safety practices, or which results in injury or damage to persons or property, may have any
   hunting and/or fishing privileges withdrawn permanently. This action will be taken independently of
   other punitive and administrative action. Any violators may be required to surrender their applicable
   permit to the Andersen AFB Conservation or Security Forces Officer, who will either accomplish a
   Field Interview or furnish a witness report for which 36 SFS/ SFOP can complete an Incident Com-
   plaint Report.
   14.2. National Guardsmen, Reservists and civilians who are apprehended or detained for violating
   federal or state laws, or Andersen AFB Fish and Game regulations may be escorted from the base and/
   or issued a letter of debarment by the 36 ABW Commander. Violators can be prosecuted under the
   Uniform Code of Military Justice, and/or Federal Law 10 U.S.C. 2671 before a Federal or Guam
   Court. AF Form 52 will be utilized for control of evidence.
   14.3. Violations by military personnel will be reported to the 36 ABW Commander and prosecuted
   accordingly, with punishment parallel to degree of punitive action for civilians.
   14.4. Traps, snares, deadfall, weapons, vehicles, dogs, and any other apparatus used in violation of
   this regulation are subject to confiscation by apprehending officials.
   14.5. Apprehending officials will confiscate fish/game taken in violation of this regulation and
   release it to Government of Guam conservation officials. AF will retain and dispose of as necessary,
   any evidence that GDAWR will not accept.
   14.6. Any person denied access to Air Force property for any reason shall not be authorized entry by
   this instruction.
14                                                        36ABWI32-7003 12 DECEMBER 2000


15. Disposition of Documents. Documents created by this directive will be disposed of in accordance
with AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule.

16. Forms Prescribed. 36 ABW Form 25, Request to Hunt on Air Force Property, 36 ABW Form
25-A, Hunting Permit, 36 ABW Form 26, Special Access Permit, 36 ABW Form 26-A, Coconut Crab
Collecting Permit, 36 ABW Form 26-B, Fishing Permit, and 36 ABW Form 27, Andersen AFB Con-
servation Officer Identification Card. These forms are affected by the Privacy Act, when filled in.



                                                 BERNARD H. FULLENKAMP, Colonel, USAF
                                                 Commander, 36th Air Base Wing
36ABWI32-7003 12 DECEMBER 2000                                                                             15


                                              Attachment 1

                        ANDERSEN AIR FORCE BASE HUNTING RULES

Section A1A—Seasons, Areas, and Permit Requirements for Deer and Pig Hunting

A1.1. Hunting Seasons.
   A1.1.1. Philippine Deer (Cervus mariannus). Harvest and bag limits will mirror the Guam hunting
   regulations, unless otherwise designated by the Chief CO or Natural Resource Planner.
   A1.1.2. Feral Pigs (Sus scrofa). Harvest and bag limits will mirror the Guam hunting regulations,
   unless otherwise designated by the Chief CO or Natural Resource Planner
   A1.1.3. Game Birds (Black Francolin, Francolinus Francolinus). There is no season for game
   birds on AAFB.
NOTE: All hunting will be conducted during these dates except for special hunts approved by the Wing
Commander and the Guam Division of Aquatics and Wildlife Resources (GDAWR).

A1.2. Hunting Areas.
   A1.2.1. Bow. Bow hunting is permitted in Areas A, B, D, and E, for all active duty military, retirees,
   dependents or DOD civilians, (refer to attached maps) seven days per week during the deer and pig
   seasons. Public hunter access to the main base will be authorized seven days per week during the
   Andersen AFB hunting hours. Munitions Storage Area will be open on weekends only, in the morn-
   ings all year, and in the afternoons during deer season.
       A1.2.1.1. Bow Hunting Procedures. Archery hunters must be wearing their fluorescent orange
       hat and vest at all times, and be carrying the required safety gear. Upon arrival at the Visitor Center
       they shall present their Andersen AFB hunting permit, vehicle registration, and proof of insurance,
       and they will be issued a vehicle pass. If the Visitor Center is closed, hunter will check it at the
       Guard Office at the main gate. With vehicle pass in the windshield, archery hunters must proceed
       directly to the Security Forces desk at building 21000 to physically check into a designated bow
       hunting area. The hunter must proceed directly to the archery hunting area, and when finished
       hunting, return to the Security Forces desk to pick up their Andersen AFB hunting license, report
       any game taken, and proceed directly off base. Any archery hunters caught in unauthorized areas
       will have their hunting permit revoked and debarred from the base.
   A1.2.2. Gun.
       A1.2.2.1. Gun hunting in Northwest Field is permitted on Saturdays and Sundays during the fol-
       lowing times:
          A1.2.2.1.1. During deer season, hunting is permitted on Saturdays and Sundays from one-half
          hour before official sunrise until on-half hour after official sunset. Hunters will not be allowed
          to sign in after 1600.
          A1.2.2.1.2. During pig season, hunting is permitted on Saturdays and Sundays from one-half
          hour before sunrise until 1200. Hunters will not be allowed to sign in after 1000.
       A1.2.2.2. The Wing Commander may open other areas on base to gun hunting as needed.
16                                                               36ABWI32-7003 12 DECEMBER 2000


A1.3. Special Hunts.
     A1.3.1. Special hunts for deer or pigs may be held if population or habitat control is required.
     A1.3.2. Special hunts will require prior approval by the Wing Commander, GDAWR, and when
     applicable, the 36th Maintenance Squadron Commander.
     A1.3.3. Special hunts will be announced in the Base paper, Base Bulletin, and on Andersen's Channel
     28. Local advertisement will be handled by GDAWR.

A1.4. Hunting Permits
     A1.4.1. All hunters hunting on AAFB must possess a valid Government of Guam hunting license and
     deer tag (when hunting deer) and AAFB hunting permit.
     A1.4.2. Guam hunting licenses may be obtained at the GDAWR Office and at most sporting goods
     stores.
     A1.4.3. AAFB hunting permits will be issued at the gun or bow hunter safety course, upon comple-
     tion of the course. To be issued a permit, hunters must present proper identification, Guam hunting
     license, sign the Request to Hunt on Air Force Property form and pay a $20 permit fee. Bow hunters
     must pass a onetime qualification shoot in order to hunt on AAFB using a bow (see A1.5.2. ).
     A1.4.4. The AAFB hunting permit will be valid from 1 October to 30 September for the fiscal year
     issued.

A1.5. Safety Course.
     A1.5.1. Hunter safety course attendance and signing of the Request to Hunt on Air Force Property
     Form are required in order to obtain a valid AAFB hunting permit. If a hunter is in possession of a
     license from the previous hunting season or if base records show that a hunter was issued a license for
     that year, then the safety course may not be required.
     A1.5.2. Upon completion of the safety course, bow hunters must pass a qualification shoot. The
     hunter must score 27 points on a 54 point, 40 cm target using 6 arrows at 20 yards (30 yards for cross-
     bows). When official targets are not available, the target will be a 9-inch diameter paper disk or plate
     and all 6 arrows must hit the plate consecutively. Target arrows will be allowed for the qualification
     shoot.
     A1.5.3. Safety courses will be held annually during the months of August and September, and sched-
     uled to meet demand, during the hunting season. Times and locations will be announced prior to the
     course.

Section A1B—Hunting Rules

A1.6. Hunting Rules.
     A1.6.1. All hunters on USAF property will be held responsible for knowing and obeying Guam Law,
     GDAWR Regulations, and the following regulations and procedures. Failure to obey these provisions
     may result in loss of hunting privileges; confiscation of game, weapons, vehicles, or other apparatus;
     and civil or criminal penalties.
36ABWI32-7003 12 DECEMBER 2000                                                                         17


  A1.6.2. Hunting is allowed only in the areas described, during seasons defined, and on the specific
  days listed in this regulation. Hunting is dependent upon the availability of Conservation Officers
  (COs). No hunting is allowed when COs are not present. Hunting in other areas or during other sea-
  sons or times is in violation of 36 ABWI 32-7003.
  A1.6.3. Guam law and Guam Hunting Regulations apply on AAFB. If any portion of the Guam reg-
  ulations conflict with AAFB hunting regulations, the more stringent requirement applies.
  A1.6.4. GDAWR bag limits and tagging requirements apply on all USAF property.
  A1.6.5. A person must be at least 13 years old to hunt on USAF property. All persons between the
  ages of 13 and 17 must be licensed and accompanied by a licensed parent or legal guardian. Minors
  must meet the same qualifications as adult hunters.
  A1.6.6. All hunting is limited to the use of bow and arrow, crossbow, muzzle loading rifles, or shot-
  guns. Rifles and handguns are not authorized for use on USAF property unless specifically authorized
  by the 36th Air Base Wing Commander. All firearms used on USAF property must be registered with
  the Guam Police Department.
  A1.6.7. Shotguns will be limited to 10 through 410 gauge only. All 410 gauge shotguns will use slugs
  only. In firearm areas, buckshot or slugs may be used for taking deer and wild pigs. Possession of bird
  shot is prohibited in all areas except when prior approval has been granted.
  A1.6.8. Muzzle loading rifles or shotguns with percussion or flintlock type firing mechanism of 45
  caliber or larger, firing a single projectile may be used for hunting pigs and deer. "Scatter Shot" type
  ammo is prohibited.
  A1.6.9. Compound, recurve, or long bows must have a minimum draw weight of 45 lbs. Crossbows
  must have a draw of 100 lbs. Arrows and crossbow bolts must have a broadhead cutting width of 7/8
  inch and have no fewer than 3 sharpened cutting edges.
  A1.6.10. Traps or snares are prohibited for taking any animal or bird except for special hunts
  approved by GDAWR and AAFB. Please report all illegal traps or snares to the on-duty CO, Chief
  CO, or Law Enforcement Desk.
  A1.6.11. The use of Government issued weapons for hunting is prohibited, on or off USAF property.
  The term "Government issued weapon" does not include weapons owned by non-appropriated fund
  activities.
  A1.6.12. Hunting in an archery area with a firearm or with a bow or crossbow in a firearm area is pro-
  hibited, except where special authorization has been granted.
  A1.6.13. Hunting from a motor vehicle or transporting a loaded weapon in a motor vehicle is prohib-
  ited. When transporting your weapon to and from any hunting area, the chamber will be kept open and
  the safety on.
  A1.6.14. Any game killed by a vehicle or "road kill" will be reported immediately to the Andersen
  Security Forces Control Center, who will in turn contact the DAWR for charity donation or AAFB
  Pest Management Section for disposal, depending upon condition of animal when found. 36 SFS/
  SPOP and Pest Management 36 CES/CEOIU must report all game kills to the Chief CO, 36 CES/CEV
  for data collection.
18                                                              36ABWI32-7003 12 DECEMBER 2000


     A1.6.15. Hunting hours on all USAF property will begin at one-half hour before official sunrise and
     end one-half hour after official sunset. Firearms or bows will not be discharged before or after these
     times.
     A1.6.16. Accepting reimbursement in any form for game taken on USAF property is prohibited.
     A1.6.17. All hunters and carriers must wear a fluorescent orange vest or upper body garment, cover-
     ing 360 degrees and a daylight fluorescent orange hat at all times while hunting or scouting. Camou-
     flage patterns of orange are not authorized.
     A1.6.18. All hunters and carriers must have in their possession, at all times, a whistle, flashlight,
     compass, and timepiece.
     A1.6.19. No herding, driving, or mass hunting will be allowed.
     A1.6.20. All wounded animals will be trailed as long as possible. Every attempt will be made to
     recover wounded game. If they are not found, an AAFB CO should be notified. The CO will provide
     assistance when necessary.
     A1.6.21. Vehicle access will be limited to paved roads only as indicated on attached maps. Users will
     park in designated parking areas only. Signs will mark these areas. If signs are not posted, then vehi-
     cles shall be parked no more than eight feet from the road shoulders. Exemptions to this requirement
     include GDAWR personnel, AAFB Volunteer Conservation Officers, 36 CES, 36 SFS, 36 CS, and any
     other Military or GovGuam personnel while performing official duties.
     A1.6.22. All animal kills will be reported to AAFB COs on duty or at the LE Desk when signing out.
     Accidental kills will also be reported.
     A1.6.23. Hunting is not allowed within 25 yards of any main roadway (i.e. Route 9, Route 3A, Arc
     Light Blvd, Perimeter Road, Tarague Beach Road) or 50 yards of an occupied building. Firearms must
     be unloaded within the 25 and 50-yard zone with chamber open. Bows and crossbows must not be
     quivered within the 25 and 50-yard zone.
     A1.6.24. All carriers must attend the gun and bow safety courses, execute the Request to Hunt on Air
     Force Property form, and comply with all Guam and AAFB hunting laws and regulations. Carriers do
     not need to be licensed hunters.
     A1.6.25. Carriers may accompany hunters in archery areas to assist in recovering downed game. The
     use of carriers at Northwest Field is authorized, however, they must remain at the HSC until the hunter
     returns for them. Exception: one carrier may accompany a handicapped hunter in the handicapped
     area.
     A1.6.26. Woody vegetation or whole live plants will not be removed or unnecessarily destroyed.
     Chainsaws, open fires, and explosives are prohibited.
     A1.6.27. Hunters will report all violations of the hunting regulations to the on-duty CO prior to, or
     upon, departing the hunting area. If deemed necessary, the CO will report the violation, in writing, to
     the Chief CO for appropriate action.
     A1.6.28. Influence of Alcohol and Drugs: No person shall hunt or accompany any hunter at any time
     while under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating substances. Persons purchasing a base hunt-
     ing permit or those persons accompanying a hunter shall be deemed to have given consent for testing
     their blood, breath, and/or urine if stopped by a law enforcement official who has a reasonable belief
36ABWI32-7003 12 DECEMBER 2000                                                                          19


   that the individual was hunting or accompanying a hunter while under the influence of intoxicants.
   Possession of alcohol (even unopened) while in possession of a gun or bow is prohibited. Individuals
   failing to submit to such tests upon request shall be ineligible to hunt or accompany a hunter on Air
   Force property for a period of one year.
   A1.6.29. Altering, Borrowing, Loaning, or Transferring of Base Hunting Stamps/Permits: No person
   shall at any time alter, change, borrow, loan, or transfer to another person any base hunting stamp or
   permit. Anyone caught violating this provision shall be ineligible to hunt or accompany hunter on Air
   Force property for a period of not less than one year.
   A1.6.30. Anyone who violates any of the provisions of this regulation, as well as commits any acts
   inconsistent with good safety practices, or which results in injury or damage to persons or property,
   will have their hunting privileges withdrawn. This action will be taken independently of other punitive
   and administrative action.

Section A1C—Bow Hunting Regulations and Procedures

A1.7. Bow Hunting Regulations And Procedures.
   A1.7.1. The following rules will be strictly adhered to by all persons bow hunting on AAFB:
      A1.7.1.1. There are five bow hunting areas (Attachment 2 , Figure A2.3. ). Area A is located
      west of the Perimeter and beach access roads. Area B is located east of the beach access road. Area
      D is located north of the golf course. Area E, located adjacent to the golf course, above cliff line.
      No hunting is allowed on the golf course. No entry through the golf course. Munitions Storage
      Area (MSA) is located between Andersen proper and Northwest Field. Hunting is only permitted
      above the cliff line in all areas.
      A1.7.1.2. Bow hunters hunting in areas A, B, D, or E, must check in and out at the Andersen
      Security Police Control Center, located on the north side of building 21000. Should a hunter wish
      to change areas, he must return to the Andersen Security Police Control Center and sign out to the
      new area.
      A1.7.1.3. It will be the hunter’s responsibility to check the sign-in log at the Andersen Security
      Police Control Center for the location of other bow hunters in the area.
      A1.7.1.4. Upon departing area A, B, D, or E, the hunter must physically return to the Andersen
      Security Police Control Center to pick up his hunting permit, and to record hunting times and ani-
      mal kills. Failure to check in or out of the bow hunting area may result in the termination of hunt-
      ing privileges.
      A1.7.1.5. Youth archery hunters may carry a bow while hunting with an adult.
      A1.7.1.6. Hunters that are hunting together must remain in sight of one another at all times. No
      exceptions.

Section A1D—Munitions Storage Area (MSA) Hunting Procedures

A1.8. Munitions Storage Area (MSA) Hunting Procedures
20                                                             36ABWI32-7003 12 DECEMBER 2000


     A1.8.1. The following procedures will be implemented for hunting inside the MSA. Procedures will
     be strictly adhered to by all personnel hunting in the MSA and enforced by the Chief Conservation
     Officer.
     A1.8.2. Only Active Duty Military, Reserve, National Guard, DOD Civilians, retired military person-
     nel, and Andersen AFB Conservation Officers (CO) possessing a valid Guam and AAFB Hunting
     Permit are eligible to hunt in the MSA. Only COs and personnel assigned to the 36 MXS Munitions
     Flight possessing a valid Guam and AAFB Hunting Permit can hunt weekdays, provided all MSA per-
     sonnel have departed the area and Security Forces are notified prior to entry.
     A1.8.3. COs not possessing an AF Form 1199, Restricted Area Badge, authorizing entry into Area 2,
     must have an Andersen AFB Conservation Officer Identification Card and be on the Entry Authoriza-
     tion List (EAL) signed by the 36 MXS Commander. The Chief CO will provide a current list of autho-
     rized Conservation Officers to the 36 MXS Commander.
     A1.8.4. On weekends, hunters will sign in at the main gate of the Munitions Storage Area (MSA), and
     will be escorted into the MSA by a CO in a GOV. There will be three COs on duty; two will monitor
     the hunting in NW Field open to the general public, and one will monitor hunting in the MSA, ensur-
     ing only those eligible enter the area. (Attachment 2 . Figure A.2.4).
     A1.8.5. During deer season, hunters will be brought into the MSA no earlier than 0500 on the week-
     end hunts. Hunting may begin no earlier than ½ hour before official sunrise and will end one-half hour
     after official sunset.
     A1.8.6. The following hunting areas are assigned to the MSA (see attachments). Areas will be
     assigned on a first come, first served basis, and by lottery if needed.
        A1.8.6.1. Streets 1 - 3 will be considered one area and only hunted between D and E Avenues.
        A1.8.6.2. Streets 4-13 will only be hunted between B and E Avenues.
        A1.8.6.3. Streets l4-15 will be considered one area and only hunted between C and D Avenues.
        A1.8.6.4. No hunting is allowed between A and B Avenues or between C and D on 3rd Street.
     A1.8.7. Any street with munitions stored outside will not be hunted. The Chief CO will call Muni-
     tions Control every Friday, to check which areas, if any, fall into this category.

Section A1E—Northwest Field Gun Hunting Regulations and Procedures

A1.9. Northwest Field Gun Hunting Regulations And Procedures.
     A1.9.1. An AAFB CO will be on duty at the Hunter Safety Center (HSC) located near Det 5 at North-
     west Field when ever the hunting areas are open. AAFB COs on duty will monitor the NWF hunting
     areas and provide hunter assistance when necessary. COs are prohibited from hunting while on duty.
     A1.9.2. Hunters must sign up at the Hunter Safety Center. Hunting area assignment will be rotated on
     a daily basis.
     A1.9.3. The Chief CO will open or close hunting areas as applicable when training exercises or
     endangered species activity would be affected.
     A1.9.4. All persons hunting at NWF will strictly adhere to the following rules:
36ABWI32-7003 12 DECEMBER 2000                                                                          21


     A1.9.4.1. Hunters must sign up at the HSC located near Det 5. Hunter check in will begin at 0430
     during deer season and 0500 the remainder of the year.
     A1.9.4.2. Hunting areas will be assigned by lottery or first come, first served basis, depending on
     demand until all hunting areas have been assigned.
     A1.9.4.3. All hunters will sign in and out of their areas at the HSC. AAFB COs will accomplish
     all signing in and out of areas or area changes only. Once a hunter leaves an area, the area will be
     assigned to the next hunter who requests it. If a hunter leaves his area for any reason, he must sign
     out at the HSC. Failure to check out will result in the revoking of hunting privileges for that
     hunter.
     A1.9.4.4. Only one person will be allowed per hunting area. The only exceptions are licensed
     minors hunting with their parent or legal guardian. Minors (ages 13 through 17) will not be
     assigned to an area by themselves and must have appropriate permits. Only one weapon will be
     allowed into an area. Extra weapons must be left at the HSC until the hunters return.
     A1.9.4.5. Hunters will be released to their areas before legal hunting time, but will not shoot until
     official hunting hour begins. Hunters must make every effort to leave their hunting area at or
     before official hunting time ends. The only exception is if a hunter is tracking wounded game.
     A1.9.4.6. Once you have been assigned an area and have been released by the COs, you will go to
     your area along the paved access road only. No vehicles will be allowed to leave the paved areas.
     A1.9.4.7. All hunters, except those assigned to areas 22, 25, 28, 56, 57, 58, 59, and 60, will park
     inside NWF. No parking on Perimeter Road will be allowed except for the above eight areas.
     Hunters' vehicles will be parked in clear view next to the sign designating their assigned area.
     Hunters assigned to areas 51, 52, 53, 54, and 55 will park their vehicles at the comer of areas 30
     and 31.
     A1.9.4.8. Hunters are limited to the area assigned to them and will not hunt on the runways, taxi-
     ways, or parking ramps unless those areas are inside their assigned area.
     A1.9.4.9. All guns will be transported unloaded with the chamber open at all times while on
     AAFB property. Hunting is not authorized from either a stationary or moving vehicle at any time.
     A1.9.4.10. Hunters are only allowed to enter the area they are assigned and will not enter any
     other area without the permission of the duty CO.
     A1.9.4.11. In the event of an accident, the distress signal will be to fire your weapon into a safe
     direction (not in the air or into objects which would cause a ricochet) three times in rapid succes-
     sion, wait thirty seconds then fire three more times. Three blasts of a whistle followed by three
     more blasts thirty seconds apart can also be used as a distress signal. All hunting shall cease in the
     event of an accident or the sounding of a distress signal and all hunters will report to the HSC as
     quickly as possible. Rapid blowing of a car horn will be used as a signal by duty COs to get all
     hunters to return to the HSC. When this signal is sounded all hunters must return to the HSC as
     quickly as possible.
     A1.9.4.12. No one is allowed to sign in after 1000 during pig season and after 1600 during deer
     season.
22                                                              36ABWI32-7003 12 DECEMBER 2000


        A1.9.4.13. Only those individuals possessing a valid Government of Guam handicap-parking per-
        mit assigned to the individual by the Government of Guam due to physical disability are allowed
        to hunt the handicap (disabled) hunting areas.
        A1.9.4.14. Disabled hunters may have one individual accompany him into the hunting area if the
        individual holds a valid AAFB hunting permit. The accompanying individual may not carry a fire-
        arm, bow, or crossbow.

Section A1F—Depredation Permit Hunting Procedures

A1.10. Depredation Permit Hunting Procedures
     A1.10.1. Revocable licenses to take protected game for the purpose of wildlife damage control (dep-
     redation license) are issued by Guam DAWR to the Wing Commander, Andersen AFB or his desig-
     nees. Designees are the Chief CO or Natural Resource Planner. Other individuals shall be authorized
     to take game under terms and conditions of the depredation license by a letter signed by the Chief CO
     or Natural Resource Planner, stating the individuals name and his responsibility to snare, spotlight, or
     shoot, in accordance terms and conditions of the depredation license and this Instruction, signed by
     both the designee and the individual. Individuals authorized to take game under terms and conditions
     of the depredation permit may be employed by other organizations such as USDA/WS, Guam DAWR,
     and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
     A1.10.2. The designee or authorized individual shall be responsible for conducting game control in
     accordance with the terms and conditions indicated on the depredation license and requirements of
     this instruction.
     A1.10.3. If the depredation permit authorizes spotlighting animals, requirements under A1.6.15. ,
     hunting hours, do not apply, when the controlled shoots are implemented in accordance with the con-
     ditions of the depredation permit.
     A1.10.4. Designees must notify the Security Forces Control Center prior to and upon completion of
     conducting depredation takes. Designees must inform the Guam DAWR Law Enforcement Section of
     the depredation take time and locations, in accordance with the conditions of the license.
     A1.10.5. Designees must carry a copy of the depredation license with them when conducting depre-
     dation takes.
     A1.10.6. Designees must report harvest information to the Chief CO and the Guam DAWR, in accor-
     dance with the depredation license.
36ABWI32-7003 12 DECEMBER 2000                     23


                                    Attachment 2

                                       MAPS

Figure A2.1. Special Access Area.
24                                      36ABWI32-7003 12 DECEMBER 2000


Figure A2.2. Main Base Archery Areas.
36ABWI32-7003 12 DECEMBER 2000                25


Figure A2.3. NorthWest Field Hunting Areas.
26                                                             36ABWI32-7003 12 DECEMBER 2000


                                            Attachment 3

                     LIST OF FEDERAL AND GUAM ENDANGERED SPECIES
                                 FOUND ON ANDERSEN AFB

Table A3.1. Endangered Species List.
COMMON NAME                       SCIENTIFIC NAME                   STATUS
Mammals
Little Mariana Fruit Bat          Pteropus tokudae                  Federal Endangered*
Mariana Fruit Bat                 Pteropus m. marianas              Federal Endangered
Birds
Micronesian Starling              Alponis Opaca guami               Guam Endangered
Mariana Crow                      Corvus kubaryi                    Federal Endangered
Micronesian Kingfisher            Halcyon c. cinnamomna             Federal Endangered**
Guam Rail                         Gallirallus owstoni               Federal Endangered
Guam Broadbill                    Myiagra freycineti                Federal Endangered*
Bridled White-Eye                 Zosterops c. conspicillata        Federal Endangered*
White-throated Ground-Dove        Gallicolumba x. xanthonura        Guam Endangered*
Mariana Fruit Dove                Ptilinopus roseicapilla           Guam Endangered*
Rufous Fantail                    Rhipidura rufifrons uraniae       Guam Endangered*
Guam Flycatcher                   Myiagra freycineti                Federal Endangered*
Cardinal Honeyeater               Myzomela Cardinalis Saffordi      Guam Endangered*
Trees
Hayun-lago                        Serianthes nelsonii               Federal Endangered
Ufa-holomtano                     Heritiera longipetiolata          Guam Endangered
Reptiles
Green Sea Turtle                  Chelonia mydas                    Federal Threatened
Hawksbill Sea Turtle              Eretmocheyls imbricata            Federal Endangered ***
Oceanic Gecko                     Gehyra oceanica                   Guam Endangered ***
Moth Skink                        Lipini noctua                     Guam Endangered ***
Pacific Slender-toed Gecko        Nactus pleagicus                  Guam Endangered ***
Mollusks
Pacific Tree Snail                Partula radiolata                 Guam Threatened ***
* Presumed extinct on Guam
** In captive breeding programs. (No longer found in the wild).
*** Unconfirmed if on Andersen AFB or not.
