BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                            36TH AIR BASE WING INSTRUCTION 91-202
36TH AIR BASE WING (PACAF)                                                                20 JUNE 2002

                                                                                                  Safety

                                                              ANDERSEN AFB SAFETY PROGRAM




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 36 ABW/SEG (MSgt Mark Hotelling)               Certified by: 36 ABW/SE (Major Scott St. Amand)
Supersedes 36 ABWI 91-202, 23 October 1999                                                Pages: 10
                                                                                    Distribution: F

This instruction establishes the Andersen AFB Safety Program, implements Air Force Policy Directive
91-2, Safety Programs, and Air Force Instructions 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Pro-
gram, 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 91-207, The US Air Force Traffic Safety Program, and
91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Prevention and Health (AFOSH) Pro-
gram, as supplemented. It establishes mishap prevention program requirements, assigns responsibilities
for program elements, and contains program management information. This instruction is applicable to all
activities, organizations, associate units, contractors, and personnel on Andersen AFB and areas under
jurisdiction of the Commander, 36th Air Base Wing. This guidance applies to all military members who
are assigned to or visiting Andersen AFB and the island of Guam. This guidance is also recommended for
DOD civilians and dependents.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.


1. AFOSH program responsibilities and administration.
   1.1. Unit Safety Representative (USR) will:
       1.1.1. Establish written mishap notification, reporting, and mishap site preservation procedures.
           1.1.1.1. The following mishaps require immediate telephone notification to Wing Safety:
           DOD personnel (civilian personnel when on-duty) that sustain a serious injury requiring hos-
           pitalization or loss of life, major damage to government property/equipment/vehicle (over
           $2,000), all ground or flight mishaps involving aircraft damage, and all weapon/explosive
           related mishaps. During non-duty hours notification is made through the 36 ABW Command
           Post. Ensure all unit personnel are familiar with the procedures; maintain a copy on each work
           center’s safety bulletin board. (AFI 91-202 PACAF Sup A4.3.9.)
2                                                                        36ABWI91-202 20 JUNE 2002


           1.1.1.2. All mishaps require notification, not just the serious ones. Notify Wing Safety the
           next duty day of all mishaps not meeting the requirements of paragraph 1.1.1.1., i.e., personnel
           that seek medical attention but are released back to duty or placed on quarters and minor gov-
           ernment property/equipment/vehicle damage. Notification can be either by telephone or
           emailing the 36ABW.SEG group box.
           1.1.1.3. Mishap Reporting. After completing proper notification procedures. The mishap indi-
           vidual or their supervisor must fully complete the PACAF Form 161, Ground Mishap Report
           Worksheet, Forward a completed PACAF Form 161, signed by the unit commander, to the
           Wing Safety Division no later than five calendar days after a mishap occurs. Electronic coor-
           dination is acceptable. (AFI 91-202 PACAF Sup A4.3.9.)
           1.1.1.4. Mishap Site Preservation. Ensure unit personnel are aware of the requirement of mis-
           hap site preservation. Mishap sites must remain unaltered until released by the Wing Safety
           Investigating Officer. The only exception to this requirement is to protect/save lives, prevent
           further damage to government property, and fight fires.
       1.1.2. Conduct unit monthly spot inspections. CES, MXS, SVS, and MDG will conduct a mini-
       mum of 4 spot inspections per month. All other units will conduct a minimum of 2 per month. For
       those units with activities that operate around the clock, conduct at least 2 spot inspections a quar-
       ter at times other than normal duty hours. Spot inspections are no-notice to check the day-to-day
       safety and health of a work center, facility, etc. Spot inspection documentation will include date,
       inspector’s name, organization or activity inspected, point of contact, a brief description of what
       was observed, and if there was/was not a discrepancy and the status (open/closed).
       1.1.3. Maintain a Ground Safety Management Book (GSMB) IAW Attachment 1.
       1.1.4. Maintain a master listing of all licensed motorcycle operators in the unit.
       1.1.5. Maintain master listing of all military members within the unit who participate in, on- and
       off-duty, high risk activities (i.e., scuba diving, rock climbing, kayaking, rappelling, cliff climb-
       ing, bungy jumping, light aircraft flying, sky diving, surfing, auto/motorcycle racing, motor cross,
       dirt biking, all terrain vehicle riding).
       1.1.6. OSHA 600 Computer Based Training (CBT). Complete CBT modules that pertain to your
       unit prior to attending USR training. It is highly recommended that all unit personnel complete
       CBT modules that pertain to their job. The course is available on the 36 ABW Safety Intranet
       website.
       1.1.7. Attend Unit Safety Representative meetings.
       1.1.8. Maintain a RAC 4/5 log. Hazards assigned a RAC 4 or 5 by Wing Safety, Bioenvironmen-
       tal, and Fire Department will be logged and tracked by the USR until closure. As a minimum, this
       log will reflect the RAC code assigned, the date the hazard was discovered, description and loca-
       tion of the hazard, and the current status. Annual inspection findings that have RACs assigned and
       cannot be corrected within 30 days may be transferred to this log when coordinated with Wing
       Safety (this will allow you to close your inspection report without losing track of open inspection
       findings). When changes occur forward the RAC 4/5 log to Wing Safety.
    1.2. Shop/Section/Office Supervisor will:
36ABWI91-202 20 JUNE 2002                                                                               3


      1.2.1. Maintain a Shop/Section/Office Safety Management Book as specified in Attachment 2.
      Tabs should be specific for the shop/section/office.
      1.2.2. Conduct spot inspections of shop/section/office monthly. Supervisors will ensure activities
      that operate around-the-clock are adequately surveyed at times other than normal duty hours.
      1.2.3. Conduct monthly safety briefings. Disseminate mishap prevention information such as mis-
      hap summaries, bulletins, messages, special interest items, seasonal pamphlets, etc. Ensure all per-
      sonnel receive these briefings by documenting the subject and names of personnel briefed.
      1.2.4. Maintain a listing of all personnel that operate a motorcycle.
      1.2.5. Maintain safety bulletin board as specified in paragraph 2.2.
      1.2.6. Investigate minor personnel injuries and government property damage. Document investi-
      gation on the PACAF Form 161. The supervisor’s investigation must include work processes ana-
      lyzed and corrective actions implemented to prevent recurrence.
   1.3. Supervisor will:
      1.3.1. Report all on- and off-duty mishaps and damage to government property/equipment/vehi-
      cles to the USR and Wing Safety IAW guidance provided in paragraphs 1.1.1.1. and 1.1.1.2.
      above. Ensure all personnel are aware of this requirement.
   1.4. Military Member will:
      1.4.1. Report all on- and off-duty mishaps, and damage to government property/equipment/vehi-
      cles to your supervisor immediately.
      1.4.2. Inform supervisor and Unit Safety Representative if he/she participates in motorcycle
      riding and any off-duty high-risk activity.

2. Program Elements.
   2.1. Program Assessment and Inspection:
      2.1.1. All 36 ABW units and work locations will have an annual assessment and inspection
      accomplished by the Wing Safety Division. Annual inspections are not to exceed 12 months from
      the previous inspection. The inspection will include applicable aspects of ground, weapons and
      flight safety. The 734th AMS, 13th AF, 254 ABG and HC-5 have full-time ground safety personnel
      assigned and are responsible for accomplishing their unit’s annual assessment and inspection. The
      normal sequence of events for annual assessment/inspections is:
          2.1.1.1. Assessment/Inspection Schedule. Wing Safety will publish a yearly inspection sched-
          ule on the Safety Intranet site during the month of December for the following year. Along
          with the schedule are the applicable AFOSH standard references that contain the checklist that
          the Wing Safety will use to evaluate units.
          2.1.1.2. USRs will forward an up-to-date unit RAC 4/5 log and current facility listing to Wing
          Safety to arrive no later than one week prior to the annual inspection start date.
          2.1.1.3. In-brief. The Wing Safety staff at the unit commander’s option will conduct the
          in-brief. USRs will coordinate the in-brief time and date.
          2.1.1.4. Rating Criteria. Program management and facilities/equipment evaluation will be
4                                                                         36ABWI91-202 20 JUNE 2002


           conducted using a five-level rating system (Outstanding, Excellent, Satisfactory, marginal, and
           unsatisfactory). The unit ground safety program is assessed by using the Ground Safety Pro-
           gram Assessment checklist. This checklist standardizes annual program assessments through-
           out the 36th Air Base Wing. The checklist is available on the Wing Safety Intranet website.
           2.1.1.5. Follow-up Requirements:
               2.1.1.5.1. Upon completion of the inspection report, representatives of the Wing Safety
               office will conduct an out-brief with the unit commander. The unit commander, with the
               assistance of the USR, will prepare a written response to the report within 30 days. The
               unit commander will address each discrepancy and hazard with a solution (corrective
               action) to eliminate the discrepancy or hazard.
               2.1.1.5.2. The unit commander is responsible for ensuring implementation of corrective
               actions. These initiatives should be well planned and quickly implemented to eliminate the
               hazard/deficiency condition or to preclude recurrence of the hazardous situation. Submis-
               sion of a work request does not constitute closing action. Inspection findings assigned a
               RAC 1, 2, or 3 not corrected within 30 days must be entered into the base hazard abate-
               ment program using an AF Form 3, Hazard Abatement Plan (refer to AFI 91-301). Inspec-
               tion findings assigned a RAC 4 or 5 will be transferred to the unit’s RAC 4/5 Log and
               updates submitted to Wing Safety whenever changes occur. Note: 36 ABW/SEG will close
               the inspection finding only after an updated RAC 4/5 log is received to ensure the item is
               still being tracked until completion by the unit. Non-RAC findings (administrative/paper-
               work findings), which the unit has established an estimated completion date, will be
               updated whenever changes occur or when the estimated completion date is exceeded.
    2.2. Safety Bulletin Boards: Safety bulletin boards provide an avenue for disseminating safety-related
    information and educating workers. These boards will be located in well-lighted, accessible locations
    of all major work areas. Only one board is required where several work areas share a common facility,
    as long as it is readily accessible to all workers in the building. The minimum required items on the
    safety bulletin boards are:
       2.2.1. Wing Commanders’ Policy Letters.
       2.2.2. Mishap notification procedures.
       2.2.3. Instruction on how to properly fill out an AF Forms 457, USAF Hazard Report, and where
       the form is located. If maintained electronically all personnel must have access to the form.
       2.2.4. AFVA 91-307, Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Program.
       2.2.5. CA 10, What a Federal Employee Should Do If Injured at Work, if work center has civil
       service personnel.
    2.3. Safety Awards Program.
    It is important to recognize individual and squadron efforts in ensuring the safety of our people and
    the protection of our resources. All units are expected to actively participate in the safety awards nom-
    ination process.
       2.3.1. Individual Safety Award of Distinction: The quarterly awards are presented to the individ-
       uals who made the greatest contribution to mishap prevention on Andersen AFB. One winner is
       selected for the Ground Safety Individual Safety Award of Distinction, and one winner is selected
36ABWI91-202 20 JUNE 2002                                                                                5


     for the Weapons Safety Individual Safety Award of Distinction. Criteria for the awards include
     safety awareness, professional knowledge and performance, and the identification and elimination
     of hazards. Any military or DOD civilian members not assigned to full-time safety duty positions
     (1S0 AFSC) are eligible to include unit safety representatives
        2.3.1.1. Each quarter, commanders, supervisors or any member of the wing or tenant unit may
        submit nominations for the awards. Units are allowed to submit multiple nominations. Nomi-
        nations will be prepared on AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award, using a narrative format.
        Quarterly nominations are limited to 30 lines on the front side of the AF Form 1206. Nomina-
        tions are due to the Safety Division by close of business on the fifth duty day after the end of
        the quarter. Nominations should detail reasons for the nomination and should include specific
        actions by the individual that qualify them for the award. The significance of the achievement
        is more important than the quantity of material in the nomination.
        2.3.1.2. Award winners will be selected by the Chief of Safety along with the Safety staff
        member(s) for that functional area, and asked to attend the Integrated Safety Council for pre-
        sentation of the award. For members of the 36 ABW, this award will consist of a certificate of
        recognition presented by the Wing CC and a three-day pass or comparable time off award for
        civilian personnel. For members of tenant units, the award will consist of a certificate of rec-
        ognition and a recommendation for time off. The dates of when to use this pass will have to be
        coordinated by the individual with his/her supervisor.
     2.3.2. Commander’s Safety Award: This annual award is presented to the individual who, by his/
     her actions, made the most outstanding contribution to the prevention of a mishap, or reducing its
     harmful effects. One winner will be selected from each category (weapons and ground safety)
     from the winners of the quarterly awards. Any additional information beyond that contained in the
     original nomination package may be submitted to the Safety Division by close of business on the
     fifth duty day of October. This award will consist of a safety plaque and certificate presented to the
     individual by the Wing CC.
     2.3.3. Squadron Safety Award: This award is presented annually to the squadron or unit which
     demonstrated the best overall safety program during the previous fiscal year. The award consists
     of a traveling trophy. A recommendation will be prepared by the Safety Division, with the Wing
     Commander selecting the eventual winner. To qualify for this award the unit must not have expe-
     rienced a class A mishap within the fiscal year. Annual and spot inspection findings from the year
     will be reviewed. Criteria for selection will include, but not be limited to:
        2.3.3.1. Commander and supervisory emphasis on safety.
        2.3.3.2. Implementation of the AFOSH Program within the unit.
        2.3.3.3. Mishap record relative to size of unit and degree of risk involved in normal activities.
        2.3.3.4. Frequency and quality of unit safety meeting.
        2.3.3.5. Effectiveness of Unit Safety Representative.
        2.3.3.6. Safety awareness and work practices of squadron personnel.
        2.3.3.7. General conditions of work areas.
        2.3.3.8. Timeliness and effectiveness of actions taken to correct safety deficiencies.
6                                                                        36ABWI91-202 20 JUNE 2002


           2.3.3.9. Quantity and quality of safety suggestions and Hazard Reports submitted.

3. Supervisor Safety Training (SST).
    3.1. Bioenvironmental Engineer (BE) and/or Public Health Officer (PHO) (or a designated represen-
    tative):
       3.1.1. Conducts an occupational health briefing during the Supervisor Safety Training course.
       This is a written consolidated BE/PH briefing developed and approved by both BE and PHO.
       Coordinate this briefing with the ground safety office and update at least annually. Structure the
       briefing to ensure individuals are familiar with the following:
           3.1.1.1. Overview of the occupational health program to include the responsibilities and
           duties of the BEE and public health functions. Also include unit’s responsibility for training to
           include information on special hazards and local policies.
           3.1.1.2. Purpose of the annual and baseline industrial hygiene and special purpose surveys.
           3.1.1.3. Reporting and abatement requirements for occupational health standards.
           3.1.1.4. Occupational health education responsibilities of supervisors including hazard com-
           munication.
           3.1.1.5. The purpose and scheduling mechanism for, and the supervisor’s role in, occupational
           health examinations.
           3.1.1.6. The fetal protection program to include the supervisor’s responsibility to refer preg-
           nant workers for workplace exposure evaluations.
    3.2. Unit Safety Representative: Schedule individuals for training through Wing Safety.

4. Traffic Safety.
    4.1. 36 SVS/CC will:
       4.1.1. Ensure the Secret of Survival on Guam Guide is placed in all on-base billeting rooms. 36
       SVS/CC will also ensure that the Guam Safety Awareness Letter signed by the 36 ABW/CC is
       provided to all personnel processing through the billeting office, whether staying on or off base.
    4.2. Use of Golf Carts, Fleet Golf Cars, Low Speed Vehicles and other Utility type vehicles:
       4.2.1. Units shall develop formal training programs on the safe operation of these vehicles.
NOTE: Detailed manufacturer operating instructions may be used as a training plan.
       4.2.2. All vehicles operated on Andersen AFB roadways with a posted speed limit higher than 20
       mph must comply with the minimum design specifications in 49 CFR, Part 571, Federal Motor
       Vehicle Safety Standards.
       4.2.3. Low Speed Vehicles may be operated on Andersen AFB roadways with a posted speed
       greater than 20 mph if they are designed or have been modified to comply with the safety equip-
       ment requirements of Federal Motor Vehicle Standard No. 500, Low Speed Vehicles. Equipment
       requirements include: headlamps, stop lamps, turn signal lamps, reflex reflectors, parking brakes,
       rear view mirrors, windshields, seat belts, and DOT vehicle identification numbers.
       4.2.4. Golf carts and other low speed vehicles not modified to meet Federal Motor Vehicle Safety
36ABWI91-202 20 JUNE 2002                                                                                   7


       Standard No. 500 will only be operated on roadways with posted speed limits less than 20 mph
       (base housing areas).

5. Recreational Activities.
   5.1. Operational Risk Management. All individuals engaged in recreational activities should use the
   fundamentals of Operational Risk Management, especially when in or near the water. Know the haz-
   ards. Assess the risks. Analyze and select control measures, and use adequate control measures to
   eliminate unnecessary risks. Finally, review the adequacy of the control measure. Individuals must
   continuously use common sense, and take responsibility for their own personal safety and the safety
   of others in the group.
   5.2. Water Safety.
       5.2.1. Individual will:
          5.2.1.1. Have at least one companion when participating in any recreational water activity.
          5.2.1.2. Obtain the status condition of any military beach, reef or waterfront area, either by
          observing posted signs, or by contacting base security. If the status is unavailable, the site shall
          be assumed to be closed (off limits).
          5.2.1.3. Not engage in water activity or enter any conditions which are beyond his/her level of
          competency, training, physical conditioning or experience; or for which he/she is not properly
          equipped.
          5.2.1.4. Not engage in recreational water activity during Typhoon Conditions of Readiness I,
          II, III; or in any area where a hazardous surf warning is in effect.
          5.2.1.5. Not engage in reef walking. For these purposes, the reef is defined as the elevated
          ridge of coral or rock between the shore and the open sea. This ridge may be above or slightly
          below water level, depending on the tide. Every year on Guam, people pay with their lives for
          participating in this activity. Keep well clear of the outer portion of the reef when the tide is
          going out. Rip tides are common on Guam and extremely dangerous. Reef walking is not per-
          mitted anywhere on Andersen AFB property by anyone. Reef walking is not permitted any-
          where on Guam by active duty military personnel.
   5.3. Scuba Diving.
       5.3.1. Scuba Diver will:
          5.3.1.1. Be certified through one of the following organizations prior to participating in any
          scuba diving on Guam.
              5.3.1.1.1. International Diving Educators Association (IDEA)
              5.3.1.1.2. National Association of Scuba Diving Schools (NASDS)
              5.3.1.1.3. National Association of Underwater Instructors (NAUI)
              5.3.1.1.4. Professional Association of Diving Instructors (PADI)
              5.3.1.1.5. Professional Diving Instructors Corporation (PDIC)
              5.3.1.1.6. Scuba Schools International (SSI)
8                                                                   36ABWI91-202 20 JUNE 2002


       5.3.1.2. When diving a site for the first time, dive with another diver who is aware of the haz-
       ards associated with that dive site.
       5.3.1.3. Conduct all scuba dives within the limits of the diver’s certification level, as recom-
       mended by the certifying agency.
       5.3.1.4. Penetration dives are discouraged, but not prohibited. Wreck penetration divers must
       document complete training and use proper equipment, including two lights, a safety line, plus
       all other equipment recommended by their certifying agency.
    5.3.2. Scuba diving is not authorized from Andersen AFB property.



                                                 JOSEPH F. MUDD, Colonel, USAF
                                                 Commander, 36th Air Base Wing
36ABWI91-202 20 JUNE 2002                                                                                9


                                             Attachment 1

                           GROUND SAFETY MANAGEMENT BOOK

A1.1. As a minimum, the unit’s ground safety management book will consist of:
NOTE: Items may be maintained electronically, but must be available during the inspection.
   A1.1.1. Tab A, Index. Place the index in the front of the GSMB and include tabs A through O.
   A1.1.2. Tab B, Letters of Appointment/Record of Training. A copy of the appointment letter and the
   record of training will be filed in this section.
   A1.1.3. Tab C, Mishap Notification Procedures.
   A1.1.4. Tab D, Unit Areas/Facilities. A comprehensive list of all work centers and facilities will be
   maintained.
   A1.1.5. Tab E, Annual Inspection Report. Maintain the last two annual inspection reports.
   A1.1.6. Tab F, Unit Spot Inspections.
   A1.1.7. Tab G, Hazard Reports and RAC 4/5 Log. Maintain information concerning hazards identi-
   fied within your unit (such as: AF Forms 457, Hazard reports, and Safety Inspection findings).
   A1.1.8. Tab H, Mishap Reports. This section is designed to provide the commander with information
   on mishaps experienced by the unit. Divide this section into sub-division’s for on and off-duty mis-
   haps. Each subdivision will contain a log for mishaps in the appropriate category. The logs will con-
   tain data extracted from PACAF Form 161 and should include: name and grade of person directly
   involved; section assigned; date and time of mishap; brief narrative; and action taken to prevent recur-
   rence.
   A1.1.9. Tab I, General Correspondence. The following are examples that should be maintained within
   this section: Special unit guidance provided by the commander, copies of correspondence related to
   ground safety (i.e., special interest items, programs, publicity, seasonal campaigns), actions taken at
   unit level regarding correspondence, and correspondence which do not fall under the purview of other
   sections within the GSMB.
   A1.1.10. Tab J, AFOSH Council / Unit Safety Representative Meetings. Meeting minutes will be
   filed in this section.
   A1.1.11. Tab K, High Risk Activities. Maintain listing of all on- and off-duty high risk activities that
   unit personnel participate in.
   A1.1.12. Tab L, Motorcycle Listing. Maintain listing of all licensed motorcycle operators.
   A1.1.13. Tab M, Special Programs. Maintain listing of special programs found throughout the unit
   which apply to the work centers (Confined Spaces, Lock-Out/Tag-Out, HAZCOM, Blood Borne
   Pathogens).
   A1.1.14. Tab N, Review Log. This tab will be used to record the unit commander’s monthly status
   briefing and review of the GSMB.
10                                                                   36ABWI91-202 20 JUNE 2002


                                             Attachment 2

                   SHOP/SECTION/OFFICE SAFETY MANAGEMENT BOOK

A2.1. As a minimum, the shop/section/office safety management book will consist of:
NOTE: Items may be maintained electronically, but must be available during the inspection.
     A2.1.1. Tab A, Safety Briefings.
     A2.1.2. Tab B, Spot Inspections.
     A2.1.3. Tab C, AF Forms 55, Employee Safety & Health Record, and Job Safety Training Outline
     (JSTO). Maintain all AF Forms 55 and the work centers JSTO in this section. AF Forms 55 and JSTO
     should be reviewed periodically to ensure compliance with AFI 91-301. Maintain documented annual
     review of JST0.
     A2.1.4. Tab D, PACAF Form 161, Ground Mishap Report Worksheet. Maintain PACAF Forms 161
     on all mishaps encountered by work center personnel.
     A2.1.5. Tab E, Special Programs. Maintain generalized safety programs, such as Confined Spaces,
     Lock-Out/Tag-Out, Blood Borne Pathogens, Job Safety Analysis, and Shop Risk Assessments.
     A2.1.6. Tab F, Listing of motorcycle operators
