BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                        36WG INSTRUCTION 44-108
36TH WING
                                                                                    1 MAY 2014

                                                                                        Medical

                                                                BLOODBORNE PATHOGENS
                                                                    EXPOSURE CONTROL


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 36 MDG/SGOAH                                                     Certified by: 36 MDG/CC
                                                                          (Col Herbert C. Scott)
Supersedes:   36WGI 44-108,                                                            Pages: 17
              21 March 2002


This instruction implements AFI 48-145, Occupational and Environmental Health Program.
This instruction applies to, but may not be limited to, the following personnel: Medical
personnel whose duties include exposure to blood and body fluids; Fire Department personnel;
Law Enforcement (SFS) personnel; Life Guard personnel (FSS); and the Office of Special
Investigations personnel (OSI). In emergency conditions, sections of this instruction could apply
to other personnel. This instruction does apply to U.S. Air National Guard units and their
members. The use of a name of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or
service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 37-123, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Web-RIMS Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Public Law 104-13, The
Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 and AFI 33-360, Volume 2, Content Management Program-
Information Management Tool (CMP-IMT), affect this publication. The use of the name or mark
of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication
does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the
appropriate chain of command.
 2                                                                                                   36WGI44-108 1 MAY 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision includes the title, adding a supervisor signature acknowledging awareness of an
employee’s declination of Hepatitis B vaccination, including nitrile as an example of non-porous
gloves, revision of sample unit Exposure Control Plan, inclusion of safer medical device/non-
managerial input during annual review of plan, elimination of category designations and
requirement of exposed personnel to in-process Public Health.

        1.      Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................      2
        2.      Procedures. .............................................................................................................    4

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                               6

Attachment 2—HEPATITIS B VACCINE DECLINATION STATEMENT                                                                                       8

Attachment 3—SAMPLE EXPOSURE CONTROL PLAN                                                                                                    9

Attachment 4—DECONTAMINATION PROCEDURES FOR BLOOD AND BODY
             FLUIDS                                                                                                                         16


1. Responsibilities.
     1.1. Unit Commanders will ensure all personnel at risk for occupational exposure to
     potentially infectious material are adequately protected, receive initial orientation and annual
     training, and comply with established guidelines and requirements defined in this plan and
     OSHA 29 CFR part 1910.1030.
     1.2. Commanders of organizations with personnel at risk for occupational exposures will
     designate an office of primary responsibility (OPR) for monitoring compliance with
     engineering and work practice controls, personal protective equipment (PPE), housekeeping,
     elements of hazard communication, training documentation, and preparing/maintaining an
     exposure control plan. Medical and dental treatment facilities will additionally comply with
     revised OSHA 29 CFR part 1910 and all applicable state laws with respect to needle stick
     safety.
     1.3. Each active duty member, government employee, contract employee, student or
     volunteer assigned or attached to work in any capacity in any affected organization is
     individually responsible for knowledge of and compliance with this plan.
     1.4. The 36th Medical Group will provide:
        1.4.1. Medical oversight for eligible workers exposed to potentially infectious materials
        in the course of their duties to include: medical education, treatment, follow up, a written
        medical opinion and documentation for personnel with exposure to potentially infectious
        materials.
        1.4.2. Technical advice and supervisory assistance on training, decontamination and
        types of PPE needed to protect workers.
36WGI44-108 1 MAY 2014                                                                          3


     1.4.3. When requested, initial training to organization supervisors through Public Health
     (PH) (or other formal training organizations if approved by PH) on requirements outlined
     in CFR 29 part 1910.1030, and proper techniques and prevention of exposure to
     potentially infectious materials.
     1.4.4. When requested, means of disposal of waste contaminated with blood and body
     fluids and in emergency situations, biohazard bags.
     1.4.5. The Hepatitis B Vaccination series for eligible workers.
         1.4.5.1. The vaccine series is mandatory for all eligible active duty military
         personnel.
         1.4.5.2. The vaccine series will be offered to all eligible civilian employees at no cost
         to themselves. If a worker declines the Hepatitis B vaccine, they must sign a
         Declination Statement (Atch 1) to be filed in the individual’s medical record and kept
         for the duration of employment, plus 30 years. Note: Declination is not possible if
         Hepatitis B vaccination is a condition of employment.
  1.5. Organizations with workers exposed to potentially infectious materials will:
     1.5.1. Develop an Exposure Control Plan for their specific worksite and workers in
     accordance with 29 CFR Part 1910.1030 (see Atchs 2 and 3 for examples). The medical
     treatment facility must include in their plan, information on needle stick safety. See
     reference 1.2. of this instruction.
         1.5.1.1. Submit the plan to PH for review prior to adopting.
         1.5.1.2. Each employer shall ensure that a copy of the Exposure Control Plan is
         accessible to employees in accordance with 29 CFR part 1910.1020(e).
         1.5.1.3. Review and update the Exposure Control Plan annually whenever necessary
         to reflect new or modified tasks and procedures which affect occupational exposure
         and to reflect new or revised employee positions with occupational exposure. The
         review and update of such plans shall also:
             1.5.1.3.1. Reflect changes in technology that eliminate or reduce exposure to
             bloodborne pathogens.
             1.5.1.3.2. Document annually consideration and implementation of appropriate
             commercially available and effective safer medical devices designed to eliminate
             or minimize occupational exposure.
             1.5.1.3.3. An employer, who is required to establish an Exposure Control Plan,
             shall solicit input from non-managerial employees responsible for direct patient
             care who are potentially exposed to injuries from contaminated sharps in the
             identification, evaluation, and selection of effective engineering and work practice
             controls and shall document the solicitation in the Exposure Control Plan.
     1.5.2. In accordance with (IAW) CFR 29 part 1910.1030, develop, schedule, provide and
     document training to workers on the medical aspects of exposure to potentially infectious
     materials, organizational procedures, and the storage and use of PPE.
         1.5.2.1. Maintain documentation of training for a minimum of three years.
 4                                                                 36WGI44-108 1 MAY 2014


          1.5.2.2. Route the training lesson plan through PH.
       1.5.3. Ensure all active duty members with potential exposure in your organization
       receive the Hepatitis B Vaccine series and all civilians are offered the series. Civilians
       refusing to receive the Hepatitis B series must sign the Hepatitis B Vaccine Declination
       Statement (Atch 2). Hepatitis B vaccination is a condition of employment for selected
       civilians.
       1.5.4. Ensure adequate PPE is available for workers to use at times of potential exposure
       to blood or body fluids. PPE includes but is not limited to gloves, masks, goggles, face
       shields, rubber aprons, and so forth, depending on the level of potential exposure.
       1.5.5. Have supervisors enforce the wear of PPE during procedures where there is
       potential exposure to blood or body fluids.
2. Procedures.
2.1. Clean-up and disposal procedures for indoor spills of blood/OPIM: The 36th Medical Group
(36 MDG) recommends the following procedures for the clean-up of spilled blood or OPIM that
occur at Andersen Air Force Base (AAFB). For guidance or additional information on any blood
spill/body fluid clean up, contact PH at 366-4147.
       2.1.1. Clean up materials needed: Household bleach, one gallon bucket or larger, mop,
       towels/rags, PPE as needed to include at a minimum: non-porous gloves and eye
       protection. It is also permissible to use a blood spill clean-up kit that can be obtained
       through supply or through local purchase. The use of cleaning solutions other than
       bleach is acceptable if the solution will kill the HBV and HIV viruses. The use of PPE is
       mandatory in all instances where exposure to blood or body fluids can be reasonably
       anticipated. Employees will remove PPE prior to leaving the area.
       2.1.2. Limit access to the spill area.
       2.1.3. Put on eye protection, if needed, and gloves. Prepare a dilute beach solution by
       mixing 1 part household bleach to 10 parts water (this is a 1:10 dilution). Mop area until
       clean. Prevent access to the area until site is dry.
       2.1.4. Dispose of contaminated bleach/water solution by pouring it into the commode,
       sink or sanitary drain. Be cautious to prevent splashing.
       2.1.5. Should items become soiled with blood/body fluids the following should be
       accomplished: Lightly soiled items (small area of contamination/non-saturated) should
       be discarded as solid waste (trash). Moderately or heavily soiled or saturated items are
       handled as infectious waste and are placed in a leak-proof bag, labeled as infectious
       waste, or a red biohazard bag may be used. Coordinate transport/disposal of
       soiled/bagged items with 36 MDG Facilities (366-5395).
       2.1.6. Should anyone become exposed to blood/body fluids: immediately wash the area
       with soap and water, flush eyes with clean water and report immediately (with the source
       person, if possible) to their 36 MDG Primary Care Provider (or Flight Medicine Clinic if
       individual does not receive care at 36 MDG). After hours, the supervisor will arrange for
       transport to the USNH-G Emergency Room via POV. If emergency transportation is
       required, call 911. Both civilians and military personnel will be followed up in PH.
36WGI44-108 1 MAY 2014                                                                         5


     2.1.7. Ensure all employees that have experienced a potential exposure, whether military
     or civilian, are seen at the 36 MDG by a provider as well as PH at the earliest available
     opportunity so that all follow-up is done per OSHA guidelines.
  2.2. Clean-up and disposal procedures for outdoor spills of blood/OPIM: The 36 MDG
  recommends the following procedures for the clean-up of spilled blood or potentially
  infectious materials, as defined in paragraph 2.3, which occur outside of buildings (i.e.,
  parking lots, streets and sidewalks). The following guidelines are designed for the clean-up
  of any spill and can be performed by anyone equipped with PPE as described in paragraph
  4.1.1. The AAFB Fire Department will be responsible for outdoor spills if the circumstances
  of the incident (other than the spill) require their response.
     2.2.1. Clean-up materials needed: Source of water, hose, sprayer, eye protection and
     latex or similar gloves. If the spill is large, absorbent material may be needed (i.e., Dura
     Pads, Moor Dri 100), biohazard bags and a 1:10 dilution bleach solution.
     2.2.2. Limit access to the spill area.
     2.2.3. Don PPE as needed. If ground or surface conditions allow, place absorbent
     material (i.e., Dura Pads, Moor Dri 100) over blood/body fluids. Saturate area with 1:10
     bleach solution, and then collect absorbent material and place in biohazard bags.
     2.2.4. Apply a low-pressure stream of water to the soiled area until all blood/body fluids
     are visibly washed away; be careful not to splash yourself or anyone else in the area.
     2.2.5. Should items become soiled with blood or OPIM, the directions provided in
     paragraph 2.1.5. be followed.
     2.2.6. Should anyone inadvertently become exposed to blood or other potentially
     infectious material, follow guidance as per paragraph 2.1.6.
     2.2.7. If body parts are discovered, place severed parts in ice and transport them with the
     injured employee. If discovered later, send ASAP to the treating facility. If employee is
     deceased or a mass casualty situation exists; notify Security Forces, Office of Special
     Investigations (OSI), Command Post, Casualty Affairs and Mortuary Affairs.




                                              STEVEN D. GARLAND
                                              Brigadier General, USAF
                                              Commander
 6                                                                    36WGI44-108 1 MAY 2014


                                           Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
The 29 CFR part 1910.1030, Occupational Exposure to Bloodborne Pathogens; Final Rule,
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA).
The 29 CFR Part 1910.1020, Access to Employee Exposure and Medical Records, Occupational
Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)
HQ USAF/SG, Memorandum, Guidance for MTFs in Response to Policy Letter on Needlestick
Safety for Health Care Workers (HA Policy 01-013), 8 Nov 2001.
HQ USAF/SGO Memorandum, Vaccine Policy and Guidance for Adults and Accessions, 7 Jun
2006.
DODI 6055.1, DoD Safety and Occupational Health (SOH) Program, 19 August 1998
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendaion for Change of Publication
Hepatitis B Declination Form

Abbreviations and Acronyms
HBV—Hepatitis B Vaccination
HIV—Human Immunodeficiency Virus
AIDS—Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
OPIM—other potentially infectious materials
OPR—office of primary responsibility
PPE—personal protective equipment
PH—Public Health
USNH—G-United States Naval Hospital Guam
POV—Privately owned vehicle
OSI—Office of Special Investigations
CPR—cardiopulmonary resuscitation

TERMS
Bloodborne Pathogens— Diseases that are commonly spread from one person to another
through blood or body fluids. Examples include Hepatitis B virus (HBV) and Human
Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (HIV/AIDS).
Blood— Human blood, human blood components, and products made from human blood.
Other Potentially Infectious Materials (OPIM)— The following human body fluids: semen,
vaginal secretions, cerebrospinal fluid, synovial fluid, pleural fluid, pericardial fluid, peritoneal
36WGI44-108 1 MAY 2014                                                                             7


fluid, amniotic fluid, saliva in dental procedures, any body fluid that is visibly contaminated with
blood, and all body fluids in situations where it is difficult or impossible to differentiate between
body fluids; any unfixed tissue or organ (other than intact skin) from a human (living or dead).
Parenteral— means piercing mucous membranes or the skin barrier through such events as
needlesticks, human bites, cuts, and abrasions.
Exposure Incident— This term means a specific eye, mouth, other mucous membrane, non-
intact skin, or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM that result from the performance of an
employee's duties.
Standard Precautions— An approach to infection control. All human body fluids are treated as
if known to be infectious.
Contaminated— The presence or reasonably anticipated presence of blood or OPIM on an item
or surface.
Decontamination— The use of physical or chemical means to remove, inactivate, or destroy
bloodborne pathogens on a surface or item to the point where they are no longer capable of
transmitting infectious particles and the surface or item is rendered safe for handling, use, or
disposal.
Eligible worker— any Department of Defense personnel eligible for occupational health
support by the 36th Medical Group IAW DODI 6055.1. Generally, does not include contract
workers unless such care is specified in a formal support agreement/contract.
 8                                                                   36WGI44-108 1 MAY 2014


                                          Attachment 2
                 HEPATITIS B VACCINE DECLINATION STATEMENT

Figure A2.1. Sample, Hepatitis B Vaccine Declination Statement


                 HEPATITIS B VACCINE DECLINATION STATEMENT

The Hepatitis B Vaccine is a non-infectious vaccine which provides protection against acute
Hepatitis B, asymptomatic infection and chronic carrier state. Hepatitis B Vaccine will not
prevent Hepatitis caused by other agents, such as Hepatitis A Virus, Non-A/Non-B Hepatitis
Virus, or other viruses known to infect liver.

I, _____________________, understand that due to my occupational exposure to blood, body
fluids, or other potentially infectious materials, I may be at risk of acquiring Hepatitis B Virus
(HBV) infection. I have been given the opportunity to be vaccinated with the Hepatitis B
Vaccine, at no charge to myself. However, I decline the Hepatitis B Vaccine at this time. I
understand that by declining this vaccine, I continue to be at risk of acquiring Hepatitis B, a
serious disease. If, in the future, I continue to have occupational exposure to blood, body fluids,
or other potentially infectious materials during my employment at Andersen AFB and I want to
be vaccinated with the Hepatitis B Vaccine, I can receive the vaccination series at no charge to
myself.




 ________________________                     __________
  Signature                               Date
36WGI44-108 1 MAY 2014                                                                         9


                                        Attachment 3
                         SAMPLE EXPOSURE CONTROL PLAN

A3.1. Exposure Determination.
   A3.1.1. List of job classification where all employees have potential exposure to bloodborne
   pathogens. (List Job Title and Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC))
   A3.1.2. List of job classification where some employees have potential exposure to
   bloodborne pathogens. (List Job Title and AFSC)
   A3.1.3. List of tasks and procedures in which potential occupational exposure to bloodborne
   pathogens occurs for job classifications listed in paragraph A2.1.1, this attachment. (List
   Task and AFSC)
A3.2. Schedule and Methods of Implementation.
   A3.2.1. Standard Precautions. The mandatory use of standard precautions is now in effect.
   The term “standard precaution” refers to an infectious disease control system intended to
   prevent health care and public safety workers from parenteral, mucous membrane, and non-
   intact skin exposures to human pathogens. It is assumed that all blood and body fluids
   (semen, vaginal fluids, cerebrospinal, lymph, pericardial, and so forth) are potentially
   infectious and therefore appropriate barriers must be established between the patient’s blood,
   body fluids, and other infectious materials and the health care or public safety worker.
   A3.2.2. Engineering and Work Practice Controls. Standard precaution in conjunction with
   effective work practice controls will be used to minimize or eliminate potential exposure risk
   to bloodborne pathogens.
      A3.2.2.1. Handwashing Facilities. Handwashing facilities are located throughout the
      section in ______________. In areas where handwashing facilities are not available,
      antiseptic hand cleaners will be provided for limited use; however, hands will be washed
      with soap and running water as soon as feasible. Alcohol-based handrubs containing 60-
      95% alcohol have been proven to be effective against various pathogens, are fast acting,
      cause less skin irritation, and may help improve adherence to hand hygiene protocols.
      Alcohol-based handrubs do not replace the need for sinks or other hand hygiene products.
      Handrubs cannot be used when hands are visibly dirty, soiled with blood or other body
      fluids, or when personnel feel a “build up” of the product on their hands after extended
      use.
      A3.2.2.2. Handwashing Enforcement.         Handwashing is a responsibility of each
      employee. Enforcement of this responsibility falls upon the employee’s supervisor.
          A3.2.2.2.1. At a minimum, hands will be washed immediately or soon after removal
          of gloves or PPE.
          A3.2.2.2.2. Employees will wash hands or other skin area with soap and water, or
          flush mucous membranes with water immediately or soon after coming in contact
          with blood or other potentially infectious material.
10                                                             36WGI44-108 1 MAY 2014


        A3.2.2.2.3. Employees will wash hands or other skin area with soap and water before
        and after performing any personal body function, such as eating, sneezing, or using
        the restroom.
        A3.2.2.2.4. Employees will wash hands or other skin area with soap and water before
        and after touching wounds, whether surgical, traumatic, or associated with an
        invasive device.
        A3.2.2.2.5. Employees will wash hands or other skin area with soap and water after
        touching inanimate sources (such as, equipment or surfaces) that are likely to be
        contaminated with blood or body fluids.
        A3.2.2.2.6. Employees will wash hands or other skin area with soap and water after
        any situation which microbial contamination of hands is likely to occur.
        A3.2.2.2.7. Employees will wash hands or other skin area with soap and water before
        departure for home.
        A3.2.2.2.8. Hand washing will be encouraged when employee is in doubt about the
        necessity for doing so.
     A3.2.2.3. Handling contaminated needles, sharp instruments, or other contaminated
     articles. Education programs will stress proper management of needles, sharp
     instruments, or other contaminated articles. Workers should be aware of the occupational
     health hazards concerning their use. Common sense, safety, and environmental concerns
     should be paramount in the workers handling and disposing of needles, sharp
     instruments, or other contaminated articles. Emphasis should be placed on the minimal
     handling of these items.
        A3.2.2.3.1. Sharp instruments, broken glass, needle/syringe units, or other sharp
        objects which are contaminated with blood, body fluids, or other potentially
        infectious materials (OPIM) will not be picked up by hand, rather they will be picked
        up using tongs, forceps, broom and dust pan, or other method which does not require
        an individual to come into direct contact with contaminated object.
        A3.2.2.3.2. Once picked up, the contaminated objects will be placed into puncture-
        resistant leak-proof biohazard container for disposal. If the organization does not
        have a suitable biohazard container, for an emergency situation, they can contact the
        36 MDG to pick one up. Contact Medical Logistics, at 366-5184.
        A3.2.2.3.3. Extreme caution must be exercised when disposing of needles and sharp
        instruments. They must be disposed of in puncture-resistant, leak-proof containers
        appropriately designated for needles and sharp instrument disposal.
     A3.2.2.4. Eating, drinking, and smoking in potential exposure areas. Eating, drinking,
     smoking and applying cosmetics or lip balm, and handling contact lenses are prohibited
     in work areas where there is reasonable likelihood of occupational exposure to blood or
     body fluids. All personal protective equipment must be removed, hands washed, and
     contaminated clothing changed prior to eating, drinking, smoking, applying cosmetics, or
     handling contact lenses after potential exposure to blood borne pathogens.
36WGI44-108 1 MAY 2014                                                                      11


        A3.2.2.4.1. Storage of foods and drink. Food and drink will not be kept in
        refrigerators, freezers, counter tops or bench tops where the potential for exposure to
        infectious materials exists.
     A3.2.2.5. Potentially infectious specimen handling, and disposal. Materials which have
     been contaminated with blood, body fluids, or OPIM will be placed in biohazard-bags,
     sealed, and transported to the Andersen AFB Clinic in a leak-proof, puncture-resistant
     container marked with the biohazard symbol for disposal.
        A3.2.2.5.1. Color-coded red plastic bags are the primary containers for disposal of
        contaminated wastes.
        A3.2.2.5.2. If specimen leakage is anticipated, double or triple bag primary container
        using color-coded plastic bags.
        A3.2.2.5.3. If a contaminated article could puncture the primary container; the
        primary container will be placed within a secondary container, which is puncture
        resistant. This container should have appropriate biohazard markings.
     A3.2.2.6. Equipment and surface decontamination. Equipment or surfaces, which
     become contaminated with blood or other infectious material, will be decontaminated by
     the organization that has functional responsibility for the building, grounds, or
     equipment.
     A3.2.2.7. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). All employees will use appropriate PPE
     to minimize or eliminate exposure risks. Equipment will be considered appropriate only
     if it does not permit blood or OPIM to pass through or to reach the employee’s work
     clothes, street clothes, undergarments, skin, eyes, mouth, or other mucous membranes,
     under normal conditions of use and for the duration of use.
        A3.2.2.7.1. Providing PPE. It’s the responsibility of the individual organization to
        provide PPE for their employees. _________will provide to all employees at risk,
        PPE to include but not limited to gloves, gowns, coats, masks, eye protection and
        mouthpieces, resuscitation bags or other ventilation devices based upon their
        expected exposures to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials.
        A3.2.2.7.2. Enforcing wear of PPE. The supervisor will enforce the use of PPE by
        all employees.
        A3.2.2.7.3. Accessibility of PPE. The supervisor will ensure availability of PPE in
        the work area. PPE is stored: (List Equipment Type and Storage Location).
        A3.2.2.7.4. Cleaning, maintenance, repair, removal, and disposal of PPE.
        _________ will provide for cleaning, laundering, disposal, repair, and replacement of
        PPE.
            A3.2.2.7.4.1. All PPE will be removed prior to leaving the work area.
            A3.2.2.7.4.2. If garment is penetrated by blood or other potentially infectious
            material, garments will be removed immediately or as soon as possible afterward.
            A3.2.2.7.4.3. All contaminated PPE will be placed in an appropriate area or
            container for storage prior to decontamination or disposal. The containers for
            _________ are located at _____________. Contaminated disposable PPE will be
12                                                                 36WGI44-108 1 MAY 2014


            handled as described in the previous context of this attachment.
            A3.2.2.7.4.4. Disposable gloves will be worn when it can be reasonably
            anticipated that the employee will have direct contact with blood or other
            potentially infectious material, mucous membrane, or non-intact skin; and when
            handling or touching contaminated items or surfaces. Gloves will be replaced as
            soon as practical when contaminated, torn, punctured, or when their ability to
            function as a barrier is compromised. NOTE: Ensure gloves are not left at the
            accident site.
            A3.2.2.7.4.5. Masks, eye protection, face shields, will be used whenever
            splashes, spray, splatter, or droplets of blood or other potentially infectious
            material may be generated and contamination of the eye, nose, or mouth is a
            possibility.
            A3.2.2.7.4.6. Other protective clothing such as gown, aprons, coats, or jackets
            will be worn in occupational exposure situations. The type and characteristics
            will depend upon the task and degree of exposure anticipated.
        A3.2.2.7.5. Guidance for proper PPE. The type of PPE to be worn will vary with
        situation/procedure performed. The final decision about which PPE is appropriate
        lies with the supervisor. Medical procedures may require more strenuous guidelines,
        but here are some general guidelines which may help you in deciding what types of
        PPE are needed:
            A3.2.2.7.5.1. Gloves. Heavy-weight, puncture resistant utility gloves, such as
            those used for dishwashing are best for housekeeping procedures. For patient-
            care procedures, sterile/non-sterile, non-porous gloves (i.e., nitrile, latex).
            A3.2.2.7.5.2. Clothing. Cloth or disposable gowns/coats must be used to prevent
            blood contamination. A disposable plastic apron that covers the torso and thighs
            is recommended if there is a significant probability that blood or body fluids may
            be splashed.
            A3.2.2.7.5.3. Facial protection. Facial protection should be worn if splattering of
            blood or body fluids is anticipated. A disposable mask offers protection for the
            nose and mouth in some situations. Plastic, wrap-around safety glasses offer good
            protection; however; if there is substantial risk of splattering, a full-face shield or
            goggles should be worn. Ordinary glasses do not offer adequate protection
            against splattering.     A mouth-piece should be used when performing
            cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR).
            A3.2.2.7.5.4. Shoes. Water-proof shoe covers should be worn if there is a large
            spill of potentially infectious fluid.
        A3.2.2.7.6. All PPE must be put into a biohazard waste bag for appropriate disposal
        or laundering immediately after use.
     A3.2.2.8. Housekeeping. Supervisors are responsible for ensuring work areas are
     maintained in a clean and sanitary condition. Housekeeping procedures are outlined in
     __________________.
36WGI44-108 1 MAY 2014                                                                     13


        A3.2.2.8.1. Schedule of Housekeeping Procedures. Operating instructions will be
        established for each section indicating schedule for cleaning and methods of
        decontamination based upon work area and procedures performed in the area.
     A3.2.2.9. Cleaning surfaces contaminated with potentially infectious material. All
     equipment and work surfaces will be cleaned and decontaminated after contact with
     blood/OPIM. Contaminated work surfaces will be decontaminated with approved
     disinfectant after completion of procedures or immediately after any blood/OPIM spills.
     A3.2.2.10. Regulated Waste. Proper disposal of waste contaminated with blood or body
     fluids is essential to minimizing or eliminating the exposure risk to employees and
     general community.
     A3.2.2.11. Disposal of sharp instruments or glass. Blood or body fluid contaminated
     sharp instruments or glass will be discarded immediately in containers that are closable,
     puncture resistant, leak-proof on sides and bottoms, and labeled or color-coded
     appropriately as containing biohazard material. These will be taken to the 36 MDG for
     disposal. Coordinate such disposal with Medical Logistics at 366-5184.
     A3.2.2.12. Other contaminated wastes. Contaminated or potentially infectious waste
     will be placed in biohazard bags. Care must be taken to prevent leakage. The bags will
     be sealed prior to removal to prevent spillage or protrusion of contents during handling,
     storage, transport, or shipping. The bags will be taken to the 36 MDG for disposal. See
     Disposal of sharp instruments or glass in section A2.2.2.11.
     A3.2.2.13. Laundry. Contaminated laundry will be handled as little as possible with a
     minimum of agitation to prevent gross microbial contamination of the air and persons
     handling the laundry. Appropriate PPE will be worn at all times when handling laundry.
     A3.2.2.14. Bagging. All contaminated laundry will be bagged at the location it was used
     and will not be sorted or rinsed in the location of use.
     A3.2.2.15. Shipping. Contaminated laundry will be placed and transported in bags or
     containers labeled or color-coded as biohazard. Wet contaminated laundry will be placed
     in bags or containers, which prevent soak-through and leakage. The supervisor will
     ensure employees handling contaminated laundry wear protective gloves and other
     appropriate personal protective equipment. Contaminated laundry will be taken to
     __________________.
     A3.2.2.16. Hepatitis B immunization. Individuals whose duties involve potential
     exposure to blood, body fluids, or OPIM can receive, free of charge, immunizations for
     protection against Hepatitis B. Vaccine series will be offered prior to the start of
     employment involving exposure to blood, body fluids, or OPIM and may be declined by
     civilian employees if not a condition of their job. Employees declining vaccine must sign
     a Hepatitis B Vaccine Declination Statement.
        A3.2.2.16.1. If duties continue to involve exposure to blood, body fluids, or other
        potentially infectious materials, employees may request to start immunization series
        at any time.
     A3.2.2.17. Administration. The Hepatitis B Vaccine will be administered by the 36
     MDG Immunization Clinic, Andersen AFB, GU.
 14                                                               36WGI44-108 1 MAY 2014


      A3.2.2.18. Procedures. Prior to starting duties which involve exposure to blood, body
      fluids, or other potentially infectious materials, the employee must be given bloodborne
      pathogen training and offered/administered the Hepatitis B Vaccine.
      A3.2.2.19. Post-Exposure Follow-up. Individuals exposed to blood or body fluids will
      receive medical follow up. They will report to their 36 MDG Primary Care Provider (or
      Flight Medicine Clinic if not a beneficiary), as soon as possible, after an exposure for
      initial evaluation or treatment. for counseling and follow- up testing. PH will then
      counsel the individual on the risk and ensure follow-up testing and treatment is
      accomplished. This includes individuals exposed to another’s blood or body fluid while
      performing CPR, other workplace exposures to blood/OPIM even if they have not been
      previously designated as being at risk of exposure to blood as part of their normal duties,
      and other non-work related exposures. Patients will receive follow-up and treatment in
      accordance with Center for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines. Address
      questions about what constitutes an exposure to PH at 366-4147.
A3.3. Record Keeping.
   A3.3.1. Medical Records. The 36 MDG maintains patient medical records.
   A3.3.2. Training Records. Upon completion of training the employee will sign AF Form
   2767, Occupational Health Training and Protective Equipment Fit Testing, or other
   designated form. Keep the original filed in a separate section with your lesson plan and
   exposure control plan. The training records must be kept for minimum of three (3) years.
      A3.3.2.1. Also, each supervisor must document initial and annual training on each
      trainee’s AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record, in Block V.
      A3.3.2.2. Initial training will be documented as “Initial Bloodborne Pathogen Training”
      and annual update training will be documented as “Annual Bloodborne Pathogen
      Training”.
A3.4. Communication of Hazards to Employees.
   A3.4.1. Labeling. Contaminated items will be designated by placing them in a biohazard
   bag or other appropriate leak proof container which has the biohazard symbol and the word
   “BIOHAZARD” clearly marked on the outside of the container. These containers will not be
   used for any other purposes.
   A3.4.2. Training. All employees who have exposure to blood, body fluids, or OPIM as part
   of their regular job (see Exposure Determination, section A2.1. for listing of jobs) will
   receive initial and annual training on exposures to blood, body fluids, OPIM prior to
   assuming duties which involve exposure to blood, body fluids, or OPIM. At a minimum,
   training must include the following:
      A3.4.2.1. An accessible copy of the OSHA Standard (29 CFR part 1910.1030).
      A3.4.2.2. A general explanation of the epidemiology and symptoms of bloodborne
      diseases.
      A3.4.2.3. An explanation of the modes of transmission of bloodborne pathogens.
      A3.4.2.4. The installation and your work specific Exposure Control Plan (what’s in it,
      where it is, who’s covered and how employees can obtain a copy of the written plan).
36WGI44-108 1 MAY 2014                                                                          15


     A3.4.2.5. An explanation of the procedures that might cause exposure to potentially
     infectious materials.
     A3.4.2.6. An explanation of the control methods used to control exposure in your
     specific workplace.
     A3.4.2.7. PPE (types, basis for selection, proper use, location, removal, handling,
     decontamination and disposal).
     A3.4.2.8. Post-exposure procedures and follow up required by employer.
     A3.4.2.9. Signs and labels used.
     A3.4.2.10. Hepatitis B Vaccine Program information (efficacy, safety, benefits, and that
     vaccine will be offered free of charge).
     A3.4.2.11. An opportunity for interactive questions and answers with person conducting
     training.
  A3.4.3. Reporting Incidents. Any incident, which involves potential exposure to blood,
  body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials, will be reported immediately to the
  supervisor and reported to Wing Safety, as applicable. The individuals receiving exposure,
  and if possible, the source of the blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials,
  will be taken to the 36 MDG and will be seen by their primary care provider (or the Flight
  Medicine Clinic if not a 36th MDG beneficiary).
  A3.4.4. Document annually consideration and implementation of appropriate commercially
  available and effective safer medical devices designed to eliminate or minimize occupational
  exposure.
  A3.4.5. Document input from non-managerial employees responsible for direct patient care
  who are potentially exposed to injuries from contaminated sharps in the identification,
  evaluation, and selection of effective engineering and work practice controls.
 16                                                                     36WGI44-108 1 MAY 2014


                                            Attachment 4
       DECONTAMINATION PROCEDURES FOR BLOOD AND BODY FLUIDS

A4.1. General. The following procedures are recommended for “site specific’ clean-up of spills
involving blood or body fluids. Standard household bleach from the jug comes commonly as a
5% solution. It is diluted as described below. If you use any other disinfectant, the Infection
Control Officer or Public Health Officer at the 36 MDG must first approve it. Also, outline in
your unit’s control plan the procedures for clean-up, using the disinfectant. You may use the
following information to accomplish this.
A4.2. Make a “spill kit” readily available for site clean-up. Place 1 cup of household bleach
in an appropriately labeled, dark brown or opaque bottle (sunlight will break down bleach).
Place 9 cups of water in a second container. Put the bleach, water (don’t mix the two until you
clean up the spill), pair of heavyweight, puncture resistant utility gloves, such as those used for
housecleaning and dishwashing, two (2) household sponges, and paper towels or gauze in a
plastic container or a box. Label the kit, attach a hazardous material sticker to the container, and
place in an area where a spill may occur or in the trunk of a security vehicle, etc.
A4.3. Clothing. You must use cloth or disposable gowns/coats to prevent blood contamination
of clean-up workers clothing. A disposable plastic apron that covers the torso and thighs is
recommended if there is a significant probability that blood or body fluids may be splashed onto
the clean-up workers. At the completion of clean up, discard disposable apron into the biohazard
waste bag. If workers clothing inadvertently becomes contaminated with blood or body fluids it
should be removed as soon as possible, the skin washed with soap and water, and the clothing
placed in a biohazard bag and disposed of or cleaned by a laundry capable of handling blood-
contaminated clothing.
A4.4. Facial Protection. Wear facial protection if splattering of blood or body fluids is
anticipated. A disposable mask offers protection for the nose and mouth. Plastic, wrap-around
safety glasses offer adequate protection; however, if there is substantial risk of splattering of
blood or body fluids, wear a full-face shield or goggles. Ordinary glasses do not offer adequate
protection against splattering. After the completion of clean up, discard disposable facial
protection into a biohazard waste bag.
A4.5. Shoes. If the spill is large and/or there is a potential of contaminating the worker’s shoes,
wear waterproof shoe covers.
A4.6. Do not pick up contaminated sharp objects by hand. If the spill contains broken glass
or other sharp objects, these must be picked up without direct contact with hands. Use metal
tongs, a broom and dustpan, or rigid sheets of cardboard used as “pusher” and “receiver” to pick
up objects. Place sharp objects into a puncture-resistant container prior to placing into a
biohazard waste bag.
A4.7. Absorb the spill. Absorb the bulk of spilled material prior to disinfection with disposable
absorbent material (i.e., paper towels, gauze pads, or if a small spill, sponge). If the spill is large,
granular absorbent material like that used to absorb caustic chemical spills may be used (i.e.,
kitty litter). Blot (do not wipe) up the spill allowing the fluids to be absorbed by the towels, etc.
After absorption of the liquid, discard all materials into a biohazard waste bag.
36WGI44-108 1 MAY 2014                                                                       17


A4.8. Disinfect Spill Area.
   A4.8.1. Mix the cup of bleach with the nine (9) cups of water. Flood the site or wipe down
   the spill site with disposable towels or sponge soaked in bleach to make the site “glistening
   wet.” Allow the bleach solution to remain in contact with the infectious material for at
   least one (1) minute before wiping it up.
   A4.8.2. Absorb the disinfectant with paper towels and dispose of the paper towels in a
   biohazard waste bag. Alternatively, the spill site may be permitted to air dry.
   A4.8.3. If chemical residue is a concern, rinse the spill site with water. Dry the site to
   prevent slipping if air-drying is not feasible.
   A4.8.4. Place all disposable materials used in the decontamination process into a biohazard
   waste bag. Dispose of the remaining disinfectant by pouring down the sanitary sewer.
   Decontaminate reusable materials, and equipment following above procedures.
A4.9. Contaminated waste. Contaminated waste may be disposed of as described under
Regulated Waste, 29 CFR 1910.1030(d)(4)(iii)(C).
