BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                36TH WING INSTRUCTION 36-501
36TH WING
                                                                                  15 MAY 2014

                                                                                      Personnel

                                                    RELEASE OF APPROPRIATED AND
                                               NONAPPROPRIATED FUNDS EMPLOYEES
                                                        DUE TO TROPICAL CYCLONE
                                                                     CONDITIONS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 36 FSS/FSMC                                                        Certified by: 36 FSS/CC
                                                                    (Lt Col Alonzo C. Bray, Jr.)
Supersedes:   36ABWI36-501,                                                              Pages: 4
              19 September 1999


This instruction implements AFPD 36-5, Civilian Personnel Resource Management, and DoD
1400.25-M, Subchapter 610, Department of Defense Civilian Personnel Manual (CPM)
(Attendance and Leave (Leave)). It establishes procedures for the orderly and timely release of
civilian employees during tropical cyclone conditions. This instruction applies to all Air Force
and Navy civilian employees on Andersen AFB. This directive does not apply to the Air
National Guard and Air Force Reserve Command civilians. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Web-RIMS Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Public Law 104-13, The Paperwork
Reduction Act of 1995 and AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, affect this
publication. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate chain of command.

1. Responsibilities:
   1.1. All employees are expected to cope with difficult driving conditions caused by weather
   and report for work unless otherwise notified. There is potential on Guam to have split
   weather decisions because destructive winds on DoD bases are defined as sustained winds of
 2                                                                 36WGI36-501 15 MAY 2014


     50kts while GovGuam uses 35kt winds based on local construction techniques. Employees
     who do not report for duty during hazardous weather are charged annual leave for the full
     day unless the supervisor determines that the employee made every reasonable effort to get to
     work, but was unable to do so because of the weather or road conditions.
     1.2. Group commanders, squadron commanders, staff agency chiefs, separate operating
     agencies and associate units are responsible for identifying their cyclone-essential employees
     in-writing and informing them in-advance of when those services are required. Cyclone-
     essential employees remain at work or report for duty regardless of weather conditions.
     Decisions to release non-essential employees administratively (i.e. without charge to leave)
     do not apply to Cyclone-essential employees.
2. Procedures:
     2.1. During Tropical Cyclone Condition of Readiness (TCCOR) 3 – Destructive winds are
     possible within 48 hours.
        2.1.1. Cyclone-essential employees (if on duty) may be administratively released from
        duty to secure their quarters, after which they must return to their essential duties.
        2.1.2. Non-essential employees will continue to work their normal duty schedule. Any
        excused absence from work is at the employee’s request, subject to supervisory approval,
        and charged to personal leave.
     2.2. During TCCOR 2 - Destructive winds are possible within 24 hours.
        2.2.1. Group/squadron commanders, staff agency chiefs, separate operating agencies and
        associate units may request an administrative release order. If granted, all areas and
        offices will be secured before release is affected. Management officials must document
        on the time and attendance records the date and hour that civilian employees were
        released on administrative leave.
     2.3. During TCCOR 1 (Emergency) - Destructive winds are possible within 12 hours.
     2.3.1. An administrative release order will be given for all non-essential civilian employees
     still in a duty status. Management officials must document on the time and attendance
     records the date and hour that civilian employees were released on administrative leave.
     2.4. Employees in Leave Status. In the event of an early dismissal, only employees who are
     in a duty status (not on leave) are excused without charge to leave. Employees who are
     absent on personal leave that day continue to be charged leave, unless they return from leave
     to duty status before the early dismissal takes effect. Workdays on which the installation is
     closed due to adverse weather conditions, e.g., declaration of TCCOR 1 (Emergency), are
     considered non-workdays for leave purposes. All regular employees, except those required
     to perform cyclone-essential duties are excused without charge to leave. This includes those
     on scheduled annual or sick leave, but does not include those in a non-pay status on the days
     immediately before and after the days the installation was closed.
     2.5. Return to Duty. All employees are expected to return to work on their first scheduled
     workday after the ALL CLEAR has been given. If hazardous weather or driving conditions
     still exist then tardiness, not in excess of two hours, may be excused by the immediate
     supervisor. Determining factors for consideration in the decision include distance to work,
     employee’s routing options, and mode of transportation. After personal review, group
36WGI36-501 15 MAY 2014                                                                 3


  commanders may excuse individual cases of tardiness in excess of two hours due to
  unavoidable delays resulting from adverse weather, road conditions or from disruption of
  public transportation.




                                        STEVEN D. GARLAND, Brigadier General, USAF
                                        Commander
 4                                                             36WGI36-501 15 MAY 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-815, Absence and Leave, 5 September 2002
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CPM—Civilian Personnel Manual
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
CMP—IMT - Content Management Program-Information Management Tool
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
TCCOR—Tropical Cyclone Condition of Readiness

Terms
Administrative Release Order— Is an order by the 36 WG/CC to release non-essential
employees from work without charging them leave, consistent with applicable directives.
Cyclone-Essential Employees— These are employees whose services are required and must
continue to work regardless of weather conditions. They are also subject to being recalled to
duty if conditions change while they are in a non-duty status.
