BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                36TH WING INSTRUCTION 44-109
36TH WING (PACAF)
                                                                                 3 APRIL 2014

                                                                                       Medical

                                                   COMMAND DIRECTED EVALUATIONS




            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANADATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 36 MDG/SGOW                                                      Certified by: 36 MDG/CC
                                                                          (Col Herbert C. Scott)
                                                                                        Pages: 7




This instruction implements AFI 44-109, Mental Health, Confidentiality, and Military Law. This
publication establishes policies and procedures for conducting Commander Directed Mental
Health Evaluations (CDEs) within the Mental Health (MH) Flight in support of the 36th Wing.
DoD Directive 7050.6 prohibits the referral and/or use of CDE evaluations in reprisal against
whistleblowers for disclosures protected by Public Law 102-484. This publication applies to all
units and staff agencies operating on Andersen AFB. This publication does not apply to Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units. This publication requires collection and maintenance
of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.


1. Applicability and Scope
   1.1. This operating instruction applies to all MH Flight personnel involved in MH
   evaluations, as well as identifying procedures for military Commanders and active duty
   service members of all branches of the Armed Forces involved in the CDE process while
   assigned and/or attached to Andersen AFB, Guam.
 2                                                                36WGI44-109 3 APRIL 2014


2. Request for CDE
     2.1. When a Commander on G-series orders determines it is necessary to refer a member for
     a MH evaluation (e.g., fitness for duty, safety concerns, or significant changes in
     performance or mental state), the Commander shall first consult with a qualified Mental
     Health Professional (MHP) as described in AFI 44-109, Mental Health, Confidentiality, and
     Military Law, to discuss actions and/or behaviors that the Commander believes may warrant
     a CDE.
        2.1.1. The MHP will evaluate the reasons for the request and either concur with the
        reasons or will recommend alternative options. The MHP has the responsibility to ensure
        that the evaluation is requested appropriately (IAW DoDD 6490.1, DoDI 6490.4 and AFI
        44-109) and does not appear to have a retributive motive. Should the latter appear to be
        the case, the professional is obligated to provide notification through his/her chain of
        command.
        2.1.2. The basis of a CDE request is observed behaviors that may indicate that the
        member has an impaired mental state or functioning based on a mental condition.
        2.1.3. The MHP will initiate a CDE checklist upon initial contact with the Commander
        and enter information about the request into the electronic CDE tracking log.
        2.1.4. The MHP will ensure that the member’s Commander had obtained the Medical
        Treatment Facility (MTF) Commander’s approval for the CDE.
        2.1.5. If a CDE request is approved, the Commander will be provided with a date and
        time for the evaluation and the name of the doctoral-level provider who will be
        conducting the evaluation. A copy of the Andersen AFB Commander’s Guide to
        Conducting CDEs will also be offered which includes a sample notification
        memorandum.
     2.2. All communication between MHP and Commander will be documented.
3. Commander Responsibilities
     3.1. The member’s Commander on G-series orders will forward the "Request for Mental
     Health Evaluation of Active Duty Personnel." If this request is not received by the MHP
     prior to the evaluation, then the evaluation may be rescheduled. The Commander is
     encouraged to also provide the MHP with any pertinent personnel records which provide
     evidence of performance or adjustment problems (e.g., LOR, LOC, MFR, EPR/OPR, etc.).
     3.2. Provide the member with a written notice of referral a minimum of two (2) duty days
     prior to the scheduled routine CDE to ensure the member has the ability to consult with an
     ADC before the eval. The two (2) day advance requirement may be waived in cases of
     emergency; per section 5.1. below. A copy of the notification shall also be forwarded to the
     MHP. The MHP will obtain final approval for CDE by the MTF Commander (written for
     routine CDE and a minimum of a verbal for emergency CDE). If this documentation is not
     received by the MHP prior to the evaluation, then the evaluation may be rescheduled. The
     notice shall, at a minimum, include the following:
        3.2.1. The place, date and time the CDE is scheduled; the name and rank (if active duty)
        of the doctoral-level provider who will be conducting the evaluation.
36WGI44-109 3 APRIL 2014                                                                       3


      3.2.2. A brief factual description of the behaviors and/or verbal expressions that caused
      the Commander to determine that a CDE is necessary.
      3.2.3. The name or names of the MHP with whom the Commander has consulted before
      making the referral. If a consultation with a MH provider was not possible, the
      memorandum shall state the reason(s) why.
      3.2.4. The positions and telephone numbers of authorities, including attorneys and IGs,
      who can assist a member who wishes to question the referral.
      3.2.5. The name and signature of the Commander.
      3.2.6. Notification of the member’s rights under Public Law 102-484 (1992), Section
      546 (reference (b)) "National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993".
      3.2.7. The member’s signature attesting to having received the notice as described above.
      If the member refuses to sign the attestation, the Commander shall so indicate on the
      referral letter.
4. Mental Health Clinic Process
   4.1. The CDE process typically involves one to three appointments (or more if clinically
   necessary): an initial provider interview, and/or psychological testing, and/or a follow-up
   provider interview(s). Prior to the member beginning psychological testing or the clinical
   interview, the front office technicians will provide a copy of the Information to Directed
   Evaluees (consent form) to the member to further ensure the member’s rights are preserved
   and that the member understands they are being evaluated at the direction of the commander.
   4.2. During the initial evaluation, the MHP shall ensure that the service member is advised
   of the purpose, nature, and likely consequences of the evaluation (i.e., potential career
   implications), as well as limits regarding confidentiality. The MHP will review the
   Commander's request with the member and answer any questions that the member may have.
   4.3. When possible, efforts will be made to avoid dual relationships. When a MHP performs
   both evaluative and therapeutic roles, the possible conflicts of loyalties should be clearly
   explained to the service member.
   4.4. Psychological Testing: The extent and necessity of the formal psychological testing will
   be at the discretion of the MHP. Tests will be administered and scored by a MH technician,
   and reviewed/interpreted by a clinical psychologist.
   4.5. Additional information, including previous medical and MH records, laboratory and
   radiological studies as appropriate, contacts with supervisors, information on recent changes
   in performance or behavior, as well as data such as time on station and administrative actions
   taken by the unit to remediate behavior, visits to squadrons, reviews of OPRs/EPRs and
   member’s Personal Information File, etc., will be conducted/reviewed at the discretion of the
   MHP and contingent upon availability. Collateral interviews with co-workers, family
   members, and friends will be conducted upon obtaining appropriate consent. All information
   used for the purposes of evaluation will be documented in the MH record.
   4.6. Follow-up Interview: The results of the evaluation, psychological testing results,
   diagnosis, and recommendations will be discussed with the member and documented in the
   MH and outpatient medical record (AHLTA).
4                                                                   36WGI44-109 3 APRIL 2014


    4.7. The results of the evaluation will be conveyed verbally to the Commander as soon as
    possible, and a written report shall be made available to the Commander within one (1) duty
    day following completion of CDE. This report should include the following:
       4.7.1. A description of the significant or contributory MH findings (if any) from the
       interview with the referred service member, including significant past MH history,
       current or previous psychotropic medications, substance use/abuse, or contributory
       medical/physical conditions or diagnoses.
       4.7.2. A report on mental status, to include detailed information pertinent to the request
       for evaluation.
       4.7.3. Results of psychological testing, laboratory studies, etc., as indicated.
       4.7.4. Diagnoses using DSM IV-TR Axis I, II, and III codes/criteria.
       4.7.5. Recommendations based on the results of the CDE should be clear, concise, and
       practical, to allow the Commander to act in the best interest of the referred service
       member and his or her unit, as well as the military service.
           4.7.5.1. When administrative separation is recommended based on a character and
           behavior disorder, the report should reflect the examiner's opinion as to how this
           disorder has or is expected to interfere with duty performance or adjustment to the
           military. The evaluation should state a finding "that the disorder is so severe that the
           member's ability to function in the military environment is significantly impaired"
           IAW AFI 36-3206, Administrative Discharge procedures for Commissioned Officers,
           and AFI 36-3208, Administrative Separation of Airmen.
           4.7.5.2. In those cases when administrative separation is recommended based on a
           personality disorder and a pattern of potentially dangerous behavior, that
           recommendation shall be co-signed by the MTF Commander. The report to the
           member’s Commander will note that should the member’s Commander decline to
           follow this recommendation, then he/she must forward a memorandum to his/her
           commanding officer, explaining the decision to retain the member against medical
           advice.
              4.7.5.2.1. When administrative separation based on a personality disorder is
              recommended for Airmen who are currently serving or who have served in an
              imminent danger pay area, the diagnosis will specifically address Post Traumatic
              Stress Disorder (PTSD) or other illness/co-morbidity. Separation under this
              provision will not be initiated if there is a diagnosis of service-related PTSD,
              unless the Airman is subsequently found unfit for duty under the disability
              evaluation system IAW AFI 36-3212, Physical Evaluation for Retention,
              Retirement, and Separation. The recommendation for discharge first will be
              made by a psychiatrist or clinical psychologist, the appropriateness of which will
              be then discussed with the Airman’s Commander IAW AFI 36-3208. If the
              discharge is consequently considered appropriate by the Airman’s Commander,
              the MTF will forward the diagnosis with supporting documentation through
              appropriate channels for corroboration by a peer- or higher-level MHP and
              endorsement from the Air Force Surgeon General (SG) or designee. If the SG
              concurs in the diagnosis of a personality disorder, the MTF will notify the
36WGI44-109 3 APRIL 2014                                                                      5


                Airman’s Commander, and separation processing will be initiated IAW AFI 36-
                3208. Airmen will be counseled that the diagnosis of a personality disorder does
                not qualify as a disability.
   4.8. The final report should be signed and the Commander notified of its completion in order
   for arrangements to be made in its safe and confidential delivery to the Commander.
   Members who desire a copy of the report will be referred to their Commander.
5. Exceptions
   5.1. Emergency CDE: When information or circumstances indicate a military member is
   likely to cause serious injury to himself, herself, or others and when the facts and
   circumstances indicate that the member’s intent to cause such injury is likely, and when the
   Commander on Gseries orders believes that the member may be suffering from a severe
   mental disorder, the member may be referred for evaluation without delay. All other
   questions from the Commander will be handled through the routine CDE process. MHPs
   will ensure that an emergency CDE is warranted, and the commander is aware of the
   limitations of an emergency CDE.
      5.1.1. MHP will consult with the Commander to maximize the safety of the member
      during the referral process.
      5.1.2. The clinical safety assessment to evaluate whether the member is a danger to self
      or others, may be accomplished by any privileged healthcare provider as promptly as
      possible in accordance with the urgency of the member’s condition. Follow-up
      assessment to complete the CDE will be conducted by a qualified doctoral-level MHP as
      described in AFI 44-109.
      5.1.3. The two (2) duty day waiting period from time of notice until time of the CDE
      does not apply to emergency referrals.
      5.1.4. In case of an emergency, the written notification to the member by the
      Commander and the written request for a CDE by the Commander will be completed
      expeditiously, and unnecessary delay in evaluation will be avoided. Therefore, this
      documentation may be completed by the Commander subsequent to the evaluation.
      Emergency CDE by the after-hours on-call MHP will be conducted IAW SGOW OI 44-
      01, Mental Health On-call Services.
      5.1.5. MHP will ensure the member understands the reason for the referral, the process
      of the emergency CDE and the limits of confidentiality. MHP will clearly differentiate
      between emergency CDEs, which are not voluntary and voluntary treatment of members
      who have presented to MH at the suggestion/encouragement of their command.
6                                                           36WGI44-109 3 APRIL 2014


    5.1.6. IAW DoDD 6490.1, a decision to admit the member for an inpatient CDE will be
    made by a provider privileged to admit psychiatric patients only when an outpatient CDE
    is not appropriate due to member posing danger to himself, herself and/or others, or if
    such evaluation cannot be reasonably provided in accordance with the least restrictive
    alternative principle. Providers will refer to AFI 44-109 and MDGI 44-134, Assessment,
    Management, & Hospitalization of Behavioral Health Patients, for additional guidance
    on emergency or involuntary MH evaluations.




                                        STEVEN D. GARLAND, Brigadier General, USAF
                                        Commander
36WGI44-109 3 APRIL 2014                                                                      7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 44-109, Mental Health and Military Law, 1 March 2000
AFI 36-3206, Administrative Discharge procedures for Commissioned Officers, 9 June 2004
AFI 36-3208, Administrative Separation of Airmen, 9 July 2004
AFI 36-3212, Physical Evaluation for Retention, Retirement, and Separation, 2 February 2006
36MDGI 44-137, Management of High Risk Patients, 5 November 2012
SGOW OI 44-07, Management of High Interest Patients, 1 November 2013
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADC—Area Defense Counsel
AFB—Air Force Base
AHLTA—Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application
CDE—Commander Directed Mental Health Evaluations
EPR—Enlisted Performance Report
LOC—Letter of Counseling
LOR—Letter of Reprimand
MFR—Memorandum for Record
MH—Mental Health
MHP—Mental Health Professional
MTF—Medical Treatment Facility
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OPR—Officer Performance Report
PTSD—Post Traumatic Stress Disorder
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SG—Air Force Surgeon General
