BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   36th WING INSTRUCTION 21-107
36TH WING
                                                                                   14 MAY 2014

                                                                                    Maintenance

                                                      CRASHED, DAMAGED, OR DISABLED
                                                          AIRCRAFT RECOVERY (CDDAR)
                                                                           PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 36 MXS/MXMT                                                       Certified by: 36 MXG/CC
                                                                        (Colonel Kim R. Brooks)
Supersedes:    36WGI 21-107,                                                            Pages: 17
               28 January2008


36th Wing Instruction 21-107 establishes recovery procedures for aircraft involved in a ground
or air incident to include contingency planning considerations for 24/7/365 coverage. The
instruction applies to all 36 WG organizations and personnel including associate and deployed
units that maintain aircraft, aircraft systems, equipment, support equipment and components
regardless of AFSC. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
and Air National Guard (ANG) Units. It will be used in conjunction with other agency policies
and all applicable Technical Orders (TOs) pertaining to the disabled aircraft. It establishes
policies and procedures and assigns responsibilities for Crashed, Damaged or Disabled Aircraft
(CDDAR). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified
with a Tier number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and
Forms Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier
numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier
waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance
items. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                                                                 36WGI21-107 14 MAY 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be reviewed in its entirety. It updates
the previous edition with more detailed responsibilities of the Incident Commander (IC),
Recovery Operations Chief (ROC), CDDAR Team Chief (TC), 36 MXG/CC, deployed/owning
unit members, and Transient Alert. Certain sections were moved to create more coherence: 36
MXS, CDDAR TC, and Transient Alert responsibilities. Additions and updates have been made
to the following sections; change of Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan (CEMP) to
Installation Emergency Management Plan (IEMP), Civil Aircraft removal/recovery, Aircraft
Debogging procedures, and Attachments which include new checklist procedures.

        1.     General. ..................................................................................................................    2
        2.     Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................        3
        3.     Training. .................................................................................................................    5
        4.     Procedures. .............................................................................................................      6
        5.     Equipment. .............................................................................................................       8
        6.     Special Circumstances. ..........................................................................................              9

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                               10

Attachment 2—BARRIER ENGAGEMENT CHECKLIST                                                                                                    13

Attachment 3—BLOWN TIRE CHECKLIST                                                                                                            15

Attachment 4—AIRCRAFT DEBOGGING                                                                                                              16


1. General.
     1.1. Although the 36 WG does not possess assigned aircraft, transient and deployed aircraft
     rely on Andersen AFB for support.
        1.1.1. Crashed, damaged or disabled aircraft recovery on Andersen AFB is augmented
        by deployed personnel and the deployed Repair and Reclamation (R&R) Shop is
        provided by personnel from the deployed aircraft maintenance unit. The 36th
        Maintenance Group will assist the Incident Commander (IC), Recovery Operations Chief
        (ROC), or the Interim Safety Board (ISB) President for initial crash response support and
        immediate recovery/removal (as required) of damaged or disabled aircraft until the
        owning unit takes responsibility. The 36 WG/CC or designated representative will
        determine the degree of emergency and make the initial decision regarding the speed with
        which the runway is cleared. This decision is dictated by evaluation of alert status,
        number of returning aircraft, available weather alternates and other operational criteria.
     1.2. Team composition:
        1.2.1. CDDAR TC – Responsible for the overall CDDAR Program development,
        implementation and management. CDDAR TC (s) will be a SNCO or as designated by
36WGI21-107 14 MAY 2014                                                                       3


       MXG/CC in writing. All CDDAR operations will be coordinated through the TC who
       will act as the single on-scene focal point for all CDDAR operations.
       1.2.2. CDDAR Team Leader (TL) – CDDAR TLs will be trained in CDDAR
       supervisory duties by the TC and report directly to the TC. TLs may be designated upon
       notification of a recovery operation. If the operation will be ongoing, two CDDAR TLs
       may be designated to cover 24-hour operations.
       1.2.3. CDDAR Team Member – Works directly for and reports to the CDDAR TL.
       These individuals must be trained as CDDAR Team Members by the CDDAR TC.
       CDDAR TL trained personnel may be utilized as Team members during CDDAR
       operations.
       1.2.4. Deployed or owning units are responsible to provide trained TLs and Team
       Members. The 36 MXG TC will provide local familiarization training within 7 days of
       arrival.
2. Responsibilities.
   2.1. 36 WG Safety Office shall:
       2.1.1. Brief all organizations directly involved in CDDAR operations on the importance
       of preserving evidence.
       2.1.2. Advise Incident Commander (IC) and Recovery Operations Chief (ROC) on
       proper documentation of incident site prior to the initial removal of any wreckage to
       include: complete photographic coverage, notes, liquid samples, and measurements.
       2.1.3. Establish Interim Safety Board (ISB) and assist Safety Investigation Board (SIB)
       in performance of their duties as needed.
   2.2. 36 MXG/CC shall:
       2.2.1. Manage the CDDAR program, ensure personnel have attended the AETC recovery
       operations formal course and verify essential equipment is maintained and available for
       use IAW 21-101 Chapter 14.
       2.2.2. Appoint a CDDAR TC who will be the focal point for the base’s CDDAR
       program.
       2.2.3. Ensure the CDDAR TC coordinates with base and commercial agencies to source
       heavy equipment not available on base but required for recovery operations.
       2.2.4. Ensure initial and recurring CDDAR training is conducted on an annual basis and
       tracked in IMDS for PACAF and GO81 for AMC . The training audience will include:
       Andersen Transient Alert contractors, 734 AMS, Global Hawk, deployed and associate
       units (as applicable).
       2.2.5. Coordinate with deployed maintenance supervision on crash recovery equipment
       availability, direct CDDAR teams be tracked on the 36 MXS recall roster, and verify
       composite response capabilities.
       2.2.6. Provide composite response capability with assistance from the deployed
       maintenance units, if required. 36 MXS composite response capabilities include trained
       personnel with required personnel protective equipment (PPE), fit-tested full face filter
4                                                                 36WGI21-107 14 MAY 2014


       masks, sprayers and fixiant necessary to accomplish carbon fiber suppression
       preventative measures.
    2.3. CDDAR TC shall:
       2.3.1. Ensure that prior to conducting composite response activities, CDDAR TC will
       consult with Bioenvironmental Engineering to determine risk specific to the incident. All
       Crash Recovery Team (CRT) members shall be trained and familiar with T.O. 00-105E-
       9, Emergency Rescue Information.
       2.3.2. Establish a CDDAR continuity book which contains a: training plan, copy of the
       CDDAR TC appointment letter, memorandums of agreement with other units, and an
       inventory to identify the locations of all CDDAR equipment to include any deployed
       equipment.
       2.3.3. Establish and maintain a CDDAR initial response trailer.
       2.3.4. Coordinate with other host base and tenant organizations to establish
       memorandums of agreement to establish mutual support for CDDAR operations.
    2.4. Transient Alert shall:
       2.4.1. Respond to aircraft related emergencies as directed by IC and/or TC. These efforts
       and costs are included as part of the existing contract.
       2.4.2. Assist in aircraft crash and recovery operations to include removal of disabled
       aircraft from the runway at the request of the CDDAR team as required.
    2.5. 36 MSG/CC shall:
       2.5.1. Provide an Incident Commander (IC). The IC (most often the Fire Chief) will take
       command of the crash site and control access (for more information see AFMAN 10-
       2504 Air Force Incident Management para 3.5.2). The IC will be the focal point for all
       base agency coordination and direct all support requests to the Installation Control Center
       (ICC).
       2.5.2. Provide Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) personnel on site to declare aircraft
       safe from potential armament explosion upon request from the IC.
       2.5.3. Provide emergency crash/fire response, as well as hazardous materials and spill
       containment capability beyond the scope of the unit.
       2.5.4. Provide security force personnel to secure mishap scene and the wreckage
       assembly point, as directed by the IC.
       2.5.5. Provide tractor trailers and forklifts, as necessary, to transport CDDAR support
       equipment to the mishap site, as well as transport wreckage to the wreckage assembly
       point. (This may include an all-terrain forklift depending on the mishap site conditions).
       2.5.6. Provide on-scene fuel servicing of recovery support equipment, to include
       Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) and heavy equipment as required.
       2.5.7. Provide contracting support for specialized equipment as necessary to support
       recovery operations as required.
       2.5.8. Provide additional personnel, equipment and services as directed by the IC.
36WGI21-107 14 MAY 2014                                                                        5


      2.5.9. Ensure 36 CONS includes CDDAR options in the TA contract.
   2.6. 36 MDG/CC shall:
      2.6.1. Provide Bioenvironmental capabilities as per 36 WG Installation Emergency
      Management Plan (IEMP) 10-2:
          2.6.1.1. Provide on-scene respirator fit tests for composite response as required.
      2.6.2. Provide on-scene medical assistance, Flight Medicine mishap support and
      transport wounded as required IAW 91-204, 36th Wing Mishap Response Plan.
   2.7. 36 OG/CC shall:
      2.7.1. Ensure notification of all in-flight emergency (IFE) aircraft inbound to Andersen
      AFB using the secondary crash net (SCN) and the land mobile “ramp” net.
      2.7.2. Establish clearances for access to the active runway and publish NOTAMs as
      required.
   2.8. USN Helicopter Sea Combat-25 (HSC-25) shall:
      2.8.1. Take responsibility for the immediate recovery/removal of owned damaged or
      disabled aircraft.
      2.8.2. Provide aerial survey support (if available) for ISB Investigating Officer and
      combat camera. At a time determined by the convening authority representative, provide
      support for CDDAR TC and transport for CDDAR members if location of crash is
      inaccessible via roadways.
   2.9. 734 AMS/CC shall:
      2.9.1. Provide manpower for recovery of Air Mobility Command (AMC) aircraft and
      assist CDDAR operations by providing trained CDDAR team members IAW 2.2.4.
      2.9.2. Coordinate CDDAR equipment and maintenance recovery team (MRT) support
      requests with HQ AMC for incidents involving AMC aircraft.
   2.10. 554th RED HORSE Squadron shall:
      2.10.1. Provide operators and heavy equipment, i.e., bulldozers, cranes and dump trucks,
      as required per the IC/ROC/ICC.
      2.10.2. Provide maintenance support for heavy equipment participating in the recovery
      operation, as directed by the IC/ROC/ICC.
3. Training.
   3.1. The 36 MXS CDDAR TC will:
      3.1.1. Develop and implement a training program IAW AFI 21-101. Training plans will
      be reviewed and updated annually by the TC and 36 MXG Training Manager.
      3.1.2. Assign recovery duties to permanent party task-qualified maintenance personnel
      within 30 days of arrival and 7 days for deployed personnel. CDDAR trained personnel
      will be identified as a “TC”, “TL” or “Team Member” on the section’s recall roster.
      Special equipment qualifications will be identified using a maintenance information
      system.
 6                                                                  36WGI21-107 14 MAY 2014


        3.1.3. Provide training to include:
            3.1.3.1. Basic concepts of crash/disabled recovery procedures.
            3.1.3.2. Safety precautions to include hazards associated with initial response,
            hazardous liquids, composite materials and potentially hazardous cargo.
            3.1.3.3. Flight line drivers training.
            3.1.3.4. Aircraft lifting bag and control console operation.
            3.1.3.5. Crash trailer equipment, location of secondary equipment, and inspection
            requirements.
4. Procedures.
     4.1. Upon declaration of a potential or actual major aircraft accident on the runway or in
     close proximity, the following sequence of events will occur:
        4.1.1. All accident response agencies are notified according to 36 WG IEMP 10-2.
            4.1.1.1. 36 MXG Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) Controller will notify the
            Maintenance Squadron (MXS) Production Superintendent of the mishap and provide
            type of aircraft, location, amount of fuel on board, explosives on board and known
            extent of aircraft damage. The MOC Controller will designate one aircraft
            maintenance radio net as the primary maintenance recovery operation net and direct
            all personnel who are not directly involved in the recovery operation to switch to an
            alternate net. The MOC will also notify a supervision representative from each 36
            MXG squadron (per MOC checklists) that a crash recovery is in progress and to stand
            by to respond with additional personnel and equipment as directed by IC or CDDAR
            TC.
            4.1.1.2. Once alerted for a recovery operation, the 36 MXS CDDAR TC will
            assemble a recovery team and designate a Crash Recovery TL (s) in coordination
            with 36 MXS Maintenance Supervision. A second team will be identified with a TL
            to sustain around the clock recovery operations, if necessary. CDDAR TC will ensure
            that the team consists of qualified personnel as required for the event. Personnel
            qualifications include: jack, airbag, tow, and forklift operators.
            4.1.1.3. 36 OSS will notify 36 WG Command Post on secondary crash net to enable
            proper execution of appropriate notifications and checklists.
        4.1.2. 36 MXG Quality Assurance (QA) will implement impoundment procedures for
        the: aircraft, records, tools (CTK items) and all Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) that
        may have played a role in the mishap sequence.
        4.1.3. Other MXG squadrons will provide manpower and aircraft system expertise to the
        Crash Recovery TC as required.
        4.1.4. The 36 WG/CC or designated representative will notify the IC of any special
        considerations for wreckage removal.
        4.1.5. Control of the mishap scene belongs to the IC until released to the Recovery
        Operations Chief (ROC) or president of the ISB/SIB.
36WGI21-107 14 MAY 2014                                                                        7


     4.1.6. Removal or crash recovery of an aircraft begins when directed by the
     ROC/ISB/SIB. Depending upon circumstances, considerations for CDDAR operations
     may include: preventing further damage to personnel or equipment, EOD considerations,
     and mission continuation time constraints.
     4.1.7. Coordination with the ISB President, 36 WG/SE and 36 MXG/QA is required to
     determine when all photographic and cataloging documentation for the incident is
     complete.
     4.1.8. Do not remove or disturb equipment unless directed by the Interim Safety Board
     President, or IC, to accomplish recovery operations or for security reasons. TC will seek
     approval from the IC/ICC (ROC or ISB/SIB President, if responsibility has been
     transferred).
     4.1.9. The IC will ensure the aircraft is fire safe (hydrazine safe if applicable) and
     explosive safe prior to any removal operations. If required, CDDAR team will don full
     faced filtered mask and PPE for composite aircraft incidents based on aircraft technical
     data from T.O. 00-105E-9, Chapter 3 and input from the Bioenvironmental Engineering
     office.
     4.1.10. Once the emergency is over and recovery starts, the IC must officially transfer
     control of the site to the Recovery Operations Chief (ROC). The EOC Director selects
     the ROC IAW 36 WG PLAN 91-204 Aircraft Mishap Response. The ROC taking
     control of the site will be a subject matter expert on the hazards, activities, Hazardous
     Material (HAZMAT) and recovery procedures specific to the incident site (e.g.
     maintenance officer for an aircraft mishap or a medical officer for a pandemic incident).
  4.2. The CDDAR TC will advise the ROC of the most prudent method of aircraft removal
  given the condition of the incident site. The CDDAR TC and ROC will identify any
  equipment (i.e. bulldozers, flatbed trucks, front-end loaders, cranes or forklifts) or disaster
  response activities, (i.e. EOD, fire fighting, decontamination or rescue) required for removal
  operations and begin coordinating for the additional support IAW 36 WG IEMP 10-2. The
  CDDAR TC’s goal will be to limit additional damage to the aircraft during removal
  operations to preserve evidence for the investigation.
     4.2.1. If heavy equipment is required on the airfield then the CDDAR TC will coordinate
     closely with the Airfield Manager (designated representative).
     4.2.2. The ROC will use all resources required to safely account for the CDDAR aircraft.
     Under certain conditions, time may not permit the use of normal procedures. Under those
     conditions, every on-base asset may be called into the recovery operation.
  4.3. Civil aircraft CDDAR is normally accomplished by the owning company due to damage
  and liability issues. Owning company will coordinate with Judge Advocate (36 WG/JA) with
  recommendation to the 36 WG/CC before removal or recovery of a civil aircraft is attempted
  by a military CDDAR team.
  4.4. Off-base crash recovery.
     4.4.1. 36 MXG MOC will alert the Vehicle Operations Dispatcher that the following
     vehicles may be required for dispatch. The dispatcher will reserve the following vehicles.
         4.4.1.1. One six-passenger four-wheel-drive truck.
 8                                                                 36WGI21-107 14 MAY 2014


            4.4.1.2. One 1.5-ton truck or equivalent.
            4.4.1.3. Two 7.5-ton tractors or larger and 40-feet trailers for transporting equipment
            and wreckage, as needed.
        4.4.2. The IC will coordinate the dispatch of CDDAR personnel or equipment off-base to
        ensure the usage does not jeopardize on-base recovery operations or unless directed by
        the 36 WG/CC.
        4.4.3. Once the wreckage is released to the CDDAR team, augmented support will help
        load the wreckage for return to Andersen AFB (or designated wreckage assembly point).
        A facility large enough to house wreckage will be identified and secured, allowing only
        essential authorized personnel access to the facility.
        4.4.4. The CDDAR Team must be capable of deploying in support of “off island”
        CDDAR operations as directed by 36 WG/CC. If tasked, all base agencies will provide
        required support to expedite CDDAR team and equipment departure.
5. Equipment.
     5.1. The CDDAR initial response trailer will store initial response equipment, CDDAR
     Team PPE (gloves, hard hats, reflective vests, composite material protective equipment), and
     other equipment deemed necessary by the CDDAR TC. All equipment will have
     identification numbers and be on an equipment inventory list that will stay with the trailer.
     The trailer and equipment will be inspected and inventoried at least once a year by the
     CDDAR Team and documented in TCMax® tool accounting software.
        5.1.1. If required, 36 CONS will contract for applicable tonnage hoist crane and
        operator.
        5.1.2. The following equipment, tools, vehicles and other supplies/consumables may be
        required for CDDAR operations:
            5.1.2.1. Aircraft lifting bags and control consoles. (36 MXS)
            5.1.2.2. Air compressors (MC-7) or equivalent. (36 MXS)
            5.1.2.3. Proper tow vehicle equivalent. (36 MXS)
            5.1.2.4. Tow bars for assigned and deployed aircraft. (36 MXS)
            5.1.2.5. Light carts as required for night recovery operations. (36 MXS)
            5.1.2.6. Ensure one toolbox is available for the crash crew at all times. (36 MXS)
            5.1.2.7. Shoring. (36 MXS)
            5.1.2.8. Semi-trailer, 40-ton minimum capacity, low bed. (36 LRS)
            5.1.2.9. Temporary runway matting and 50 Ton load meters for aircraft debogging.
            (36 MXS)
     5.2. The CDDAR Team Chief will coordinate with Wing units for additional recovery
     operations support as required. 36 LRS will anticipate a requirement for: 7.5-ton or larger
     tractor, 40-foot trailer and 10K forklift with driver. 36 CES will anticipate supply front-end
     loaders with driver.
36WGI21-107 14 MAY 2014                                                                    9


6. Special Circumstances.
   6.1. 36 WG shall initiate requests for Navy diving or salvage operations as required.




                                            STEVEN D. GARLAND, Brigadier General, USAF
                                            Commander
 10                                                            36WGI21-107 14 MAY 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
36 WG Installation Emergency Management Plan (IEMP) 10-2
AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations
AFPD 21-1, Managing Aerospace Equipment Maintenance
AFI 21-101 and CAF SUP 1, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management
AFI 21-103, Equipment Inventory, Status and Utilization Reporting
36 WG PLAN 91-204, Aircraft Mishap Response Plan
T.O. 00-105E-9, Emergency Rescue Information
T.O. 00-80C-1, Crashed, Damaged, Disabled, Aircraft Recovery Manual
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AGE—Aerospace Ground Equipment
CEMP—Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan
CDDAR—Crash, Damaged, or Disabled Aircraft Recovery
CRT—Crash Recovery Team
CTK—Composite Tool Kit
EOC—Emergency Operations Center
EOD—Explosive Ordnance Disposal
HAZMAT—Hazardous Materials
HQ—Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
IC—Incident Commander
ICC—Installation Control Center
IEMP—Installation Emergency Management Plan
IFE—In-Flight Emergency
ISB—Interim Safety Board
36WGI21-107 14 MAY 2014                                                                       11


JAG—Judge Advocate
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
MRT—Maintenance Recovery Team
NOTAM—Notice to Airmen
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PPE—Personnel Protective Equipment
QA—Quality Assurance
R&R—Repair and Reclamation
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RED HORSE—Rapid Engineer Deployable Heavy Operational Repair Squadron Engineer
ROC—Recovery Operations Chief
SCN—Secondary Crash Net
SIB—Safety Investigation Board
TC—Team Chief
TL—Team Leader
TO—Technical Orders
USN—United States Navy

Terms
Carbon Fiber—A strong, stiff, thin fiber of nearly pure carbon, made by subjecting various
organic raw materials to high temperatures, combined with synthetic resins to produce a strong,
lightweight material used in construction of aircraft and spacecraft.
Debogging—Recovery of an aircraft that has sunk into a soft surface (to include asphalt).
Decontamination—The physical or chemical process of reducing and preventing the spread of
contaminants from persons and equipment used at HAZMAT incident.
Emergency Operations Center (EOC)—The physical location at which the coordination of
information and resources to support attack response and incident management activities
normally takes place. An EOC may be a temporary facility or may be located in a more central
or permanently established facility, perhaps at a higher level of organization within a
jurisdiction. EOCs may be organized by major functional disciplines such as fire, security forces
and medical services, by jurisdiction such as Federal, State, regional, county, city, tribal or a
combination thereof.
Hydrazine—Hydrazine is highly alkaline. Hydrazine at room temperature is a clear, oily,
fuming liquid with an odor similar to ammonia. It is hazardous to health in both the liquid and
vapor form and is combustible and explosive. Hydrazine fuel (H-70) is a blend of 70% hydrazine
and 30% water and is used to power the Emergency Power Unit (EPU) on F-l6 series aircraft and
the Emergency Start System (ESS) on U-2 series aircraft.
 12                                                                36WGI21-107 14 MAY 2014


Incident Commander (IC)—The command function is directed by the IC, who is the person in
charge at the incident and who must be fully qualified to manage the response. Major
responsibilities for the IC include: performing command activities, such as establishing
command; protecting life and property; controlling personnel and equipment resources;
maintaining accountability for responder and public safety, as well as for task accomplishment;
establishing and maintaining an effective liaison with outside agencies and organizations,
including the EOC, when it is activated.
Initial Response—Resources initially committed to an incident.
Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)—Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) is equipment
designed to protect individuals exposed to hazards from injury or illness in non-military unique
occupational environments where OSHA or applicable AFOSH standards apply, including
emergency response to CBRNE incidents in the United States.
Recovery—The development, coordination and execution of service- and site-restoration plans
for impacted communities and the reconstitution of government operations and services through
individual, private-sector, nongovernmental and public assistance programs that: identify needs
and define resources; provide housing and promote restoration; address long-term care and
treatment of affected persons; implement additional measures for community restoration;
incorporate mitigation measures and techniques, as feasible; evaluate the incident to identify
lessons learned; and develop initiatives to mitigate the effects of future incidents.
Recovery Operations Chief—The Recovery Operations Chief must be a subject matter expert
in the hazards or activities within the incident site. If it is a HAZMAT incident, the organization
or individual that assumes control of the site must be knowledgeable of the hazards and recovery
procedures. The person in charge of that work should have an environmental engineering
background and be familiar with HAZMAT clean-up requirements. If it is an aircraft incident,
the recovery operations chief should be familiar with that aircraft or be a member of the interim
aircraft mishap investigation team. The EOC Director should select the individual that will be in
charge of the site.
36WGI21-107 14 MAY 2014                                                                           13


                                          Attachment 2
                         BARRIER ENGAGEMENT CHECKLIST

Figure A2.1. Barrier Engagement Checklist
NOTE: Aircraft commander and/or IC will determine if the aircraft is capable of self-
extraction based on aircraft type and mechanical state. Self-extraction is only possible if the
aircraft engages the BAK-12 barrier

SELF-EXTRACTION (SLINGSHOT METHOD)

STEP C/W N/A PROCEDURE
1                     Request barrier maintenance to lock cable in place
                      Marshall aircraft forward to place tension on the barrier cable. When all
2                     slack has been removed and cable appears to be taut, inform pilot to hold
                      brakes and retard throttle to idle

                      When engine(s) is/are at idle, signal the pilot to release the brakes. If the
3                     aircraft does not roll far enough back to release the barrier cable, repeat
                      steps 2 and 3.
4                     Retract tail hook when hook is free from cable
5                     Taxi aircraft to parking location.
6                     Request barrier maintenance to rewind cable.

PULLING CABLE FROM TAIL HOOK (MANUAL METHOD)

STEP C/W N/A PROCEDURE
                      Establish communication with aircraft commander and brief pilot on the
1                     procedure
2                     Install all safety devices
3                     Attach barrier tow cable to barrier cable next to tail hook
                      Position tow vehicle in front of aircraft and attach barrier tow cable to the
4                     tow vehicle
5                     Pull barrier cable far enough forward to release aircraft tail hook
6                     Retract tail hook
7                     Remove barrier tow cable and tow vehicle
8                     Taxi aircraft to parking location
9                     Request barrier maintenance to rewind cable
14                                                     36WGI21-107 14 MAY 2014



AIRCRAFT SHUT DOWN AND TOW (ALTERNATE METHOD)

STEP C/W N/A PROCEDURE
1            Install all safety devices
2            Shut aircraft down
3            Attach tow bar to aircraft and tow vehicle
4            Push aircraft back to release barrier cable
5            Raise aircraft tail hook
6            Proceed on with normal aircraft towing procedure
7            Request barrier maintenance to rewind cable
36WGI21-107 14 MAY 2014                                              15


                                    Attachment 3
                             BLOWN TIRE CHECKLIST

Figure A3.1. Blown Tire Checklist

       STEP     C/W        N/A      PROCEDURE

       1                            CONTACT OWNING AGENCY
                                    PICK UP TOW VEHICLE &
       2                            APPLICABLE TOW BAR
       3                            CALL/PICK UP WHEEL DOLLY (AGE)
                                    AFTER FD RELEASES ACFT/CHECK
       4                            HOT BRAKES
       5                            SAFE AIRCRAFT
       6                            SHUTDOWN AIRCRAFT
       7                            CALL TOWER FOR TOW CLEARANCE
                                    HOOK UP TOW BAR AND TOW
       8                            VEHICLE
                                    PUT ACFT ON DISABLED WHEEL
       9                            DOLLY
       10                           TOW VEHICLE TO PARKING SPOT
       11                           CALL TOWER TO CANCEL TOW
 16                                                        36WGI21-107 14 MAY 2014


                                     Attachment 4
                              AIRCRAFT DEBOGGING

Table A4.1. Aircraft Debogging

                               AIRCRAFT DEBOGGING


               ITEM (Circle if Applicable)        X IF ACTION IS REQUIRED
Task                                                                        NOTES
Stop or         Reduce tire air pressure
slow the        Defuel
Acft sinking    Remove cargo
                Remove munitions
                Other
Assess extent NLG sunk to__________
of bog          Rt MLG sunk to__________
                Lt MLG sunk to__________
Assess aircraft Good, ready to tow
structural      Damaged, replace gear
integrity       Damaged, consult engineering
Aircraft        Safety landing gear
preparation     Reduce weight
                Jack aircraft
                Bag lift aircraft
                Other
Tow plan        (Note: transition NLG from soft
                ground to pavement on a shallow
                slope and straight on)
                Use winch
                Tow backward
                Tow forward, create ramp, then
                tow back
                Tow backward then turn before
                transition
36WGI21-107 14 MAY 2014                                                 17




Ground          None
preparation     Excavate                         Width of path:
                Plywood or steel plate over
needed for      timbers
aircraft        Plywood                          Length of path:
movement        Compacted gravel
                Pierced steel planking
                Cargo pallets
                Rapid runway material
                Portable Roadway material
                Other
Additional      None                             Width of ramp:
preparation for Create ramp
NLG transition (write desired materials here)    Length of ramp:
Ground          None
preparation for Sand
                Other (write desired materials
Tow Vehicle     here)
Estimate        Level pavement drawbar
towing
force needed    pull________________
                Multiply by
                additions___________
                Added resistance of soft
                ground______________
                Estimated force on tow
                ropes________________
Tow rope         Quantity__________________
                 Length___________________
                 Rope                            Length of bridging
Bridging                                         material (Not the length
                 Chain                           of tow
material                                         rope)________________
                 Ground stakes
                 (Quantity)________
                 Other
                 Type________
Tow Vehicles     Quantity________
