BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 36TH WING INSTRUCTION 33-111
36TH WING
                                                                           22 FEBRUARY 2012

                                                              Communication and Information

                                                     SOFTWARE LICENSE MANAGEMENT



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MADATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releaseability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 36 CS/SCOO                                                          Certified by: 36 CS/CC
                                                                         (Lt Col Jeffrey Sorrell)
                                                                                        Pages: 12


This instruction implements Executive Order (E.O.) 13103, Computer Software Piracy,
September 30, 1999; Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 5000.2-R, Mandatory
Procedures For Major Defense Acquisition Programs (MDAPS) and Major Automated
Information System (MAIS) Acquisition Programs, April 5, 2002, C5.2.3.5.6.1.9. It identifies
responsibilities for management of commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) and Air Force-unique
software acquired by the Air Force (other than software internal to a weapon system; see AFPD
63-1, 3.37, Capabilities-Based Acquisition System, 10 July 2003). This instruction applies to all
organizations on Andersen Air Force Base using the Air Force Network including ANG and
AFRC. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS)           Records      Disposition        Schedule        (RDS)         located       at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Send recommended changes or
comments to the designated Base Software License Manager (BSLM), 36th Communications
Squadron, Andersen AFB, GU through appropriate channels, using AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication.

1. Andersen AFB Software Licensing Program Roles and Responsibilities.
   1.1. The 36th Communications Squadron Commander (36 CS/CC) is responsible for the
   Base Software License Management Program. The 36 CS/CC will:
       1.1.1. Appoint primary and alternate Base Software License Managers (BSLM).
2                                                         36WGI33-111 22 FEBRUARY 2012


       1.1.2. Notify HQ PACAF/A6 Command Software License Manager (CSLM) and
       individuals of their appointment. This notification will include a signed copy of the
       appointment letter.
       1.1.3. Ensure each organizational commander requiring COTS or Air Force-unique
       software designates primary and alternate Unit Software License Managers (USLMs).
       1.1.4. As warranted by higher authority, review BSLM Program and provide the CSLM
       with program status.
       1.1.5. Certify and submit an annual inventory of all unit computer software and licenses
       to the BSLM. Sign the annual inventory spreadsheet or memorandum to accomplish
       certification and to indicate accomplishment of the base’s annual software license
       inventory.
    1.2. The BSLM is responsible for the Base Software License Management Program and acts
    as representative for the 36 CS/CC. The BSLM reports directly to the 36 CS/CC and is
    liaison to HQ PACAF for the Andersen Air Force Base Software License Management
    Program. The BSLM will:
       1.2.1. Track primary and alternate USLMs to manage the base software license program.
       1.2.2. Perform an annual inventory of all 36 CS software licenses and cross check with
       installed software. The inventory must be completed prior to the anniversary date of the
       BSLM’s official appointment. Ensure 36 CS/CC endorses the inventory.
       1.2.3. Compile and verify all inventories from USLMs. Combine with the 36 CS
       inventory to create a master base inventory and endorse that master inventory.
       1.2.4. When a new BSLM is appointed, conduct a joint inventory of all licensed software
       and endorse all inventories.
       1.2.5. Validate software acquisition is coordinated through the respective USLM prior to
       purchase.
       1.2.6. Validate deliveries of new software licenses and copies of licensing material are
       provided to the USLM. Validate software is added to the unit’s software inventory.
       1.2.7. Validate necessary training for users and maintainers is obtained for unique
       software purchased or developed by the unit.
       1.2.8. Validate Air Force Enterprise license agreement contracts are used to procure
       common-user desktop/laptop software on new PC orders.
       1.2.9. The BSLM will review licensing agreements to ensure that best value is used in
       acquiring software. Unused software licenses will be pooled within the license agreement
       and reassigned as required. The purchasing unit has priority in reassignment of licenses.
       1.2.10. Properly destroy or redistribute excess software.
    1.3. Unit Commanders are responsible for Software License Management activities within
    their unit. If any COTS or Air Force-unique software is used within the unit, Commanders
    will:
36WGI33-111 22 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                  3


     1.3.1. Appoint Primary and Alternate USLMs to manage their unit software license
     program and forward appointment memorandums to the BSLM. If no USLM
     appointment letter is accomplished, the unit CSA is required to perform software license
     management duties. If no CSA is assigned to the unit, then a USLM appointment letter
     must be accomplished.
     1.3.2. Annually endorse a software inventory for all unit computer software. Accomplish
     by signing the annual inventory compiled by the USLM and ensure it is provided to the
     BSLM.
     1.3.3. Ensure outgoing and incoming USLMs conduct a joint inventory of all licensed
     software and endorse that inventory.
     1.3.4. Ensure software acquisitions are coordinated through the respective USLM and
     BSLM prior to purchase.
     1.3.5. Ensure USLM is notified of all deliveries of new software licenses and copies of
     licensing material are provided to the USLM. Ensure software is added to the unit’s
     software inventory.
     1.3.6. Ensure necessary training for users and maintainers is obtained for unique
     software purchased or developed by the unit.
     1.3.7. Ensure Air Force Enterprise license agreement contracts are used to procure
     common-user desktop/laptop software on new Personal Computer (PC) orders.
  1.4. Unit Software License Manager Responsibilities:
     1.4.1. Ensure properly trained Functional System Administrators (FSAs), Client Support
     Administrators (CSAs), and other approved personnel install, upgrade, manipulate
     settings, or assist others on software operations. A trouble ticket will be opened with the
     software product’s Help Desk for any anomalies identified.
     1.4.2. Be familiar with license number(s), user(s), and the type of software license
     agreement purchased for use in the USLM’s organization.
     1.4.3. Coordinate with the BSLM, FSAs, CSAs, users, and/or purchasers of software.
     1.4.4. Monitor acquisition of all new software, update software inventory list, inform the
     BSLM in a timely manner, and become familiar with software license agreements prior to
     software installations. Validate only authorized personnel install software on computers
     or computer systems connected to or residing on the base network.
     1.4.5. Store evidence of authorized back-up copies and license agreements or licenses
     (e.g. user manuals, purchase documentation, CD-ROMs, etc.) and physical software
     media in a secure centralized location (e.g., locked drawer, file cabinet, room, etc.).
     1.4.6. Ensure the legal use of all software. Contact the Communications Focal Point for
     additional guidance when necessary and appropriate.
     1.4.7. Ensure each COTS application has a valid license.
     1.4.8. Ensure use of software corresponds to the applicable license agreement.
4                                                         36WGI33-111 22 FEBRUARY 2012


       1.4.9. Identify software that does not have associated licenses, assemble proofs-of-
       purchase, and request replacement licenses from publishers, as needed. Develop plan of
       action to obtain compliance within 120 days.
       1.4.10. Coordinate training with the BSLM, as needed.
       1.4.11. Coordinate training of newly appointed Unit Software License Managers with the
       BSLM, as needed.
       1.4.12. Circulate software licensing information, as needed/requested, throughout the
       organization.
       1.4.13. Support and implement the Base Software License Program.
       1.4.14. Maintain a copy of the software license inventory and Proof-of-License
       Ownership for all government-owned/COTS software in use within their unit. Proof may
       consist of a copy of documentation from the supplier such as manual, purchase
       documentation, email, or distribution media. Inventory must include: Purchase Data
       (Vendor Name, Purchase Order or Delivery Order Number), Description, Version, Cost,
       Quantity Purchased, License ID Number(s), Funding Data, Date Purchased, and
       Expiration/Renew by Date(s).
       1.4.15. Perform an annual inventory of all software licenses and cross check with
       installed software. Complete each year no later than the anniversary date of the USLM’s
       official appointment. Ensure the unit commander or director endorses the inventory and
       then provides it to the BSLM.
       1.4.16. When a new USLM is appointed, perform a joint inventory of all software
       licenses and cross check with installed software before transferring responsibility. Ensure
       unit commander or director endorses the report.
       1.4.17. Properly redistribute or destroy excess or superseded software in accordance with
       Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
       Schedule (RDS).
       1.4.18. Complete initial software license training within 30 days of arrival and annually
       thereafter.
       1.4.19. Properly destroy or redistribute excess software.
    1.5. CSAs Responsibilities:
       1.5.1. Maintain a record or establish a database of non-enterprise licensed software
       installed, uninstalled, upgraded, or when any action is performed that will change the
       amount of license software products installed. As required, notify the USLM of actions
       taken.
       1.5.2. Ensure software covered by an enterprise license agreement is not transferred with
       hardware when performing automated data processing equipment (ADPE) transactions.
       1.5.3. Do not purchase or obtain software before coordinating with the USLM.
       1.5.4. Monitor computers to ensure computer users do not install or remove any software
       application. Monitoring may be periodically accomplished by using an automated
       software tool.
36WGI33-111 22 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                     5


       1.5.5. Complete initial software license training within 30 days of arrival and annually
       thereafter.
   1.6. Computer User Responsibilities:
       1.6.1. Assist USLMs with software inventories on PCs as required.
       1.6.2. Do not install or remove any software application without specific authorization of
       the CSA in coordination with the USLM.
       1.6.3. Do not make illegal copies of copyrighted software.
2. Andersen AFB Software Licensing Program. The Andersen AFB Software Licensing
Program establishes policy for managing COTS and Air Force-unique software applications. The
program ensures Andersen Air Force Base educates and trains appropriate personnel regarding
software management and use. The process includes performing software inventory, matching
software with licenses, reviewing policies and procedures and a plan for acquisition of new
software.
   2.1. The new software acquisition plan is as follows:
       2.1.1. Software requestor checks the Approved Software Listings with support from
       his/her USLM as needed. Listings include the AF E/APL, Transitional AFKM-APL,
       AFWay, and       i-TRM.
       2.1.2. If software is contained in an Approved Products Listing, the requestor will refer
       to their Squadron Commander/Director Level (or above) for approval for squadron usage.
       2.1.3. Once approved by the Squadron Commander/Director Level (or above), the
       USLM provides the approval memorandum to the Communications Focal Point and
       request a ticket be opened for Network Enclave.
       2.1.4. If software is not contained on an Approved Products Listing,       USLM provides
       user with documented Software Request Worksheet and guidance on            how to proceed.
       USLM provides user documented instructions (copies & links are             provided during
       training) of all user-required actions from the initial software request   through its final
       disposition.
       2.1.5. Functional organizations perform/review checks and complete testing for net
       worthiness, security, compatibility, compliance, etc. Make a determination based on
       available information at the time of submission. After determination is made, annotate the
       ticket and notify the USLM whether the software is approved or disapproved.
       2.1.6. Unit procures approved software and installs newly acquired software.
       2.1.7. FSA/CSA provides software license number, total number of licenses, user(s), and
       type of software license agreement purchased to the USLM.
       2.1.8. USLM updates inventory and reports as directed to the BSLM.
   2.2. Software Management.
       2.2.1. The USLM will conduct an annual software inventory to ensure compliance with
       all licensing agreements. The USLM and unit CC will be notified of all software found to
       be incompliant. Discrepancies will be corrected prior to BSLM forwarding the report to
6                                                       36WGI33-111 22 FEBRUARY 2012


    the 36 CS/CC for certification. BSLM will compile the reports and forward to the 36
    CS/CC for certification. The 36 CS/CC will provide CSLM with an annual compliance
    report including the database information for all of the licensed software at Andersen Air
    Force Base. Random audits will be performed to ensure compliance with all licensing
    agreements and regulations. A list of all non-compliant software will be sent to the
    USLM and Unit/CC.
    2.2.2. Software Identification is the process of selection, creation and specification of the
    software products that will be added to the Air Force Evaluated/Approved Products List
    (AF E/APL). A standard software naming convention will be used in order to easily
    identify the software commonality. The AF E/APL is a listing of all allowed software and
    the implementation status of each package. The BSLM office will compile and validate
    the list as the approved Andersen AFB Software Standard Products List. The List will be
    located in a shared file location to which all software requestors will have access. All
    software used must be identified on the List. If software is needed but does not appear on
    this list, an RFC must be submitted to the Air Force level. Software requestors will
    initiate the Software Request Process for any required but unapproved software loaded to
    a government computer through the BSLM who will forward the package to the 36 WG
    Information Assurance Office (36 CS/SCXS).
    2.2.3. Computers for disposal are coordinated with the USLM. The USLM will remove
    non-standard software (especially software eligible for reuse) from the computer and will
    update the database and notify the BSLM of the software changes. Software media
    disposal will be processed according to the license agreement of the software vendor. All
    computers are to have the disk drive either removed or erased of all data prior to
    disposing of the computer. The USLM will maintain a log of software media (including
    manuals and license information) not in use and will log this information into the
    database and provide to the BSLM as part of their annual inventory.
    2.2.4. No employee shall install, reproduce, distribute, transmit or otherwise use software
    without an appropriate license, unless such software is properly licensed to the employee
    and used in accordance with policy and software usage terms. If an employee becomes
    aware of the reproduction, distribution or use of unauthorized software, he/she should
    promptly notify the BSLM.
    2.2.5. Authorization to Use Agency Software on Home Computers. The licenses for
    some software permit employees to make a copy of the software for home use. In such
    event, employees may make a copy for home use only if they demonstrate a need to
    conduct business from their homes and receive express authorization from the BSLM.
    Under no circumstances, may an employee use such software for purposes other than
    official business
    2.2.6. Downloading of Software from the Internet or Other Sources on to Agency
    Computers. A variety of software is available on the Internet. Some of this software,
    called "freeware" or "shareware," is available free of charge for limited uses and may be
    downloaded by an employee with the prior approval of his/her supervisor. Other software
    available on the Internet and from other electronic sources, requires the user to obtain a
    license for its use, sometimes for a fee. No employee shall download licensed software to
36WGI33-111 22 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                  7


     his/her work station without the prior approval of the BSLM.        All software must be
     approved for use before it is installed on a government computer.
  2.3. Database. An initial inventory of all software will be gathered as part of a baseline
  software inventory. A database will be provided and updated to track the name of the
  software applications, the number of software applications installed, and the number of
  software licenses purchased. The USLM will be responsible for maintenance of the database.
  The database will use a metering mechanism to prevent exceeding the authorized number of
  copies and users. It will record network manager or system administrator inventory of
  licensed client and network software as part of the annual installation licensed software
  inventory.
  2.4. Training and Awareness. A training program will be established to promote user
  awareness of the on-going software license program and their responsibilities. The USLM
  will ensure that training and reminders are properly provided to all software requestors using
  the base intranet, SharePoint, bulletin boards, and e-mails. The training and awareness
  program will include but not be limited to:
     2.4.1. Software license basics.
     2.4.2. Copyright Act.
     2.4.3. Policies and processes developed for the program.
     2.4.4. Information Assurance Awareness.
     2.4.5. Roles and responsibilities.
     2.4.6. On-line Training. Air Education and Training Command has training available on-
     line for Software License Management and Anti-piracy which includes information
     dealing with copyright laws, regulations, and users’ responsibilities. All personnel with
     elevated network and/or PC access permissions will complete this training as a
     prerequisite to receiving their .adm account. All personnel with duties connected with this
     process will complete this training as soon as possible.




                                           JOHN W. DOUCETTE
                                           Brigadier General, USAF
                                           Commander, 36th Wing
 8                                                      36WGI33-111 22 FEBRUARY 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-114, Communications and Information, 01 July 2000
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
E.O. 13103, Computer Software Piracy, September 30, 1998
Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. Section 552, as amended by Public Law No. 104-231, 110
Statue 3048
The Copyright Act
The Information Technology Management Reform Act (Division E of Public Law 104-106)
The Privacy Act
CJCSI 6212.01E, Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology and National
Security Systems, 15 December 2008
DFAR Supplement, Part 208, Required Sources of Supplies and Services, Subpart 208.74,
Enterprise Software Agreements, 25 October 2002
DoDD 3405.1, Computer Programming Language Policy, April 2, 1987
DoDD 4630.5, Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology (IT) and National
Security Systems (NSS), May 5, 2004
DoDI 4630.8, Procedures for Compatibility, Interoperability, and Integration of Command,
Control, Communications, and Intelligence (C3I) Systems, November 18, 1992
DoD 5400. 7-R/AFSUP, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program, 24 June 2002
DoDD 8320.1, DoD Data Administration, September 26, 1991 (Certified Current as of
November 21, 2003)
DoD 8320.1-M, Data Administration Procedures, March 29, 1994
DoD 8320.1-M-1, Data Standardization Procedures, Apri1 2, 1998
AFPD 63-1, Capability-Based Acquisition System, 10 July 2003
AFPD 33-1, Command, Control, Communications, and Computer (C4) Systems, 27 June 2006
AFPD 33-2, Information Assurance (IA) Program, 19 April 2007
AFI 21-116, Maintenance Management of Communications-Electronics (IC 1), 7 December
2006
AFI 33-101, Commanders Guidance and Responsibilities, 18 November 2008
AFI 33-114, Software Management (IC-2), 23 Oct 2008
AFI 33-115, Volume 1, Network Management (NETOPS), 24 May 2006
AFI 33-119, Air Force Messaging (IC through 4), 2 September 2008
36WGI33-111 22 FEBRUARY 2012                                                          9


AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use (IC-2), 30 Oct 2008
AFDIR 33-121, Compendium of Communications and Information Terminology (will convert to
AFDIR 33-303)
Air Force Evaluated/Approved Products List (E/APL),
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/docman/DOCMain.asp?Tab=0&FolderID=OO-SC-IA-01-
31-
14-2&Filter=OO-SC-IA-01
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFBI—Andersen Air Force Base Instruction
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
C4—Command, Control, Communications, and Computers
C4I—Command, Control, Communications, Computers and Intelligence
CJCSI—Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
COMPUSEC—Computer Security
COTS—Commercial Off-The-Shelf
CSA—Client Support Administrator
CSLM—Command Software License Manager
CSO—Communications and Information Systems Officer
DFAR—Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
E.O——Executive Order
ESA—Enterprise Software Agreement
ESI—Enterprise Software Initiative
FSA—Functional System Administrator
MAJCOM—Major Command
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PC—Personal Computer
 10                                                       36WGI33-111 22 FEBRUARY 2012


RFC—Request For Change
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
USLM—Unit Software License Manager

Terms
Certification—For purposes of this instruction, the act of determining that software performs
without defects and viruses, and does what the supporting documentation says it will do in
accordance with any specified acceptance criteria.
Command, Control, Communications, and Computer (C4)—Systems--Integrated systems of
doctrine, procedures, organizational structures, personnel, equipment, facilities, and
communications designed to support a commander’s exercise of command and control, across
the range of military operations. Also called communications and information systems.
Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) Software—Software developed, tested, and sold by
commercial companies to the general public. Examples include word processors, databases,
application generation, drawing, compiler, graphics, communications, and training software.
Communications and Information Systems Officer (CSO)—Identifies the supporting CSO at
all levels. At base level, this is the commander of the communications unit responsible for
carrying out base communications and information systems responsibilities, the base CSO.
Tenant organizations may also have CSOs. At MAJCOM, and other activities responsible for
large quantities of communications and information assets, it is the person designated by the
commander as responsible for overall management of communications and information assets
budgeted and funded by the MAJCOM or activity. The CSO function, when under the base
communications unit, uses the office symbol SC that expands to three and four digits to identify
specific functional areas.
Computer Security (COMPUSEC)—l. The protection resulting from all measures to deny
unauthorized access and exploitation of friendly computer systems. See also communications
security. 2. Measures and controls that ensure confidentiality, integrity, and availability of
information systems assets including hardware, software, firmware, and information being
processed, stored, and communicated.
Copyright—Without a license that specifies otherwise, the purchaser’s use of software is
restricted to making an archival copy and installing the computer program onto a single
computer, in accordance: with the 1976. Do not reproduce or use copyrighted software in any
other manner.
Documentation—Records required to plan, develop, operate, maintain, and use electronic
records and software. Included are systems specifications, file specifications, codebooks, record
layouts, user guides, and output specifications.
DoD Enterprise Software Initiative (ESI)—A DoD Chief Information Officer-led joint DoD
project to develop and implement a DoD enterprise process to save money and improve
information sharing on COTS products. The objective is to reduce problems identified with
procuring software for DoD (including price, acquisition cost, distribution, training,
maintenance, and support) for common-use, standards-compliant software.
36WGI33-111 22 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                         11


Enterprise License—Allows the purchasing organization to use a specific COTS software
program across the organization for a set price. This is usually a more cost effective acquisition
strategy than purchase of individual copies for widely used software. The user should refer to the
contract terms and conditions to determine if the enterprise license is limited or unlimited. Either
the Air Force Enterprise Software License Program or DoD ESI should be considered for
commonly used software.
Enterprise Software Agreement (ESA)—Agreements, such as contracts or blanket purchase
agreements, by which organizations acquire software or software maintenance under specified
terms and conditions.
Hardware—The physical equipment and devices forming a computer and peripheral
components.
Interoperability—The ability of systems, units, or forces to provide services to and accept
services from other systems, units, or forces and to use the services so exchanged to enable them
to operate effectively together. The condition achieved among communications-electronics
systems or items of communications-electronics equipment when exchanging information or
services directly and satisfactorily between them and/or their users.
License Agreements—Contracts between the software publisher and the user that instruct and
limit the software use. When purchasing software, the buyer only acquires a license to use it. The
publisher retains the full rights to the software and has the sole right to its further distribution and
reproduction. The user should refer to the contract terms and conditions to determine if, and
under what conditions, the user is authorized to copy and distribute software.
Maintenance—Any job described as one that eliminates faults or keeps hardware or software
running in satisfactory working condition falls into the maintenance category. (See AFI 21-116.)
Network—Two or more computers connected to each other through a multi-user system or by
other electronic means to exchange information or share computer hardware or software.
Requirement—A need for a new or improved information processing capability that, when
satisfied, increases the probability of operational mission success or decreases the cost of mission
support.
Reuse—The process of developing or supporting a software intensive system using existing
software assets.
Sensitive Information—The loss, misuse, unauthorized access to, or modification of
information that could adversely affect the national interest or the conduct of federal programs,
or the privacy to which individuals are entitled under Title 5 U.S.C. Section 522a, but that has
not been specifically authorized under criteria established by an E.O. or an Act of Congress to be
kept SECRET in the interest of the national defense or foreign policy. (See Air Force Directory
[AFDIR] 33-303.)
Shareware—Privately or commercially developed software that users receive free of charge but
pay a fee for continued or extended use. Normally, implied or promised support by the author is
minimal or nonexistent. (See AFDIR 33-303.)
Software—A set of computer programs, procedures, and associated documentation concerned
with the operation of a data processing system (for example, compilers, library routines, and
manuals).
 12                                                    36WGI33-111 22 FEBRUARY 2012


User—The individual who operates the computer or uses application software.
