BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 36TH WING INSTRUCTION 34-102
36TH WING
                                                                                  14 MAY 2014

                                                                                        Services

                                                              ANDERSEN AIR FORCE BASE
                                                              BEACH RECREATION AREAS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading of ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 36 FSS/FSC                                                         Certified by: 36 FSS/CC
                                                                    (Lt Col Alonzo C. Bray, Jr.)
Supersedes:   36ABWI34-102,                                                              Pages: 7
              25 August 2005


This instruction establishes guidance, responsibilities and procedures for the use and control of
the Andersen AFB beach recreation areas and applies to all authorized personnel using these
facilities including the Air Force Reserves and the Air National Guard. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from
the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all records created as
a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision clarifies water entry on Andersen AFB is only authorized at Tarague Beach in the
designated swimming area (within the buoyed section) under the “Swim At Your Own Risk”
policy from 0630 until 1830. Water entry at all other installation beaches or water fronts is
prohibited. Additionally a buddy system will be strictly enforced to ensure members pay
attention to color coded warning flags.
1. Responsibilities.
   1.1. 36th Force Support Squadron (36 FSS):
       1.1.1. Outdoor Recreation Aquatics Program will;
2                                                                  36WGI34-102 14 MAY 2014


       1.1.2. Be responsible for Tarague, Sirena and Scout Beaches. Will arrange for
       maintenance and posting of warning signs. Will ensure the beaches are kept safe, clean
       and clear of debris. Will prepare beach area for Typhoons in accordance with current
       local directives. See map at Para. 9.1
       1.1.3. Be responsible for daily monitoring of the National Weather Service advisories
       and will close the beach during hazardous surf advisories. The public will be notified of
       the water entry restriction by the showing of the “No Water Entry” signs on the brown
       directional signs leading to Sander’s Slope from the main base area. There are 3 signs
       that will be adjusted during these times. A red flag will be posted on the flag pole at the
       water front access area.
       1.1.4. Inspect the swim zone beach area for dangerous marine life, e.g. jellyfish and
       man-o-war jellyfish at regular intervals. If dangerous marine life is reported in the beach
       area, Outdoor Recreation (ODR) will immediately send a representative to verify the
       conditions and close water entry as required. If any dangerous marine life is found, water
       entry will be restricted by the showing of the “No Water Entry” on the brown signs
       leading to Sander’s Slope and a purple flag will be raised along with a red flag on the flag
       pole at the water front access area. The waters will be closed until no dangerous marine
       life is found along the water entry to the beach area.
       1.1.5. If water entry is closed, the Outdoor Recreation Aquatics Program representative
       will immediately notify the 36 FSS Chain of Command, Security Forces (DSN 366-2910)
       and Command Post (DSN 366-2981). The Outdoor Recreation representative will
       identify themselves and communicate the nature of the water access closure and the
       forecasted length of time that the restriction is expected to be active.
       1.1.6. Outdoor Recreation will control all reservations for beach camping and pavilion
       areas. The ODR main facility is located in building 25018 (DSN 366-5204/ 5197). ODR
       will ensure all members who reserve beach areas, are authorized patrons, see para 2.1.
       Authorized patrons making reservation will be given a full safety briefing on the hazards
       in the Tarague Basin area and will fill out and sign a reservation form acknowledging
       their understanding of these rules.
       1.1.7. Outdoor Recreation will issue fishing permits for the Tarague basin area and
       administer the appropriate safety briefings required for safe use of the beach facilities.
    1.2. The 36th Civil Engineer Squadron (36 CES):
       1.2.1. The 36 CES/CERR (DSN 366-6169) will control Pati Beach, and arrange for
       maintenance and posting of warning signs.
       1.2.2. Will ensure Pati Beach is kept safe and clean.
       1.2.3. Will make reservations, issue authorizations for camping and social functions, and
       control access to Pati Beach.
    1.3. The 36th Wing Safety (36 WG/SE) representative:
       1.3.1. Will provide information on water and marine safety for each newcomer’s
       briefing, publish current information on unsafe areas and practices, and designate safe
       swimming areas on Andersen AFB.
36WGI34-102 14 MAY 2014                                                                         3


   1.4. The 36th Security Forces (36 SFS):
      1.4.1. Will provide security patrols at all beach areas as required.
      1.4.2. Will remove unauthorized swimmers from the water during times that the red flag
      is posted and beach water entry is closed.
2. Authorized Users:
   2.1. Access to camping and sandy beach areas. Military members (active, guard, reserve,
   retired), DoD employees, Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) employees and their families to
   include bona fide guests are authorized entry on all sandy beach areas between Tarague Cave
   and Pati Beach. A bona fide guest is one who is lawfully present on base and in physical
   proximity of the sponsor. Camping is permitted on Tarague Beach, at designated areas, and
   Sirena Beach, seeded and sandy areas. Access to Sirena Beach and Air Force Frequent
   Camper Program (FAMCAMP) picnic areas requires approval by Outdoor Recreation. This
   applies to picnicking, camping and party activities only. At the Tarague Beach camping area,
   the maximum allowable camping period is 7 consecutive days without prior consent of 36
   FSS Commander. Campers who camp for the maximum allowable camping period will not
   be allowed to set up camp again for 72 hours after expiration of the initial camping period.
3. Water Entry.
   3.1. Swimming, snorkeling and other water activities are permitted in the designated, buoyed
   swimming area at Tarague Beach only. Hours of access are from 0630 to 1830. The
   designated swimming area is marked with buoys and float rope in front of the central access
   point of the Tarague Beach parking area.
   3.2. All water areas at Andersen AFB are “OFF LIMITS” for scuba diving.
   3.3. Reef walking or fishing near the barrier or breakwater reef is prohibited. Water entry to
   knee deep while fishing is only allowed from the Eastern (Tarague entrance) point of
   Tarague to the Western point (Castro/ Pangelinan Land). Patron must have rod and reel in
   hand while in water. Water entry in all other areas is not permitted while fishing. See
   attached map for detailed locations. All authorized fishing methods (permit required) are
   outlined in 36WGI 32-7003, Conservation and Management of Natural Resources.
   3.4. A buddy system will be strictly enforced to ensure members pay attention to color coded
   warning flags. The buddy “Wing Man” system requests that before anyone enters the water, a
   minimum of two (2) or more responsible individuals must be on the beach or in the water at
   all times. Do Not Swim Alone. Water entry at all other installation beaches or water fronts is
   strictly prohibited.
4. Beach Reservations.
   4.1. Beach area reservations will be made through the appropriate office (see 1.1.2. and
   1.2.3.). Active duty, guard, reserve, retired military personnel, DoD employees, NAF
   employees and base contractors are authorized to make reservations. All other requests must
   be submitted in writing to the 36 FSS/CC and approved by the 36 MSG/CC or 36 MSG/CD.
   If approved, the authorized individual is responsible for their guests following the beach use,
   upkeep and safety rules. When guest recreation access is obtained through a sponsor, the
   sponsor is responsible for rule compliance and must be present with guests at all times.
 4                                                                    36WGI34-102 14 MAY 2014


5. Safety Rules.
     5.1. The following rules apply, at all times to all personnel, civilian and military, using any
     of the Air Force controlled beaches or recreational areas. These rules will be enforced by 36
     SFS, 36 FSS and 36 CE Environmental Flight:
        5.1.1. Reef walking is strictly prohibited. Reference 36 WGI91-202, Andersen AFB
        Safety Program, Attachment 12, “Guam Survival Secrets” for specifics on local beach
        and sea life hazards.
        5.1.2. With the exception of authorized search and rescue equipment and Outdoor
        Recreation buoy inspection or repair equipment, the use of boats, rafts or surfboards
        inside the reef is prohibited. Radio or wire controlled boats, submarines, hovercrafts or
        similar devices are not permitted on all beaches under Andersen AFB control.
        5.1.3. The driving, riding or parking of motor vehicles or bicycles on unmarked roads,
        trails, paths or sandy areas of the beach is prohibited; this prohibition does not apply to
        vehicles owned by 36 FSS, 36 MXS, 36 CES or 36 SFS, and all other safety and rescue
        personnel on official business. The parking of motor vehicles on seeded areas and off-
        road parking at Tarague and Sirena Beach is prohibited, except for special events when
        off-road parking has been coordinated with Security Forces.
        5.1.4. The use of spear guns, pole spears, nets and octopus ticklers is prohibited.
        Possession of spears, spear guns, ticklers and nets within 20 meters inland of the mean
        high tide mark signifies intent to use the equipment and violators will be prosecuted.
        5.1.5. Glass containers are prohibited on all Tarague Basin beach zones.
        5.1.6. Fires and cooking are prohibited, except as stated herein. The construction or
        digging of fire pits or holes is prohibited in all areas. All other fires are to be confined to
        the designated picnic areas and must be contained in a barbecue grill or similar container
        designed for cooking fires. The cooking device must have a minimum clearance of at
        least 6 inches off of the ground surface and must not be in close proximity to excess pine
        needles or other dry tinder.
        5.1.7. Rough horseplay or any other unsafe activities are prohibited.
        5.1.8. Food and beverage items are prohibited in the water. The preparation of food on
        sandy beach areas is prohibited.
        5.1.9. The removal of foliage, ground cover, plant life, vegetation, live or dead coral and
        any amount of sand are prohibited without prior authorization from 36 CE Environmental
        Flight. Additionally, the removal of any Air Force property from any beach or park area
        is prohibited.
        5.1.10. Pets must be on a leash at all times while in the Tarague Basin Nature Preserve.
        No pets are authorized in the common use beach area adjacent to the buoyed swim zone
        or in the beachside campsites. During turtle nesting season, CE Environmental flight in
        coordination with 36th FSS Outdoor Recreation, may need to restrict pet access from all
        beach zones. If the restriction is activated, signs will be posted and press releases will be
        issued to inform the public.
        5.1.11. Recreational rappelling and cliff climbing at Andersen AFB is prohibited.
36WGI34-102 14 MAY 2014                                                                         5


       5.1.12. Relocation of installed or placed recreation equipment is prohibited.
6. Off-limit Areas.
   6.1. The area left of Serena Beach, also known as the Tarague Channel Access or Scuba Cut,
   is off-limits to all personnel other than those acting in an official capacity such as the Fire
   Department Search and Rescue department. This area is for “emergency boat access only.”
   6.2. Except as otherwise provided in Section 3.1., or in this section, all water entry on
   Andersen Air Force Base is off-limits to all persons at all times. Prior permission for land-
   based usage of Sirena Beach, Scout Beach and Pati Beach may be obtained from Force
   Support or Civil Engineering, as appropriate.
   6.3. The area west of Tarague Beach is private property. Entry to this property without prior
   permission of the owners is trespassing.
   6.4. The Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) area east of Pati Beach is off-limits to all
   personnel other than those on official business.
   6.5. IAW 36 WGI 32-7003, employees of the US Fish and Wildlife Service and the
   Department of Agriculture are granted access to all beach areas and reefs for the purposes of
   management, conservation and harvesting of fish and wildlife resources.
7. Repercussions of Violations.
   7.1. Violations of the specific prohibitions and requirements of this instruction by military
   personnel may result in prosecution under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ).
   Civilian personnel may face disciplinary actions under the provisions of applicable Air Force
   Instruction (AFI) or Bureau of Naval Personnel (BUPER) dealing with Discipline and
   Adverse Actions.
8. Bamboo Willies boundaries.
   8.1. No squadron functions are allowed within the boundary of Bamboo Willies without
   prior approval from 36 FSS.
   8.2. Campers and beach users are not authorized to bring food or beverages within the
   Bamboo Willies 20 yard boundary.
 6
36AWI34-102
                                                        36WGI34-102 14 MAY 2014
Attachment 1
BEACH MAP
Figure A1.1.
Figure       Beach Map
       1. Tarague  Beach   Basin Map




                                       STEVEN D. GARLAND, Brigadier General, USAF
                                       Commander
36WGI34-102 14 MAY 2014                                                                  7


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 34-110 Air Force Outdoor Recreations Programs and Procedures, 6 January 2012
AFOSHSTD 48-14 Swimming Pools, Spas and Hot Tubs and Bathing Areas, 7 March 2012
AFPD 90-8, Environment, Safety and Occupational Health Management and Risk Management,
2 February 2012
BUPERINST 1710.11C Operation of Morale Welfare and Recreation Programs, 25 July 2001
NAVBASEGUAMINST 1710.13B Regulations Governing the Operation of Swimming Pool and
Beach Areas, 23 March 2009
36WGI 91-202 Andersen AFB Safety Program, Attachment 12, “Guam Survival Secrets”, June
2012
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
36 WG Form 26, Request For Special Access Permit

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFB—Air Force Base
ABW—Air Base Wing
ABWI—Air Base Wing Instruction
BUPER—Bureau of Naval Personnel
DoD—Department of Defense
NAF—Nonappropriated Funds
ODR—Outdoor Recreation
WG—Wing
WGI—Wing Instruction
