BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          374TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 48-148
374TH AIRLIFT WING
                                                                                    13 MARCH 2009
                                                                        Certified Current 2 April 2012
                                                                                  Aerospace Medicine

                                                    IONIZING RADIATION SAFETY PROGRAM

                                                                                                 (PA)

               COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:            Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
                          Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY:            There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 374 AMDS/SGPB                     Certified by: 374 MDG/CC (Col Timothy D. Robinette)
Supersedes: AFI40-201_374 AWSUP1, 26 November 2003                            Pages: 11

This instruction describes the responsibilities of all personnel involved with the control and use of
radioactive material and radiation producing devices. It also describes necessary procedures for the
implementation of an effective radiation safety program at Yokota Air Base (AB). This instruction
applies only to ionizing radiation sources. Non-ionizing radiation sources such as lasers and
radiofrequency emitters are not covered by this instruction. Governing directives for the radiation
safety program are Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 6055.8, Occupational Radiation
Protection Program, Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 40-2, Radioactive Materials (Non-Nuclear
Weapons), Air Force Instruction (AFI) 40-201, Managing Radioactive Materials in the US Air
Force, Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 48-125, Personnel Ionizing Radiation Dosimetry, and AFI 48-
148, Ionizing Radiation Protection. This instruction requires collecting and maintaining information
protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by Section 20.2106(a) and (c), 10 Chapter I, Code of
Federal Regulations (10 CFR 20.2106, Records of individual monitoring results, (a)(c)) as directed
by E.O. 12196, 29 CFR 1910.1096, Ionizing Radiation, (b)(2)(iii), (n) and (o), implemented by
AFMAN 48-125 the USAF Master Radiation Exposure Registry. System of records notice F044 AF
SG O, United States Air Force Master Radiation Exposure Registry applies. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
(IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility
(OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847
from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision implements
and reflects changes made to AFI 40-201, Managing Radioactive Materials in the US Air Force, and
AFMAN 48-125, Personnel Ionizing Radiation Dosimetry. This instruction supersedes AFI 40-
201/374 AW Supplement 1, 26 Nov 2003.
1. Responsibilities.
   1.1. The Commander, 374th Airlift Wing (374 AW/CC), Yokota AB, is responsible for:
2                                                                      374AWI48-148 13 MARCH 2009


       1.1.1. Ensuring that all installation activities comply with applicable AF directives covering
       the usage of radiation producing devices the permitting, procurement, storage, handling,
       accountability for and disposal of radioactive material and the reporting of incidents or
       accidents to the appropriate authorities.
       1.1.2. Conducting an installation wide radiation safety program through the 374th Aerospace
       Medicine Squadron Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight (374 AMDS/SGPB) under the
       direction of a Yokota AB Radiation Safety Officer (YAB RSO).
       1.1.3. Designating the Installation RSO (YAB RSO) in writing and may designate an
       Alternate Installation RSO, which may act with full responsibilities of the designated
       Installation RSO in his/her absence.
    1.2. The YAB RSO or designated alternate is responsible for:
       1.2.1. Advising the Installation Commander on all significant radiation safety related
       activities.
       1.2.2. Directing, for the Installation Commander, the overall conduct of the installation
       radiation safety program whose primary goal is to maintain radiation exposures to personnel
       as low as reasonably achievable (ALARA). The YAB RSO is the individual designated by
       the Installation Commander to investigate, evaluate, initiate corrective action and report on
       defects or noncompliance items relating to substantial safety hazards involving radioactive
       material or radiation producing devices.
       1.2.3. Enforcing all AF and installation rules and instructions relating to radiation safety.
       1.2.4. Ensuring that personnel and area monitoring and surveillance activities are
       accomplished as required by applicable AF instructions.
       1.2.5. Reviewing plans and providing preliminary hazard evaluations for facilities that could
       require shielding or specific design requirements due to proposed uses of radioactive material
       or radiation producing devices.
       1.2.6. Ensuring that the receipt, shipment and transfer of radioactive material are properly
       monitored and identified.
       1.2.7. Maintaining all necessary records of the installation radiation safety program, AF
       radioactive material permits.
       1.2.8. Identifying to the individual users and their supervisors the protective equipment and
       facilities necessary for the safe conduct of projects involving the use of radiation.
       1.2.9. Providing a personnel dosimetry program for employees involved in ionizing radiation
       projects, which includes tracking dosimetry results and establishing investigation levels to
       ensure exposures to personnel are maintained ALARA.
       1.2.10. Managing the distribution and record-keeping requirements of the personnel
       dosimetry program for occupational exposures.
       1.2.11. Managing and controlling the radioactive waste disposal program which ensures
       proper packaging, storage, transport and disposal of radioactive waste by Yokota AB
       organizations.
       1.2.12. Overseeing radioactive material/radiation producing device permits/authorization and
       generally licensed devices.
       1.2.13. Monitoring the radiation safety training program for permit RSOs, supervisors,
       radiation monitors, users of radioactive material and radiation producing devices and
374AWI48-148 13 MARCH 2009                                                                           3


     emergency response team members. Radiation safety training provided by others, such as
     permit RSOs or supervisors shall be approved by the YAB RSO.
     1.2.14. Providing expert consultation, advice, assistance and direction on the hazards
     associated with radiation and the methods to control these hazards as well as response to
     emergency incidents or accidents involving radioactive material or radiation producing
     device.
     1.2.15. Providing emergency response capabilities in the event of accidents involving
     contamination of personnel or the environment or exposure of personnel to radioactive
     material or radiation producing devices (according to the Yokota AB disaster control plan, if
     applicable).
     1.2.16. Providing annual briefs and periodical updates concerning use and storage of
     radioactive materials to the installation commander, the fire chief, 374th Civil Engineer
     Squadron (374 CES), and 374th Security Forces Squadron Commander (374 SFS/CC) on
     use(s) of radioactive material.
     1.2.17. Briefs at least annually the Yokota Environmental and Safety Council and the
     Aerospace Medicine Council (AMC) on use(s) of radioactive material, radiation producing
     devices and summaries and trends of personnel dosimetry results and surveys to demonstrate
     exposures are ALARA on Yokota AB.
     1.2.18. Establishing instructions on how non-AF organizations obtain an authorization to use
     radioactive material and radiation producing devices on Yokota AB.
  1.3. Commanders of organizations which use radioactive material or radiation producing devices
  are responsible for:
     1.3.1. Designating an individual to act as the single focal point for the organization on
     radiation safety matters.
     1.3.2. Ensuring a quality assurance program is established to oversee the radiation safety
     program, as recommended by the YAB RSO.
     1.3.3. Assuring the timely reporting of accidents or incidents involving radioactive material
     or radiation producing devices to the YAB RSO and according to AFI 91-204, Safety
     Investigations and Repots.
     1.3.4. Ensuring that an ionizing radiation safety (ALARA) training program is in place.
  1.4. Permit RSOs or commander designated individual are responsible for:
     1.4.1. Establishing and managing the organization or unit level radiation safety program
     IAW AFI 48-148, Chapter 3, and AFI 40-201, paragraph 1.26.
     1.4.2. Advising the YAB RSO of the proposed uses of radioactive material or radiation
     producing devices by individuals within the organization and advising the YAB RSO of any
     matters affecting the radiation safety program of the organization.
     1.4.3. Coordinating radiation survey or hazard evaluation and training activities with YAB
     RSO.
     1.4.4. Ensuring that all users are familiar with radiation safety operating instructions and
     radiation safety procedures and the installation ALARA program.
     1.4.5. Coordinating with the YAB RSO before initiating any project including procurement,
     use, storage and or disposal of radioactive material or devices or any changes in working
     conditions or activities which could affect the radiation safety program. All coordination
     shall be accomplished prior to initiation of the project.
 4                                                                   374AWI48-148 13 MARCH 2009


        1.4.6. Submitting to the YAB RSO for review any new or revised operating instructions,
        standard operating procedures or unit instructions impacting on the radiation safety program
        prior to implementation.
        1.4.7. Advising the YAB RSO, in writing, of any proposed changes to the radioactive
        material inventory, any proposed acquisition of new radiation producing devices or any
        proposed generation of radioactive waste. Such notice shall be submitted with sufficient lead
        time to permit adequate review and comment.
2. ALARA.          The ALARA concept was developed in response to scientific evidence which
suggests that no level of radiation exposure is entirely risk-free. It is a policy which states that
although there are acceptable, conservative levels of radiation exposure specified by federal
regulations which offer a low risk of adverse health effects compared to the other hazards of life and
occupation, it is prudent to make every effort to reduce exposures to the lowest levels reasonably
achievable, thereby lowering the health risk associated with that exposure. In fact, individual and
cumulative radiation exposures must be maintained as close to zero as possible given the type of
activities involved, the state of technology, the risk to the individuals exposed and the benefit to
society from the activity being accomplished.
     2.1. ALARA Commitment. The guidance contained in this instruction provides the basis for
     conducting an effective ALARA program. The radiation safety program at Yokota AB is
     managed by the YAB RSO through this instruction for the Installation Commander. Yokota AB
     is committed to the concept of ALARA.
3. Permits and Authorization for the Possession and Use of Radioactive Material and
Radiation Producing Devices.
     3.1. AF Permits. Yokota AB organizations have been issued AF radioactive material permits by
     the AF Radioisotope Committee (RIC) authorizing the possession and use of radioactive material
     of diverse types, forms and quantities.
     3.2. Permit Authorization. The YAB RSO approves the possession and use of radioactive
     material or radiation producing devices. However, operations conducted under the conditions of
     the permit must be documented to ensure compliance with the installation ALARA program.
     3.3. Other Organizations. Organizations located at Yokota AB and contractors performing work
     at Yokota AB must possess a U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) or Agreement State
     License, equivalent local license, or an AF or Navy radioactive material permit, or radioactive
     material/radiation producing device authorization provided by the YAB RSO in order to possess
     and/or use radioactive material or radiation producing devices.
        3.3.1. Radioactive material includes any item that emits radiation without external power.
        Examples are byproduct, source and special nuclear material as defined in 10 CFR 30, Rules
        of general applicability to domestic licensing of byproduct material, 10 CFR 40, Domestic
        licensing of source material, and 10 CFR 70, Domestic licensing of special nuclear material.
        Products distributed as exempt by a manufacturer licensed to distribute to exempt persons do
        not require a permit, if used for their intended purpose.
        3.3.2. A radiation producing device is any piece of equipment that emits ionizing radiation,
        regardless of intent, when energized by an external power source. Examples include medical
        and industrial x-ray machines, x-ray diffraction and fluorescence units, scanning and
        transmission electron microscopes and particle accelerators. In general, any device that
        accelerates electrons or other atomic particles with a potential difference of 10,000 volts or
        greater and produces x-radiation, either intentionally or unintentionally, may require an
        authorization from the YAB RSO. Some exceptions are television monitors, cathode ray
374AWI48-148 13 MARCH 2009                                                                               5


     tubes and video display terminals which are manufactured under the strict requirements of 21
     CFR 1020.10, Television receivers.
  3.4. Generally Licensed Devices. NRC or Agreement State issues a general license to acquire,
  receive, use, store or transfer certain devices that contain radioactive material which have been
  manufactured, tested and labeled by the manufacturer in accordance with the specifications
  contained in a specific license issued to the manufacturer by NRC. These devices are labeled as
  being generally licensed.
     3.4.1. The licensee is responsible to manage the generally licensed device IAW AFI 40-201,
     Attachment 3, and must appoint an individual in writing from within their organization who
     will ensure compliance with applicable regulations, to include the general provisions of 10
     CFR 31.2, Terms and Conditions, the specific regulatory requirements unique to the device,
     and who will have the authority to execute the necessary actions to ensure compliance. The
     appointment letter shall be forwarded to the YAB RSO and the appointed individual shall
     work with the YAB RSO to ensure compliance with applicable regulations.
     3.4.2. The appointed individual will receive an initial briefing on proper management of
     generally licensed devices from the YAB RSO.
  3.5. Contractors.
     3.5.1. 374th Contracting Squadron (374 CONS) ensures that all contracts in the terms and
     conditions the YAB RSO determined must be in the contract in order to be in compliance
     with all applicable statues, regulations and instructions for managing radioactive materials
     and radiation producing devices in the Air Force IAW AFI 40-201, paragraph 1.18.
     3.5.2. Contractors performing services involving the use of radioactive material under the
     auspices of their own NRC, Agreement State License, or equivalent local license shall
     provide a copy of that license to the YAB RSO well in advance of operations being
     conducted at Yokota AB. For contractors licensed by an Agreement State, in addition to a
     copy of the license, a completed copy of NRC Form 241, Report of Proposed Activities in
     Non-Agreement States, Areas of Exclusive Federal Jurisdiction, or Offshore Waters, shall be
     submitted to the YAB RSO. The YAB RSO will review the license to ensure that the
     material and activities are approved. The contractor shall be required to comply with all
     applicable sections of this instruction as it applies to safe use of radioactive material and the
     reporting of incidents or accidents to the YAB RSO. The YAB RSO shall be notified when
     the operation is terminated.
     3.5.3. Contractors performing services involving the use of radioactive material under the
     auspices of an AF radioactive material permit issued to Yokota AB shall comply with all
     requirements specified in this instruction under the supervision of the responsible permit
     RSO.
     3.5.4. Contractors who will be using radiation producing devices shall obtain an
     authorization from the YAB RSO. Contractors must coordinate such activities with the YAB
     RSO prior to bringing radiation producing devices onto Yokota AB.
     3.5.5. For both radioactive material and radiation producing device activities, contractors
     shall provide a brief description of the work to be performed. Include the dates and locations
     where such activities shall be performed. While working on Yokota AB, the YAB RSO can
     make on-site inspections to ensure the contractor follows proper radiation safety practices and
     can suspend any operations deemed to be unsafe or in violation of AF or NRC regulations.
     3.5.6. Host Nations Funded Construction (HNFC) accomplished by the Government of Japan
     (GOJ) under Facilities Improvement Program (FIP) and Other GOJ Operations under the
     specific condition of the Status of Forces Agreement are out of the installation’s jurisdiction
 6                                                                     374AWI48-148 13 MARCH 2009


        and the requirements of this instruction do not apply. The local GOJ agency is responsible
        for the supervision and inspection of construction projects or operations. Requirements
        contained in applicable Japanese occupational safety and health regulations are enforced for
        projects or operation areas. However, when a condition exists or suspected which presents
        imminent danger to AF personnel through their operations involving use of radioactive
        material or radiation producing devices, the YAB RSO will contact the representative of the
        US Army Engineering District, Japan or appropriate agency in United States Forces, Japan
        (USFJ) for resolution.
4. Training.
     4.1. IAW AFI 48-148, paragraph 3.3., training shall be provided to individuals, who have the
     potential to be occupationally exposed to a dose in excess of 10 percent of the annual dose limits
     specified in AFI 48-148, Attachment 4, or when the YAB RSO determines the training is
     required:
        4.1.1. Before the individual is permitted to assume duties with or in the vicinity of radiation
        sources.
        4.1.2. Annually during a refresher training course.
        4.1.3. When there is a significant change in duties or radiation safety requirements.
     4.2. Training shall be provided by:
        4.2.1. The permit RSO or the designated unit RSO, with the assistance of the YAB RSO.
        4.2.2. Other qualified personnel approved by the YAB RSO.
     4.3. Training sessions for individuals who in the course of their duties are likely to receive in a
     year an occupational dose in excess of 100 millirem shall include but are not limited to the topics
     described in AFI 48-148, paragraph 3.3.1. The topics of training sessions for individuals who do
     not meet the condition will be determined by the YAB RSO based on breadth and depth to the
     radiation hazards present in their duty/workplace.
     4.4. Record of all radiation safety training shall be documented and maintained IAW AFI 48-
     148, paragraph 3.3.3.
5. Ionizing Radiation Dosimetry Program.
     5.1. Radiation Workers. At Yokota AB, Individuals who routinely work with or in the vicinity
     of sources of ionizing radiation may be designated as radiation workers by the YAB RSO after an
     evaluation of the potential hazards. IAW the monitoring criteria of AFI 48-148 and AFMAN 48-
     125, radiation workers are issued Thermoluminescent dosimeters (TLD) which are exchanged
     either monthly or quarterly as determined by the YAB RSO: in certain circumstances, radiation
     workers may also be issued self reading pocket or digital dosimeters in addition to standard
     radiation dosimeters to permit immediate evaluation of a potentially hazardous radiation
     environment.
     5.2. The supervisor, or designated radiation dosimeter monitor, of a newly assigned worker has
     the responsibility to request radiation monitoring for that individual. Monitoring shall be
     required if the worker shall be located in an area designated by the YAB RSO as a potential
     radiation hazard area or if, because of the assigned duties, the individual is classified as a
     radiation worker requiring dosimetry.
     5.3. Each individual to be monitored shall be provided with a radiation safety briefing to include
     an explanation concerning proper wearing and storage of the dosimeter and the right to review
     the dosimetry results each month or quarter.
374AWI48-148 13 MARCH 2009                                                                               7


  5.4. Annual Report of Occupational Exposure Dosimetry Results. The US Air Force School of
  Aerospace Medicine, Radiation Dosimetry Branch (USAFSAM/SDRD) provides the YAB RSO,
  via the Radiation Dosimetry Web, with SDRD Form 1527-1, Annual Report of Individual
  Occupational Exposure to Ionizing Radiation, to each individual entered on the dosimetry
  program for the previous calendar year. When the forms are received, the YAB RSO will review
  and deliver them with a cover letter accompanying instructions and comments if any to the
  workplace radiation dosimeter monitors within 30 days of receipt. The forms must be reviewed
  by each monitored individual and signed. Then, the signed forms will be returned to the YAB
  RSO. The YAB RSO ensures that the signed forms will be filed in the individual’s medical
  records IAW AFI 48-148, paragraph 3.5.1.1. The YAB RSO maintains a record copy (signed
  SDRD Form 1527-1) in each workplace dosimetry binder for 5 years.
  5.5. Cumulative History of Occupational Exposure. SDRD Form 1527-2s, Cumulative History
  of Individual Occupational Expo sure to Ionizing Radiation, (equivalent to NRC Form 4,
  Cumulative Occupational Dose History), which summarizes an individual’s cumulative
  dosimetry history results will be provided upon written request of the individual, the YAB RSO,
  or other authorized organizations and individuals. All requests other than those made for official
  Air Force use must have a release signed by the individual for whom the report is requested.
  5.6. The supervisor shall reinforce this information by introducing the dosimeter monitor who
  shall indicate the dosimeter storage location and describe the procedures for requesting a review
  of the dosimetry results maintained by the supervisor.
  5.7. Visitors to any restricted areas IAW AFI 48-148, paragraph 3.2.2.1. shall be accompanied
  by persons knowledgeable about the protection and safety measures in the area and must be
  provided adequate information and instruction before entering the area. Visitors entering a
  radiation area or that could incur a deep dose equivalent of greater than 10 millirem shall be
  provided appropriate personnel monitoring devices. The responsible supervisor shall contact the
  YAB RSO for coordination of issuing the monitoring devices to the visitor.
  5.8. In addition to routinely issued radiation monitoring badges, some activities of a higher risk
  of a large exposure may also require the use of self reading pocket dosimeters or similar device.
  Unlike TLDs, pocket dosimeters are designed to be evaluated immediately. Although
  traditionally not as accurate as TLDs, self reading pocket dosimeters do provide an instant
  indication as to whether an exposure has occurred. For this reason, self reading pocket
  dosimeters are normally issued to visitors likely to receive greater than 10 millirem so that it can
  be determined if an exposure has occurred before the visitor is lost to follow-up.
  5.9. Investigation Levels. In addition to federally imposed dose limits (ref: AFI 48-148,
  Attachment 4), the NRC has also recommended the adoption of investigation levels for radiation
  workers. These levels are not legal limits. They are values arbitrarily set normally at 10 percent
  of the federally mandated limits to assist radiation safety program monitors to comply with the
  ALARA concept by anticipating potential difficulties and initiating corrective actions.
  Therefore, investigations shall be accomplished in a timely manner by the YAB RSO for doses
  received by individuals in excess of the established ALARA levels. The investigation shall
  consider each such exposure in comparison with those of others performing similar tasks.
     5.9.1. Locally Established Investigation Levels. Based on review of historical personnel
     dosimetry data at Yokota AB, the YAB RSO has established the following investigation level
     IAW AFI 48-148, paragraph 3.4.3:
         5.9.1.1. A dose in excess of 50 mrem per monthly TLD for pregnant workers.
         5.9.1.2. A dose in excess of 125 mrem per quarterly TLD for regular radiation workers.
 8                                                                    374AWI48-148 13 MARCH 2009


        5.9.2. If any person receives a dose in excess of the established investigation levels for the
        month, or quarter, an investigation is initiated the YAB RSO. A memo for record or a formal
        report is written as necessary when recommended. A corrective action is deemed appropriate
        for reducing exposure levels.
6. Radioactive Material Receipt, Storage, and Shipment.
     6.1. Special precautions shall be taken by the permit RSO when receiving and opening packages
     containing licensed radioactive material.
        6.1.1. Visually inspect the package and, if damaged, notify the YAB RSO immediately.
        6.1.2. Measure the exposure rate at the package surface and, if greater than expected, contact
        the YAB RSO.
        6.1.3. Verify the contents with the packing slip.
        6.1.4. Examine the integrity of the final source container.
        6.1.5. If anything unusual is encountered contact the YAB RSO.
        6.1.6. As specified in 10 CFR 20.1906, Procedures for receiving and opening packages,
        packages containing in excess of certain specified quantities of radioactive material must be
        inspected IAW paragraphs 6.1.1. through 6.1.5., and monitored for external radiation and
        contamination within 3 hours after receipt during working hours and within 3 hours from the
        beginning of the next working day if it is received after working hours. 374th Logistic
        Readiness Squadron (374 LRS), Traffic Management Office (TMO) shall contact the YAB
        RSO to inspect and monitor packages. 374 LRS TMO personnel shall not transfer any
        radioactive material to unit on the installation without prior coordination with the YAB RSO.
     6.2. Storage.
        6.2.1. When approved by the YAB RSO, sealed sources which are exempt from license
        requirement IAW AFI 40-201, paragraph 3.3.2. may be stored in unrestricted areas where
        containers are properly labeled, secured and radiation levels do not exceed 2 mrem/hr, one
        meter from any container in the storage configuration.
        6.2.2. All non-exempt radioactive materials must be secured from unauthorized removal or
        access and must be inventoried. The responsible permit RSO or commander designated
        individual is responsible for complying with the requirements in AFI 40-201, paragraph 3.6.
     6.3. Shipment. The generating activity must properly identify radioactive material and items
     containing radioactive materials when sending to 374 LRS TMO for packaging and shipping in
     accordance with AFI 40-201, paragraph 3.8.3. 374 LRS TMO is responsible for preparing and
     transporting radioactive material shipments IAW 10 CFR 71, Packaging and Transportation of
     Radioactive Material, 49 CFR, Transportation, and Defense Transportation Regulation (DTR),
     DOD 4500.9-R-PartII, Cargo Movement. The YAB RSO or the affected permit RSO will ensure
     that all radioactive material shipment comply with all applicable requirements.
7. Radioactive Waste.
     7.1. Responsibility. Each organization shall assume full responsibility for collection, packaging,
     storage and disposal of radioactive waste generated IAW AFI 40-201, Attachment 10. Each
     radioactive waste generating organization shall provide a secure, isolated area for temporary
     storage of its own waste, on-site, near the location where generated. Each site shall be evaluated
     and approved by the YAB RSO.
     7.2. Management of Radioactive Waste. Managing and disposal of radioactive wastes will
     comply with the requirements in AFI 40-201, paragraph 3.10. In general, most of the radioactive
     wastes generated at Yokota AB are low level and the wastes are generated infrequently, such as
374AWI48-148 13 MARCH 2009                                                                             9


   when a device (e.g. electron tube, smoke alarm) used for many years is no longer required. The
   YAB RSO should be contacted as soon as the item is identified as excess and the YAB RSO shall
   provide the generating activity specific instructions for the proper management and handling of
   the item.
8. Review of Radiation Facility/Source Installation Plans.
   8.1. Review of Construction and Facility Maintenance. All plans for modification of facilities or
   design of new facilities which involve the use of radioactive material or radiation producing
   devices must be reviewed and approved by the YAB RSO to ensure ALARA concept is
   implemented.
   8.2. IAW AFI 48-148, paragraph 3.2.1.3., Detachment 3, USAFSAM, Radiation Services
   Division (Det 3 USAFSAM/SDRH), Kadena AB, will be contacted for design reviews that are
   beyond the technical capability of the YAB RSO.
9. Adopted Forms.
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
SDRD Form 1527-1, Annual Report of Individual Occupational Exposure to Ionizing Radiation
SDRD Form 1527-2, Cumulative History of Individual Occupational Expo sure to Ionizing
Radiation
NRC Form 4, Cumulative Occupational Dose History
NRC Form 241, Report of Proposed Activities in Non-Agreement States, Areas of Exclusive Federal
Jurisdiction, or Offshore Waters




                                           JOHN F. NEWELL, III, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander, 374th Airlift Wing
 10                                                                   374AWI48-148 13 MARCH 2009


                                             Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 6055.8, Occupational Radiation Protection Program
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
AFPD 40-2, Radioactive Materials (Non-Nuclear Weapons)
AFI 40-201, Managing Radioactive Materials in the US Air Force
AFMAN 48-125,Personnel Ionizing Radiation Dosimetry
AFI 48-148, Ionizing Radiation Protection.
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Repots

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ALARA—As Low As Reasonably Achievable
NRC—Nuclear Regulatory Commission
rem—Roentgen Equivalent Man
mrem—milli-Roentgen Equivalent Man
RIC—USAF Radioisotope Committee
TLD—Thermoluminescent Dosimeters
YAB RSO—Yokota AB Installation Radiation Safety Officer

Terms
ALARA—Acronym for “as low as is reasonably achievable” means making every reasonable effort
to maintain exposures to radiation as far below applicable dose limits as is practical, consistent with
the purpose for which the activity is undertaken, taking into account the state of technology, the
economics of improvements in relation to benefits to the public health and safety, and other societal
and socioeconomic considerations and in relation to utilization of nuclear energy, radioactive
materials, and ionizing radiation in the public interest.
Exposure—In radiation protection, the act or occurrence of being exposed to ionizing radiation or
radioactive material. In risk management, the frequency and length of time subjected to a hazard.
Investigation Level—A dose set by the installation RSO that requires further investigation when
exceeded. Levels are normally tailored to each practice based on historical dosimetry records. The
investigation is conducted to determine causative factors, and identify corrective measures, as
appropriate.
Ionizing Radiation—Any electromagnetic or particulate radiation capable of producing ions,
directly or indirectly in its passage through matter. Ionizing radiation includes gamma rays, X rays,
alpha particles, beta particles, neutrons, protons and other particles and electromagnetic waves
capable of producing ions.
Occupational Dose—The dose received by an individual in the course of employment in which the
individual’s assigned duties involve exposure to radiation or to radioactive material from regulated
and unregulated sources of radiation, whether in the possession of the employer or other person.
Occupational dose does not include dose received from background radiation; from any medical
administration the individual has received; from exposure to patients administered radioactive
374AWI48-148 13 MARCH 2009                                                                                   11


material and released IAW applicable regulations; from voluntary participation in medical research
programs; or as a member of the general public.
Permit RSO—The individual designated by the unit commander to continuously monitor the
radiation protection program for a USAF Radioactive Material Permit. Each permittee (unit
commander) must appoint a Permit RSO in the permit application process to be approved by the
Installation RSO.
Radiation Safety Officer—An individual with specific education, military training, and professional
experience in radiation protection practice appointed by a commander or the USAF RIC to manage
radiation safety programs. The term "Radiation Safety Officer" is a functional title and does not
denote a commissioned status or specialty code. An RSO should be the most technically qualified
person available. The RSO must have the education, military training, and professional experience
needed for the job. Take care when addressing RSO qualifications and duties to distinguish between
installation and permit RSOs. Individuals appointed as the installation RSO may not always have the
specific technical experience and training needed to qualify as the permit RSO.
Roentgen Equivalent Man (rem)—The conventional unit of any of the quantities expressed as dose
equivalent. The dose equivalent in rems is equal to the absorbed dose in rads multiplied by a
radiation quality factor, Q.
USAF Radioactive Material Permit—Written authorization from the USAF RIC for AF
organizations to receive, possess, use, distribute, store, transport, transfer and dispose of radioactive
materials. Permits parallel NRC licenses in applications and scope. Unlike the NRC, a single permit
may authorize Byproduct, Source, Special Nuclear Material, Accelerator Produced Radioactive
Material and Naturally Occurring Radioactive Material.
USAF Radioisotope Committee (RIC)—A committee set up according to the AF Master Materials
License to coordinate the administrative and regulatory aspects of licensing, receiving, possessing,
using, distributing, storing, transporting, transferring and disposing of all radioactive materials in the
AF except that transferred from the Department of Energy to the Department of Defense in nuclear
weapon systems, certain radioactive parts of weapons systems and nuclear reactor systems, parts and
fuel controlled under Section 91b of the AEA.
