BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             374th Airlift Wing INSTRUCTION 90-821
374TH AIRLIFT WING
                                                                                   30 JULY 2010

                                                                            Special Management

                                                      INSTALLATION WRITTEN HAZARD
                                                  COMMUNICATION (HAZCOM) PROGRAM
                                                                              (PA)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 374 AMDS/SGPB                                                    Certified by: 374 MDG/CC
Supersedes: Superseded: 374AWI48-106,                                 (Col Timothy D. Robinette)
            10 March 2004                                                               Pages: 16


This instruction implements AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Program, and provides
information to implement AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, at Yokota Air Base (AB), Japan.
It describes installation-specific procedures to meet the HAZCOM requirements in accordance
with (IAW) AFI 90-821, paragraph 2.3. This instruction applies to all U.S. Air Force military
and civilian personnel, Master Labor Contract (MLC) and Indirect Hire Agreement (IHA) local
national employees, contractor employees who are employed at Air Force-owned or operated
facilities when authorized by the contracting officer IAW AFI 90-821, paragraph 1.2.2.4. at units
assigned, attached or associated with 374th Airlift Wing (374 AW), and tenant units as
applicable IAW the host tenant support agreement. This instruction requires collecting and
maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C., Chapter
40, 37 U.S.C., Chapter 9, and E.O. 9397 (SSN), November 1943. Principal Purposes: For
documentation of occupational safety, fire protection, and health training. Routine Uses: Use to
create a record of training and to retrieve record of safety, fire protection, and health training.
Disclosure: Disclosure of SSN is voluntary. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-
363, Management of Records, and dispose of IAW the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through their
appropriate functional chain of command.
 2                                                              374AWI90-821 30 JULY 2010


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: revises 374 AWI 48-106, Written Hazard Communication Program, dated 10 March
2004 which was established under AFOSH Standard 161-21, Hazard Communication, dated 23
January 1989. AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, dated 30 March 2005, has superseded
AFOSH Standard 161-21. The contents of this instruction have been substantially revised to
incorporate the requirements of AFI 90-821 and must be completely reviewed.
1. Installation Written HAZCOM Program. AFI 90-821 is intended to minimize the
incidence of “chemically induced occupational illnesses and injuries” in the workplace by
establishing guidance for training employees on the health and physical hazards associated with,
and proper preventive measures to be taken when, using or handling hazardous chemicals in
workarea/shop(s). IAW AFI 90-821, paragraph 2.3., each Air Force installation whose
employees will potentially be exposed to hazardous materials not exempted as described in AFI
90-821, paragraph 2.2. must create a written HAZCOM program to support work area/shop
implementation of the HAZCOM program. This installation written HAZCOM program is
hereby established to describe installation-specific procedures to meet the requirements. This
program is not to be confused with other separate and distinct entities such as Hazardous
Materials Management Program (HMMP) and Hazardous Waste Operations and Emergency
Response (HAZWOPER).
2. Work Area/Shop-Specific Written HAZCOM Program.
     2.1. AFI 90-821, paragraph 1.8.2.6. requires work area/shop supervisors of work area/shops
     where workers handle, use hazardous chemicals, or are potentially exposed to hazardous
     chemicals to develop and maintain a work area/shop-specific written HAZCOM program
     which covers required program elements defined in AFI 90-821, paragraph 2.5. through 2.9.
     To meet this requirement, the supervisors shall develop a work area/shop-specific written
     HAZCOM program using the template provided in Attachment 1 or an equivalent approved
     by 374 AMDS/SGPB, Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight (BE).
     2.2. Squadron Commanders, or their designated representatives (e.g., flight
     chiefs/commanders, unit safety representatives, quality assurance personnel) shall approve
     written work area/shop-specific training prior to implementation in the work area/shop, and
     know the location of Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDSs) and training materials (ref: AFI
     90-821, paragraph 1.8.). Each organization should establish a policy on how and who
     approves work area/shop-specific written HAZCOM programs. For approval of the
     programs, organization’s designated personnel shall ensure that the work area/shop
     supervisors develop a work area/shop HAZCOM program using the template provided in
     Attachment 1 or an equivalent approved by BE and all required information is properly
     incorporated.
     2.3. An approved work area/shop-specific written HAZCOM program will be filed in a work
     area/shop HAZCOM program binder and it shall be readily available to all workers (see
     paragraph 8). Work area/shop supervisors or their work area/shop HAZCOM program
     designee (HAZCOM program monitor) should periodically review the program and update it
     with current information as required.
3. Employee Information and Training.
374AWI90-821 30 JULY 2010                                                                    3


  3.1. The work area/shop supervisor is responsible for ensuring all workers are properly
  trained on the chemical hazards in their work area/shop IAW AFI 90-821, paragraph 2.7.
  Training will be conducted by the work area/shop supervisor or HAZCOM program monitor.
  This training should not be confused with Hazardous Materials Management Program
  (HMMP) Training, HAZMAT Awareness Training, and Hazardous Waste Training
  described below (HAZCOM training and these below are not interchangeable):
     3.1.1. HMMP Training. Governed by AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management.
     HMMP requires all hazardous materials be approved prior to use and tracked, and
     supported by EESOH-MIS (Enterprise Environmental Safety and Occupational Health-
     Management Information System). No specific training is spelled out in the AFI. The
     installation determines the level of training needed to effectively manage the
     installation’s HMMP.
     3.1.2. Hazardous Materials Awareness Training. Governed by AFI 10-2501, Air Force
     Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations, implementing OSHA
     29 CFR 1910.120, Hazardous Waste Operations and Emergency Response. This is
     required training for personnel who may respond to a hazardous materials incident.
     There are several different levels of training from awareness, to operations, technician,
     and specialist.
     3.1.3. Hazardous Waste Training (Hazardous Waste Accumulation Point Manager
     Training). Governed by AFI 32-7042, Waste Management, which implements 40 CFR
     260-272, Hazardous waste Management System. The training is required for all
     hazardous waste accumulation point managers initially and annually.
  3.2. The work area/shop supervisor should develop an adequate work area/shop-specific
  HAZCOM training plan (training material) to meet the training requirement in accordance
  with AFI 90-821, paragraph 2.7.2. using the model HAZCOM training plan provided by BE
  or an equivalent approved by BE. During BE’s scheduled occupational and environmental
  health assessments, or upon request of a work area/shop supervisor, the training plan will be
  reviewed and approved as part of the overall HAZCOM program compliance assessment
  (ref: AFI 90-821, paragraph 1.6.2.2.3.).
  3.3. Other installation’s agencies such as 374 AW/SE and 374 CES/CEF will provide
  technical expertise to work area/shop supervisors on physical (fire and explosion) hazards,
  make recommendations to work area/shop supervisors regarding controls, storage and
  handling to minimize or eliminate potential hazards, review the training plan for adequacy
  during their scheduled inspections or workplace visits as needed.
  3.4. The work area/shop-specific HAZCOM training plan will be filed in a work area/shop
  HAZCOM program binder and it shall be readily available to all workers (see paragraph 8).
  The work area/shop supervisors or HAZCOM program monitor should periodically review
  the training plan and update it with current information as required.
  3.5. The work area/shop supervisor will document HAZCOM training IAW AFI 90-821,
  paragraph 2.7.4.
  3.6. For work area/shops where MLC and/or IHA local national employees are assigned,
  when the employees that are required to receive training do not comprehend English, the
  work area/shop supervisor or his/her designee must inform and train the employees in
 4                                                               374AWI90-821 30 JULY 2010


     Japanese or a language which is comprehensible in order to satisfy the training requirements.
     BE strongly recommends work area/shop supervisors utilize the HAZCOM training material
     in Japanese prepared by BE for their training.
4. Hazardous Chemical Inventory.
     4.1. The installation’s hazardous material management program IAW AFI 32-7086,
     Hazardous Materials Management, through the AF Form 3952, Chemical Hazardous
     Material Request/Authorization, authorization process, controls which hazardous chemicals
     can be used in each work area on the installation.
     4.2. As a minimum, the hazardous chemical inventory will be prepared in the format
     specified in Attachment 2. The chemical inventory must be cross-referenced with the
     appropriate MSDS. Supervisors may use EESOH-MIS hazardous chemical authorization list
     or computer generated equivalent chemical inventories as long as the above requirements are
     met. A current and accurate hazardous chemical inventory shall be maintained in a work
     area/shop HAZCOM program binder (see paragraph 8).
5. Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS).
     5.1. The MSDS information must be readily available to all workers for each work shift
     through their shop supervisors. Electronic access, microfiche, and other alternatives to
     maintaining paper copies of MSDS are permitted as long as there are no barriers to
     immediate access by employees.
     5.2. For authorization, through EESOH-MIS, of locally purchased items, MSDSs must be
     provided and available in English. However, if an MSDS consistent with 29 CFR
     1910.1200(g), Hazard Communication, cannot be obtained from the supplier, then a
     document meeting the intent of 29 CFR1210.1200(g) is acceptable.
     5.3. BE or other qualified personnel will provide explanations or interpretations of the
     MSDS to supervisors and affected workers, as requested, for routine training and planning,
     and will be available during emergency situations to assist in the interpretation of MSDSs.
     5.4. Work area/shop supervisors or HAZCOM program monitors will review and reconcile
     MSDSs on file (if files outside of HMIRS and EESOH-MIS are maintained) and the work
     area/shop hazardous chemical inventory at least annually, and this review will be
     documented with the date and who conducted it at a minimum.
     5.5. For work area/shops where MLC and/or IHA local national employees are assigned,
     when MSDSs are provided only in English and the employees do not comprehend the MSDS
     information, the work area/shop supervisor or his/her designee must explain the information
     to the employees in Japanese or a language which is comprehensible.
6. Labels and Other Forms of Warning.
     6.1. Labeling of hazardous chemical containers will be accomplished in accordance with 29
     CFR 1910.1200(f). The commercial or manufacturer’s HAZCOM label is the preferred
     method for marking hazardous materials and shall not be removed from the product or
     defaced. The DoD hazardous material warning labels IAW DoDI 6050.50, DoD HAZCOM
     Program, generated by the data management system, or equivalent, provide a means of
     labeling hazardous materials when:
374AWI90-821 30 JULY 2010                                                                       5


       6.1.1. The commercial HAZCOM label is missing, damaged, obscured, illegible, or
       otherwise does not convey the information required by 29 CFR 1910.1200(f).
       6.1.2. The manufacturer’s label is in a language other than English on products locally
       purchased.
   6.2. The installation’s HAZMART Pharmacy (374 LRS/LGRMH) receiving hazardous
   chemicals including locally purchased items will ensure all incoming containers are properly
   labeled prior to issue.
   6.3. Work area/shop supervisors will ensure all hazardous chemical containers used in their
   work area/shop meet HAZCOM requirements, labels will remain affixed to their containers
   and are not obliterated or covered.
   6.4. For work area/shops where MLC and/or IHA local national employees are assigned,
   when hazardous chemical warning label information is provided only in English and the
   employees do not comprehend the information, the work area/shop supervisor or his/her
   designee must explain the information to the employees in Japanese or a language which is
   comprehensible.
7. Non-routine Tasks Involving Hazardous Materials.
   7.1. Non-routine tasks are defined as follows:
       7.1.1. Those tasks included within a work area’s normal activities but performed
       infrequently, e.g., cleaning a solvent tank and changing the solvent or cleaning up spills.
       7.1.2. Temporary duties outside an individual’s normal Air Force Specialty Codes or job
       series, such as details or additional duties involving the use of chemicals.
       7.1.3. In addition to the definition above, supervisors should consider a task non-routine
       if it is performed less than once every three months.
   7.2. Non-routine tasks involving hazardous materials should be described using the format
   provided in Attachment 3. If the workers do not perform any non-routine tasks involving
   hazardous materials, work area/shop supervisors shall state that “non-routine tasks involving
   hazardous chemicals are not performed in this workplace.” In either case, documentation of
   the non-routine tasks shall be filed in the work area/shop HAZCOM program binder (see
   paragraph 8).
8. HAZCOM Program Binder. A work area/shop supervisor will prepare and maintain a work
area/shop HAZCOM program binder. The binder will consist of the following sections or tabs at
a minimum:
   Tab A – AF HAZCOM Regulations: AFI 90-821 and 374 AWI 90-821.
   Tab B – Work Area/Shop-Specific Written HAZCOM Program.
   Tab C – Work Area/Shop-Specific HAZCOM Training Plan/Material.
   Tab D – BE Occupational Health Assessment/Survey Reports and other applicable
   information provided by Safety, Fire Department, etc. concerning use of hazardous materials.
 6                                                              374AWI90-821 30 JULY 2010


        Tab E – AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record, (Documentation of
        HAZCOM Training). If the records are maintained elsewhere, a cross-reference shall
        be used to indicate the location of the training records.
        Tab F – Hazardous Chemical Inventory. (EESOH-MIS hazardous chemical inventory
        list or equivalent; example is shown in Attachment 2.)
        Tab G – MSDSs. If MSDSs are kept in an alternate location, a cross-reference shall be
        used to indicate the location of the MSDSs.
        Tab H – A list of Non-routine Tasks Involving Hazardous Materials.
        Tab I – Emergency Procedures/Spill Response Plan.
9. The Japan Environmental Governing Standards (JEGS). JEGS has been established to
protect human health and the natural environment through the promulgation of specific
environmental compliance criteria and it applies to actions of the DoD Components at
installations in Japan. JEGS, Chapter 5, Hazardous Materials contains criteria for the storage,
handling, and disposition of hazardous materials. The requirements in this chapter are intended
to minimize the incidence of chemically induced occupational illnesses and injuries and are
mainly cited from DoDI 6050.50, DoD HAZCOM Program, and they overlap with the
requirements of AFI 90-821. Therefore, in general, compliance with the requirements of AFI
90-821 will meet the JEGS requirements. However, work area/shop supervisors will ensure to
comply with the specific HAZCOM requirements in JEGS when applicable (e.g., labeling
requirements for pesticides and polychlorinated biphenyls) in addition to the requirements of AFI
90-821.

10. Adopted Forms.

     AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record
     AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
     AF Form 3952, Chemical Hazardous Material Request/Authorization




                                            PAUL E. FEATHER, Col, USAF
                                            Commander, 374th Airlift Wing
374AWI90-821 30 JULY 2010                                                                       7


                                         Attachment 1
   WORK AREA/SHOP-SPECIFIC WRITTEN HAZCOM PROGRAM TEMPLATE

A1.1. Instructions.
   A1.1.1. AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, 30 March 05, paragraph 1.8.2.6. requires
   supervisors of work area/shops where workers who handle, use hazardous chemicals, or are
   potentially exposed to hazardous materials to develop a work area/shop-specific written
   HAZCOM program.           This template has been created by 374 AMDS/SGPB,
   Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight (BE), to assist a work area/shop supervisor to develop
   their own program to meet the requirement.
   A1.1.2. Read through the template carefully and insert your workplace specific information
   in fields identified with […] in bold. Most of the fields are self explanatory though extra
   instructions have been added for assistance. Once you complete editing, make sure that
   you delete brackets, instruction and change font from bold to normal as needed.
   A1.1.3. You may change the format of this template as you like or to your organization’s set
   format, as long as the contents remain the same. Also, since this template includes only the
   minimum information required by the regulations, feel free to add information you think is
   appropriate and useful to make the program more effective and suitable for your workplace.
   A1.1.4. IAW AFI 90-821, paragraph 1.8., Squadron Commanders, or their designated
   representatives (e.g., flight chiefs/commanders, unit safety representatives, quality assurance
   personnel) shall approve written work area/shop-specific written HAZCOM program. Each
   organization should establish a policy on how and who approves work area/shop-specific
   written HAZCOM programs. For approval of the programs, organization’s designated
   personnel shall ensure that the work area/shop supervisors have developed a work area/shop
   HAZCOM program using this template or equivalent approved by BE and all required
   information is properly incorporated.
   A1.1.5. When you complete editing, save your version of the document by using the “save
   as” command with an appropriate file name. This template is also available in MS Word
   version.
   A1.1.6. If you have any questions concerning this template, please contact BE at DSN 225-
   8040.
 8                                                              374AWI90-821 30 JULY 2010


Figure A1.1. Work Area/Shop-Specific Written HAZCOM Program Template.




                       Work Area/Shop-Specific
                     Written Hazard Communication
                       (HAZCOM) Program For
                [Insert     your office symbol/work area name here]
                            Current as of [Insert “Month and Year” here]




                                      TABLE OF CONTENTS


Work area/shop-specific written HAZCOM program - a “blueprint” for compliance, the program
contains descriptions of the following:

     Part 1. Introduction

     Part 2. Staff responsibilities

     Part 3. MSDS procedures (obtaining/maintenance)

     Part 4. Labeling and other forms of warning

     Part 5. Employee information and training program

     Part 6. Hazardous chemical inventory

     Part 7. Non-routine tasks involving hazardous chemicals

     Part 8. Availability of the HAZCOM Program

     Part 9. Contact Information.
374AWI90-821 30 JULY 2010                                                                          9


PART 1. INTRODUCTION.

1.1. Requirement. Our work area/shop-specific written HAZCOM program has been developed
to fulfill the requirement of a work area/shop-specific written HAZCOM program in accordance
with AFI 90-821, 30 Mar 05, Hazard Communication, paragraph 1.8.2.6, and specifically
designed based on the chemical hazards associated with our work area and operations.

1.2. Purpose of This Program. This program is intended to minimize the incidence of
chemically induced occupational illnesses and injuries by establishing guidance for training all
applicable workers (who handle, use, or are potentially exposed to hazardous chemicals in the
course of official Air Force duties) on the health and physical hazards associated with, and
proper preventive measures to be taken when, using or handling hazardous chemicals in [insert
your work area/shop name here].

PART 2. STAFF RESPONSIBILITIES.

2.1. Work Area/Shop Supervisor (HAZCOM Program Monitor). The work area/shop
supervisors are responsible for hazard communication in our work area/shop, but may designate
an alternate (HAZCOM program monitor) to assist in daily program execution. [Insert your
work area HAZCOM monitor’s name here. ex. A1C Harris.] has been designated as our
work area/shop HAZCOM program monitor and the HAZCOM program monitor will:
  --Be responsible to implement all elements of the AF HAZCOM program in our workplace.
  --Maintain a current and correct work area/shop-specific written HAZCOM program.
  --Maintain an inventory of all hazardous chemicals used in our work area and MSDSs for these
  materials.
  --Review the inventory and MSDSs on file at least annually to update them.
  --Ensure labels on containers of hazardous chemicals used in our work area meet HAZCOM
  requirements, remain affixed to their containers, and are not obliterated or covered.
  --Provide the work area/shop-specific HAZCOM training IAW paragraph 5.2.
  --Document the HAZCOM training AF Form 55 or equivalent.
  --Ensure that routine and non-routine work tasks, processes are thoroughly described to include
  associated hazards and controls.

2.2. Workers. Workers will:
  --Receive work area/shop-specific HAZCOM training from the HAZCOM program monitor or
  another designee selected by the HAZCOM program monitor.
  --Follow established proper safety work procedures and required control measures.
  --Notify the work area/shop supervisor or the HAZCOM program monitor of any issues
  regarding hazardous chemicals that can pose either a perceived or real hazard to the employees.

PART 3. MATERIAL SAFETY DATA SHEET (MSDS) PROCEDURES.

3.1. General. Each MSDS is a detailed information bulletin prepared by the chemical
manufacturer describing the physical and chemical properties, physical and health hazards,
routes of exposure, precautions for safe handling and use, emergency and first-aid procedures,
and control measures of the listed hazardous chemicals.
 10                                                                374AWI90-821 30 JULY 2010



3.2. The Installation’s HAZMART (374 LRS/LGRMH). The installation’s HAZMART ensures
that MSDSs are in English for all hazardous materials including locally purchased items that are
obtained and issued to users.

3.3. Availability. The HAZCOM program monitor maintains copies of all MSDS’s in English
for each hazardous material used in our work area and makes them readily accessible during
each work shift to workers. Copies of all the MSDSs are maintained in [Insert where MSDSs
are kept. ex. Tab G of the work area HAZCOM binder or MSDS binder] located at [Insert
location. ex. HAZCOM program monitor’s office, Room LB-3]. The HAZCOM program
monitor will reconcile, MSDSs on file (if files outside of HMIRS and ESOH-MIS are
maintained) and the work area/shop hazardous chemical inventory at least annually.

3.4. Workers. Workers may review MSDSs for the materials they work with at the time, while
they are in the work area/shop. Workers also may request a copy of an MSDS if they wish.

PART 4. LABELS AND OTHER FORMS OF WARNING.

4.1. General. It is the responsibility of chemical manufacturers, importers and commercial
distributors to label containers of hazardous chemicals according to the Occupational Safety and
Health Administration’s Federal HAZCOM standard. Accordingly, chemical containers entering
the installation through the supply system or through local purchases should already be labeled.
The installation’s HAZMART will ensure all incoming containers are properly labeled prior to
issue. Each container of hazardous chemicals received must be labeled, tagged, or marked with
the:
   --Identity of the material
   --Appropriate hazard warning (flammable, corrosive, etc.)
   --Name & address of the producer (not required for portable containers)
   All labels must be:
   --Legible
   --In English or in Japanese (Japanese products)
   --Prominently displayed

4.2. Portable Containers. Portable containers do not need to be labeled as long as they are for
immediate use (ref: AFI 90-821, paragraph 2.6.6.1.). If the employee cannot maintain full
control over the chemical or departs the work area/shop, and if there is residual material left in
the portable container, this material shall either be disposed of under applicable local disposal
regulations, returned to its original container, or labeled in accordance with applicable
regulations.

PART 5. EMPLOYEE INFORMATION AND TRAINING.

5.1. General. The HAZCOM program monitor will receive HAZCOM program training
necessary to properly implement all elements of the HAZCOM program in our work area/shop
with assistance of 374 AMDS/SGPB, Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight (BE) and 374
AMDS/SGPM, Public Health (PH). The HAZCOM program monitor ensures that all workers
374AWI90-821 30 JULY 2010                                                                      11


are trained in accordance with the training requirements in AFI 90-821, paragraph 2.7.

5.2. How the Training for Workers is Conducted.

5.2.1. Under the direction of the HAZCOM program monitor, the work area/shop-specific
HAZCOM training for workers will be conducted by reviewing the following information
sources:
   --This written HAZCOM program
   --The work area/shop-specific HAZCOM Training Plan/Training material
   --BE Occupational and Environmental Health Assessment reports and other special
     assessment reports on chemical hazards (the reports provide us the information on
     associated chemical hazards and required controls such as engineering/administrative
     controls and personal protective equipment to minimize or eliminate the hazards specific to
     a task.)
   --Other supplemental materials as needed to meet the training requirements (in addition to the
     information in BE’s survey reports, other applicable information identified by safety, fire
     department, etc.)

5.2.2. With assistance of the HAZCOM program monitor, the information shall be thoroughly
reviewed by all applicable workers to understand:
   --What, where and how hazardous chemicals are used.
   --Associated hazards with each hazardous chemical.
   --Specific control requirements.

5.2.3. For Master Labor Contract (MLC) and/or Indirect Hire Agreement (IHA) local national
employees, if the employees that are required to receive training do not comprehend English, the
HAZCOM program monitor or a designee (i.e, shop foreman) will inform and train these
employees in Japanese in order to satisfy the training requirements. BE can provide Japanese
translated HAZCOM training materials. These, as well as information sources listed in
paragraph 5.2.1, can be used as training aides. When MSDS and labeling information is
provided only in English and those employees do not comprehend English, the training will
include:
   --An explanation of MSDS information
   --An explanation of the hazardous chemical warning label information

5.3. When HAZCOM Training is Provided.
   --Initial training. Comprehensive HAZCOM training is provided at the time of initial
   assignment in a work area/shop.
   --Supplemental training. When a new hazard is brought into the work area/shop.

5.4. Training Documentation. All HAZCOM training will be documented on each individual’s
AF Form 55 or equivalent.

PART 6. HAZARDOUS CHEMICAL INVENTORY.

6.1. General. The hazardous chemical inventory for our work area can be accessed through the
 12                                                             374AWI90-821 30 JULY 2010


Enterprise Environmental Safety Occupational Health-Management Information System
(EESOH-MIS).

6.2. Location. The most current hazardous chemical inventory is filed in [insert where a
chemical inventory is kept. ex. Tab F of the work area HAZCOM program binder.]

PART 7. NON-ROUTINE TASKS INVOLVING HAZARDOUS CHEMICALS.

7.1. General. Non-routine tasks are those tasks included within a work area’s normal activities,
but performed infrequently (for example, cleaning a solvent tank and changing the solvent, or
cleaning up spills, working around unlabeled piping), or temporary duties outside an individual’s
normal Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) or job series, description.

7.2. In Our Work Area. Non-routine tasks involving hazardous chemicals performed in our
work area are listed in [Insert where non-routine task list is filed. ex. Tab H in the
HAZCOM program binder.]

PART 8. AVAILABILITY OF THE HAZCOM PROGRAM.

8.1. Work Area/Shop HAZCOM program binder. It contains the following:
  Tab A: HAZCOM Regulations (AFI 90-821 and 374 AWI 90-821)
  Tab B: Work Area/Shop-Specific Written HAZCOM Program
  Tab C: Work Area/Shop-Specific HAZCOM Training Plan/Training Materials
  Tab D: BE Occupational Health Assessment/Survey reports and other applicable information
         provided By Safety, Fire Department, etc.
  Tab E: Documentation of HAZCOM Training
  Tab F: Hazardous Chemical Inventory
  Tab G: MSDSs
  Tab H: A List of non-routine tasks involving hazardous materials

8.2. Location and Accessibility. The work area/shop HAZCOM program binder is located at
[Insert where your HAZCOM program binder is kept] and is readily accessible to all
workers. The HAZCOM program binder is also available for other external organizations such
as BE, Safety, and Fire Department to review upon request.

8.3. Contractor Operations. When contractors work in or around our work area and may be
exposed to the hazardous chemicals we use, access to the program and MSDSs will be provided
to them, as needed, IAW AFI 90-821, paragraph 2.10.

PART 9. CONTACT INFORMATION.
For any questions or further information concerning this program, contact the following:
 --Our work Area/shop HAZCOM Program Monitor: [Insert your work area/shop
 HAZCOM monitor’s name here]
 --Our unit safety representative: [Inset your unit safety representative’s contact
 information here]
 --374 AMDS/SGPB, Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight - DSN 225-8040
374AWI90-821 30 JULY 2010                                                                  13


 --374 AMDS/SGPM, Public Health Flight- DSN 225-3541
 --374 AW/SE, Safety - DSN 225-7233
 --374 CES/CEF, Fire Emergency Services (Fire Prevention) - DSN 225-9112
 --374 LRS/LGRMH, HAZMART Pharmacy- DSN 225-9631
 --374 CES/CEAN, Environmental Flight - DSN 225-5271




                                      [Work Area/Shop Supervisor’s Signature Block}


                                      Approved



                                      [Organization’s Designated Approving Person’s
                                      Signature Block]


Attachment
Periodical Program sheet


                                      ATTACHEMT
                           PERIODICAL PROGRAM REVIEW SHEET

The following will be reviewed and updated as needed by the work area/shop supervisor or
HAZCOM program monitor during a periodical program review:
1. The appointment of the HAZCOM program monitor.
2. Contents of the work area/shop-specific written HAZCOM program.
3. Work area/shop-specific HAZCOM training plan/training material.
4. MSDSs on file and the work area/shop hazardous chemical inventory.
5. A list of non-routine tasks involving hazardous materials.
6. Other information as necessary.

  Date:                Reviewed by:                          Status
                                                                Current/Correct
  Notes:

  Date:                Reviewed by:                          Status
                                                                Current/Correct
  Notes:
14                       374AWI90-821 30 JULY 2010


Date:    Reviewed by:   Status
                           Current/Correct
Notes:

Date:    Reviewed by:   Status
                           Current/Correct
Notes:
374AWI90-821 30 JULY 2010                                                               15


                                      Attachment 2
       SUGGESTED FORMAT FOR WORK AREA/SHOP HAZARDOUS CHEMICAL
                             INVENTORY



                             Hazardous Chemical Inventory
            For: [Insert your workplace Name, Squadron, Office Symbol here]


The chemical inventory must be numbered and correspond with the appropriate MSDS (ref: AFI
90-821, paragraph 1.8.2.8.).


                                                                      Container    MSDS
  #          NSN               Nomenclature          Manufacturer
                                                                      Type/Size     #

 1.

 2.


 3.


 4.


 5.


 6.


 7.


 8.


 9.


 10.
 16                                                             374AWI90-821 30 JULY 2010


                                         Attachment 3
      SUGGESTED FORMAT FOR A LIST OF NON-ROUTINE TASKS INVOLVING
                        HAZARDOUS MATERIALS

A3.1. Instruction. Simply list the non-routine tasks involving hazardous materials that your
workers perform in the table below accordingly. Even if no non-routine tasks involving
hazardous chemicals is performed, a work area/shop supervisor is still required to use the format
provided in this attachment with the statement: Non-routine tasks involving hazardous
chemicals are not performed in this workplace. See AFI 90-821, paragraph 1.8.2.9. and 2.9. for
more information. The following template or equivalent should be used:
              A List of the Non-Routine Tasks Involving Hazardous Materials
              For: [Inset your workplace name, squadron/office symbol here]

                                                                 Current as of: [Insert date here]
                                                         Required Control         T.O., OI or
  #     Task Description        Associated Hazards
                                                            Measures              Reference


  1



  2



  3



  4



  5
