BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         374TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 21-
374TH AIRLIFT WING                                                              103

                                                                              31 AUGUST 2009

                                                                                   Maintenance

                                                        FOREIGN OBJECT DAMAGE (FOD)
                                                               PREVENTION PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 374 MXG/MXQ                                                     Certified by: 374 MXG/CC
                                                                         (Col Gerald J. Frisbee)
                                                                                      Pages: 14



This instruction is mandated by Air Force Instruction (AFI) 21-101_Air Mobility Command
Supplement (AMCSUP), Aircraft Equipment Maintenance Management. It establishes the 374
AW’s policy on FOD prevention and directs compliance with host 374 AW FOD instructions.
Commanders and supervisors will ensure all personnel comply with this instruction. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.

1. Prevention Policy. FOD and dropped objects are costly and have a negative impact on
mission accomplishment. Every effort will be made by all 374 AW personnel to ensure dropped
object prevention (DOP) and prevent FOD. Supervisors at all levels will ensure everyone within
their span of control is trained on, and implements, FOD/DOP prevention procedures at all times.
2. General Procedures:
   2.1. “FOD Elimination” is the standard. Attention to detail, coupled with a proactive
   approach at all levels, will result in a zero FOD rate. FOD prevention is everyone's
   responsibility. All supervisors will ensure that proper FOD prevention procedures are strictly
   enforced.
2                                                            374AWI21-103 31 AUGUST 2009


       2.1.1. “ZERO TOLERANCE” is the standard for all FOD prevention measures as well
       as for 374th Maintenance Group Quality Assurance (374 MXG/MXQ) assessments on
       aircraft, work areas directly in or around aircraft, tool boxes, and work areas that support
       aircraft systems and Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) equipment.
       2.1.2. Assessments on hangar inspections, vehicles, and FOD walk follow-ups will be
       subjective.
       2.1.3. FOD found within one half hour of a FOD walk or hangar sweep will constitute a
       fail against the performing organization. FOD found, including FO discovered later than
       one hour after a FOD walk or hangar sweep, will be subject to investigation by 374 AW
       FOD Monitor or QA inspectors.
       2.1.4. The “clean-as-you-go” concept will be strictly followed. On the flight line and in
       the hangars, it is important to stress that proactive housekeeping procedures will be
       initiated throughout every task. The task is not complete until the area is cleaned up.
       Strict use of parts bags will be enforced.
3. Compliance. The 374 AW FOD Program is defined by a combination of published guidance.
Compliance with the applicable portions of Tool and Equipment Management and Control of
374 MXG, and the FOD section of AFI 21-101_AMCSUP constitute compliance with the 374
AW FOD/DOP Prevention Program.
4. FOD Prevention.
    4.1. FOD prevention is the responsibility of all personnel working in, on, around, or
    traveling through areas near aircraft, munitions, AGE, engines or components. Personnel
    working in or transiting the aforementioned areas will comply with this instruction.
    4.2. Practice good housekeeping and hardware accountability at all times. Parts bags will be
    used at all times and will be attached to the associated component or area as applicable. Use
    attached tag to indicate types and totals of items inside, aircraft/equipment number with parts
    safely secured. Plastic “Ziploc” type bags may be used as parts bags, provided they have a
    listing included on paper or have the contents annotated on the package with permanent ink.
    Locally produced part accountability kits may also be used to account for component
    hardware (e.g., engine mount bolt kit).
    4.3. Hardware and shop stock control. Hardware and shop stock (acid brushes, paint pens,
    razor blades, etc.) will be issued on a one-for-one basis. When obtaining these items from
    the Consolidated Tool Kit (CTK), turn in item to receive like item. For instances where a
    turn-in part is not available, CTK personnel will annotate a locally produced log with the
    following minimum information: Name, rank, bin number, quantity, date, aircraft tail
    number, and job control number. Contracted maintenance operations will follow these
    guidelines, except in areas where their statement of work exempts them from it due to
    contractual FOD prevention requirements.
    4.4. While maintenance is being performed on aircraft, uninstalled engines, and AGE;
    properly cover openings, plug or cap ports, lines, hoses, electrical connections, pitot tube
    covers, and ducts to prevent FOs from entering these systems. Ensure plugs fit snugly and
    properly and that securing hardware is serviceable. Test equipment and equipment in parts
374AWI21-103 31 AUGUST 2009                                                                      3


  lockers will have receptacles capped and cable ends protected with a cap or bag when not in
  use.
     4.4.1. Streamers. “REMOVE BEFORE FLIGHT” streamers will be used on ground
     wires and any external cover applied to the aircraft on the ground.
     4.4.2. Clothing restrictions. Hats may not be worn on the flight line and in engine test
     cell areas. They must be removed within 50 feet of an operating engine intake or within
     an operating engine’s exhaust/propeller blast area as defined by the aircraft specific
     technical order (TO). All personnel performing ground observer duties for engine start to
     include engine test cell personnel must clear pockets of foreign objects (pens, pencils,
     etc.) prior to engine operation.
     4.4.3. Wear of the winter watch cap is authorized and may be worn during aircraft
     launch or recovery when using the following procedures:
     4.4.4. Ear defender/communication headset devices must be worn over the watch cap.
     4.4.5. Watch caps must be firmly set on individual’s head and pulled down over ears to
     prevent it from inadvertently coming off, thus posing a FOD hazard.
  4.5. Flight deck FOD inspections. All 374 AW aircrafts flight deck FOD prevention
  inspection will be accomplished no earlier than 4 hours prior to flight and annotated in the
  aircraft AFTO Form 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document. Check for
  foreign, loose, or missing items (light lenses, covers, bulbs, and hardware) on all instrument,
  control, and circuit breaker panels. Pay particular attention to areas around seat tracks, flight
  control inputs, and openings in the throttle quadrant and floor.
     4.5.1. All 374 AW aircraft throttle quadrant covers will be installed immediately after
     each flight and will remain installed while the aircraft is on the ground to include sealed
     spare and training aircraft. When removed to accomplish an engine run or maintenance
     in the throttle quadrant area, covers will be re-installed immediately after maintenance.
  4.6. All aircraft hangars, maintenance production areas, and vehicles that frequent flight
  line/maintenance areas will have approved area FOD containers readily accessible to
  workers. An area FOD container is defined as a sturdy receptacle. Flight line vehicle
  containers must be lidded type containers. Shops may fabricate or procure small portable FO
  containers (coffee cans, FOD bags, etc.) for use where area collection points are not feasible
  such as on maintenance stands.
     4.6.1. Containers will be stenciled with the word “FOD” in contrasting letters no smaller
     than two inches. “FOD” stickers may be used on FOD containers and are available from
     the 374 AW FOD Monitor’s office.
     4.6.2. All FOD containers will be emptied when full or at the end of each shift,
     whichever comes first.
  4.7. Base FOD walks. FOD walks are mandatory to remove FO from the flight line parking
  ramp, access road, and adjacent areas.
     4.7.1. 374 MXG-level FOD walks are conducted once a week at a time dependent on
     mission requirements to maximize participation. Squadrons will assemble at designated
     flight line area spots. Maximum participation is required for 374 MXG FOD walks.
4                                                             374AWI21-103 31 AUGUST 2009


       Attendance will be taken and reported to group leadership and quarterly at the Wing FOD
       committee meeting. The following will attend 374 MXG FOD walks: 374 AMXS, 374
       MOS, 374 MXS, 374 OG, 374 OSS, 459 AS, 36 AS, and 730 AMS.
       4.7.2. The Wing FOD Monitor may adjust FOD walk times to meet mission
       requirements when necessary. FOD walks may be terminated by the Wing FOD Monitor
       (with approval from MXG/CC) during inclement weather (e.g., heavy fog [near zero
       visibility], severe temperatures, or when the Maintenance Operations Center (MOC)
       announces lightning inside five nautical miles warnings). FOD walks will be rescheduled
       accordingly if cancelled.
       4.7.3. Aircraft maintenance units (AMUs) should conduct their own FOD walks on each
       duty day when group-level FOD walks are not accomplished. Individuals will conduct
       walks around individual aircraft prior to start of and after completion of any maintenance
       on that aircraft. The alternative procedure is for units to assemble a structured line once a
       day in their area and conduct a FOD walk. Either method is acceptable.
       4.7.4. FOD walk procedures. All participants will assemble prior to FOD walk for a
       safety briefing. For safety reasons the FOD walk supervisor has ultimate authority in
       controlling procession of the line and personnel will disperse evenly as directed.
       Movement will be at a slow pace, paying special attention to ground points, expansion
       joints, and cracks in pavement. If hardware (safety wire, rivets, nuts, washers, etc.) is
       discovered, inform the FOD walk supervisor of the parking spot where the item was
       found.
           4.7.4.1. Maximum participation from all members is essential to a successful FOD
           walk.
           4.7.4.2. “Golden Bolt” is a bolt that the FOD monitor places in the FOD Walk area.
           Its intent is to heighten awareness of the participants by rewarding the person that
           finds it with a certificate from the 374 AW Vice Commander (374 AW/CV) during
           the quarterly FOD/DOP meeting. The bolt is clearly tracked by the FOD monitor to
           preclude its loss during the FOD walk.
    4.8. Aircraft parking spots will be FOD walked prior to parking and after moving aircraft
    from the spot. The spot will be FOD walked no sooner than 30 minutes prior to parking on
    and no later than 30 minutes after moving from the spot. Tow supervisors will ensure the
    spot is FOD walked prior to pulling onto the spot.
       4.8.1. Towed FOD sweepers and airfield sweeper vehicles will be used for base FOD
       prevention efforts.
       4.8.2. Vehicles towing a FOD sweeper will not perform expediter/dispatch duties or pick
       up/deliver parts. Focus additional attention on parking spots recently vacated by aircraft.
       4.8.3. Areas requiring airfield sweepers will be coordinated through the airfield manager.
    4.9. Airfield inspection and monitoring.
       4.9.1. Representatives from 374 OSS Airfield Operations (374 OSS/OSAM) and/or the
       FOD monitor will conduct random ramp inspections. The FOD monitor will document
       the inspections of damaged pavement, flight line construction, and other FOD hazards in
       or near aircraft parking ramps, taxiways, and access roads.
374AWI21-103 31 AUGUST 2009                                                                   5


     4.9.2. Results of these inspections will be tracked on a locally developed worksheet and
     briefed quarterly to the 374 AW/CV at a minimum at the Wing FOD Prevention
     committee meeting.
  4.10. Engine/propeller maintenance. Aircraft engine/propeller maintenance is a FO/FOD
  critical area. All personnel will exercise caution when performing maintenance in these
  areas. Strict tool and hardware control practices will be enforced during engine/propeller
  maintenance. All new and old hardware will be accounted for at all times.
     4.10.1. Covers (e.g., engine inlet, pitot tube(s), and protective covers) will not be
     removed more than 4 hours prior to flight and will be installed within 30 minutes
     following engine shutdown. Engine inlet covers will be installed for any maintenance
     accomplished on the engine/propeller forward of the engine firewall. All covers will be
     inspected after any severe weather condition to ensure serviceability and inventory.
     These requirements are also applicable to all training aircraft.
     4.10.2. All engine inlet maintenance, to include inlet/exhaust inspections prior to/after
     each engine operation and blade blending, will be annotated on a Red X symbol in the
     AFTO Form 781A. Inlet/exhaust inspections before and after operation or maintenance
     will be conducted by a qualified 7-level or red-X qualified 5-level as identified on the
     unit’s Special Certification Roster (SCR) for that task.
     4.10.3. Blade damage. Upon discovery of blade damage, annotate AFTO Form 781A on
     a red dash and notify the MOC and 374 AW FOD Office prior to any rework of blades.
         4.10.3.1. A propulsion 7-Level (2A671B) will determine if damage is repairable/non-
         repairable by conducting a thorough visual inspection of the engine inlet, 5th and 10th
         stage bleed air port, and turbine exhaust areas. Air Force or field-level engineering
         experts may also be contacted to assist in determining repair limitations.
         4.10.3.2. When damage has been previously blended with no rework required, the
         applicable areas will be recoated with blue layout dye and annotated in the AFTO
         Form 781A.
         4.10.3.3. When blending is required; the damage will be measured using a borescope.
         At this time, upgrade the original discrepancy to a Red-X symbol.
         4.10.3.4. Only qualified personnel that have attended a formal blade-blending course
         conducted by a qualified blade blending instructor will perform blade blending. This
         qualification will be documented on the unit’s SCR.
         4.10.3.5. An all systems Red X certified or an Field Training Detachment (FTD)
         trained and certified propulsion 7-level, as documented on the unit SCR, will inspect
         the blending and clear the Red-X discrepancy from the aircraft forms.
         4.10.3.6. Blade blending (installed engines). Notify Wing FOD Monitor (374
         AW/QA FOD monitor for AMC aircraft) prior to any blade blending on installed
         engines. Complete a Blade blending worksheet or approved work package tracking
         sheet and forward by fax or e-mail to applicable 374 AW FOD monitor and the
         engine management branch (EMB). EMB will document this data in the AFTO Form
         95, Significant Historical Data, IAW TO 00-20-1, Aerospace Equipment
         Maintenance Inspection, Documentation, Policy and Procedures.
6                                                              374AWI21-103 31 AUGUST 2009


           4.10.3.7. Blade blending (uninstalled engines). Notify Wing FOD monitor of any
           blade blending. Complete a Blade blending worksheet or approved work package
           tracking sheet and forward by fax or e-mail to applicable 374 AW FOD monitor and
           the engine management branch (EMB). EMB will document this data in the AFTO
           Form 9, IAW TO 00-20-1 upon review of the work package.
           4.10.3.8. Non-repairable blade damage. When damage is verified by the previously
           mentioned methods and is confirmed as non-repairable, notify the applicable unit
           supervision and initiate impoundment procedures IAW AFI 21-101_AMCSUP and
           applicable operating instructions. Also, ensure the MOC and affected FOD monitor
           are updated with this information.
    4.11. For FOD prevention and safety reasons the AF Form 1199, Restricted Area Badge,
    will be removed from the outer garment during engine inlet maintenance and secured on their
    person. Badge will be secured to the member by use of a plastic armband or quick release
    nylon/cotton cord. A metal clip may be used for securing the badge and cord by passing the
    cord through the hole to prevent loss. The badge will be replaced on the outer garment upon
    termination or when not in the immediate area where the engine inlet maintenance is
    conducted.
    4.12. Vehicles. Vehicles are potential FO/FOD hazards. All vehicles will be maintained
    FO-free at all times. Vehicles and FOD bars will be checked for cleanliness prior to
    initialing the AF Form 1800, Operator's Inspection Guide and Trouble Report (General
    Purpose Vehicles). Each subsequent operator will ensure the vehicle and magnetic bar are
    FO free. All vehicle/equipment tires and magnetic bars will be checked and cleared of debris
    prior to entry or just inside the flight line. During hours of darkness, a bright flashlight will
    be used for this inspection. Vehicles involved in an actual emergency response are exempt
    from these tire checks.
       4.12.1. Magnetic FOD bars may be installed on all “high use” Transit
       Alert/dispatch/expediter vehicles. Vehicles exempt from this requirement are as follows:
       Crash/recovery vehicles, mules/golf carts, tow vehicles, Grove crane, forklifts, other
       special purpose vehicles, to include temporary vehicles due to maintenance being
       performed, and any vehicles not operated frequently on the flight line.
       4.12.2. If used, FOD bars will be installed either on the front or back bumper of the
       vehicle approximately 3”- 5” off the ground. All FOD bars will be removed prior to turn
       in to vehicle maintenance and reinstalled immediately upon return.
       4.12.3. Approved FOD containers will be installed on all multi or special purpose
       vehicles (Kawasaki mules, deicers, tow vehicles, etc.) which frequent flight
       line/maintenance areas. Due to safety concerns, Grove cranes and forklifts are exempt
       from this policy.
    4.13. Tool Management. All personnel working in, on, around, or traveling through areas
    near aircraft, munitions, AGE, engines or components, (including aircrew) will account for
    all tools and/or equipment used in performance of their duties. Comply with all requirements
    in AFI 21-101_AMCSUP.
5. Dropped Object Prevention (DOP).
374AWI21-103 31 AUGUST 2009                                                                     7


   5.1. DOP is the responsibility of all aircraft operators and maintainers. Prevention begins
   when aircraft panels are removed, access doors opened, or when maintenance is performed
   on an exterior component. All personnel working in, on, and around aircraft must comply
   with the requirements of this instruction.
   5.2. General. When installing/operating aircraft panels, doors, and components, place
   special emphasis on the condition of latches, fasteners, hinge pins, and hinge lobes. Ensure
   panels, doors, and components fit properly and are attached securely.
      5.2.1. During the launch sequence, maintenance personnel will perform a secondary
      structure and panel inspection no sooner than 4 hours prior to flight and after all
      maintenance actions are completed. Yokota C-130 aircraft will be inspected IAW the
      AFI 21-101_AMCSUP ADDENDA A, C-130 Dropped Object Prevention Program
      Dopp Checklist. A certified inspector (see paragraph 5.2.3.) will perform the inspection
      and document the AFTO Form 781A using a Red “-” symbol.
      5.2.2. If a portion of the inspection cannot be accomplished for any reason (i.e., adverse
      weather or conditions), document the areas not inspected on the AFTO Form 781A on a
      “Red Dash” symbol, IAW TO 00-20-1, paragraph 4.2.6.3.2.
      5.2.3. A certified inspector for these purposes will be a qualified 7-level or DOP
      qualified 5-level as identified on the unit’s SCR for that task, identified with a course
      code in the G081 Maintenance Management Information System.
6. Reporting and Investigations.
   6.1. FOD/DOP reporting and investigations will be accomplished IAW AFI 91-204, Safety
   Investigations and Reports, and AFI 21-101_AMCSUP as applicable. Informational copies
   of the reports will be sent to the applicable flight safety office as requested. The FOD/DOP
   monitor will notify 374 AW Public Affairs officials if large objects are lost in-flight or
   incidents are likely to cause adverse publicity.
   6.2. When a FOD or dropped object incident is discovered, unit supervision will
   immediately notify the MOC. The MOC will notify the applicable FOD/DOP Monitor and
   QA office. Impound aircraft/engine, if required, IAW AFI 21-101_AMCSUP and applicable
   operating instructions.
      6.2.1. Do not perform maintenance in the affected area of the aircraft/equipment until
      cleared by the investigator. Save all evidence of the incident for turn-in to the applicable
      FOD/DOP office.
      6.2.2. The 374 AW FOD/DOP Monitor or QA offices will accomplish all FOD and
      dropped object investigations. The unit responsible for the incident will complete the
      FOD/DOP worksheets; 374 AW Form 70, Dropped Object Investigation Worksheet, 374
      AW Form 71, Cost Estimate Worksheet, and 374 AW Form 72, Foreign Object Damage
      (FOD) Incident Investigation. The investigation and cost estimate worksheets will be
      submitted the next duty day to the 374 AW FOD/DOP monitor or QA office as
      applicable. Consult the Air Force Safety Center website at http://afsafety.af.mil/
      “Hourly Labor Rates” chart for current rates. When possible, crewmembers will be
      interviewed prior to leaving debrief. This time allotment ensures timely reporting to
      headquarters as required per AFI 21-101_AMCSUP.
8                                                           374AWI21-103 31 AUGUST 2009


       6.2.3. The 374 AW FOD/DOP monitor, located in the 374 MXG QA office, is
       responsible for any HQ AMC reporting requirements outlined in AFI 21-101_AMCSUP.
       6.2.4. When material deficiency is determined to be the cause, or a suspected cause, the
       owning unit will submit a material deficiency report IAW TO 00-35D-54, USAF
       Deficiency Reporting and Investigating System, (even when an exhibit is not available)
       within 5 working days to the 374 MXG/MXQ.
       6.2.5. For compressor FOD investigations where the impacting item is not easily
       identifiable, the privately contracted forensic metal sampling process from Failure
       Analysis Service Technology or “FAST” sampling may be used. This will be at the
       request of the owning unit or the applicable FOD monitor; however, the unit is
       responsible for the cost of this service.
7. Training.
    7.1. Initial FOD prevention training for aircraft maintenance personnel will be conducted
    during maintenance orientation briefing and will include results from previous FOD/DOP
    investigations.
    7.2. Recurring FOD/DOP prevention training for aircraft maintenance personnel will be
    conducted during maintenance block training.
    7.3. Unit and flight FOD/DOP representatives will receive training on requirements
    associated with their position from the applicable FOD/DOP monitor.
8. FOD/DOP Program Management.
    8.1. The 374 AW/CV is the Wing FOD/DOP Program Manager.
    8.2. The FOD/DOP program manager will appoint and assign all duties and responsibilities
    to the Wing FOD Monitor. The minimum responsibilities of the Wing FOD/DOP Monitor
    are:
       8.2.1. Ensure personnel accessing the flight line and maintenance areas enforce program
       directives.
       8.2.2. Conduct all FOD and dropped object investigations and ensure sound corrective
       actions.
       8.2.3. Inform units of potential FOD/DOP trends and hazards.
       8.2.4. Perform duties of 374 MXG QA augmentee; Conduct and document spot checks
       and FOD assessments in/around the flight line and maintenance areas.
           8.2.4.1. FOD assessments will be determined by the 374 MXG QA Routine
           Inspection Listing.
           8.2.4.2. Spot inspections and assessments will cover, but are not limited to, the
           following areas: FOD continuity book/awareness board (content and condition),
           prevention (sweeper utilization and condition), housekeeping (shop, aircraft, tool
           control, hardware control, etc.), CTK (FOD in tool boxes, support equipment
           electrical receptacles capped/plugged, sweeper log (if applicable) and lost tool log),
           vehicles (FOD bars, cleanliness, and FOD containers), and aircraft (use of intake
374AWI21-103 31 AUGUST 2009                                                                  9


         plugs, tubing, and electrical caps/plugs, pitot tube covers, streamers, and throttle
         quadrant covers).
         8.2.4.3. Spot inspections and assessments will be annotated in the 374 MXG QA
         database and incorporated into the 374 MXG QA Maintenance Standardization and
         Evaluation Program (MSEP) briefing.
         8.2.4.4. All inspection documentation will be kept on file with the applicable QA
         office.
     8.2.5. Organize Wing FOD walks and analyze recovered FO.
     8.2.6. Develop and monitor FOD/DOP training programs with necessary changes.
     8.2.7. Brief the quarterly or monthly FOD/DOP Program Committee meetings as
     required.
     8.2.8. Maintain dropped object historical data.
  8.3. FOD/DOP assistant. A FOD/DOP assistant from the 374 MXG QA will be assigned in
  writing to the FOD/DOP monitor. The FOD/DOP assistant will perform all 374 AW
  FOD/DOP duties and responsibilities in the absence of the FOD/DOP monitor.
     8.3.1. The FOD/DOP assistant will be approved by the 374 AW/CV.
  8.4. Unit FOD representatives.   The following units are required to have FOD
  representatives: 374 AMXS, 374 AW/SE, 374 CES, 374 LRS, 374 MOS, 374 MXS, 374
  OSS, 374 SFS, 374 OG, 374 OSS, 459 AS, 730 AMS/QA, 730 AMS, and 36AS.
  8.5. Unit commanders will appoint primary and alternate FOD/DOP representatives and
  forward the name, grade, office symbol, and duty extension of those individuals in the form
  of an appointment letter to the 374 AW FOD office. Additional flight FOD representatives
  are required for units/flights with geographically separated sections (Aero Repair [A/R],
  support section, inspection docks, fuels maintenance section, wash rack, corrosion, etc.) and
  will be appointed in writing by the unit commander.
     8.5.1. Inform sections within unit of potential FOD/DOP hazards, trends, and prevention
     practices.
     8.5.2. Maintain current FOD/DOP awareness board which is subject to spot inspections
     IAW AFI 21-101_AMCSUP.
         8.5.2.1. Required awareness board items:
             8.5.2.1.1. 374 AW FOD/DOP Monitor Picture Sheet.
             8.5.2.1.2. Unit/Flight FOD/DOP Representative.
             8.5.2.1.3. Current Quarterly FOD/DOP Grams (In color if available).
             8.5.2.1.4. FOD Posters (On board and in work area).
             8.5.2.1.5. Optional awareness board items include but are not limited to:
                8.5.2.1.5.1. Photos (Wing/Squadron/Flight incentive program award winners,
                FOD/DOP incidents).
                8.5.2.1.5.2. FOD Walk collection slides.
10                                                         374AWI21-103 31 AUGUST 2009


                 8.5.2.1.5.3. FOD/DOP related news/magazine articles.
      8.5.3. Conduct and document a minimum of one FOD/DOP unit/flight briefing per
      month on updated or significant information (i.e., FODs, DOs, instruction changes)
      located on the 374 AW FOD/DOP Community of Practice (COP) web pages.
          8.5.3.1. Monthly FOD/DOP briefings will be documented on an AF Form 3131,
          General Purpose Form, and at a minimum contain the following information: Name
          and rank of briefer, date, time, briefing subject, and amount of individuals briefed.
          This form will be kept by the unit FOD/DOP monitor for the current fiscal year and
          replaced with a new form at the start of each new fiscal year. Units will forward the
          previous months briefing document to the 374 AW FOD office via e-mail by 1600 on
          the first duty day of the month.
      8.5.4. May develop unit level FOD/DOP prevention and recognition programs as
      required.
      8.5.5. Monitor unit FOD sweeper usage (if applicable).
      8.5.6. Assist Wing FOD/DOP Monitor with investigations as requested.
      8.5.7. Conduct and document a minimum of one spot-check per duty week within the
      unit/flight. Unit representatives will also be provided a copy of any spot inspection
      results conducted by the Wing FOD/DOP Monitor. Unit/flight monitors are responsible
      for briefing their squadron/flight supervision.
      8.5.8. Attend quarterly and/or monthly the FOD/DOP Program Committee meetings as
      required.
9. FOD/DOP Program meetings. FOD/DOP prevention program committee meetings will be
conducted quarterly or monthly as required. The committee chairperson will be the 374
AW/CV. In the 374 AW/CV’s absence, the 374 MXG/CC will chair the meeting.

10. Prescribed Forms.

374 AW Form 70, Dropped Object Investigation Worksheet
374 AW Form 71, Cost Estimate Worksheet
374 AW Form 72, Foreign Object Damage (FOD) Incident Investigation

11. Adopted Forms.

AFTO Form 95, Significant Historical Data, Comprehensive Engine Management System
(CEMS)
AFTO Form 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1199, Restricted Area Badge
AF Form 1800, Operator's Inspection Guide and Trouble Report (General Purpose Vehicles)
374AWI21-103 31 AUGUST 2009                                        11




                              FRANK J. EPPICH, Colonel, USAF
                              Vice Commander, 374th Airlift Wing
12                                                      374AWI21-103 31 AUGUST 2009


                                        Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 21-101, Aircraft Equipment Maintenance Management
AFI 21-101_AMCSUP, Aircraft Equipment Maintenance Management
AFI 21-101_AMCSUP_ADD-A, C-130 Dropped Object Prevention Program Checklist
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports
AFOSHSTD 91-100, Aircraft Flight Line Ground Operations and Activities
TO 00-20-1, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Inspection, Documentation, Policy and
Procedures
TO 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting and Investigating System
TO 1C-130H-2-10JG-00-1, Ground Handling Parking and Mooring

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI— Air Force Instruction
AFTO— Air Force Technical Order
AG— Airlift Group
AGE— Aerospace Ground Equipment
AMC— Air Mobility Command
AME— Alternate Mission Equipment
AMU— Aircraft Maintenance Unit
AMXS— Aircraft Maintenance Squadron
A/R— Aero Repair
AW— Airlift Wing
CEMS— Comprehensive Engine Management System
CTK— Composite Tool Kit
CV— Vice Commander
DOP— Dropped Object Prevention
EMB— Engine Management Branch
ERRC— Engine Regional Repair Center
FO— Foreign Object
FOD— Foreign Object Damage or Foreign Object Debris
FTD— Field Training Detachment
374AWI21-103 31 AUGUST 2009                                                                    13


IAW— In Accordance With
LCL— Local Checklist
MAJCOM— Major Command
MOC— Maintenance Operations Center
MOS—Maintenance Operations Squadron
MSEP—Maintenance Standardization and Evaluation Program
MXG— Maintenance Group
MXS— Maintenance Squadron
OG— Operations Group
QA— Quality Assurance
QAP— Quality Assurance Program
SCR— Special Certification Roster
TO— Technical Order

Terms:
Aircraft Impoundment— Isolation of an aircraft due to an unknown malfunction or condition
making it unsafe for flight.
Bench Stocks— Stores of expendability, recoverability, reparability coded XB3 items kept on-
hand in a work center to enhance maintenance productivity.
Composite Tool Kit— A controlled area or container used to store tools or equipment and
maintain order, positive control, and ease of inventory. CTKs are assembled as a kit and
designed to provide quick, easy visual inventory and accountability of all tools and equipment.
CTKs may be in the form of a toolbox, a shadow board, shelves, system of drawers (Stanley
Vidmar, Lista, etc.), cabinets, or other similar areas or containers. The CTK contains tools and
equipment necessary to accomplish maintenance tasks, troubleshooting, and repair.
Quality Assurance— Office responsible to the 374 MXG Commander for monitoring
compliance in all facets of military and contract aircraft/equipment maintenance on a daily basis.
Foreign Object— Any item that is external or alien to an aircraft, major end item, or
component.
Foreign Object Damage— Any damage to an aircraft engine, structure, system, or tire caused
by FO that may or may not degrade the required safety and/or operational characteristics of the
engine, aircraft structure, or tire.
Foreign Object Debris— Any item foreign to an aircraft engine, structure, system, or tire which
has the potential to cause damage to said system. Items liberated from an aircraft system may be
considered foreign when detached during operation. Examples include but are not limited to:
failed compressor rotor blades and/or stator vanes.
14                                                       374AWI21-103 31 AUGUST 2009


Dropped Object— Any object dropped or inadvertently released from an aircraft during aircrew
operations. Examples include but are not limited to: aircraft components, issued or personal
tools and Alternate Mission Equipment (AME) items (guillotine knives, cargo straps, etc.).
