BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           374TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
374TH AIRLIFT WING                                                           31-201

                                                                             29 MARCH 2012

                                                                                     Security

                                               CURFEW AND SUPERVISION OF MINORS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 374 SFS/S5L                                                   Certified by: 374 MSG/CC
                                                                    (Colonel Todd M. Freece)
Supersedes:   374 AWI 31-201, 18 June                                                 Pages: 6
              2002, and IC-1, 8 January
              2010


This instruction implements AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense. It establishes responsibilities and
procedures for the curfew and supervision of minors on Yokota Air Base (AB). It applies to all
military and Department of Defense (DoD) civilian personnel covered by the Status of Forces
Agreement (SOFA) who are assigned or attached to the 374th Airlift Wing (374 AW) or tenant
units, or who live on Yokota AB and their family members who are minors. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of
IAW the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through their appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: Classification of minors in Paragraph 1.1.; as well as the process for reporting
violations in Paragraph 6.
1. General.
   1.1. Minors. Family members under age 18 or high school students. The following are
   excluded as minors when they are under age 18:
 2                                                                374AWI31-201 29 MARCH 2012


        1.1.1. Graduates of an accredited high school or equivalent.
        1.1.2. Spouses covered by SOFA.
     1.2. Child Neglect. A type of child abuse or maltreatment whereby a child is deprived of
     needed age-appropriate care by act or omission of the child’s parent, guardian, caregiver,
     employee of a residential facility, or staff person providing out-of-home care under
     circumstances that the child’s welfare is harmed or threatened.
     1.3. Lack of Supervision. A type of child neglect characterized by the absence or inattention
     of the parent, guardian, foster parent or other caretaker that results in injury or serious risk of
     harm to the child, in the child being unable to care for himself or herself, or in an injury or
     serious threat of injury to another person because the child’s behavior was not properly
     monitored.
2. Assigned Responsibilities. Sponsors must ensure their family members are properly
supervised at all times, abide by acceptable standards of conduct and are aware of, and comply
with the requirements of this instruction. Table 1 is a guide for the minimum amount of
supervision required. Greater amounts of supervision may be required in individual cases based
upon the particular needs and abilities of the minor(s) and the specific situation. Parents must
also consider the experience and maturity of minors before allowing them to supervise or baby-
sit. In making ―child neglect‖ and ―lack of supervision‖ determinations, the Family
Maltreatment Case Management Team (FMCMT) bases their decision on what a ―reasonable,
prudent adult‖ would do in a similar situation. Decisions from the YCAP may provide additional
restrictions.
374AWI31-201 29 MARCH 2012                                                                                           3


Table 1. Supervision of Minors

Age of     Walk             Baby-sit      Left in Car       Left            Left            Left            Left
Child      To/From          Others        Unsupervised      Unattended      Unattended      Unattended      Unattended
           School                         (Without          in Quarters     in Quarters     Outside         in Public
           (Unaccompa                     someone 15 or     (Vacation                       Quarters        Areas
           nied)                          older)            or TDY)                         and
                                                                                            Associated
                                                                                            Neighborh
                                                                                            ood Play
                                                                                            Areas
0-5        NO               NO            NO                NO              NO              NO              NO
6-9        YES Must be      NO            YES (see Note     NO              NO              YES (see        YES (see
           at least First                 3) With keys                                      Note 7)         Notes 7 &
           Grade                          removed and                                       Check           8)
                                          not to exceed 5                                   periodically
                                          minutes
10-11      YES              NO            YES (see Note     NO              YES (see        YES (see        YES (see
                                          3) With keys                      Note 5) No      Note 7)         Note 8)
                                          removed, not                      more than 4     Check
                                          to exceed 20                      hours           periodicall
                                          minutes                                           y
12-14      YES              YES (see      YES               NO              YES (Note       YES             YES (Note
                            Note 1)                                         6)                              8)



15 +       YES              YES (see      YES               YES (see        YES (see        YES             YES (see
                            Notes 2 &                       Notes 2 &       Note 6)                         Note 8)
                            4)                              4)


Note 1: A minor 12 – 14 should baby-sit no more than three children under age 8, including their own siblings, and no
more than one infant (24 months or less). Babysitting should not exceed eight hours. Potential baby-sitters are highly
encouraged to attend the Red Cross Baby-sitters Training Course before starting any supervision of minors. Any minor
with an active YCAP case file is not eligible to be in this status.
Note 2: A minor age 15 and up should baby-sit no more than three children under age 8, and no more than two infants
(24 months or less). Minors age 15 and up may baby-sit family members up to two nights/three consecutive days as
long as sibling(s) are 10 years of age or older (see Note 4). Any minor with an active YCAP case file is not eligible to
be in this status.
Note 3: Parents must still apply good common sense and take reasonable precautions when leaving their child in a
vehicle, even for five minutes. Ensure there is no immediate risk or threatened loss of life (i.e., windows up and
extremely high temperatures, a ―high crime‖ area, night time, child under duress, etc.).
Note 4: Minors age 15 and up may be left alone for short temporary duties (TDY) or leaves, not to exceed two
nights/three consecutive days. These minors must have designated adult supervision available to make periodic checks
daily and the adult having a power of attorney. Any minor with an active YCAP case file is not eligible to be in this
status.
Note 5: Any minor with an active YCAP case file is not eligible to be in this status.
Note 6: Children age 12 and up may be left alone overnight provided the sponsor is within the local area and the
children have physical access to designated adult supervision (including work and home phone numbers and sponsor’s
emergency phone numbers). Any minor with an active YCAP case file is not eligible to be left alone past curfew or
 4                                                                       374AWI31-201 29 MARCH 2012


overnight.
Note 7: In neighborhoods, playgrounds and associated tower play areas, parents or designated adult must check on
child periodically. Parents are expected to use good judgment of their child’s maturity and make reasonable, prudent
decisions. Children age 6 – 9 must have access to designated adult supervision. ―Access‖ is the adult knowing the
location of the child and having the ability to quickly respond in person in case of an emergency.
Note 8: Minors must comply with wing policy on age requirements for individual Services, Army and Air Force
Exchange Service (AAFES) and Commissary facilities.

3. Curfew for Minors. Curfew hours are 2230-0530 daily for all minors. However, curfew
hours on Friday, Saturday, holidays and summer break are extended to 2400-0530 for high
school seniors and juniors. No minor will be out of his or her home or in a car on Yokota AB
between the curfew hours unless he or she:
     3.1. Is the spouse of a military member or of a civilian employee.
     3.2. Is with a parent or responsible adult. Note: A responsible adult is a person who is 18
     years of age or older and not in high school.
     3.3. Has been to a base or school sponsored activity for teenagers, a base sanctioned sports
     activity, a youth program or to a movie at the base theater and not more than 30 minutes has
     gone by since the end of the activity.
     3.4. Has a job and is at his or her place of work or not more than 30 minutes has gone by
     from the time he or she has left the work area.
4. Enforcing Curfew Provisions. 374th Security Forces Squadron (374 SFS) will detain any
minor violating the curfew provisions in paragraph 3 until his or her sponsor or a representative
of the sponsor’s unit comes to assume custody. If the minor’s sponsor cannot be contacted, a
unit representative assumes custody of the minor or remains with the minor at the Security
Forces’ facility until the sponsor is contacted and assumes custody. The unit should take all
steps to ensure the unit representative is of the same gender as the minor being detained.
5. Supervision Enforcement. Any child found improperly supervised and/or at risk of injury or
engaged in disruptive conduct will be detained by the 374 SFS until his or her sponsor or a
representative of the sponsor’s unit comes to assume custody. If the minor’s sponsor cannot be
contacted, a unit representative assumes custody of the minor or remains with the minor at the
Security Forces’ facility until the sponsor is contacted and assumes custody. The unit should
take all steps to ensure the unit representative is of the same gender as the minor being detained.
6. Reporting Violations. Violations will result in a 374 SFS blotter entry and an incident or
complaint report. All violations will be reported to the sponsor’s squadron commander (CC) or
First Sergeant (CCF), with an information copy to the sponsor’s unit commander or first
sergeant. In addition, supervision and curfew violations are reported to the YCAP and Family
Advocacy for appropriate action.
7. Intervention by the YCAP. Curfew violations and lack of supervision offenses are referred
to the YCAP. Chaired by the 374th Mission Support Group Commander (374 MSG/CC) or their
designated representative, the YCAP represents a cross-section of helping agencies. If the
YCAP determines that a minor has committed a curfew or supervision offense, they will
determine what type of disciplinary action to take in accordance with 374 AWI 31-202, Yokota
Conduct Adjudication Program (YCAP).
374AWI31-201 29 MARCH 2012                                                                      5


8. Intervention by the FMCMT.
   8.1. The mission of Family Advocacy is the prevention and treatment of child and spouse
   maltreatment. The FMCMT is a group of helping agencies chartered to develop treatment
   plans for families. Chaired by Family Advocacy, the FMCMT evaluates each referral on its
   own merit. The FMCMT is given discretion in evaluating an incident and recommending
   treatment plans. In making a determination, the FMCMT considers factors including, but not
   limited to: age, maturity level, number of children, amount of time/frequency left
   unattended, parent-child relationship, family dynamics, environment (i.e., time of day,
   appropriate child-restraint seats, weather, car locked/unlocked, windows up/down,
   immediacy/severity of threat in area), previous history, precautions taken and, as appropriate,
   the actual injury and/or property damage.
   8.2. The FMCMT uses this document as a guide, along with applicable DoD and Air Force
   instructions, to make their final determination and recommendations based on the need for
   safety of all family members and appropriate actions of a reasonable, prudent adult.
   Substantiated cases can create a permanent record for the responsible adult(s).




                                            PAUL E. FEATHER, Col, USAF
                                            Commander, 374th Airlift Wing
 6                                                     374AWI31-201 29 MARCH 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense, 28 October 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Service
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
FMCMT—Family Maltreatment Case Management Team
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TDY—Temporary Duties
YCAP—Yokota Conduct Adjudication Program
