BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              374TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
374TH AIRLIFT WING                                                              36-3009

                                                                                23 MARCH 2011

                                                                                        Personnel

                                                        EMERGENCY FAMILY ASSISTANCE
                                                            CONTROL CENTER (E-FACC)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 374 FSS/FSFR                                                      Certified by: 374 MSG/CC
Supersedes: 374 AWI 36-3009,                                                (Col Todd M. Freece)
            2 April 2002                                                                  Pages: 5


This instruction outlines procedures for operation of the Emergency Family Assistance Control
Center (E-FACC). The E-FACC is a facility staffed with disaster-response trained professionals
and volunteers who provide community assistance in crisis situations which involve (or
potentially involve) a large number of casualties. The E-FACC serves as a focal point for victim
and family assistance services. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: Name of Instruction was changed from “Family Center for Aid and Recovery from
Emergencies (Famcare)” to “Emergency Family Assistance Control Center” (IAW AFI 36-3009,
Airman and Family Readiness Centers). Almost all other changes reflected squadron/unit name
changes. Responsibilities and duties outlined for the most part stayed the same.
1. Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR). The 374th Force Support Squadron Airman and
Family Readiness Center (A&FRC) (374 FSS/FSFR), has responsibility for oversight of E-
FACC operations, including development of operating instructions and ensuring appointment
and training of E-FACC members.
 2                                                             374AWI36-3009 23 MARCH 2011


2. General. In mass casualty situations, the 374th Airlift Wing Commander (374 AW/CC) will
determine whether existing base agencies are able to accommodate the expected number of
family and community members needing assistance and information. In the event that base
agencies become (or have the potential to become) overwhelmed, activation of the E-FACC is an
option for leadership. In those situations in which the anticipated needs are beyond the
capability of the agencies primarily tasked to provide immediate crisis intervention, the E-FACC
may be activated. Crises involving a relatively small number of casualties (e.g., accidents
involving two cars or the loss of a single-seat aircraft) can generally be handled in a rapid
humanitarian manner through services provided by 374 AW Public Affairs Office (374 AW/PA),
Chaplains (374 AW/HC), 374th Medical Operations Squadron Mental Health (374
MDOS/SGOM) professionals and the American Red Cross (ARC). When crises involve large
numbers of potential casualties (e.g., a report that a wide-body aircraft has been lost or that a
school bus full of Department of Defense Education Activity [DoDEA] students has careened
over a cliff), existing services may be quickly overwhelmed. The E-FACC provides a
consolidated facility through which the families of potential casualties can receive supportive
services. These services will include:
     2.1. Initial Response and Assistance. The E-FACC will serve as a central gathering point for
     families awaiting information about the crisis. Families and community members will be
     directed to report to the E-FACC for the most up-to-date information. E-FACC staff will
     provide a supportive environment for individuals remaining at the A&FRC. Sign-in and
     sign-out logs will be maintained to keep track of the location of family members who may
     prefer to wait for information at their own homes or in alternate settings. Progress reports
     will be provided at the E-FACC through appropriate senior leadership or representatives of
     the 374 AW/PA. The E-FACC will establish a Volunteer Control Center to match volunteers
     with identified needs (e.g., manning phones, child care, and logistic support). Private
     facilities will be maintained for individuals in need of one-on-one support. The designated
     E-FACC personnel will be on hand to provide supportive counseling services for those
     needing emotional support. Following receipt of confirmation of casualties, E-FACC can
     also serve as the centralized location for management of incoming calls from individuals
     seeking information on the crisis and from those offering assistance.
     2.2. Long-Term Assistance. After initial arrangements are made for the affected families,
     the focus of the E-FACC will shift to long-term assistance. This assistance will include
     continued grief counseling, assistance with funeral arrangements, entitlement briefings,
     financial assistance, and legal assistance. Counseling support for grieving family members,
     services to non-casualty families, survivors, “first responders,” staff and volunteers will also
     be provided. Continued coordination of support services and completion of an after-action
     report will be accomplished.
3. Responsibilities. Once the E-FACC is activated by Wing leadership, the A&FRC staff
transitions to 24-hour operations and the Chief, A&FRC assumes duties as the E-FACC Director.
The A&FRC Readiness NCO serves as the E-FACC noncommissioned officer in charge
(NCOIC). In addition to the A&FRC personnel, E-FACC will be staffed with assigned
representatives from 374 AW/PA, 374 AW/HC, Legal Office (374 AW/JA), Mental Health (374
MDOS/SGOM), and the American Red Cross (ARC). Detailees and volunteers will provide
additional support. Representatives from 374 FSS Manpower and Personnel Flight (374
FSS/FSM), the 374th Comptroller Squadron (374 CPTS), the 374th Logistics Readiness
374AWI36-3009 23 MARCH 2011                                                                     3


Squadron (374 LRS), and the 374th Medical Group (374 MDG) will provide services at E-FACC
as required by the specific casualty situation. Responsibilities of the E-FACC staff will include:
   3.1. E-FACC Director. The Director will be responsible for the overall operation of the E-
   FACC during the crisis. The Director will ensure that rosters of personnel assigned to E-
   FACC are current and that recall procedures are in-place. The Director will ensure that E-
   FACC staff is trained in disaster response and that E-FACC operations are exercised at least
   annually. Included in the training will be rumor control techniques, role-playing, telephonic
   response and information retrieval techniques, and sensitivity training. Upon activation of
   the E-FACC, the Director will ensure that E-FACC staff members are recalled and that
   arrangements are made for coverage of shifts for a 24-hour operation. The Director will
   serve as a consultant to the Battle Staff regarding needs of the families and community. The
   Director will implement and coordinate appropriate community responses after consultation
   with Wing leadership.
   3.2. E-FACC NCOIC. The E-FACC NCOIC will assist the E-FACC Director and be
   responsible for coordinating logistical support for the E-FACC. The NCOIC will ensure that
   adequate communication assets are available for E-FACC operations, especially in the call
   center. Additionally, the NCOIC will ensure that adequate supplies are available to facilitate
   efficient operations and that details are coordinated to ensure the safety and comfort of E-
   FACC staff and the family members seeking assistance and information.
   3.3. 374 AW/PA. 374 AW/PA will be responsible for ensuring widespread dissemination of
   information regarding activation of E-FACC. 374 AW/PA representative to the E-FACC
   will be responsible for clearance of all information released through the E-FACC pertaining
   to the crisis. If 374 AW/PA cannot provide a representative to the E-FACC location due to
   manning and mission requirements, 374 AW/PA will perform these responsibilities from
   their main office and send updates and information clearances by phone, email or PA courier
   as appropriate.
   3.4. A&FRC. The A&FRC will train all staff in E-FACC operations and detail them to the
   E-FACC for the duration of E-FACC operations. A&FRC personnel will be responsible for
   providing manpower to work check-in stations, coordinate task assignments of volunteers,
   provide Air Force Aid Society assistance, and supervise details, as needed. A&FRC staff
   will augment other agencies in providing supportive and grief counseling, when appropriate.
   If long-term assistance is needed, A&FRC staff will assist 374 MDOS/SGOM providers in
   conducting Traumatic Stress Response (TRS) interventions.
   3.5. 374 AW/HC. At least one chapel representative will be assigned to E-FACC to provide
   emotional and spiritual support to family members and affected community members.
   3.6. 374 MDOS/SGOMH. A representative from the Mental Health Clinic will be available
   to provide supportive services and to serve as consultant in situations in which family
   members may require medical intervention. 374 MDOS/SGOMH will have primary
   responsibility for organization of TRS services. The representative will request assistance
   from other helping agency personnel to accomplish this, as needed.
   3.7. ARC. ARC will assist A&FRC in Disaster Response training and execution. An ARC
   station will be established to serve as a communication link between E-FACC and family
 4                                                            374AWI36-3009 23 MARCH 2011


     members who are not located in Japan. Financial assistance will be provided, as needed, as
     outlined in the ARC Disaster Relief financial assistance guidelines.
     3.8. 374 AW/JA. 374 AW/JA staff will provide legal assistance to affected families.
     3.9. 374 CPTS. Representatives from 374 CPTS will be available to provide financial
     information and assistance.
     3.10. 374 LRS. Representatives from 374 LRS will be available to assist family members
     with travel and relocation assistance.
     3.11. 374 MDG. Representatives from 374 MDG will be available to address emotional and
     physical needs of families of potential DOD casualties and DOD personnel affected by the
     disaster.
     3.12. The 374th Communications Squadron (374 CS). The E-FACC will contact 374 CS to
     provide telecommunication support.
4. Procedures.
     4.1. The 374 AW/CC, or Incident Commander directs the activation of E-FACC.
     4.2. The primary location of E-FACC is the A&FRC, Bldg. 535. Alternative facilities will
     be used if the scope of the crisis is likely to exceed the capacity of A&FRC.
     4.3. E-FACC configuration includes a large space for informational briefings, a command
     and control area, a call center, a business center, private counseling rooms, private resting
     rooms, a child care area, and food service/eating areas.
     4.4. The E-FACC will be open 24 hours a day during the initial crisis response period.
     4.5. 374 CS support will ensure the E-FACC has the availability of internet connections,
     phone lines with 1-800 number support for the call center, and at least two unpublished
     phone lines for use by service provider staff, volunteers, and family members to ensure that
     outgoing lines remain open and available.
     4.6. All service provider staff and volunteers should be clearly identified with a badge.
     4.7. E-FACC sign-in and sign-out logs will be utilized to capture such information as full
     names of service member and family members, relationship of waiting parties to potential
     casualty, and phone numbers and locations where family members may be reached.
     4.8. All entrances and exits to the E-FACC should be monitored to ensure the safety and
     privacy of all family members and friends.
     4.9. In large scale disasters, the E-FACC will ensure coordination of assistance to family
     members residing outside Japan who elect to come to Japan to assist with family needs.
     4.10. E-FACC personnel will release no information regarding the disaster without clearance
     from 374 AW/PA. No information will be released on the status of casualties until
     confirmation is received that next-of-kin have been notified by the Casualty Notification
     Officers and the names of casualties are released by 374 AW/PA.
374AWI36-3009 23 MARCH 2011                                                          5



  4.11. The E-FACC Director will advise the Battle Staff or 374 AW/CC when the need for
  specialized service provider augmentees from other installations is indicated.
  4.12. Adopted Forms.
       AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                       PAUL E. FEATHER, Colonel, USAF
                                       Commander, 374th Airlift Wing
