BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              374TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
374TH AIRLIFT WING                                                              48-108

                                                                          15 DECEMBER 2010
                                                            Certified Current 20 December 2012
                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                        CONTROLLING OCCUPATIONAL
                                                      EXPOSURE TO BLOOD AND OTHER
                                                  POTENTIALLY INFECTIOUS MATERIALS
                                                                               (PA)



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 374 AMDS/SGPM                                                    Certified by: 374 MDG/CC
Supersedes: 374 AWI 48-108,                                                   (Col Lee H. Harvis)
            18 January 2002                                                             Pages: 26


This instruction implements AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Program. It applies to all
organizations at Yokota Air Base (AB), including United States Air Force Reserve and Air
National Guard units, whose personnel have occupational exposure to blood or other potentially
infectious materials in the course of their assigned duties. This primarily involves personnel
working in the 374th Medical Group (374 MDG), 374th Civil Engineer Squadron Fire
Department (374 CES/CEF), 374th Security Forces Squadron (374 SFS), and Air Force Office of
Special Investigations (AFOSI). Also included are employees required to provide first aid
response as part of their duties. However, all personnel working on Yokota AB should
understand how bloodborne pathogens are transmitted in case they must respond to an injured or
ill co-worker, dried blood found on an object, or a biohazardous spill. This instruction requires
collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10
U.S.C., Chapter 40, 37 U.S.C., Chapter 9, and E.O. 9397 (SSN), November 1943. Principal
Purposes: For documentation of occupational safety, fire protection, and health training. Routine
Uses: Use to create a record of training and to retrieve record of safety, fire protection, and
health training. Disclosure: Disclosure of SSN is voluntary. Ensure all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force
Records      Disposition     Schedule    (RDS)     located    at   https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
 2                                                                                                                        374AWI48-108


Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: Updated OPR and certifying official, validated currency of procedures to comply with
requirement of Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Standard 29 CFR
1910.1030, Bloodborne Pathogens.

        1.     Glossary of References and Terms Explained: ......................................................                           2
        2.     Exposure Determination: .......................................................................................              2
Table 2.1.     Examples of Category II Job Classifications and Tasks. .......................................                               3
        3.     Responsibilities Assigned: .....................................................................................             4
        4.     Procedures: .............................................................................................................    6

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORT INFORMATION                                                                                9

Attachment 2—SAMPLE FORMAT OF YOKOTA AB BLOODBORNE PATHOGEN UNIT
             EXPOSURE CONTROL PLAN                                                                                                         11

Attachment 3—SAMPLE FORMAT OF BLOODBORNE PATHOGEN TRAINING OPERATING
             INSTRUCTION (OI)                                      21

Attachment 4—SAMPLE OF HEPATITIS B VACCINE DECLINATION STATEMENT                                                                           22

Attachment 5—DECONTAMINATION PROCEDURES FOR BLOOD AND OTHER
             POTENTIALLY INFECTIOUS MATERIALS                                                                                              23

Attachment 6—BUILD-YOUR-OWN EMERGENCY BLOOD OR BODY FLUID SPILL KIT
             CONTENTS LIST                                                                                                                 25

Attachment 7—BIOHAZARD LABEL                                                                                                               26


1. Glossary of References and Terms Explained: See Attachment 1.
2. Exposure Determination:
     2.1. Exposure categories: OSHA has established three exposure categories for protection
     against occupational exposure to infectious diseases, including Hepatitis B and C, and
     Human Immunodeficiency viruses (HIV). These categories are:
        2.1.1. Category I (High Risk): Tasks that involve routine exposure to human blood,
        body fluids, or tissues. All procedures or other job-related tasks that involve an inherent
        potential for mucous membrane or skin contact with human blood, body fluids, or tissues,
        or a potential for spills or splashes of them are Category I tasks. Use of appropriate
        personal protective equipment (PPE) is required for employees engaged in Category I
        tasks.
374AWI48-108                                                                                       3


           2.1.1.1. Category I includes medical employees in the following job classifications:
           Physicians, dentists, nurses, physician's assistants, laboratory officers, medical lab
           technicians, surgery technicians, dental and dental lab technicians, dental hygienists,
           dental assistants, radiologists, radiology technicians, physical therapists, optometrists,
           optometry technicians, immunization technicians, aeromedical technicians, medical
           technicians, and emergency medical technicians and paramedics.
        2.1.2. Category II (Moderate Risk): Routine tasks that involve no exposure to human
        blood, body fluids, or tissues but employment may require performing unplanned or
        emergency Category I tasks. The normal work routine involves no exposure to blood or
        potentially infectious materials, but exposure or potential exposure may be required as a
        condition of employment. Appropriate PPE, as determined by the supervisor in
        consultation with 374th Aerospace Medicine Squadron Bioenvironmental Engineering
        (374 AMDS/SGPB), will be readily available to every employee engaged in Category II
        tasks.
           2.1.2.1. Examples of Category II job classifications and tasks during which personnel
           may incur exposure include:

Table 2.1. Examples of Category II Job Classifications and Tasks.

JOB                                     TASK
Utility workers                         Plumbing, working on sewage systems
Firefighters                            First responders, emergency rescue procedures/rendering
                                        first aid
374 SFS                                 First responders, emergency rescue procedures/rendering
                                        first aid
AFOSI                                   Crime scene investigations
Hospital Employees not in Category      Potential contact with infectious patients/equipment
I
Hospital Volunteers Working in          Potential contact with infectious patients/equipment
patient care areas
Hospital Housekeeping                   Sorting laundry/trash
Designated First Aid Responders         First aid response in the workplace
Biomedical Equipment Repair             Repairing potentially contaminated medical equipment
Veterinary Clinic Personnel             Handling infectious wastes


        2.1.3. Category III (No Anticipated Risk): Tasks that involve no exposure to human
        blood, body fluids, or tissues. The normal work routine involves no exposure to human
        blood, body fluids, or tissues (although situations may be imagined or hypothesized under
        which anyone, anywhere, might encounter potential exposure to body fluids). Persons
        who perform these duties are not called upon as part of their employment to perform or
 4                                                                                374AWI48-108


        assist in emergency medical care or first aid or to be potentially exposed in some other
        way. These workers may perform care as "Good Samaritans." Category III tasks and
        procedures may result in occupational exposure of almost any person in any job
        classification (e.g., administrative workers, food handlers, routine laborers).
3. Responsibilities Assigned:
     3.1. The 374th Airlift Wing Commander (374 AW/CC) will:
        3.1.1. As the “employer,” implement the Yokota AB Bloodborne Pathogen Exposure
        Control Program described in this instruction.
        3.1.2. Ensure all personnel at risk for occupational exposure to blood or other potentially
        infectious materials are adequately protected, receive training, and comply with
        established guidelines and requirements defined in this program and OSHA Standard 29
        CFR 1910.1030.
        3.1.3. Ensure that each unit (group and squadron) commander complies with the
        guidance referred to in the references section (see Attachment 1), as well as the expanded
        policies set by this program.
     3.2. Unit (group and squadron) commanders and supervisors will:
        3.2.1. Appoint an office of primary responsibility (OPR) in each organization or unit to
        provide oversight for this program. The OPR will develop a unit-specific Exposure
        Control Plan (see Attachment 2), monitor compliance with engineering and work practice
        controls, and ensure PPE and housekeeping requirements are met.
        3.2.2. Provide training materials and document training (initial and annual) for workers
        on the medical aspects of exposure to blood or other potentially infectious materials (see
        Attachment 3). Supplement general training with in-house, unit-specific training on
        procedures and storage or use of PPE. Initial training will be provided within 10 days of
        beginning work where occupational exposure may take place and prior to Hepatitis B
        vaccination screening.
            3.2.2.1. Document training on the AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record,
            or computerized training record as appropriate.
        3.2.3. Refer all incoming Category I or II personnel to the 374 AMDS Immunization
        Clinic within 10 working days of assignment for Hepatitis B vaccination of those
        deficient.
        3.2.4. Make Exposure Control Plan and its documentation available to workers who may
        have questions and to authorized program evaluators for required initial and annual
        review.
        3.2.5. Purchase, properly store, and ensure the use of PPE needed to protect Category I
        and II workers from exposure to blood or other potentially infectious materials. There
        must be enough PPE on-hand to protect all workers involved in procedures with potential
        exposures. Additionally, PPE must be available in sizes that appropriately fit all workers
        potentially exposed.
            3.2.5.1. Clean, launder, and/or dispose of PPE at no cost to the employee.
374AWI48-108                                                                                    5


         3.2.5.2. Repair or replace PPE as needed to maintain its effectiveness, at no cost to
         the employee.
  3.3. The 374 MDG will:
     3.3.1. Provide medical oversight for eligible workers exposed to blood or other
     potentially infectious materials in the course of their duties. Medical oversight for
     potentially exposed workers includes:
         3.3.1.1. Immunizations to protect Category I and II workers against bloodborne
         pathogens and other potentially infectious materials.
         3.3.1.2. Medical follow-up, treatment, and documentation for authorized personnel
         exposed to blood or other potentially infectious materials in the course of their duties.
         3.3.1.3. Written opinions for employees exposed to blood or other potentially
         infectious materials.
         3.3.1.4. Initial training to all newcomers on occupational exposure to blood or other
         potentially infectious materials.
         3.3.1.5. Review and approval through the Infection Control Function of Unit
         Exposure Control Programs and Educational Programs developed for Category I and
         II workers.
     3.3.2. Provide technical advice and supervisory assistance on:
         3.3.2.1. The types of PPE needed to protect workers from exposure to blood or other
         potentially infectious materials.
         3.3.2.2. Training of workers exposed to blood or other potentially infectious
         materials in the course of their duties.
         3.3.2.3. Decontamination of surfaces contaminated with blood or other potentially
         infectious materials.
     3.3.3. Assist with disposal of contaminated waste (when requested by organizations)
     through the medical waste disposal contract, and provide biohazard bags used for
     gathering and transporting said waste.
  3.4. Employees will:
     3.4.1. Immediately report any occupational exposures to blood or other potentially
     infectious materials to their supervisors.
     3.4.2. Be familiar with and consistently employ the standard precautions concept: Treat
     all blood and other body fluids as infectious regardless of the source individual’s
     perceived health status. 374 MDG personnel will also use the standard precautions
     concept.
     3.4.3. Maintain and use PPE provided by the unit in all situations where occupational
     exposure to infectious materials may occur.
 6                                                                                 374AWI48-108


4. Procedures:
     4.1. General:
        4.1.1. All work areas with Category I or II personnel or tasks will develop and maintain a
        written unit-specific Exposure Control Plan (see Attachment 2). This plan will be
        reviewed and approved by the 374 MDG’s Infection Control Function initially and as
        changes occur.
        4.1.2. All active duty, civilian, dependent, and Japanese national Category I and II
        personnel will be offered the Hepatitis B vaccine at no cost. If personnel refuse the
        vaccine series, a Hepatitis B declination statement (see Attachment 4) will be signed at
        the time of refusal. The vaccine series is mandatory for all active duty personnel with
        medical service codes.
        4.1.3. Personnel in Category III will receive post-exposure prophylaxis to Hepatitis B if
        an incident occurs which is related to their occupational tasks.
     4.2. Training:
        4.2.1. Category I and II workers will be given initial training within 10 days of beginning
        work in a work center with risk of exposure to blood or other potentially infectious
        materials, as well as annual training as required by OSHA Standard 29 CFR 1910.1030.
        Supervisors may request assistance from 374 AMDS Public Health (PH) Flight (374
        AMDS/SGPM) to help meet both initial and annual training requirements.
            4.2.1.1. Supervisors will ensure training is documented on the employee's AF Form
            55, or on computerized training record, as “Initial” or “Annual” Bloodborne Pathogen
            Training.
        4.2.2. All training for self-aid and buddy care as well as Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation
        (CPR) will include basic information concerning bloodborne and other potentially
        infectious pathogens, their transmission, and method of exposure control.
     4.3. Exposure incidents:
        4.3.1. If a worker is actually exposed to blood or other potentially infectious materials in
        the course of their duties (e.g., a needle puncture wound, getting cut with a contaminated
        object such as glass, having blood splash on the skin or mucous membranes of the eyes,
        nose, or mouth):
            4.3.1.1. Ensure worker immediately washes affected skin surface or puncture wound
            thoroughly with antibacterial soap and water or flushes mucous membranes with
            water. Do not use soap on eyes or in nose or mouth.
            4.3.1.2. Notify supervisor of incident; the supervisor will immediately send the
            exposed worker and, if possible, the source individual to 374 MDG Urgent Care,
            Building 4408.
            4.3.1.3. Medical evaluation, treatment, and follow-up of both the employee and the
            source, will be the responsibility of 374 MDG (Urgent Care, PH, Primary Care
            Manager).
        4.3.2. The organization where the exposure incident occurred will:
374AWI48-108                                                                                     7


           4.3.2.1. Ensure that areas, equipment, clothing, and materials contaminated by blood
           or other potentially infectious material are appropriately decontaminated and material
           disposed of as outlined in Attachment 5. This may be done by properly trained unit
           employees or by certified contractors. A simple emergency spill kit (see Attachment
           6) can be easily assembled and stored in the workplace. If it is determined that use of
           bleach is not feasible due to its caustic nature (e.g., on equipment panels), the unit
           should consult with PH Flight for an alternate method of decontamination.
           4.3.2.2. Place all contaminated articles that are to be disposed of in a biohazard bag.
           This task will be accomplished by appropriately trained organizational personnel
           wearing the proper PPE, including puncture-resistant waterproof gloves, a protective
           outer garment, and shoe coverings, if there is a potential for contaminating the
           workers’ shoes. If aerosolization or splattering of blood or other potentially
           infectious materials is expected, individuals must wear a mask and goggles or face
           shield. The biohazard bags will be handled and transported appropriately to 374th
           Medical Support Squadron Facility Management (374 MDSS/SGSLS). If waste
           contains sharp items, such as broken glass, needles, or knives, these must be placed in
           a puncture resistant container that is sealed prior to placing it in the biohazard bag.
Note: A regular plastic garbage bag can be used instead of a biohazard bag if it is clearly
marked with a biohazard label (see Attachment 7) and double bagged. Contact 374
MDSS/SGSLS if questions arise regarding disposal of contaminated wastes.
   4.4. PPE: PPE must be worn during procedures in which there is a potential for
   occupational exposure to blood or other potentially infectious materials. Employee
   noncompliance with the directives of this program must be immediately addressed through
   appropriate administrative procedures. This policy is established to protect the government's
   financial interest and to protect the worker's health.
   4.5. Contracted Operations:
       4.5.1. Units planning to use contract services for blood, body fluid, or infectious waste
       spills must proactively establish a standing base contract that can be quickly initiated
       when required. Ideally, contract workers should be on-scene within an hour of their
       notification. Do not wait until a bloodborne pathogen incident occurs to establish an
       adequate contract.
Note: For contracted services, it is the contractor, not the Air Force, who assumes responsibility
for compliance with OSHA Standards and for the safety and health of their employees. Air
Force contract specifications for services and materials must stipulate strict adherence to OSHA
Standard 29 CFR 1910.1030 and delineate PPE sources, immunizations, training, investigation,
and documentation of bloodborne or other potentially infectious pathogen exposure incidents.
   4.6. Record Keeping:
       4.6.1. Training records must be appropriately maintained by all organizations with
       Category I and II workers for the duration of the worker’s employment.
           4.6.1.1. Organizations are required to provide the employee, upon request, the
           employee's training records for examination and copying.
8                                                                              374AWI48-108


       4.6.2. Medical record. The 374th Medical Operations Squadron Records Section (374
       MDOS/SGORO) will:
          4.6.2.1. Maintain a copy of all results of examinations, medical testing, and follow-
          up procedures pertaining to an occupational exposure (to include tuberculin skin
          testing) for the duration of employment plus 30 years.
          4.6.2.2. Include the health care provider’s written opinion if exposure has occurred
          during employment.
          4.6.2.3. Provide upon request from authorized authority (as required by law) the
          pertinent portions of the employee's medical record for examination and copying.
    4.7. Adopted Forms:
         AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record
         AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                           PAUL E. FEATHER, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander, 374 Airlift Wing
374AWI48-108                                                                                      9


                                          Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORT INFORMATION

References
OSHA Standard 29 CFR 1910.1030, Bloodborne Pathogens; Final Rule, 18 January 2001, at
http://www.osha-slc.gov/OshStd_data/1910_1030.html.
Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR), Guidelines for Prevention of Transmission of
Human Immunodeficiency Virus and Hepatitis B Virus to Health-Care and Public-Safety
Workers, 23 June 1989, at http://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/00001450.htm.
AFOSH STD 48-21, Hazard Communication; 1 October 1993.

Terms
Employee—An individual working in any capacity for the United States Government at Yokota
AB (e.g., military, civilians, civilian or military volunteers, housekeeping personnel).
Bloodborne Pathogens—Microorganisms in human blood that can cause disease.
Contaminated—The presence of blood or other potentially infectious materials on an item or
surface.
Engineering Control—The use of available technology, device, or procedure to isolate or
remove a bloodborne pathogens hazard from the work area (e.g., splatter screens on laboratory
work table).
Exposure Incident—A specific exposure to the eye, mucous membrane, non-intact skin, or
parenteral exposure to blood or other potentially infectious materials, resulting from the
performance of an employee’s duties (e.g., blood spattering into the eyes or splashing into the
mouth, or a puncture by a blood-contaminated needle).
Occupational Exposure—Reasonably anticipated skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral
contact with blood or other potentially infectious materials that may result from the performance
of an employee’s duties.
Other Potentially Infectious Materials—semen, vaginal secretions, cerebrospinal fluid,
synovial fluid, pleural fluid, pericardial fluid, peritoneal fluid, amniotic fluid, saliva in dental
procedures, any body fluid visibly contaminated with blood, and all body fluids in situations
where it is difficult or impossible to differentiate between body fluids.
Parenteral—Piercing mucous membranes or the skin barrier through needlesticks, human bites,
cuts, and abrasions.
Source—An individual whose blood or body fluids contaminate the wound, mucous membranes,
or non-intact skin of another individual.
Standard Precautions—designed to reduce the risk of transmission of bloodborne pathogens
and Body Substance Isolation (BSI). Standard precautions apply to (1) blood; (2) all body fluids,
secretions, and excretions, except sweat, regardless of whether or not they contain visible blood;
(3) non-intact skin; and (4) mucous membranes. Standard Precautions are designed to reduce the
risk of transmission of microorganisms from both recognized and unrecognized sources of
 10                                                                               374AWI48-108


infection in hospitals. It is a method of infection control in which all human blood and certain
body fluids are treated as if known to be infectious for HIV, Hepatitis B virus, and other
bloodborne pathogens.
Body Substance Isolation (BSI)—An alternative to diagnosis driven isolation systems. BSI
focuses on the isolation of all moist and potentially infectious body substances (blood, feces,
urine, sputum, saliva, wound drainage, and other body fluids) from all patients, regardless of
their presumed infection status, primarily through the use of gloves.
Transmission-Based Precautions—Designed for patients documented or suspected to be
infected or colonized with highly transmissible or epidemiologically important pathogens for
which additional precautions beyond standard precautions are needed to interrupt transmission in
hospitals. There are three types of transmission-based precautions: Airborne precautions,
droplet precautions, and contact precautions. They may be combined for diseases that have
multiple routes of transmission. When used either singularly or in combination, they are to be
used in addition to standard precautions.
Work Practice Controls—Procedures or practices that eliminate or minimize the likelihood of
exposure incidents (e.g., prohibiting needle recapping after use).
Regulated Waste—Defined as; (1) liquid or semi-liquid blood or other potentially infectious
materials; (2) contaminated items that would release with blood or other potentially infectious
materials in a liquid or semi-liquid state if compressed; (3) items that are caked with dried blood
or other potentially infectious materials and are capable of releasing these materials during
handling; (4) contaminated sharps; and (5) pathological and microbiological wastes containing
blood or other potentially infectious materials. These items are generally recognized as
presenting a hazard of disease transmission and as such, warrant special handling.
374AWI48-108                                                                                     11


                                            Attachment 2
SAMPLE FORMAT OF YOKOTA AB BLOODBORNE PATHOGEN UNIT EXPOSURE
                        CONTROL PLAN

(SAMPLE PROGRAM WITH DETAILED EXPLANATIONS)


UNIT: ___________________________________
PREPARATION DATE:_____________________
CERTIFYING OFFICIAL:___________________


(This sample program is provided only as a guide to assist in complying with 29 CFR 1910.1030,
OSHA’s Bloodborne Pathogens Standard. Add, change or delete information in this sample
program as necessary to develop an effective unit-specific exposure control program.
Organizations must review Standards for particular requirements applicable to their specific
situation. The Exposure Control program must be reviewed annually and updated when
applicable.
In accordance with the 29 CFR 1910.1030, OSHA Occupational Exposure to Bloodborne
Pathogens Standard, the following exposure control program has been developed.
A2.1. Exposure Determination. OSHA requires employers to perform an exposure
determination concerning which employees may incur occupational exposure to blood or other
potentially infectious materials. The exposure determination is made without regard to the use of
PPE. This exposure determination requires a listing of ALL job classifications in which ALL
employees may be expected to be exposed, regardless of frequency.
    A2.1.1. List job classifications where ALL employees have been determined to have a
    reasonably anticipated occupational exposure to bloodborne pathogens.
JOB TITLE                                            JOB SERIES/AFSC
(List Title and Job Series or AFSC)
(e.g., PH Technician)                                (4EOX1)
In addition, if the organization has job classifications in which SOME employees may have
occupational exposure, a listing of those classifications is required. Since not all the employees
in these categories would be expected to incur exposure to blood or other potentially infectious
materials, a listing of tasks or procedures is required to clearly understand which employees are
considered to have occupational exposure.
A2.1.2. List job classifications where SOME employees have been determined to have a
reasonably anticipated occupational exposure to bloodborne pathogens while performing specific
job tasks and procedures.
JOB CLASSIFICATION                    TASKS/PROCEDURES
(List Title/Job Series or AFSC)       (List Task/Procedure such as emergency rescue/first aid
                                      Procedures)
 12                                                                                 374AWI48-108


A2.2. Implementation Schedule and Methodology. This plan also requires a schedule and
method of implementation for the various requirements of the standard. The following complies
with this requirement:
   A2.2.1. Standard Precautions: The mandatory use of standard precautions is in effect. The
   term "standard precaution" refers to an infectious disease control system intended to prevent
   health care and public safety workers from parenteral, mucous membrane, and non-intact
   skin exposures to bloodborne pathogens. Assume all blood and body fluids (e.g., semen,
   vaginal fluids, cerebrospinal, lymph, pericardial) are potentially infectious and appropriate
   barriers must be established between the patient's blood, body fluids, and other infectious
   materials and the health care and public safety worker. Under circumstances where
   differentiation between body fluid types is difficult or impossible, consider all body fluids
   potentially infectious. Consider all blood, body fluid, or other potentially infectious
   materials infectious regardless of the perceived status of the source individual.
   A2.2.2. Engineering and Work Practice Controls: Utilize engineering and work practice
   controls to eliminate or minimize exposure to employees. Where occupational exposure
   remains after institution of these controls, use PPE.
THE FOLLOWING ENGINEERING CONTROLS WILL BE UTILIZED:
CONTROLS
(List controls, e.g., sharp containers, hand washing, eyewashes.)


The above controls will be examined and maintained on a regular schedule. The schedule for
reviewing the effectiveness of the controls is as follows (e.g., list schedule such as daily,
weekly). List who (individual or section) has responsibility to review the effectiveness of the
individual controls.
INSPECTIONS WILL BE CONDUCTED FOR THE FOLLOWING CONTROLS:
CONTROL                                 INSPECTION CONTROL
(Hand washes)                           (Weekly/Inspected by_____/or list responsible section)

       A2.2.2.1. Hand Washing Facilities: Employees who incur exposure to blood, body
       fluids, or other infectious materials will wash at a readily accessible area. If hand
       washing facilities are not feasible, the organization is required to provide either an
       appropriate antiseptic hand cleanser in conjunction with a clean cloth, paper towels, or
       antiseptic towelettes. If these alternatives are used, wash the hands with soap and
       running water as soon as feasible. Also, after removal of protective gloves, employees
       shall wash hands and any other potentially contaminated skin area immediately or as
       soon as feasible with soap and water. If employees incur exposure to mucous
       membranes, wash or flush those areas with running water immediately following contact.
       Organizations shall list locations of readily accessible hand washing facilities and
       alternatives to hand washing facilities. Organizations who must provide alternatives to
       readily accessible hand washing facilities must ensure the maintenance and accessibility
       of these alternatives.
HAND WASHING STATIONS ARE LOCATED IN THE FOLLOWING LOCATIONS:
374AWI48-108                                                                                     13


PERMANENT STATION LOCATIONS                             PORTABLE STATION LOCATIONS
(List locations, e.g., patient rooms, procedure areas, vehicles, specific areas in hangars)

        A2.2.2.2. Procedures:
            A2.2.2.2.1. PPE.
                 A2.2.2.2.1.1. All employees will use PPE to minimize or eliminate exposure
                 risks. Consider equipment appropriate only if it does not permit blood or other
                 potentially infectious materials to pass through or to reach the employee's
                 clothing, skin, eyes, mouth, or other mucous membranes, under normal condition
                 of use and for the duration of use.
                 A2.2.2.2.1.2. Providing PPE:        It is the responsibility of the individual
                 organization to provide PPE for its employees at no cost to the employee. (List
                 here who in the organization will provide PPE) will provide to all employees at
                 risk, PPE to include, but not limited to gloves, gowns, coats, masks, eye
                 protection, and mouthpieces, resuscitation bags, or other ventilation devices.
                 Choose PPE based on the anticipated exposure to blood, body fluids, or other
                 potentially infectious materials. Make hypoallergenic gloves, powderless gloves,
                 or other similar alternatives available for those employees who are allergic to the
                 gloves normally used.
                 A2.2.2.2.1.3. Enforcing the wearing of PPE: The supervisor or section head will
                 enforce the use of PPE by all employees. Not wearing PPE when exposed to
                 blood or other potentially infectious materials is only allowed under rare and
                 extraordinary circumstances where specific use of PPE will prevent delivery of
                 health care or pose a safety hazard to the employee or co-workers. When the
                 employee makes this judgment, the circumstances shall be investigated by the
                 supervisor and documented on an ____________________, (use an appropriate
                 form for official documentation) to determine whether changes need to be
                 instituted to prevent further incidents where PPE is not worn.
                 A2.2.2.2.1.4. Accessibility of PPE: The supervisor or section head will ensure
                 availability of PPE in the work area and provide protective clothing to employees.
                 The following (organization, person, unit, etc.) is responsible for distribution of
                 PPE.
                 A2.2.2.2.1.5. Coordinate with Medical Supply on types of PPE available for
                 purchase.
A2.3. PPE is Stored:
PPE TYPE                                            STORAGE LOCATION
(List equipment type and storage location)

    A2.3.1. Remove all PPE penetrated by blood or other potentially infectious materials
    immediately or as soon as feasible. Remove all PPE prior to leaving the work area.
 14                                                                                     374AWI48-108


        A2.3.1.1. Place all contaminated PPE in an appropriately designated area or container for
        storage prior to decontamination or disposal. Handle contaminated disposable PPE as
        follows:
            A2.3.1.1.1. The buddy system should be used if more than one individual is
            involved.
            A2.3.1.1.2. Remove outer protective garment (e.g., gown, apron, lab coat), fold
            garment in on itself as the garment is being removed, and place in the biohazard bag.
            A2.3.1.1.3. Remove shoe covers and place in the biohazard bag.
            A2.3.1.1.4. Remove the face shield or goggles and place in designated storage area
            identified for holding contaminated PPE prior to decontamination for reuse.
            A2.3.1.1.5. Remove gloves by turning inside out and place in designated storage area
            identified for holding contaminated PPE prior to decontamination for reuse or place
            in biohazard bag for disposal.
A2.4. The Following Protocol has been Developed to Facilitate Leaving the Equipment at
the Work Area:
PLACE/ROOM                                          CONTAINER/DISPOSAL SITE
(List where employees are expected to place the PPE upon leaving the work area, other protocols, etc.)

    A2.4.1. The organization will clean, launder, and dispose of all PPE at no cost to employees.
    The organization will make all repairs and replacement at no cost to the employee.
    A2.4.2. Employees will wear gloves when it is reasonably anticipated that hands could make
    contact with blood other potentially infectious materials, non-intact skin, or mucous
    membranes and when handling or touching contaminated items or surfaces.
    A2.4.3. Gloves will be made available at the following locations:
GLOVE DISPERSAL SITE                                   RESPONSIBLE PARTY
(State location and person responsible for distribution of gloves)

        A2.4.3.1. Wear heavy duty, industrial grade, utility gloves when any activity such as
        handling trash, decontamination of instruments or equipment, or environmental cleaning
        is performed. Wash utility gloves when minimal soiling occurs. Change utility gloves
        when heavily soiled or when the integrity of the barrier has been compromised. After
        removing gloves, employees will wash their hands with soap and water immediately or as
        soon as possible. Utility gloves may be decontaminated for reuse provided the integrity
        of the gloves is not compromised. Discard utility gloves when cracked, peeling, torn,
        punctured, or exhibiting signs of deterioration or when their ability to function as a
        barrier is compromised.
        A2.4.3.2. Do not reuse disposable gloves. Do not wash or decontaminate disposable
        gloves for reuse. Replace gloves as soon as practical when they become contaminated,
        torn, punctured, or their ability to function as a barrier is compromised.
        A2.4.3.3. You must wear masks in combination with eye protection devices, such as
        goggles or glasses with solid side shields, or chin length face shields, whenever splashes,
374AWI48-108                                                                                           15


        spray, splatter, or droplets of blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials
        may be generated and if you anticipate eye, mouth, or nose contamination.
        A2.4.3.4. The OSHA Standard 29 CFR 1910.1030 also requires the use of appropriate
        protective clothing, such as lab coats, gowns, aprons, clinic jackets, or similar outer
        garments. The type and characteristics will depend upon the task and degree of exposure
        anticipated.
A2.5. The Following Situations or Procedures Require Protective Clothing be Utilized:
SITUATION/PROCEDURE                                         PPE USED
(List situation/procedure and PPE to be used)
(e.g., emergency first aid, lab procedures, dental          (e.g., gloves, lab coat, face shield)
procedures)

    A2.5.1. Handling contaminated needles, sharp instruments, or other contaminated articles:
    Education programs are to stress proper management of needles, sharp instruments, or other
    contaminated articles. Workers are to be aware of the occupational health hazards
    concerning their use. Common sense, safety, and environmental concerns are paramount in
    the workers handling and disposal of needles, sharp instruments, or other contaminated
    articles. Place emphasis on the minimal handling of these items.
        A2.5.1.1. Do not use hands to pick up sharp instruments, broken glass, needle or syringe
        units, or other sharp objects contaminated with blood or other potentially infectious
        materials. Pick the object up using other methods not requiring an individual to come in
        direct contact with the contaminated object (e.g., tongs, forceps, a broom and dust pan,
        cardboard).
        A2.5.1.2. Place the contaminated objects in a puncture resistant, leak-proof biohazard
        container, or other impervious and puncture resistant container to be placed in a
        biohazard bag and take to the 374 MDG, Building 4408, for disposal. If the organization
        does not have a suitable biohazard container, contact the 374 MDG to pick one up. You
        must exercise extreme caution when disposing of needles and sharp instruments or
        objects.
        A2.5.1.3. Place contaminated non-sharps (e.g., contaminated gauze, towels, clothing) in
        a leak proof biohazard bag.
    A2.5.2. Needles: Do not bend, recap, remove, shear, or purposely break contaminated
    needles and other contaminated sharps. OSHA allows an exception to this if the procedure
    requires the contaminated needle be recapped or removed and no alternative is feasible and
    the medical procedure requires the action. Use a mechanical device or one-handed “scoop”
    technique if recapping or removal is required.
A2.6. The Following Procedures Require Recapping or Removal of Needles:
PROCEDURE                                             CONTROL METHOD USED
(List the procedures and also list the mechanical device or alternately the one-handed “scoop” technique
used.)
 16                                                                                       374AWI48-108


    A2.6.1. Reusable Sharps Containers: Place reusable contaminated sharps immediately, or as
    soon as possible, into appropriate sharps containers to await cleaning and sterilization. At
    this facility the sharps containers are puncture resistant, labeled with biohazard label, and
    leak proof.
LOCATION OF RESPONSIBLE INSPECTION
SHARPS CONTAINERS                    PARTY                                FREQUENCY
(List where sharps containers are located as well as who has responsibility for removing sharps and how
often the containers will be checked for sharps removal)

    A2.6.2. Work Area Restrictions:
        A2.6.2.1. Employees are not to eat, drink, apply cosmetics, lip balm, smoke, or handle
        contact lenses in work areas where there is a reasonable likelihood of exposure to blood
        or other potentially infectious materials.
        A2.6.2.2. Do not keep food and beverages in refrigerators, freezers, shelves, cabinets, on
        counter tops, or bench tops where blood or other potentially infectious materials are
        present.
        A2.6.2.3. Mouth pipetting or suctioning of blood or other potentially infectious materials
        is prohibited.
        A2.6.2.4. Conduct all procedures in a manner that will minimize splashing, spraying,
        splattering, and generation of droplets of blood or other potentially infectious materials.
A2.7. The Following Methods will be Used to Accomplish Work Area Restrictions:
PROCEDURE                                              METHOD OF CONTROL
(List procedures and methods used [e.g., covers on centrifuges, usage of dental dams if appropriate, etc.]
to control spraying, splattering, splashing, etc. Also list other appropriate work area restrictions, e.g.,
designated break rooms, no eating, smoking signs)

    A2.7.1. Specimens:
        A2.7.1.1. Place specimens of blood or other potentially infectious materials in containers
        which prevent leakage during the collection, handling, processing, storage, transport, or
        shipping of the specimens. Label or color code the containers used for this purpose in
        accordance with (IAW) the requirements of the OSHA standard.
        A2.7.1.2. Place any specimen that could puncture a primary container within a puncture
        resistant secondary container. This container must have appropriate biohazard markings.
        If the organization does not have an appropriate container, contact the 374 MDSS/SGSLS
        to pick one up.
THE FOLLOWING CONTAINERS WILL BE USED FOR THE LISTED SPECIMENS:
SPECIMEN                          TYPE OF CONTAINER USED                  LOCATION OF CONTAINER
(List specimens, if any, which could puncture a primary container, the containers used as secondary
containers, and the location of these secondary containers)
374AWI48-108                                                                                             17


        A2.7.1.3. If outside contamination of the primary container occurs, place the primary
        container within a secondary container that prevents leakage during the handling,
        processing, storage, transport, or shipping of the specimen. If specimen leakage is
        anticipated, double or triple-bag the primary container using appropriately labeled, color-
        coded plastic bags or sturdy clear plastic bags.
    A2.7.2. Contaminated Equipment and Surfaces:
        A2.7.2.1. Examine equipment contaminated with blood or other potentially infectious
        materials prior to servicing or shipping and decontaminate as necessary unless the
        decontamination of the equipment is not feasible.
        A2.7.2.2. Only trained personnel within the organization will                      decontaminate
        contaminated equipment and surfaces.
        A2.7.2.3. Individuals who are responsible for decontaminating equipment and surfaces
        will wear appropriate PPE, including but not limited to; gloves, protective eyewear, and a
        smock.
        A2.7.2.4. At a minimum, clean contaminated surfaces and equipment using the
        following procedures:
            A2.7.2.4.1. Absorb the contaminated material.
            A2.7.2.4.2. Disinfect the contaminated area with household bleach in a 1:10 dilution.
            A2.7.2.4.3. Absorb the disinfectant.
            A2.7.2.4.4. Rinse the contaminated area with water.
            A2.7.2.4.5. Place paper products used in the clean-up operation in an appropriate
            biohazard container and take to the 374 MDSS/SGSLS for disposal.
A2.8. List the Procedures Used for Decontaminating Equipment and Surfaces:
PROCEDURES
(When listing procedures are used by your organization, include disinfectants used, location of "spill
clean-up kits," etc)

    A2.8.1. If you cannot decontaminate the equipment or surfaces in this fashion, contact the
    Public Health flight for advice.
        A2.8.1.1. Attach a readily observable biohazard label to the portion of the equipment that
        remains contaminated.
        A2.8.1.2. Submitting organizations must inform all affected employees, the servicing
        representative, and/or the manufacturer of the biohazard potential prior to handling,
        servicing, or shipping, so appropriate precautions can be taken.

 THE FOLLOWING IS A LIST OF EQUIPMENT THAT WOULD NOT BE FEASIBLE
TO DECONTAMINATE PRIOR TO SHIPPING OR SERVICING:
EQUIPMENT
(List here any equipment that cannot be decontaminated prior to servicing or shipping)
 18                                                                                    374AWI48-108


A2.9. Housekeeping:
    A2.9.1. Supervisors or section heads are responsible for maintaining their work areas in a
    clean and sanitary condition.
        A2.9.1.1. Schedule of housekeeping procedures: Establish operating instructions for
        each section indicating schedule for cleaning and methods of decontamination based
        upon work area and procedures performed in the area.
THIS FACILITY WILL BE CLEANED AND DECONTAMINATED ACCORDING TO THE
FOLLOWING SCHEDULE:
AREA TO BE CLEANED                                    SCHEDULE
(List areas and schedule.)

 ACCOMPLISH DECONTAMINATION BY UTILIZING THE FOLLOWING
MATERIALS:
PERSONNEL DECONTAMINATING                 TYPE OF SOLUTION                     FACILITY
(List the materials utilized, such as bleach solutions or Environmental Protection Agency [EPA]
registered germicides)

        A2.9.1.2. Decontaminate all contaminated equipment and work surfaces after completion
        of procedures and immediately or as soon as feasible after any spill of blood, body fluids,
        or other potentially infectious materials, and at the end of the work shift if contamination
        occurred since the last cleaning. (Employers should add in any information concerning
        the usage of protective coverings, such as plastic wrap used to assist in keeping surfaces
        free of contamination.)
        A2.9.1.3. Immediately replace protective coverings such as plastic wrap, aluminum foil,
        or imperviously backed absorbent paper used to cover equipment and work surfaces
        when they become overly contaminated, or at the end of the work shift if contamination
        occurs.
        A2.9.1.4. Inspect all bins, pails, cans, and similar receptacles intended for reuse for
        blood, body fluid, or other potentially infectious materials. Decontaminate the
        receptacles on a regularly scheduled basis (e.g., daily, weekly) and decontaminate
        immediately or as soon as feasible if contaminated.

 INSPECT ALL BINS, PAILS, CANS, AND SIMILAR RECEPTACLES AND
DECONTAMINATE ON A REGULARLY SCHEDULED BASIS:
RECEPTACLE                                                                     DATE OF
INSPECTED           FREQUENCY           LOCATION             INSPECTOR         DECONTAMINATION
(List receptacle, frequency, location, dates, and by whom)
(e.g., Trash can/Weekly/Pediatrics/SSgt Smith/12 Jun 96)

    A2.9.2. Regulated Waste Disposal:
374AWI48-108                                                                                   19


        A2.9.2.1. Discard all contaminated sharps as soon as feasible in sharps containers
        located in the facility.
SHARPS CONTAINERS ARE LOCATED:
LOCATION
(Specify locations of sharps containers)

        A2.9.2.2. Place regulated waste other than sharps in appropriate containers.

 SUCH CONTAINERS ARE LOCATED:
(Specify locations of containers.)
LOCATION OF CONTAINERS

A2.10. Laundry Procedures:
    A2.10.1. Handle laundry contaminated with blood or other potentially infectious materials as
    little as possible. Place such laundry in appropriately marked bags at the location where it
    was used. Do not sort or rinse such laundry in the area of use.
    A2.10.2. All employees who handle contaminated laundry will utilize PPE to prevent
    contact with blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials.
LAUNDRY AT THIS FACILITY WILL BE CLEANED AT:
(List cleaning location to include contractors name, phone number, and point of contact)

    A2.10.3. When contaminated laundry is shipped off site to a second facility which does not
    utilize standard precautions in handling all laundry, the facility generating the contaminated
    laundry must place such laundry in bags or containers which are labeled or color-coded IAW
    OSHA Standard 29 CFR 1910.1030, paragraph (g)(1)(i).
A2.11. Hepatitis B Vaccine: The Hepatitis B vaccine will be given to all appropriately
designated individuals free of cost. The vaccine will be offered within 10 working days of initial
assignment to work unless the employee has previously had the vaccine.
A2.12. Post-Exposure Evaluation and Follow-Up: When the employee incurs an exposure
incident, the supervisor will direct the employee to the 374 MDG Urgent Care for initial
evaluation and treatment. Post-exposure evaluation and follow-up will be done IAW OSHA
Standard 29 CFR 1910.1030 and followed up with 374 AMDS/SGPM and the individual’s
Primary Care Manager.
A2.13. Training:
    A2.13.1. Supervisors will ensure training of all employees within 10 days of beginning work
    where occupational exposure may occur. Conduct the training in the following manner:
TRAINING FOR EMPLOYEES WILL INCLUDE THE FOLLOWING AND AN
EXPLANATION OF:
        A2.13.1.1. OSHA Standard 29 CFR 1910.1030.
 20                                                                               374AWI48-108


       A2.13.1.2. Epidemiology and symptomatology of bloodborne diseases and tuberculosis,
       if required by occupation.
       A2.13.1.3. Modes of transmission of bloodborne pathogens and tuberculosis, if potential
       for risk of exposure exists.
       A2.13.1.4. This exposure control program will cover all major aspects (e.g., key points
       of the program, lines of responsibility, how the program will be implemented) and also
       explain how an individual can obtain a copy of the program.
       A2.13.1.5. Procedures that might cause exposure to blood or other potentially infectious
       materials.
       A2.13.1.6. Control methods that will be used to control exposure to blood or other
       potentially infectious materials.
       A2.13.1.7. PPE available.
       A2.13.1.8. Post exposure evaluation and follow-up.
       A2.13.1.9. Signs and labels used.
       A2.13.1.10. Hepatitis B vaccine program.
       A2.13.1.11. All employees will receive annual refresher training. (Note this training is
       to be conducted within one year of the employee's previous training.)
Note: Employers should list here if training will be conducted using videotapes, written
material, etc. Also the employer is to indicate who is responsible for conducting the training.
THE OUTLINE FOR THE TRAINING MATERIAL IS LOCATED:
(List where the training materials are located)
A2.14. Record Keeping. ALL RECORDS REQUIRED BY THE OSHA STANDARD WILL
BE MAINTAINED BY (All records and documents are subject to the Privacy Act of 1974):
   A2.14.1. Insert name or department responsible for maintaining and securing records.
   A2.14.2. The respective duty sections will maintain all military and civilian records IAW
   HHQ guidance and pertinent Federal Regulations for the length of employment plus 30
   years.
   A2.14.3. Each organization is responsible for maintaining training records.
A2.15. Dates. ALL PROVISIONS REQUIRED BY THE STANDARD WILL BE
IMPLEMENTED BY: Insert date for implementation of the provisions of the OSHA
Standard.
Have Responsible Work Center Official Sign


APPROVED/DISAPPROVED
374 AMDS/SGPM
374AWI48-108                                                                                      21


                                          Attachment 3
    SAMPLE FORMAT OF BLOODBORNE PATHOGEN TRAINING OPERATING
                        INSTRUCTION (OI)

UNIT:
PREPARED BY:
CERTIFIED BY:
A3.1. OSHA Standard 29 CFR 1910.1030 on bloodborne pathogens. (Briefly outline standard.)
A3.2. Epidemiology and symptomatology of bloodborne diseases. (Testing for exposure and
symptoms of related diseases.)
A3.3. Modes of transmission (e.g., needle sticks, sharps, punctures, splashes, direct contact).
A3.4. Exposure Control Program. (Outline and explain the plan, what is covered and by who,
also explain how the individual may obtain a copy of the plan.)
A3.5. Procedures that might cause exposure (e.g., rescue, surgery, dental procedures, CPR).
A3.6. Control methods.        (PPE requirements, safe handling of material, and standard
precautions.)
A3.7. PPE. (Types, wear, use, and basis for selection.)
A3.8. Post-exposure and follow-up. (Outline what is done.)
A3.9. Signs and labels. (Meaning, where to order, and how to use.)
A3.10. Hepatitis B vaccine. (Requirements, declination form, and request after initial decline.)
Note: The above is only an outline of what should be included in the units training OI. Each
unit will have to tailor their OI to meet their units needs. For review/approval of OIs, send to the
Public Health flight (374 AMDS/SGPM).
 22                                                                                 374AWI48-108


                                           Attachment 4
         SAMPLE OF HEPATITIS B VACCINE DECLINATION STATEMENT


I _____________________________, understand that due to my occupational exposure to blood,

body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials I may be at a higher risk of acquiring

Hepatitis B virus infection. I have been given the opportunity to be vaccinated with Hepatitis B

vaccine, at no charge to myself. However, I decline Hepatitis B vaccine at this time. I

understand that by declining this vaccine, I continue to be at risk of acquiring Hepatitis B, a

serious disease. If in the future I continue to have occupational exposure to blood, body fluids,

or other potentially infectious materials during my employment on/with Yokota Air Base and I

want to be vaccinated with Hepatitis B vaccine, I can receive the vaccination series at no charge

to myself.




Signature and date ________________________________________________
374AWI48-108                                                                                    23


                                          Attachment 5
 DECONTAMINATION PROCEDURES FOR BLOOD AND OTHER POTENTIALLY
                    INFECTIOUS MATERIALS

A5.1. The following procedures are recommended for "site specific" clean-up of spills involving
blood or body fluids. Five percent (1:20 dilution) of household bleach is used here, but any
disinfectant used must be first approved by the Public Health and used based on the
manufacturer’s recommendation. Also, outline in your unit's control program the procedures for
clean-up using the disinfectant.
   A5.1.1. Make a "spill kit” readily available for site clean-up. Place 1/2 cup of household
   bleach in a dark brown or opaque bottle (sunlight will break down bleach). Put the bleach,
   1/2 gallon of water (don't mix the two until you clean-up a spill), a pair of heavyweight and
   puncture resistant utility gloves (such as those used for house cleaning and dish washing),
   two household sponges, and paper towels or gauze in a plastic container or a box. Label the
   kit, attach a hazardous material sticker to the container and place in an area where a spill may
   occur or in the trunk of a security vehicle, etc. Also have the following available for large
   spills or spills that have the potential for splattering:
       A5.1.1.1. Clothing. You must use cloth or disposable gowns or coats to prevent blood
       contamination of clean-up worker’s clothing. A disposable plastic apron that covers the
       torso and thighs is recommended if there is a significant probability that blood or body
       fluids may be splashed onto the clean-up workers. At the completion of clean-up, discard
       the disposable apron into the biohazard waste bag.
       A5.1.1.2. Facial Protection. Wear facial protection if splattering of blood or body fluids
       is anticipated. A disposable mask offers protection for the nose and mouth. Plastic,
       wrap-around safety glasses offer adequate protection; however, if there is substantial risk
       of splattering of blood or body fluids, wear a full-face shield or goggles. Ordinary
       glasses do not offer adequate protection against splattering. After the completion of
       clean-up, discard disposable facial protection into a biohazard waste bag.
       A5.1.1.3. Shoes. If the spill is large and/or there is a potential of contaminating the
       worker's shoes, wear waterproof shoe covers.
       A5.1.1.4. Do not pick up contaminated sharp objects by hand. If the spill contains
       broken glass or other sharp objects, these must be picked up without direct contact with
       hands. Use metal tongs, a broom, and dustpan or rigid sheets of cardboard used as
       "pusher" and "receiver" to pick up objects. Place sharp objects into a puncture-resistant
       container prior to placing into a biohazard waste bag.
A5.2. Absorb the Spill. Absorb the bulk of spilled material prior to disinfection with
disposable absorbent material (paper towels, gauze pads, or if a small spill, sponge). If the spill
is large, granular absorbent material like that used to absorb caustic chemical spills may be used
(e.g., cat litter). Blot (do not wipe) up the spill while allowing the fluids to be absorbed by the
towels, etc. After absorption of the liquid, discard all materials into a biohazard waste bag.
A5.3. Mix one part (1/2 cup of bleach) of household bleach with nineteen parts of water (5%
solution). Flood the site or wipe down the spill site with disposable towels or sponge soaked in
 24                                                                            374AWI48-108


bleach to make the site "glistening wet." Allow the bleach solution to remain in contact with
the infectious material for 10 minutes.
A5.4. Absorb the disinfectant with paper towels and dispose of the paper towels in a biohazard
waste bag. Alternatively, the spill site may be permitted to air dry.
A5.5. Rinse the spill site with water to remove a chemical residue. Dry the site to prevent
slipping.
A5.6. Place all disposable materials used in the decontamination process into a biohazard waste
bag. Dispose of the remaining disinfectant by pouring down the sanitary sewer.
A5.7. Decontaminate reusable materials and equipment following above procedures.
A5.8. If clothing becomes contaminated with blood or body fluids, it should be removed as soon
as possible, the skin washed with soap and water, the clothing placed in a biohazard bag and
disposed of or cleaned by a laundry capable of handling blood contaminated clothing.
374AWI48-108                                                                                  25


                                           Attachment 6
       BUILD-YOUR-OWN EMERGENCY BLOOD OR BODY FLUID SPILL KIT
                          CONTENTS LIST

A6.1. Suggested Components:
   A6.1.1. 1 Tyvek type (impervious) coverall with hood and boots.
   A6.1.2. 3 pairs of disposable nitrile gloves.
   A6.1.3. 1 faceshield with head strap.
   A6.1.4. 1 CPR microshield rescue breather.
   A6.1.5. 1 disposable dust or mist respirator mask.
   A6.1.6. 2 biohazard bags.
   A6.1.7. 1 sheet of biohazard labels.
   A6.1.8. 1 small brown or opaque bottle containing 1/2 cup of household bleach (bottle must
   be tightly sealed and appropriately labeled).
   A6.1.9. 2 household sponges.
   A6.1.10. 1 zip closing bag containing paper towels or gauze.
   A6.1.11. 1 pair of disposable (plastic) tongs or other rigid tool to use for picking up
   contaminated sharps (explanation of this tool is explained in greater detail in
   decontamination procedures protocol).
A6.2. Kit should not be reused.
A6.3. Kit is non-sterile.
A6.4. Dispose of contaminated and/or non-cleanable material properly.
A6.5. Use biohazard labels on all containers used to transport biohazardous materials as well as
bags containing contaminated waste.
Note: Components of this kit, which are not contaminated during its use, may be reused when
building another kit.
 26                                                 374AWI48-108


                                     Attachment 7
                                BIOHAZARD LABEL

Figure A7.1. Sample of Biohazard Label.




                                     BIOHAZARD
Note: Background is red or orange.
