BY ORDER OF THE                                            375TH AIRLIFT WING PAMPHLET 10-101
375TH AIRLIFT WING COMMANDER                                                        30 SEPTEMBER 2003

                                                                                                 Operations

                                                                     375TH OPERATIONS GROUP OSA
                                                                      PASSENGER HANDLING GUIDE



NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 375 OG/OGV (Maj Schlapkohl)                            Certified by: 375 OG/OGV (Lt Col Robbins)
Supersedes 375 AWPAM 10-101, 1 January 2001.                                                Pages: 14
                                                                                       Distribution: F

This guide is designed to provide training for newly assigned pilots and a standard reference for all pilots.
Pilots in the 375th Airlift Wing (AW) will use the information contained in this guide to make the service
we provide to our passengers safe, professional, and comfortable. The nature of the C-21 mission involves
a high level of visibility. Following these guidelines will ensure that you represent your unit and the
United States Air Force in a positive and professional manner. Keep in mind the 375 AW Vision: The Air
Mobility Command Showcase Wing, Renowned for Excellence . . . Committed to Superior Service and
Exceptional Support. Fly safe and enjoy one of the best flying assignments in the United States Air Force.
The Operational Support Airlift (OSA) system makes priority airlift available to all government agencies.
As operators, our responsibility is to fly safely and efficiently--but that's not all. There are many tech-
niques that can enhance the air transportation process and make it comfortable and dignified for all pas-
sengers. This guide describes some of these techniques. Clearly, they are not all-inclusive, and cannot
replace experience, good judgment, and common sense. NOTE: This publication is for training purposes
and should be used as a guide. In addition, information contained herein is not authority to violate direc-
tives or to compromise safe operating practices. Suggestions for revising this brochure are welcome. Sub-
mit your suggestions to 375th Operations Group (OG)/OGV.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision highlights “Raving-Fans” vision (paragraph 1.); references to crew duty day were updated
to crew duty time (paragraph 2.); clarifies distinguished visitor (DV) special requirements (paragraph
2.2.8.1.); TACC procedures were added (paragraphs 2.2.8.2.2., 2.4.1., 2.4.1.6.1., and 4.8.1.1.); empha-
sizes the need to monitor en route threats (paragraph 2.3.); space-A (space available) passenger guidance
clarified (paragraph 2.5.); explains use of DV placard with civilian DVs (paragraph 2.6.1.5.); expands the
guidance for aircraft preparation (paragraph 2.6.1.7.); clarifies anti-hijacking procedures (paragraphs
2.7.2.1. and 2.7.2.2.); adds no-show passenger baggage guidance (paragraph 2.7.3.); provides guidance
for strapping baggage in passenger seats (paragraph 2.8.); provides guidance on saluting Cabinet officials
(paragraph 2.9.2.); expands passenger briefing guidance (paragraph 2.10.2.); emphasizes the need to keep
passengers informed of mission status (paragraphs 3.5. and 3.6.1.3.); expands jet swapping procedures
(paragraph 3.6.1.2. ); clarifies ground time use for crews (paragraph 4.3.1.); adds early take-off require-
2                                                           375AWPAM10-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2003


ments (paragraph 4.3.2.); updates reference to ARMS (paragraph 4.4.2.8.); adds cell phone requirements
(paragraph 4.7.); expands early departure with DV guidance (paragraph 4.8.2.). A bar ( | ) indicates new
or revised material from the previous edition.


1. General. Crew Attitude/Initiative. Report for flying with a positive attitude and enthusiasm to com-
plete the mission professionally. The image we convey is important. Remember, we desire to make "Rav-
ing Fans" out of those we serve (DVs and space-A passengers). Make every attempt to accomplish this by
putting yourself in their shoes and asking what else can we do to meet/exceed their expectations. We
directly represent the 375 AW, Numbered Air Force (NAF), Air Mobility Command (AMC), United
States Air Force, and Department of Defense. Yet, we operate with minimum command and control dur-
ing airlift missions. This practice means the aircraft commander (AC) may sometimes be the only
on-scene expert. If so, he or she is the one who must take the initiative, resolve problems, and keep the
mission moving. Likewise, the AC is the final authority, based on personal evaluation of on-scene condi-
tions, as to whether or not a mission should continue as scheduled. The ACs should not feel pressured to
proceed when unsafe. Under these circumstances, the 375 AW will completely support the AC’s judg-
ment. However, ACs should not be so inflexible as to allow a change in routing, added stops or unex-
pected passengers, to interfere with reasonable and safe mission accomplishment.

2. Predeparture:
    2.1. Mission Tasking. The day the unit is tasked with the mission, the current operator/scheduler
    should review the mission for possible problem areas. If a glitch is discovered early enough, the 375
    OG can avoid last-minute confusion and embarrassment.
    2.2. Current Operations, the scheduler or the aircrew, as appropriate, should look for potential prob-
    lems such as:
       2.2.1. Mission length exceeds crew duty time (CDT).
       2.2.2. Extra fuel stop required due to headwinds or adverse weather at destination.
       2.2.3. Airfield limitations, including notice to airman (NOTAMS), runway length (consider run-
       way condition reading (RCR) and gross weight), climb gradient, airfield suitability and restriction
       report (ASRR) limits, parking/landing fees, and operating hours.
       2.2.4. Prior permission required (PPR).
       2.2.5. Servicing requirements versus availability.
       2.2.6. Quarters for remaining overnight (RON).
       2.2.7. Special Flight Information Publications (FLIP) Requirements.
       2.2.8. Special DV requirements.
           2.2.8.1. Continental United States (CONUS) missions: Current operations personnel, unit
           scheduler, or aircrew will contact the DV party for special requirements, to include special
           cargo restrictions, secure communications requirements or additional passenger restrictions.
           The AC will brief any unusual or limiting mission information to the DV party (i.e., fuel stops,
           CDT, follow-on mission requirements, significant mission or comfort-impacting aircraft
           write-ups).
375AWPAM10-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2003                                                                         3


         2.2.8.2. Outside the Continental United States (OCONUS) missions: The AC will contact the
         DV party (aide or executive officer) as soon as possible after mission confirmation; clarify any
         DV needs or desires; and pass to current operations/scheduling. Use this opportunity to pass
         any unusual or limiting mission information to the DV party (i.e., fuel stops, diplomatic clear-
         ance issues, CDT, significant mission or comfort-impacting aircraft write-ups).
             2.2.8.2.1. On OCONUS missions, ensure the DV understands the impact of mission
             changes (i.e., a 1-hour mission slip may have a significant impact on diplomatic clear-
             ances).
             2.2.8.2.2. The Tanker Airlift Control Center (TACC) will provide centralized planning
             support for OCONUS C-21 missions, to include route of flight, refueling locations, diplo-
             matic clearances, PPRs, and flight following.
  2.3. The AC needs to double-check all the above to ensure nothing was missed including the local
  Intel section for en route threats as posted by the HQ AMC Threat Working Group. If you foresee a
  problem, notify the right people as soon as possible.
  2.4. Mission Reporting:
     2.4.1. Each unit has its own procedures for aircrew reporting, maintenance scheduling, base sup-
     port, etc. However, one of the first actions after reporting to fly at any location must be to confirm
     the itinerary and scheduled passengers with the TACC and the Joint Operational Support Airlift
     Center (JOSAC) via a TACC phone patch. As a minimum, confirm the Joint Airlift Information
     System (JALIS) mod number for the mission. Take care of other requirements according to local
     procedures. These procedures may include some or all of the following:
         2.4.1.1. Fuel requirements/fuel load.
         2.4.1.2. Airplane location. Is towing or taxi required?
         2.4.1.3. Distinguished visitor kits. Placards, etc., for "coded" DVs.
         2.4.1.4. Arrange for coffee/water/food.
         2.4.1.5. Coordinate passenger requirements.
         2.4.1.6. Compare JOSAC mission flight time to computer flight-plan time. If times differ sig-
         nificantly, coordinate with the DV. If actual flight times are shorter than expected, ask the DV
         if he or she wants to depart as scheduled and arrive early or stay with scheduled arrival time by
         departing late. This is especially true if you’re picking up the DV at his or her “home base.”
         The DV may prefer to remain in their office longer to meet scheduled arrival times at the des-
         tination.
             2.4.1.6.1. In any event, make sure all stations, TACC and JOSAC are aware of departure
             and arrival times if they are different from the original schedule.
  2.5. Release the maximum practical seats available for each leg, unless seats are blocked for extra DV
  luggage or pro-gear on the mission’s JALIS cut. Schedule with the Passenger Service Representative
  to have non-DV passengers ready for boarding before the DV arrives at the aircraft. If there is no Pas-
  senger Service Representative and a passenger-manifesting agency is not designated for the base, pre-
  pare the manifest and conduct an anti-hijacking inspection. If necessary, call another Base Passenger
  Terminal for assistance in determining passenger priorities. Leave a copy of the manifest with a
4                                                            375AWPAM10-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2003


    responsible agency at the departure aerodrome or use the JOSAC voice mail manifesting service.
    Notify the Flight Service Station of the location of the manifest. NOTE: If space-A passengers are
    running late, wait for them and take the delay (charge it to the Passenger Terminal). Make every
    attempt to ensure no space-A passengers are waiting on the mission. Call the passenger terminal prior
    to stepping on the jet for a final passenger count or make a quick radio/phone call before cranking the
    engines if the call was not made.
    2.6. Aircraft Preparation:
       2.6.1. Crewmembers will arrive at the aircraft early enough to get everything ready (1-hour prior
       to the launch sequence of events (SOE)). At least one pilot should arrive at the aircraft 45-minutes
       prior for through flights so all checklists are run and the aircraft is ready for passengers 30-minutes
       prior to scheduled take-off time. Before passenger/DVs arrival, accomplish the EXTERIOR
       INSPECTION and INTERIOR CHECK, as well as the following:
           2.6.1.1. Ensure the aircraft is clean. This check means not only a neat exterior and cockpit, but
           also a cabin free of coffee cups, papers, etc. Check the pilot's glare shield to ensure no maps,
           approach plates, etc., are visible to passengers as they arrive at the aircraft.
           2.6.1.2. Maintain aircraft emergency data cards and reading material, if available, in good
           condition and accessible but not in the way.
           2.6.1.3. Place your magnetic nametags on the plaque provided.
           2.6.1.4. Ensure required beverages, food, and accessories (toilet paper, earplugs, sugar, cups,
           napkins, etc.) are aboard and secured. Turn on the coffee heat switch as required.
           2.6.1.5. Place the DV placard in the appropriate aircraft window. Ensure the stars are pointing
           up. NOTE: Do not place stars in the window for civilian DVs. If a civilian outranks the mili-
           tary DV, no stars should be placed in the window. In the unusual scenario where you have a
           civilian and military DV who are the same rank, call JOSAC and find out who is the primary
           DV and follow the previous guidance. If unable to receive official guidance, place the stars in
           the window and you should be okay.
           2.6.1.6. Make sure the "Welcome Aboard" brochure and flight-phone instruction card, if
           phone-equipped, are prominently displayed.
           2.6.1.7. Check tray tables, overhead reading lights, and ensure seats are in normal working
           order. If not, inform the DV of the discrepancy and suggest he or she sit in one of the seats in
           working order. Hopefully, this will prevent an irritated DV during the flight. Write-up the dis-
           crepancy on the forms.
       2.6.2. Listen to Airport Terminal Information Service (ATIS).
       2.6.3. If available, copy clearance, set the squawk, departure frequency, initial level-off altitude,
       and emergency recovery settings.
       2.6.4. Maintain required FLIP publications open and readily accessible.
       2.6.5. If external power is on and connected while you are waiting for passengers, accomplish
       normal checklists through “BEFORE STARTING ENGINES.” Set the cabin lights for night
       flights.
    2.7. Passenger Arrival:
375AWPAM10-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2003                                                                        5


     2.7.1. Load baggage first, board and brief passengers after the DV arrives. Weather permitting,
     have passengers wait outside the aircraft and be ready for immediate boarding after the DV
     boards. If the DV arrives with or ahead of other passengers, load luggage, and brief the passengers
     as expeditiously and with extreme courtesy as possible for the DV.
     2.7.2. When the Passenger Service Representative brings the manifest, determine who are duty
     passengers and traveling on leave or pass status. NOTE: Ensure you have a manifest, prior to
     departure whenever carrying passengers. Make certain that you leave a copy of the manifest with
     a responsible agency (person) on the ground.
         2.7.2.1. At locations where there is not a passenger service, the AC is responsible for mani-
         festing and anti-hijacking inspecting all passengers and carry-on luggage.
         2.7.2.2. In accordance with AFI 13-207, Preventing and Resisting Aircraft Piracy (Hijack-
         ing), DVs and the people traveling with them, who come directly to the aircraft, are exempt
         from passenger and baggage inspections provided the senior member of the party certifies that
         the team members pose no hijacking threat and do not carry prohibited items.
     2.7.3. The AC has the authority to refuse passengers whose physical condition poses a safety haz-
     ard to themselves or others (consider emergency ground egress) and also undesirable passengers
     (intoxicated, bad body odor, unacceptable dress, etc.) if necessary. These situations usually
     involve a judgment call by the AC. In addition to safety, consider the welfare, dignity, and comfort
     of DVs and other passengers. If there are "no-show," passengers, inform JOSAC early enough so
     scheduled departure will not be delayed. JOSAC will make the determination to wait or proceed to
     your next destination. If a passenger "no shows" but his or her luggage has arrived, be sure to
     deplane the luggage unless otherwise directed by JOSAC.
  2.8. Baggage Loading. The AC has the discretion to leave people/baggage behind if there is insuffi-
  cient room. Do not place excess baggage in the aisle. Excess baggage may be strapped into empty
  seats if necessary. Passenger baggage is limited to 30 pounds--but you probably will end up with a
  varied assortment of luggage. Do not allow passengers to carry their bags up the entrance steps. Have
  the luggage passed aboard before the passengers board so one crewmember can stow luggage without
  having to work around passengers in the confined cabin. Always use the vinyl runner provided to
  avoid damage to the seat backs. CAUTION: Excessively heavy baggage may require both crewmem-
  bers to load baggage. Use proper lifting techniques to avoid injury while loading baggage (as best as
  you can).
  2.9. Passenger Boarding:
     2.9.1. If possible, verify the DV's seat preference prior to boarding. Allow the DV to board first or
     according to his or her preference. The other passengers have their choice of the remaining seats,
     with highest rank choosing first.
     2.9.2. Welcome the DVs at the bottom of the aircraft steps. Wait at parade rest with your hat on,
     forward and right of the door, and come to attention as the DV party arrives. Have any space-avail-
     able passengers wait by the wing root and out of the way. Render a salute to military DVs and
     appropriate civilian DVs (see NOTE). The other passengers should be informed of the DV's
     reserved seat, if known, and explain the DV should depart the aircraft first on arrival. NOTE: Ser-
     vice members shall render the same courtesy to the President and Cabinet officials as they would
     to a senior officer. Although not required, the same courtesy may be properly given to other senior
6                                                             375AWPAM10-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2003


       government officials (e.g., heads of agencies). Website accessible at:
       (http://oep.osophs.dhhs.gov/dmat/resource/mil_courtesy_cond.html):
    2.10. Passenger’s Briefing. Although you may brief passengers in the bus, terminal or Base Opera-
    tions before boarding, it's best to brief them in the aircraft since you can point out exits and equipment.
    Some tips on briefing are:
       2.10.1. Use the checklist because it projects a professional image.
       2.10.2. Introduce the crew by name (e.g., “Good morning, I’m Capt Smith. Capt Doe and I will be
       flying you to Andrews AFB.”). It’s very important to clearly state the destination. For example, if
       you’re going to Orlando Executive, brief it this way, not just "Orlando.” Give flying time and
       weather en route and at arrival. If there's more than one fixed base operator (FBO) at your destina-
       tion be sure to confirm the correct one with the DVs aide prior to arrival.
       2.10.3. Tailor the briefing to your passengers. If they are regulars on OSA aircraft, use good judg-
       ment in how much information you provide.
       2.10.4. When briefing en route time, add about 10 minutes for the approach. It does not matter if
       the extra time is not used since passengers are happier if they arrive earlier instead of later.
       2.10.5. Mention comfort items (i.e., magazines, beverages, cabin pressure, etc.).
       2.10.6. Invite passengers to view the cockpit if flight time and conditions permit.
       2.10.7. Always ask if there are questions.

3. Aircraft Mission Operations. From a passenger’s viewpoint, the flight is pleasant, safe, comfortable,
courteous, polished and professional.
    3.1. Engine Start/Pre-Taxi. While one pilot is loading luggage, boarding and briefing passengers/
    DVs, the other pilot should be strapped in and have the cockpit ready. Take care of last minute com-
    munications (ATIS, clearance, command post, etc.). Complete the checklists up to the STARTING
    ENGINES Checklist. Normally start the #2 engine as the first DV boards the aircraft.
    3.2. Taxi/Before Takeoff.
       3.2.1. During taxi, strive for smoothness and comfort.
           3.2.1.1. Check brakes easily, not abruptly.
           3.2.1.2. Make gentle, small turns, to check the nose wheel steering system.
       3.2.2. Once the airplane is moving, it is more comfortable to keep it moving than to taxi-stop-taxi,
       etc. Taxi slower if you need extra time for ground checks or anticipate an air traffic control delay.
       Advise the tower if you will be ready for an immediate takeoff upon reaching the runway. The
       tower will coordinate your departure release, and they can often clear you without delay. If you
       have to hold prior to takeoff, keep your passengers informed of anticipated delays. Prior to takeoff,
       announce over the passenger speakers that you will be taking off shortly (or cleared for takeoff)
       and remind them to check their seatbelts/seatbacks (if practical).
    3.3. Takeoff. A rolling takeoff is more comfortable than a static one. If the former is not possible or
    practical, a smooth rather than abrupt brake release can make quite a difference.
    3.4. Departure/Climb En Route:
375AWPAM10-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2003                                                                            7


     3.4.1. Have "good hands"--be smooth right from the start. Change pitch, bank, and power
     smoothly and deliberately. Since OSA aircraft are small, abrupt movements of the flight controls,
     particularly the elevator, are felt more in the cabin than in the cockpit. Anticipating level offs and
     turns can assist in smooth flying as well.
     3.4.2. Good climate control is important and can make all the difference between a pleasant and
     an unpleasant flight. Remember this check may require frequent temperature adjustments, partic-
     ularly during climbs and descents. Often you will be sitting in the sun up front. Don't forget about
     the temperature in back. Some pilots find manual control works best. Depending on the specific
     aircraft, 65 degrees Fahrenheit on the cabin temperature indicator is usually a comfortable target
     temperature.
     3.4.3. As soon as practical after level off, duties permitting, one pilot should go to the cabin to
     offer beverages, check temperature, and invite any interested passengers to view the cockpit. For
     longer sorties, a second visit during the latter part of the cruise segment can add a personal touch,
     particularly if a DV is aboard. NOTE: Don’t forget the oxygen requirements above flight level
     350.
     3.4.4. Use the “Fasten Seat Belt” and “No Smoking Signs” wisely. Of course, smoking is not
     allowed on Department of Defense aircraft.
     3.4.5. Keep alert for turbulence or chop, and monitor the ride reports of other aircraft. If flight
     conditions are rough, consider changing altitude or requesting a reroute. Turn the “Fasten Seat
     Belt” and “No Smoking Signs” on and advise the passengers of the expected duration of the turbu-
     lence.
     3.4.6. Use the cabin speaker with discretion. Besides providing information, a calm voice over the
     speaker can help reduce apprehension for nervous passengers. Before making an announcement,
     be aware of the passenger speaker volume before you transmit. If the volume is turned all the way
     up, it will startle the passengers as you transmit. The most opportune times for announcements are
     just before takeoff (seat belt fastened reminder), upon beginning descent (brief on destination,
     weather conditions, and expected block time), and on final approach (seat belt fastened). If the
     passengers are awake and not otherwise preoccupied in flight, a periodic announcement of aircraft
     location and points of interest take little time and make the flight go faster. In all cases, use discre-
     tion--you obviously shouldn't disturb a sleeping or preoccupied DV to pass on unnecessary infor-
     mation.
  3.5. In-Flight Diversions. If en route diversions or delays are necessary, keep the passengers, espe-
  cially DVs, informed. If you cannot land at the planned destination and several equal alternatives are
  available, you may want to get the DV involved in the decision-making process (e.g., you are en route
  to Eglin AFB and the weather goes below minimums--you can go to Pensacola NAS or Tyndall AFB,
  each having a similar effect on the mission). In this case, you may let the DV help decide. However,
  don't offer any options you or the mission cannot live with. Once on the ground, continue to ensure the
  passengers are made comfortable and informed of the mission’s status.
  3.6. In-Flight Emergencies:
     3.6.1. The safe recovery of the passengers and airplane is the primary consideration during an
     in-flight emergency. However, when an emergency can be stabilized, several options may be
     equally acceptable from a safety standpoint. If you cannot continue to the original destination,
     consider the following:
8                                                           375AWPAM10-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2003


           3.6.1.1. If nearby, home station is the most desirable diversion option from a crew and main-
           tenance viewpoint. If the aircraft cannot be fixed, you may be able to tail swap and continue
           the mission.
           3.6.1.2. Maintenance Capability. It is easier to support a broken airplane at a C-21A base than
           elsewhere. You may be able to get minor problems fixed quickly and continue with the DV. If
           the aircraft cannot be fixed quickly, query the contract maintenance provider or the local
           C-21A unit commander if another aircraft is available for a tail swap. The local C-21A unit
           commander will inform the 375 OG/CC of the swap.
           3.6.1.3. Distinguished Visitor Requirements. If the aircraft cannot be fixed quickly, JOSAC
           may divert an aircraft or generate another mission to support the DV. If you can land at an air-
           field commonly used by OSA aircraft, your job will be easier. As always, keep the passengers
           informed and offer any assistance you can.
       3.6.2. NEVER let convenience compromise safety!
    3.7. Descent:
       3.7.1. As far from destination as practical, obtain weather information, determine the active run-
       way, and compute the block time. As a technique, compute block time by adding 10 minutes to the
       arrival time shown on the UNS-1B Flight Management System. Adjust this time for these vari-
       ables:
           3.7.1.1. Strong head or tail winds during descent.
           3.7.1.2. Descent airspeed (near maximum versus turbulent air penetration airspeed).
           3.7.1.3. The ATC requires early descent and/or extended low-altitude maneuvering.
           3.7.1.4. Type of approach to be flown.
           3.7.1.5. Direction of approach in relation to your position (straight in versus downwind).
           3.7.1.6. Anticipated taxi route after landing.
       3.7.2. Pass block time and other required information to the command post at the AMC bases,
       Pilot-to-Dispatch (PTD) for military fields or through UNICOM, if available, and to fixed-based
       operators at civilian airports. Include special DV requests or requirements. Update block times if
       they change by more than 10 minutes to prevent embarrassment and/or confusion during the DV's
       arrival especially if other DVs are part of the greeting party. Use the in-flight guide, inbound call
       format.
       3.7.3. Ensure passengers are awake for the descent and able to clear their ears. When alerting
       them, inform them of block time and destination weather. Plan descents so that spoilers are not
       required, except for descents with full anti-ice (and associated higher power settings to maintain
       cabin pressure). If you need spoilers, use them. Just anticipate pitch changes and be smooth with
       aircraft controls.
    3.8. Approach:
       3.8.1. Fly an approach consistent with conditions. Fly a precision approach, if available, during
       marginal weather or at night. At other times, consider the following:
           3.8.1.1. A precision or visual approach is better for passenger comfort because intermediate
375AWPAM10-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2003                                                                           9


         level offs and power changes are minimized.
         3.8.1.2. Anticipate throttle adjustments. Large power changes are magnified in the cabin.
     3.8.2. Throughout the descent/arrival/approach, monitor your progress in reference to the pro-
     posed block time. If the block time cannot or should not be changed:
         3.8.2.1. Do NOT sacrifice safety for a block time--the band never plays until the DV exits the
         aircraft!
         3.8.2.2. Increase or decrease airspeed to expedite or delay arrival.
         3.8.2.3. Know your arrival parking spot or area so you can realistically judge the time from
         touchdown to the blocks.
  3.9. Landing/Taxi-In. A smooth rollout is the best conclusion to a comfortable flight. Use reverse
  thrusters as required, but keep in mind passenger comfort. On a dry 10,000-foot runway, full reverse
  will most likely not be necessary. Smooth braking and turning is as important during taxi-in, as it was
  before takeoff.
  3.10. Block-In:
     3.10.1. Brake to a stop gradually. If the greeting party is awaiting the DV’s arrival, shutdown the
     left engine prior to parking, if conditions permit. After block-in, plan for the passengers (espe-
     cially DVs) to deplane immediately after engine shutdown. As soon as the throttles are OFF, one
     pilot should get out of the seat and leave the other pilot to complete the checklist. Open the door,
     exit quickly, put on your hat, and allow the DV to exit first--then the other passengers. Render a
     salute, and welcome the DV to the location of the airport. Encourage the passengers to depart with
     their hands empty, which is safer and less awkward. The crew should unload the baggage.
     3.10.2. Brief through-passengers on the following items as applicable:
         3.10.2.1. Ground time.
         3.10.2.2. Requirement to deplane or option to stay aboard.
         3.10.2.3. Seating arrangements and DV requirements for next sortie.
         3.10.2.4. Ground facilities available if passengers are allowed to deplane.
         3.10.2.5. Time and place to be available for reboarding.
     3.10.3. Give the manifest to the Passenger Service Representative. In cases where no Passenger
     Representative is present at block-in, a pilot should wait with the passengers or escort them to the
     terminal or Base Operations; provide directions to facilities; and offer any other help to make the
     stop pleasant.
     3.10.4. Once the passengers are on their way, clean up and arrange the cabin for the next leg; dis-
     pose of used cups, papers, etc. If this is done now, you will be ready for your passengers if they
     show early. They can sit in their seats while you do the EXTERIOR and BEFORE STARTING
     ENGINES Checklists without being in the way.
     3.10.5. After the last flight of the day, perform an inspection of the aircraft interior. Pay particular
     attention to the condition of the cabin. Do the seats recline? Do the tray tables operate properly?
     Any new tears or marks on seats or interior, etc.? Make the appropriate write-up in the aircraft
     forms.
10                                                           375AWPAM10-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2003


4. Additional Related Operations/Topics:
     4.1. Operations Stop (Ops Stop). Operations Stop may be used under certain conditions (see appropri-
     ate regulation). Important considerations are the number of passengers to enplane and deplane,
     approval of the DVs involved, and whether DV greeters will meet the aircraft. When you decide to
     “ops stop," inform deplaning passengers and coordinate with the command post or pilot to dispatch,
     so that the Passenger Service Representative and enplaning passengers are present at block-in. If there
     is confusion or doubt, do not conduct an Ops Stop.
     4.2. Interplane:
        4.2.1. An interplane is scheduled when the DV cannot wait on a normal fuel stop. In this case, one
        plane makes a stop en route and the passengers transfer to a waiting aircraft and complete the trip.
        The pilot of the aircraft from which passengers/DVs will deplane should forward an accurate esti-
        mated time of arrival to the interplane airfield as soon as radio contact is possible. Request to park
        next to the interplane aircraft, and pass any special requests (such as meals for interplaning pas-
        sengers) to the command post or PTD. Inform passengers of the status of the interplane aircraft.
        4.2.2. The AC of the enplaning aircraft should verify block time of the inbound aircraft and pre-
        pare the aircraft for departure, with the other passengers on board, based on the inbound aircraft
        block time. On arrival, the crewmembers of the arriving aircraft should help transfer luggage and
        update the departing crew on special requests.
     4.3. Departure Reliability:
        4.3.1. The JOSAC allows early departures (up to 30 minutes) without prior coordination. Being
        early is usually an advantage since it provides a pad if problems develop; however, make sure mis-
        sion requirements are met. Wait for scheduled passengers, unless they have cancelled or deter-
        mined to be "no shows." A DV arriving early and wanting to go early is not justification to depart
        without other scheduled passengers and/or cargo. In addition, crews may always use their
        full-allotted ground time (even if DV/passengers show early and want to depart) if the crew feels
        they need the full time to rest, prepare for the next leg and remain safe. As always, make every
        attempt to comply with the DVs request if you can in a safe manner.
        4.3.2. A disadvantage of departing early is that nonscheduled duty passengers and/or space-avail-
        able passengers hoping to use your flight may not know you are ahead of time until it is too late for
        them to react. If all DVs/passengers are prepared for an early departure and you are leaving early,
        ensure the passenger terminal is notified and a revised arrival time is passed to the destination air-
        port. NOTE: This is especially important when transporting DVs so that the reception party at the
        destination will be prepared to meet them. Do not count on the new flight plan being automatically
        transmitted to destination Base Operations. Relay the time yourself by personally contacting des-
        tination Base Operations and request they advise the greeting party.
     4.4. Flying Generals:
        4.4.1. Ensure the general officer is current by checking with the host unit.
        4.4.2. This pamphlet does not address cockpit/flying procedures, and responsibilities for instruc-
        tor pilots (IPs) are not addressed here. However, the other pilot must perform several tasks, since
        the IP should be in the right seat before the general arrives. The copilot should:
            4.4.2.1. Brief and supervise the passengers. If available, they should be boarded and briefed
375AWPAM10-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2003                                                                          11


         before the general arrives. If the passengers arrive with or after the general, ensure they are
         briefed prior to takeoff.
         4.4.2.2. Load and stow luggage.
         4.4.2.3. Meet and greet the general.
         4.4.2.4. When safely airborne, come forward and offer a beverage to the general and IP.
         4.4.2.5. Take care of all other cabin responsibilities, since the IP will not be able to leave the
         cockpit.
         4.4.2.6. Sit in the jump seat or in a main cabin seat to quickly respond if the IP needs assis-
         tance. If the general will fly only part of the leg, determine which seat he will use, and ensure
         it's available.
         4.4.2.7. Do not allow other passengers to deplane ahead of the general.
         4.4.2.8. An AFTO Form 781, ARMS Aircrew/Mission Flight Data Document,“extract”
         should be ready for the general when he deplanes (not required if his flight records are main-
         tained at your home station).
  4.5. Irate DVs:
     4.5.1. Most of our customers (passengers) appreciate our efforts, but on occasion, you may have
     to deal with an irate high-ranking passenger. He/she may not be mad at you specifically, but could
     be on edge from outside pressures, tight schedules or the perception the AMC system is not pro-
     viding proper support. Whatever the reason, the AC must deal with the situation diplomatically.
     4.5.2. Make whatever adjustments you can without compromising safety, operational directives
     or the mission. If a disagreement exists, explain that only JOSAC can authorize changes to the
     scheduled mission. Contact the JOSAC duty officer, describe the problem, and see if JOSAC can
     accommodate the DV. If not, please be apologetic and professional. Report the occurrence to the
     Scott Command Post (SCP) and home unit, and ask them to relay the occurrence to 375 OG/CC in
     case the DV calls.
  4.6. Communicating with DVs. Some people are more personable and prone to conversation than oth-
  ers. These variables should not affect the official communications required to execute the mission, but
  can limit the light chatter which is often a pleasurable part of the mission. If the DV initiates a conver-
  sation and wants to chat, by all means do so. However, if you try to initiate a conversation and he or
  she is not receptive, back off and do not push it. In any event, it is not professional to take advantage
  of the proximity/access to the DV to promote yourself or your career.
  4.7. Crew Free Time/Meals. No time is specifically scheduled into missions for the crew to eat or take
  care of personal business at any location. Some missions will have excessive time at certain stops and
  finding time for eating is no problem. However, for stops with short ground times, consider taking a
  lunch with you from home station or purchasing an in-flight snack or lunch at an en route stop. Some
  bases accept orders for in-flight snacks/meals through PTD for pick up on arrival. If a snack bar is near
  the flight line, one pilot can purchase sandwiches "to go," while the other pilot updates weather and
  prepares the Takeoff and Landing Data (TOLD) Card. In any case, use good judgment; do not be
  caught unprepared if a DV arrives early. No matter how long the scheduled ground time, always let
  someone know (Base Operations, command post, FBO or member of the DV party, as appropriate)
  where you will be if you plan to leave the flight-line area and leave a cell phone number where you
12                                                         375AWPAM10-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2003


     can be reached if available. If you have no outbound passengers and want to delay departure on a dep-
     ositioning leg, coordinate through the TACC and JOSAC for the crew enhancement delay, and make
     sure the delay code is properly annotated.
        4.7.1. Long ground times present problems for the crew if the DV shows early and the crew is not
        available. Crews should make every attempt to communicate with the DV to confirm the sched-
        uled departure time or determine if the DV may depart early. If the crew plans on leaving the area
        for an extended period of time, let the DV or aide know what time you will return or work with the
        aide to determine the earliest time the DV may want to depart. You may also ask the aide to call
        you (cell phone, Base Operations, FBO) if they will be more than 30 minutes early for the depar-
        ture. NOTE: If your mission schedule includes picking up a DV followed by picking up another
        higher ranking DV it's a good idea to tactfully communicate to the first DV's aide that being late
        could put you in a very difficult position and cause problems "downstream."
     4.8. Command and Control Coordination:
        4.8.1. As previously mentioned, we work with minimum direct command and control supervision
        during airlift missions. However, when you need help it's readily available from the following four
        agencies:
            4.8.1.1. TACC. Notify TACC if you have any changes or deviations to your itinerary, to
            include take-off times, landing times, late codes and location changes. Usually you can get a
            phone patch to JOSAC from TACC and have them stay on the line so you only need to make
            one phone call. As always, when contacting TACC or JOSAC, get a name or initials of the
            individual who you passed the information too.
            4.8.1.2. JOSAC. Advise JOSAC of any problems, including ones you've solved which affect
            the mission, crew or passengers. These problems include, but are not limited to, diversions,
            maintenance, emergencies incidents, “no show” passengers, irate DVs, and mission limita-
            tions.
            4.8.1.3. Scott Command Post. Inform the SCP of any incident, no matter how minor, espe-
            cially if a DV 6 or above is aboard. Brief the SCP on any situation that you believe might be
            embarrassing to the 375 AW. Keep them “in the loop” on all dealings with JOSAC.
            4.8.1.4. Home Unit. Comply with the local commander's instructions, and call the unit if you
            believe they need to know something as soon as possible, so they can answer questions.
        4.8.2. If you request an early departure through JOSAC and TACC–Be sure to notify the arrival
        location of the planned arrival time so they are prepared for the arrival of an important DV (if
        applicable).
        4.8.3. If you have a problem that you do not have the authority to resolve, recommend a course of
        action rather than just asking for guidance. You should know the situation best, and your analysis
        and recommendations will result in a quicker solution to your problem. FLY SAFE!



                                                     SCOTTY E. LEWIS, Colonel, USAF
                                                     Commander, 375th Operations Group
375AWPAM10-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2003                                   13


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 13-207, Preventing and Resisting Aircraft Piracy (Hijacking)
T.O. 1C-21A-1, Flight Manual USAF Series C-21A Aircraft

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AC—Aircraft Commander
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AMC—Air Mobility Command
ASRR—Airfield Suitability and Restriction Report
ATIS—Airport Terminal Information Service
AW—Airlift Wing
CDT—Crew Duty Time
CONUS—Continental United States
DV—Distinguished Visitor
FLIP—Flight Information Publication
IP—Instructor Pilot
JALIS—Joint Airlift Information System
JOSAC—Joint Operational Support Airlift Center
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NAS—Naval Air Station
NOTAMS—Notice To Airman
OCONUS—Outside The Continental United States
OG—Operations Group
OSA—Operational Support Airlift
PPR—Prior permission required
PTD—Pilot-to-Dispatch
RCR—Runway Condition Reading
RON—Remaining Overnight
SCP—Scott Command Post
14                                   375AWPAM10-101 30 SEPTEMBER 2003


SOE—Sequence Of Events
Space-A—Space Available
TACC—Tanker Airlift Control Center
TOLD—Take Off and Landing Data
