BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       THIRD AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2801
THIRD AIR FORCE
                                                                        26 SEPTEMBER 2011

                                                                                     Personnel

                                                      UNITED KINGDOM AMBASSADOR’S
                                                                  AWARDS PROGRAM



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 3 AF-UK/IR                                                       Certified by: 3 AF-UK/IR
                                                                        (Mr. Mark A. Silvanic)
                                                                                       Pages: 6


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-28, Awards and Decorations
Program. It provides guidance and procedures for the nomination, selection, and presentation of
annual community relations awards to outstanding American and British personnel. It applies to
all Active Duty, Reserves, Air National Guard, and civilian personnel working or living in a
community where United States Visiting Forces (USVF) are stationed in the United Kingdom.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.

This publication requires the collecting and keeping of information protected by the Privacy Act
of 1974 authorized by Title 10, United States Code, Section 8013. System of records notice F036
AF PC V, Awards and Decorations, applies.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial
product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

1. Objectives. The Ambassador’s Awards Program recognizes outstanding United States (US)
and United Kingdom (UK) personnel working in or with USVF at bases and units within the UK
 2                                                        3AFI36-2801 26 SEPTEMBER 2011


in the advancement of bilateral relations. The award highlights the productive cooperation
between USVF and local communities to facilitate enhanced British-American Community
Relations.
2. Background. The Ambassador’s Awards program was initiated in 1955 by the then
Ambassador to the Court of St James’s, Mr. Winthrop Aldrich. It allowed the American
Ambassador to the United Kingdom (UK) to recognize those bases and individuals that have
made outstanding contributions to local community relations during the previous year. The
awards were discontinued around 2002 with the reorganization of numbered air forces in Europe.
This instruction continues the awards program on behalf of the American Ambassador to the
UK.
3. Awards. Each base or regional grouping of bases will select one nominee for each of the
following award categories: US Individual, UK Individual, and Group Program (US or UK).
4. Award Criteria. The Ambassador’s awards are given to individuals and organizations that
make exceptional contributions to the British-American community relations. The award period
is 1 May through 30 April of the following calendar year. This unusual award period was
selected to be set apart from the other United States Air Force (USAF) annual awards and to
occur early enough to recognize the recipients before the heavy permanent change of station
(PCS) cycle in the summer months.
5. Nominee Eligibility.
     5.1. Individual Awards - Anyone is eligible for the award. All US citizens or family
     members thereof are eligible for the US Individual Award, and all UK citizens and residents
     are eligible for the UK Individual Award. The award may be given for work performed
     during any part of the award period. The work need not last for the entire annual period.
     5.2. Group Program Award – Any organization or group, regardless of national affiliation, is
     eligible for this award. In the judgment of the nominator, this group must have made a
     significant enhancement to the Community Relations programs in the region/community,
     even if the main focus of the group is not directly related to community relations.
6. Award Groupings. Awards will be grouped into major regional or organizational lines. The
following bases or organizations will be grouped together:
     6.1. RAF Mildenhall
     6.2. RAF Lakenheath and RAF Feltwell
     6.3. RAF Alconbury and RAF Molesworth
     6.4. RAF Croughton
     6.5. RAF Fairford and RAF Welford (Beginning in 2011, these bases will combine with
     RAF Croughton)
     6.6. RAF Menwith Hill
     6.7. NATO Northwood and London Communities
3AFI36-2801 26 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                    3


7. Responsibilities.
   7.1. The US Ambassador to the United Kingdom is the award approval authority. He or she
   will:
       7.1.1. Sign the award certificates
       7.1.2. Participate in an award ceremony if requested and available.
   7.2. The Defense Attaché Office (DAO) has been delegated authority from the US
   Ambassador to oversee the selection process. The DAO will:
       7.2.1. Chair the award selection board which consists of a representative of 3 AF-UK
       and the British-American Community Relations Coordinator.
       7.2.2. Establish procedures to be used by the selection board.
       7.2.3. Produce the certificates for the winners.
       7.3. AF-UK is represented in this process by its International Relations directorate, 3AF-
       UK/IR. 3AF-UK/IR will:
           7.3.1. Act as the office of primary responsibility for the administration of the award
           program.
           7.3.2. Receive the nominees from each of the award groupings for consolidation and
           transmittal to the award selection board.
           7.3.3. Represent 3 AF-UK on the selection board.
           7.3.4. Distribute the signed award certificates to the local installation commanders
           for presentation.
   7.4. The British-American Community Relations Coordinator (BACR) will serve on the
   award selection board.
   7.5. Senior installation commanders are responsible to:
       7.5.1. Execute the program for their base/region so that nominees are selected in a fair
       process.
       7.5.2. Include the local British-American Committee Chairs, Community Relations
       Advisors and RAF Commanders in their nominee selection process.
       7.5.3. Complete nomination packages to 3AF-UK/IR no later than 31 May each year.
8. Nomination and Selection Process.
   8.1. Nominations must be made on an AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award, and will be
   limited no more than 18 lines, in bullet format. Heading for the body of the AF Form 1206
   (not to be counted as one of the 18 lines) will be ―Contributions to Community Relations‖.
   8.2. Any person associated with the US base communities may nominate a person or
   program for these awards. Nominators should ensure they provide sufficient details
   supporting the relevant actions and results of the nominee’s contributions towards the
   award’s objectives, for the local selection officials to give due consideration to all nominees.
   8.3. Nominations are due to 3 AF-UK/IR no later than 31 May of each calendar year.
 4                                                      3AFI36-2801 26 SEPTEMBER 2011


     8.4. Each base or regional grouping will forward a maximum of one award nominee for each
     category.
     8.5. Pursuant to the recommendation of the award selection board, the DAO may present any
     number of awards in each category for approval by the Ambassador.
9. Award Presentations. Awards may be presented as the senior installation commander
deems appropriate. Care should be given in choosing an award presentation forum which
reinforces the strong community relations spirit of the award.




                                            MARK R. ZAMZOW, Maj Gen, USAF
                                            Vice Commander
3AFI36-2801 26 SEPTEMBER 2011                                   5


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, 1 August 1997
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award, 1 July 2000
AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
CRA—Community Relations Advisor
DAO—Defense Attaché Office
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
RAF—Royal Air Force
UK—United Kingdom
US—United States
USAF—United States Air Force
USVF—United States Visiting Forces
 6                                                      3AFI36-2801 26 SEPTEMBER 2011


                                        Attachment 2
                         AMBASSADOR AWARD CERTIFICATE

A2.1. This attachment contains example of certificate for the individual or group citation. The
stock supply of certificates will be maintained by OPR: 3 AF-UK/IR and presented by the
Ambassador.

Figure A2.1. Sample Certificate
