BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           THIRD AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 31-209
THRID AIR FORCE
                                                                           15 FEBRUARY 2004
                                                        Incorporating Change 1, 2 December 2014

                                                                                            Security

                                                          INSTALLATION SECURITY IN THE
                                                         UNITED KINGDON (DEALING WITH
                                                                           INTRUDERS)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ 3AF/A38                                                           Certified by: HQ 3AF/JA
                                                                                (Col John J. Karns)
                                                                                           Pages: 8


This instruction implements AFPD 31-12, Integrated Defense; AFI 31-117, and USAFE
Supplement 1 to AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel; AFMAN 31-
222, Air Force Use of Force Manual; and AFMAN 31-201, Volume 4, High Risk Response. It
reiterates the authority of the US Forces to police US occupied installations in the United
Kingdom (UK). It establishes specific procedures for dealing with base intruders and details
appropriate security force responses in restricted or controlled areas. This instruction reiterates
options available to security forces (to include the rules on the use of force) consistent with the
applicable AFIs. It establishes requisite security force training to include UK sensitivity training.
It explains the concept of joint US/UK policing and outlines our mutual objectives for ensuring
maximum force protection with enhanced law enforcement activity. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command. This publication may be supplemented, but all direct
Supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification
and approval. The authorities to waive requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier
number (T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3) following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications
and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers.
Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver
approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.
 2                                                             3AFI31-209 15 FEBRUARY 2004


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change revises 3AFI31-209 by (1) incorporating the waiver authority statement in
the opening paragraph, (2) add required tier numbers in the text of the document. Revisions are
indicated by a vertical bar (|) in the left margin.
1. Purpose
     1.1. Security forces must understand the full range of options available to them when
     responding to security incidents. This is vital in a heightened security environment, when
     risks associated with normal protestor activity are significantly increased because of
     legitimate terrorist concerns. Procedures must minimize intrusions onto installations in order
     to adequately protect US personnel and assets.
     1.2. This instruction establishes procedures to maintain the requisite physical security of the
     installation commensurate with USAF force protection standards. In addition, it addresses the
     need for joint US-UK policing to maximize physical security and respond to criminal activity
     in accordance with the UK criminal justice system. While this instruction consolidates a
     number of security AFIs, it also establishes UK-specific policy to meet both our force
     protection and law enforcement objectives.
2. Legal Authority
     2.1. The NATO SOFA, Article VII, paragraph 10a, authorizes USAF Security Forces to
     police USAF occupied installations in the UK. Security Forces personnel may take all
     appropriate measures to ensure the maintenance of good order and security on USAF
     occupied bases.
     2.2. USAF Security Forces are authorized to protect US facilities, property and personnel
     and may take necessary lawful measures to do so. Security Forces personnel must follow
     applicable DoD and Combatant Commander directives, regulations and USAF instructions
     when carrying out their security responsibilities.
     2.3. Rules for Courts-Martial 302c and Article 7b contained in the Manual for Courts-
     Martial, give Security Forces the authority to apprehend any persons subject to the UCMJ
     suspected of having committed an offense. Title 18 and the US Constitution authorize the
     detention of US civilians for offenses committed on a military installation or property under
     the control of the armed services.
     2.4. UK or third-country national civilians are not subject to the UCMJ or US law and must
     therefore be turned over to UK police authorities, as soon as practicable, if they are detained
     on suspicion of committing a crime or posing a risk to the security of the installation.
3. Considerations to Assist UK Authorities
     3.1. Intruders entering USAF occupied installations are likely to have committed criminal
     offenses under UK law and care should be taken to ensure evidence is secured for possible
     use in subsequent criminal proceedings.
        3.1.1. Depending on the circumstances, intruders could be arrested and charged with, but
        not limited to the following: terrorist offenses; weapons related offenses; equipped to
        commit a crime; criminal damage; aggravated trespass; obstructing a public highway;
3AFI31-209 15 FEBRUARY 2004                                                                     3


      obstructing a police officer in the performance of his duties; public disorder, breach of
      the peace offenses, etc.
      3.1.2. Aggravated Trespass: While simple trespass is not a criminal offense in the UK,
      persons who trespass on land in open air and disrupts, obstructs, or intimidates a lawful
      activity may be committing the criminal offense of “aggravated trespass”.
          3.1.2.1. One "lawful activity" that will likely be disrupted by any intrusion is the
          security function of the installation.
   3.2. Security Force and other US personnel responding to intruder activity should be
   prepared to provide statements to UK police authorities as to their involvement in responding
   to the intrusion. Both SF and MDP who were involved in the security operation, should note
   the disruption to security caused by the intrusion.
   3.3. Specific actions must be implemented to ensure the security of the installation and
   protect personnel from harm and should be included in installations standard operating
   procedures.
      3.3.1. Close installation entry and exit gates as soon as possible upon notification of
      intrusion activity.
      3.3.2. Cordon off and evacuate effected areas.
      3.3.3. Conduct a search of the effected areas to ensure all intruders are detained and any
      devices or other evidence is found.
   3.4. SF personnel involved must document any disruption caused by gate closures, cordons,
   evacuations and other security measures that had to be implemented because of the intrusion.
   3.5. Persons suspected of committing aggravated trespass can be "warned off" land for up to
   three months. The warning off must be accomplished by the senior UK police officer present
   at the scene.
      3.5.1. Having been warned off for aggravated trespass, any return within three months is
      an offense and, under this circumstance, there is no need to show disruption or
      obstruction of lawful activities.
   3.6. Wings will develop checklists that will assist the Security Forces in showing the
   disruption to operations. The following types of information should be included in the
   checklist (an AF Form 2519, All Purpose Checklist may be used): number of intruders, time
   of intrusion, MDP notifications, gate closures, cordons established, area searches conducted,
   intruders detained, personnel searches conducted and times of every detail to be able to
   document the entire disruption down to the last minute.
4. Policy for Dealing With Intruders
   4.1. Anyone who enters an installation without authorization or for a purpose contrary to the
   best interests of the United States may be an “intruder”. USAF Security Forces personnel
   shall determine when a person is intruding on an installation. Intruders shall be intercepted,
   detained and removed. In the absence of UK police officers or in situations where UK police
   officers are overwhelmed or unable to intercept intruders, US Security Forces personnel may
   detain and hold intruders until such time as it is safe and reasonably practicable to hand them
   over to UK police authorities.
 4                                                           3AFI31-209 15 FEBRUARY 2004


     4.2. The actions of USAF Security Forces personnel in response to intruder activity must
     support both USAF security requirements and law enforcement objectives. Intruders, both
     those who are citizens of the UK and those who are citizens of a third country, who are
     suspected of committing a crime will be subject to trial before the UK courts for their
     actions. Accordingly, while USAF installation security remains paramount, procedures
     should, where possible, be followed to support UK authorities responsible for the
     prosecution.
     4.3. Security Forces personnel are authorized to use force to detain intruders in accordance
     with DoD and Air Force directives. Security Forces personnel must comply with AFI 31-207
     and USAFE Sup1 Arming and Use of Force By Air Force Personnel; AFMAN 31-222,
     Security Forces Use of Force Manual; and local operating instructions concerning the use of
     force.
     4.4. Security Forces personnel are subject to the UCMJ and will be held accountable under
     US military law for criminal offenses or regulatory violations they may commit.
        4.4.1. In accordance with Article VII of the NATO Status of Forces Agreement, US
        military officials will make the final determination as to whether an act or omission
        arising out of the performance of official duties constitutes an offense actionable under
        US law and the UCMJ. Accordingly, US military authorities will investigate and address
        allegations of criminal offenses committed by US Security Forces personnel. Upon
        notification of any allegations of criminal activity or other misconduct committed by US
        Security Forces personnel, the matter should be referred to the base legal office as soon
        as possible.
5. General Procedures for Dealing With Intruders
     5.1. Upon notification of intruder activity USAF Security Forces personnel will: (T-1)
        5.1.1. Detain intruders if MDP personnel are not on scene (or are otherwise unavailable)
        or are incapable of controlling the incident.
        5.1.2. Contact the MDP immediately.
        5.1.3. Permit MDP officers to control any intruder incident, providing MDP personnel
        are both on scene and capable of controlling the incident.
        5.1.4. Permit MDP to assume control of any detained intruder as soon as reasonably
        practical.
        5.1.5. Provide additional assistance to MDP upon their request.
        5.1.6. In circumstances where the MDP are not available to respond to any reported
        incident, contact the local county police and follow the procedures referred to in this
        Instruction substituting the county police for the MDP.
6. Direct Contact With Intruders
     6.1. It may become necessary to interact directly with intruders. If so, the following rules
     apply:
        6.1.1. Within the confines of US forces occupied installations, US security personnel
        may engage in the use of force in strict accordance with and following the principles and
3AFI31-209 15 FEBRUARY 2004                                                                      5


      procedures outlined in AFI 31-207 and USAFE Sup1, Arming and Use of Force by Air
      Force Personnel.
   6.2. Use only that force reasonably necessary to reach your objective, as follows:
      6.2.1. In self-defense and, or, defense of others;
      6.2.2. To prevent further intrusions onto the installation;
      6.2.3. To prevent criminal damage or threats to security (facilities and personnel), or in
      the interest of public safety;
      6.2.4. To detain intruders until such time as it is safe and reasonably practicable to hand
      over to MDP;
      6.2.5. To move intruders as necessitated by security, mission, safety or emergency
      concerns;
      6.2.6. To transport any intruders who need to be moved to the nearest safe location for
      transfer to MDP;
      6.2.7. To handcuff intruders. (AFMAN 31-222, chapter 9)
   6.3. In all cases, once a particular level of force is no longer required, you must discontinue
   its use.
7. Direct Contact With Intruders (Non-Security Forces Personnel)
   7.1. All Air Force members must shoulder their share of security responsibility.
   7.2. In all circumstances where force is used, personnel will only use the minimum amount
   of force to complete the task.
8. Detaining Intruders
   8.1. When necessary to detain intruders, follow standard procedures for conducting searches
   for weapons or criminal evidence that the individual could remove or destroy.
   8.2. Use of force, to include physical restraint, may become necessary to detain intruders.
   Security Forces personnel should take care to use the minimum physical force necessary, and
   then, only when other forms of restraint are not effective.
   8.3. Intruders should be handed over to MDP as soon as it is safe and reasonably practical to
   do so.
   8.4. If a protest is anticipated, security personnel should coordinate with MDP and identify a
   suitable holding facility to detain intruders in the event there are a number of incursions.
   8.5. Intermediate level use of force may also be used to detain intruders if that level of force
   is reasonably necessary under the circumstances to carry out assigned responsibilities.
   Intermediate level force such as chemical irritant, riot control agents, police and riot batons,
   military working dogs, etc, must be used in accordance with AFI 31-207, USAFE Sup1 and
   AFMAN 31-201V2.
   8.6. Use of deadly force is only authorized as a last resort and in strict accordance with AFI
   and USAFE Sup 1 31-207.
 6                                                             3AFI31-209 15 FEBRUARY 2004


9. Use of Handcuffs
     9.1. Handcuffing is a use of force. Handcuffs should be used only if necessary and when
     circumstances warrant their use for the protection of resources, the general public, Security
     Forces personnel, the intruders themselves, or to prevent Security Forces personnel from
     losing control of a situation.
     9.2. When applying handcuffs, first inform detainees of the handcuffing procedure and give
     them the opportunity to cooperate.
     9.3. When applying handcuffs, use only such force necessary to achieve control of a
     resisting detainee.
10. Search Procedures
     10.1. On-base: US Security Forces search detained non-US nationals if the circumstances
     warrant a search. However, if possible, allow the search of non-US nationals to be conducted
     by the MDP. (T-1)
     10.2. A search is authorized to protect life, property or to prevent the loss or destruction of
     evidence.
     10.3. Detained non-US nationals may be searched for the possession of any weapons or any
     harmful devices they may be carrying on their person.
     10.4. Search procedures for female detainees:
        10.4.1. Female security forces or other female military personnel should conduct the
        search.
        10.4.2. If an urgent safety or security need exists, two Security Force personnel must be
        present to witness a search conducted by the opposite sex.
     10.5. Security Forces personnel may search detained non-US nationals’ parcels, hand-
     baggage or vehicles in accordance with standard search procedures. However, if possible,
     allow this search to be conducted by MDP.
        10.5.1. Do not allow detained personnel access to hand-baggage or parcels.
     10.6. Use standard search and “stop and frisk” procedures in accordance with AFMAN 31-
     222, Chapter 8, AFMAN 31-201V2, Chapter 1, and local operating instructions.
     10.7. Off-base: All off-base policing activities (that includes searches and frisks of non-US
     nationals) require the coordination and approval of UK police authorities. (T-1)
        10.7.1. Coordinate all off-base policing activity with the staff judge advocate prior to
        conducting the activity.
11. Transporting Detained Persons
     11.1. Search all detained intruders prior to transporting them in a Security Forces vehicle
     and follow procedures contained in Chapter 9, AFMAN 31-222, Security Forces Use of
     Force Manual and AFMAN 31- 201V2, Legal Considerations.
     11.2. Handcuff detainees prior to transport and always use installed seatbelts.
3AFI31-209 15 FEBRUARY 2004                                                                      7


   11.3. When transporting a detainee of the opposite sex, you should ask another security
   forces member or an NCO of the same gender as the detainee to accompany you. If a same
   gender SF member or other NCO is not available, notify the control center of your location,
   approximate distance to the designated location, odometer reading, and departure time. Upon
   arrival at the designated location, notify the controller of the arrival time and odometer
   reading.
12. Procedures in Restricted, Controlled Areas
   12.1. Security Forces will intercept and detain intruders in restricted and controlled areas as
   soon as possible and transport them to a safe location outside the restricted or controlled area
   for transfer to MDP.
13. Unauthorized Vehicle Entry onto Installation
   13.1. Vehicle intrusions should be dealt with first by preventing access to resources, then by
   blocking further movement of the vehicle and occupants.
   13.2. If a vehicle enters a restricted or controlled area and the occupants do not voluntarily
   exit the vehicle, it may be necessary to use force to enter the vehicle and remove the
   occupants. Occupants will be warned prior to forcibly entering the vehicle.
   13.3. The vehicle will be towed or otherwise removed from the restricted or controlled area
   as soon as it is safe and practicable.
14. Security Forces Training (UK)
   14.1. Security Forces and security augmentees will receive initial training on local
   jurisdiction, rules of engagement, use of force and handling of trespassers. Recurring, local
   training on UK police procedure and sensitivities is also required.




                                             MICHAEL W.WOOLEY, Major General, USAF
                                             Commander
 8                                                       3AFI31-209 15 FEBRUARY 2004


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
NATO Status of Forces Agreement, 1951
UK Visiting Forces Act, 1952
DoDI 2000.16, DoD Antiterrorism Standards
DoD 0-2000.12-H, Protection of DoD Personnel and Activities Against Act of Terrorism and
Political Turbulence
AFI 31-207 and USAFE Supplement 1, Arming and Use of Force By Air Force Personnel
AFMAN 31-201, Volume 2, Security (Legal Considerations)
AFMAN 31-222, Security Forces Use of Force Manual
AFJI 31-102, Physical Security
AFMAN 31-201, Volume 4, High-Risk Response
AFPD 31-3, Air Base Defense

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
DoD—Department of Defense
MDP—Ministry of Defence Police
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
SOFA—Status of Forces Agreement
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
UK—United Kingdom
US—United States
USAF—United States Air Force
USAFE—United States Air Forces Europe
USC—United States Code
