BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                          THIRD AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-702
THIRD AIR FORCE                                                       4 NOVEMBER 2008

                                                                                                Law
                                            CONTROL PROCEDURES FOR THE PURCHASE
                                             OF TAX-FREE GASOLINE AND DIESEL FUEL
                                            FROM OFF-BASE SUPPLIERS IN THE UNITED
                                                                         KINGDOM


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:            Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                          www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY:            There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.



OPR: 3AF-UK/JA                                            Certified by: 3AF-UK/JA (Col Rodgers)
Supersedes: 3AF OI34-201, 1 January 2005                                               Pages: 7


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 51-7, International Law. It contains
procedures for the supply of tax-free motor fuel to entitled personnel of the United States Force
(USF) at United Sates (US) bases throughout the United Kingdom (UK). The procedures contained
herein provide a standardized system within the UK that will ensure adequate internal control
throughout the entire program. Strict adherence to this instruction is required as deviations there
from may result in the withdrawal of this tax-free privilege by the UK government from the US Force
in the UK. This instruction applies to personnel on temporary duty (TDY) to or permanently
stationed within the UK. This instruction provides a basis for punitive action under the Uniform
Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) for US Air Force military personnel or administrative action, to
include possible revocation of all duty-free privileges for military and civilian personnel. It applies to
active and reserve United States Air Force members, Air National Guard (ANG), and dependents and
civilians employees as set forth in paragraph 1. For application of this instruction to Army, Navy,
and Marine Corps members and respective civilian personnel, see AER 550-33/CINCUSNAVEURI
5840.17C/USAFEI 51-710, Regulations on Personal Property, Local Currency, and Motor Vehicles
for U.S. Personnel in the United Kingdom. Violations of the specific duties or prohibitions in
paragraphs and related subparagraphs 6. and 7. of this instruction by military personnel may result in
prosecution under Article 92 of the UCMJ. Civilian personnel are subject to disciplinary action
(including loss of logistic support privileges) for violations of these paragraphs according to
applicable service regulations on civilian misconduct and adverse administrative actions. US
personnel may also be subject to criminal prosecution by the host nation for violation of host nation
laws. This instruction requires collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy
Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 815. System of records notice F024 AF IL C, Motor Vehicle
Operators’ Records, applies. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
2                                                           3AFI51-702      4 NOVEMBER 2008


publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://afrims.amc.af.mil. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) 3AF-UK/JA, using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication.
SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision terminates the Navy Gas Coupon program governed by 3AF Operating Instruction 34-
201 and replaces it with the Off-Base Fuel Program (OBFP) described below.
1. Scope. This instruction implements an agreement with Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs on
behalf of the UK government and is applicable to all elements of the USF in the UK. It provides
control procedures for the operation and control of a program to be known as the Off-Base Fuel
Program (OBFP) under which entitled personnel belonging to the USF, who are eligible, may
purchase gasoline and diesel fuel from designated off base commercial retail outlets tax and duty
free. Violation of the provisions of this instruction may result in the withdrawal of individual
purchase privileges, and subject US Force personnel and their dependents to disciplinary action under
the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) or applicable service regulations.
2. Definitions.
2.1. Off Base Fuel. Gasoline and diesel supplied to entitled members of the USF who are eligible to
purchase from designated retail outlets, other than Army and Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES)
and Navy Exchange Service (NEX) outlets, at a price exclusive of UK excise duty and other taxes for
the purpose of duty driving.
2.2. US Force. Those individuals described in paragraph 3. below.
2.3. Duty Driving. All driving in support of the US military mission by entitled personnel, as
defined in paragraph 3. below, done both in the performance of normal duties and in order to serve
and participate in other activities organized by, sponsored by, or beneficial to the US Force in the
UK. It does not include pleasure driving.
2.4. Fuel Purchase Card. A controlled card issued through the Army and Air Force Exchange
Service (AAFES) that is used to purchase tax and duty free fuel from off-base establishments.
2.5. On-base housing. For purposes of this instruction only, on-base housing includes all military
family housing units and dormitory rooms within the perimeter of the base in question and all
military family housing units leased by the US Force situated on land contiguous to each base.
3. Entitled Personnel. The following personnel are entitled to purchase gasoline and diesel tax and
duty free in accordance 3AFI 51-701, Control Procedures for the Supply Of Tax-Free Gasoline and
Diesel Fuel in the United Kingdom:
3.1. Military and civilian members of the US Armed Forces, including Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) and Air National Guard personnel (ANG), permanently assigned or on temporary duty
(TDY) in the UK and their dependent spouses. Military and civilian members of the US Armed
Forces, including AFRC and ANG personnel, on TDY in the UK for less than two weeks may present
their military identification (ID) card and TDY orders verifying their TDY status in the UK as proof
of eligibility. It is not required that TDY orders show that a rental vehicle is authorized.
3AFI51-702       4 NOVEMBER 2008                                                                    3


3.2. The dependent spouse of a USF member who is present in the UK while the USF member is
performing a 12-month remote unaccompanied tour with follow-on orders to the UK or the
dependent spouse who remains present in the UK after completion of a tour of duty within the UK
while the USF member has deployed on a 12-month remote unaccompanied tour. NOTE: This
entitlement is limited to 12 months.
3.3. Civilian employees of US military departments (who are not UK nationals or persons ordinarily
resident in the UK), including non-appropriated fund activities thereof, but excluding concessionaires
and their employees. Dependent spouses of entitled civilian employees are also entitled. Civilian
employees must be employed with a US military department for a minimum of 20 working hours a
week.
3.4. US civilians accompanying and serving exclusively with the US Armed Forces.
3.5. NOTE: Under certain circumstances, and on an exceptional basis, tax-free gasoline or diesel
fuel privileges may be granted to persons who are otherwise unentitled. Privileges may be granted to
qualified “temporary guardians” strictly for the benefit of an entitled dependent when both parents (or
the sole parent in a single parent household) of the dependent are deployed or are otherwise outside
the UK on official government business. Such cases will be reviewed under separate procedures and
applications require review by the base Staff Judge Advocate (SJA) and 3AF-UK, Director of Legal
Services (3AF-UK/JA). Base SJAs should be contacted for further information when such a case
may exist.
4. Eligibility Requirements. To participate in the OBFP, entitled personnel as defined in paragraph
3. above, must also establish their eligibility. To be eligible personnel must satisfy the following
requirements:
4.1. They must be permanently stationed in the United Kingdom as a member of the USF or
performing temporary duty assigned to a unit of the USF for a period of not less than 3 months. (The
3 month eligibility requirement should not be confused with short term (less than 2 weeks) TDY
duration referenced in paragraph 3.1. that applies to the documentation required to purchase fuel at on
base AAFES stations.) They must be in possession of a valid 3AF Form 435, Driving/Fuel Permit
which also documents the vehicle(s) to receive tax and duty free fuel.
4.2. They must possess a Military Star Card credit card with the account in their name.
4.3. They must either live in off-base non-military housing or live in on-base housing at a base where
the relevant fuel for any vehicle to which the OBFP shall apply is not available from any on base
retail facility.
4.4. In exceptional circumstances where an entitled person who is otherwise ineligible for the OBFP
demonstrates a special need (e.g. duty requires persistent temporary duty at different locations across
the UK), AAFES may, at the discretion of the AAFES UK General Manager, permit that person to
join the OBFP. Persons seeking to join the OBFP under this provision must make application in
writing to the Administrator at the location where he or she is stationed setting out full details of the
exceptional circumstances.
5. Procedures.
5.1. AAFES is authorized to control, manage and administer the OBFP.
4                                                             3AFI51-702      4 NOVEMBER 2008


5.2. AAFES will appoint and train a designated member of its personnel to act as administrator (the
Administrator) for the OBFP for each location at which eligible entitled personnel are stationed. The
Administrator need not be stationed at the location for which he or she has responsibility.
5.3. Eligible entitled personnel wishing to join the OBFP shall personally appear before the
Administrator and shall produce the following documentation and other information to establish
eligibility to join the OBFP:
5.3.1. 3AF Form 435, Driving/Fuel Permit, with vehicle registration number noted thereon,
5.3.2. U.S. Military or Department of Defense (DoD) Civilian ID card,
5.3.3. Subject to paragraph 5.6. below, Military Star card in good standing, or other means of
automatic payment approved by AAFES,
5.3.4. Evidence of full UK postal address (e.g. utilities bill; Housing Office assignment; or other
valid means).
5.4. The Administrator shall take copies of all relevant documentation and retain them for inspection
in a filing system which allows access to each individual’s documentation (i.e. in separate files).
5.5. If the Administrator is satisfied that the individual is an entitled and eligible person, the
Administrator shall approve an Application to Join the Off Base Fuel Program to be signed by the
individual. In addition, the individual will be required to complete and sign a request for an OBFP
fuel purchase card to be issued by the supplier corporation with whom AAFES has contracted for the
supply of off-base fuel.
5.6. If the individual is not the holder of a Military Star card, the individual shall complete an
application for such a card.
5.7. AAFES shall submit the application for a fuel purchase card to the supplier corporation and will
use its best effort to ensure that application is processed and a card issued within 14 days of
completion by the individual.
5.8. The supplier corporation shall provide AAFES with fuel purchase cards in accordance with
proper applications submitted. The Administrator shall receive the cards and shall arrange to provide
them to the individual. Fuel purchase cards shall not be provided to individuals directly from the
supplier corporation.
5.9. Fuel purchase cards shall not be valid beyond the end of the month prior to the month in which
the individual’s Date Eligible to Return from Overseas (DEROS) falls.
5.10. The individual’s Military Star card account shall be debited within 24 to 72 hours the cost of
fuel purchased via the fuel purchase card. The cost of such fuel shall, subject to Paragraph 6.1.
below, be the tax and duty free price of the fuel which price shall be established by AAFES pursuant
to its agreement with the customer in the OBFP Application.
6. LIMITATIONS - violation of any of the following limitations could result in administrative or
judicial punishment under Article 92 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice.
6.1. Fuel purchase cards shall specify on their face the name of the eligible person, the registration
number of the vehicle to which it applies and the type of fuel (gasoline or diesel) applicable to that
card. The amount of off base fuel that may be acquired in each calendar month on each card shall be
limited as follows:
3AFI51-702       4 NOVEMBER 2008                                                                      5


6.1.1. Eligible persons stationed at locations where there are no on base tax and duty free fuel retail
facilities, 400 liters per calendar month;
6.1.2. Eligible persons stationed at locations where there is an on base tax and duty free fuel retail
facility which does not sell the type of fuel (diesel or petrol) required for the vehicle, 400 liters per
calendar month;
6.1.3. Eligible persons stationed at locations where there is an on base tax and duty free retail facility
selling the type of fuel required for the vehicle but who are living off base (see paragraph 4.3.
above), 100 liters per calendar month.
6.1.4. Members of the OBFP who demonstrate exceptional circumstances justifying higher literage
limits may, at the discretion of the AAFES UK General Manager, be granted higher monthly limits.
Applications for higher literage limits shall be made in writing to the Administrator setting out the
exceptional circumstances justifying the increased literage. NOTE: Persons living on base at
locations where there is an on base tax and duty free fuel retail facility selling the type of fuel
required for the vehicle are not entitled to join the OBFP. See paragraph 4.3. above.
6.2. Fuel purchase cards shall be limited to one card per vehicle.
6.3. Fuel purchase cards shall remain the property of AAFES at all times. AAFES may at any time
require an individual to surrender any fuel purchase card in his or her possession.
6.4. Any individual holding a fuel purchase card will be responsible to:
6.4.1. Ensure that the fuel purchase card is kept secure at all times;
6.4.2. In the event of loss or destruction of a fuel purchase card, notify the AAFES Administrator
immediately. Individuals will be liable for all purchases made using the fuel purchase card unless
and until its loss is reported.
6.4.3. Maintain his or her Military Star card in good standing and with sufficient credit thereon to
meet all payments for fuel purchased using a fuel purchase card.
7. PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES – violation of any of the following prohibitions could result in
administrative or judicial punishment under Article 92 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice.
7.1. Fuel purchase cards shall not be used to purchase fuel beyond the literage limits applicable to
that card. In the event that an individual purchases more fuel than permitted by the literage limit, the
individual will be charged the full tax and duty paid price of all fuel purchased above the literage
limit. Individuals exceeding the literage limit shall be subject to suspension from the OBFP.
Individuals who persistently or repeatedly exceed the literage limit shall be liable to be removed from
the OBFP.
7.2. It is forbidden to:
7.2.1. Use fuel purchased under the OBFP for any purpose other than duty driving.
7.2.2. Use fuel purchased with a fuel purchase card other than in the vehicle whose registration mark
is noted on the face of the fuel purchase card.
7.2.3. To alter, deface, counterfeit, sell, transfer or give away a fuel purchase card.
7.2.4. To allow, permit or accede to any person other than the individual named on a fuel purchase
card to use the card to purchase fuel.
6                                                              3AFI51-702      4 NOVEMBER 2008


7.2.5. Fill, or permit to be filled, containers of any kind, except a tank which is an integral part of the
vehicle with fuel purchased with a fuel purchase card except for small quantities placed into
containers authorized under UK law for the transport of fuel within motor vehicles in the UK.
8. Interpretation. Questions involving interpretation of this instruction should be directed to base
legal offices.
8.1. Forms Adopted. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 3AF Form 435,
Driving/Fuel Permit.




W.W. PISCHNOTTE, Colonel, USAF
Staff Judge Advocate
3AFI51-702     4 NOVEMBER 2008                                                              7


Attachment 1
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION
References
AFPD 51-7, International Law, 19 January 2001
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
USAFEI 51-710(I)/ AER 550-33/CINCUSNAVEURI 5840.17C, Regulations on Personal
Property, Local Currency, and Motor Vehicles for U.S. Personnel in the United Kingdom, 11
March 2004
3AFI 51-701, Control Procedures for the Supply of Tax-Free Gasoline and Diesel Fuel in the United
Kingdom, current version
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Service
AFRC—Air Force Reserve
ANG—Air National Guard
ID—Identification
OBFP—Off-Base Fuel Program
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
TDY—Temporary Duty
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
UK—United Kingdom
US—United States
USF—United States Force
