BY ORDER OF THE                                   THIRD AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-104
THIRD AIR FORCE COMMANDER
                                                                              21 AUGUST 2009

                                                                                      Personnel

                                                       US FORCES CIVILIAN COMPONENT
                                                        DETERMINATION IN THE UNITED
                                                                            KINGDOM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at:
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 3AF-UK/JA                                                         Certified by: 3AF-UK/JA
                                                                                   (Col Rodgers)
Supersedes:   16 AFI 51-104, 8 June 2006                                                Pages: 6



This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-1, General Civilian
Personnel Provisions and Authorities. It sets out policy, procedures and responsibility for
processing of US Forces Civilian Component status actions in the United Kingdom (UK). It
implements the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Status of Forces Agreement (NATO SOFA).
It will be used by commanders, civilian personnel offices (CPO), Morale, Welfare, and
Recreation (MWR), Human Resource Office (HRO), Army Air Force Exchange Services
(AAFES) personnel offices, Support Group Commanders, and Staff Judge Advocates (SJA). It
does not apply to the Air Force Reserve Command/Air National Guard (AFRC/ANG) units.
This instruction only applies to personnel stationed within the UK. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Record, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims.

Summary of Changes

This revision incorporates the title change of 16AFI 51-104 to 3AFI 36-104, encompasses
organizational and office changes within 3 AF-UK and RAF Mildenhall and reflects changes
made in the administration and processing of component applications.
1. Policy. It is the responsibility of the US military authorities in the UK to determine whether
current or prospective Department of Defense (DoD) employees may be continued or designated
as members of the US Civilian Component in the UK. The base Civilian Personnel Office will
review applications and forward to the 100th Force Support Squadron/Force Support Manpower
2                                                                 3AFI36-104 21 AUGUST 2009


and Personnel Flight-Civilian (100 FSS/FSMC), Personnel Management Specialist of the civilian
personnel office, for decision. All employees of US Government DoD Agencies who are
determined to be members of the Civilian Component, as defined in Article 1(b), NATO SOFA
will have their passports endorsed with the US Civilian Component stamp to conform to Article
III para 3, NATO SOFA. This shows the entitlement to Civilian Component Status and
privileges. The passports are then sent to United Kingdom Immigration Officials for a
recognition stamp. If the Immigration Official disagrees with the United States Air Force
(USAF) decision, the USAF will continue to allow ration privileges unless 3 AF-UK, Office of
Legal Services (3 AF-UK/JA) decide the person is not eligible for Civilian Component status.
Legal and policy matters concerning this instruction will be determined by 3 AF-UK/JA.
2. Civilian Component Criteria. To be a member of the US Civilian Component an employee:
    2.1. Must be a citizen of the United States or of any other NATO contracting party other
    than the UK. In the case where the applicant is not a US citizen, or a citizen of any other
    NATO member country, advise the applicant they are not eligible for Civilian Component
    status.
    2.2. Must be employed by a U S “Armed Service”. This includes both appropriated and
    non-appropriated fund activities of the DoD, including the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air
    Force, and the US Coast Guard. Employees hired under local civilian labor conditions shall
    not be regarded for any purpose as being members of the civilian component (Article IX,
    paragraph 4, NATO SOFA). Employment must be “full time,” which, for purposes of this
    instruction, means the employees must be guaranteed and working 20 hours per week.
    2.3. Must NOT be a national (citizen of) the United Kingdom. However, a US citizen who
    is an employee of the US Armed Services and who is also a UK citizen under UK law is a
    “dual national/dual citizen”. As a citizen of both countries, a dual national is eligible for US
    Civilian Component status (i.e. those privileges authorized by US component stamp).
       2.3.1. NOTE : US/UK Dual Nationals are not recognized by the UK Home Office as
       being entitled to membership of the US Civilian Component. The Immigration Official
       will refuse to endorse the passport of such a dual national with a recognition stamp.
       Consequently, US/UK dual nationals will be unable to obtain privileges that require the
       production of the Home Office recognition stamp (i.e. council tax exemption and the
       purchase of tax-free vehicles).
       2.3.2. With rare exceptions, in accordance with the British Nationality Act 1981, any
       person born in the UK before 1 January 1983 is a citizen of the UK. As a matter of
       personal choice, it is possible for a citizen of the UK who is over 18, and a dual citizen of
       another country, to renounce UK citizenship. A Declaration of Renunciation of
       Citizenship registered with the British Home Office will show termination of UK
       citizenship.
    2.3.3.    While British citizens may have become naturalized US citizens, and orally
    renounced their UK citizenship as part of the process, they are still British citizens under
    British law. Therefore, in the UK, they must take the additional step of renouncing their UK
    citizenship in writing (see paragraph 2.3.2.) to be considered for the UK Home Office
    confirmation stamp.
    2.4. Must NOT be “ordinarily resident” in the UK (see paragraph 3).
3AFI36-104 21 AUGUST 2009                                                                        3


3. “Ordinarily Resident” Criteria.
   3.1. “Ordinarily resident’ is not defined in the NATO SOFA. However, the term normally
   involves a number of factors and refers to a continuing course of conduct. The following is
   guidance used by the US officials in the UK responsible for making such determinations.
      3.1.1. People who have lived in the UK for over one year (i.e. one year and one day)
      without a US government connection (employment with the US Government or
      equivalent employment or dependent member of such person employed with the US
      Government), are ordinarily resident in the UK. Ordinary residency or ordinarily resident
      determinations are made by 100 FSS/FSMC, Personnel Management Specialists
      responsible for applications. Once a person becomes a member of the Civilian
      Component that person cannot thereafter become ordinarily resident in the UK so long as
      the person remains in substantially continuous US Government employment.
   3.2. Time spent in full-time US Government or equivalent employment is not counted
   toward becoming ordinarily resident. The following is equivalent to US Government
   employment for purposes or “ordinarily resident” determinations:
      3.2.1. Time spent as an employee (or dependent of an employee) of a US agency serving
      with and supporting the US Visiting Force such as the Red Cross, one of the contract
      universities, a military banking facility or federal credit union, or by a US Government
      contractor as a “technical representative”.
4. Termination of “Ordinarily Resident” Status.
   4.1. A person may stop being ordinarily resident by leaving the UK. However,
   determinations of termination of this status are difficult to support since visits to the US or
   other countries are common, even for extended (three to six months) periods. Generally,
   absence from the UK for one year or more will terminate ordinarily resident status regardless
   of other factors, and absence for less than one year will not terminate the status. Factors to
   consider are those which show cutting ties to the UK, or attempts to strengthen ties to another
   country. Some factors indicating a termination of “ordinarily resident’ status include:
   terminating a long term lease or tenancy in the UK; initiating a long term arrangement for
   housing in another country; selling a vehicle in the UK; establishing full time employment in
   another country; terminating employment in the UK; shipment of household goods to another
   country; transportation of family members to another country; and, removal of children from
   UK schools or enrolling them elsewhere. Also consider the relative duration of the stay in
   the UK compared to the time spent outside the UK. NOTE: A determination by the UK
   immigration authorities that a person has “settled status” or “indefinite leave to remain” is
   not a determination of ordinarily resident status. Nevertheless, it can be an indicator that the
   employee has resided in the UK for more than one year.
5. Procedures and Responsibilities.
   5.1. All employees requiring Civilian Component privileges will be provided an application
   form by their servicing Personnel Office (CPF, AAFES, DoDDS, or Non-Appropriated
   funds, etc).
   5.2. The servicing Personnel Office will ensure the information in the application is
   accurate, and forward to 100 FSS/FSMC along with the applicant’s passport, supporting
4                                                               3AFI36-104 21 AUGUST 2009


    documentation such as orders, verification of guaranteed hours and if applicable, DD Form
    214, Certificate of Release or Discharge From Active Duty.
       5.2.1. Contractor employees (technical representative) are not in the employ of an
       “armed service” and are thus not eligible for US component status. However, some
       contractor employees who are deemed “special technical representatives” under a
       program managed by the Special US Liaison Office (SUSLO) at the US Embassy,
       London, may be eligible for US component status. Contractor employees who are
       deemed special technical representatives will be listed individually on a list maintained
       by the SUSLO. Servicing Personnel Offices of special technical representatives shall not
       forward Civilian Component Endorsement requests until applicants are confirmed as
       listed on the SUSLO list. If applications are received prior to this they will be returned
       immediately.
       5.2.2. If the applicant is a dual national, US/UK, 100 FSS/FSMC will advise the
       individual they are not entitled to the Home Office recognition stamp (in accordance with
       paragraph 2.3.1) and a Statement of Understanding will be provided for signature.
       5.2.3. Dual nationals may, if they so desire, renounce their UK citizenship (see
       paragraph 2.3.2) and providing all other criteria are met may be considered for
       forwarding to Immigration Officials for determination of the Home Office stamp. 100
       FSS/FSMC will advise applicants on such options.
    5.3. 100 FSS/FSMC will log in all passports, create a case file and determine whether
    Civilian Component status is appropriate. If authorized, passports are then endorsed with a
    dated Civilian Component stamp and embossed with the Sending State Office Seal. The
    application is then signed as granted. Passport and case file are then forwarded to the
    Personnel Management Specialist for final approval and signature. The log is annotated that
    the passport and case file have been forwarded to the Immigration Office for consideration of
    the recognition stamp. Upon return passports are logged back and returned via Certified
    mail, recording the Certified mail number in the log. Individuals who collect passports will
    sign the log upon receipt.
       5.3.1. If Component Endorsement is not authorized, 100 FSS/FSMC (in coordination
       with 3AF-UK/JA if necessary) will provide the Servicing Personnel Office written details
       of the reason for denial, including details of the appeal procedure. Passport will be
       logged out and returned by Certified mail. Servicing Personnel Office will then notify
       the applicant and provide them a copy of the written denial.
6. Transferring Component Endorsement to New Passport.
    6.1. The servicing Personnel Office reviews expired passports for the Component stamp,
    checks validity of Leave to Remain stamp and that the new passport has been signed.
    Servicing Personnel Office then completes a transfer application confirming continued
    employment and forwards to 100 FSS/FSMC for determination.
    6.2. Transfer without a previous passport, i.e., lost/stolen. If previous approval can be
    verified through case file maintained by 100 FSS/FSMC a transfer application can be
    submitted. If not, an initial application must be completed and forwarded for determination.
7. Reconsideration.
3AFI36-104 21 AUGUST 2009                                                                        5


   7.1. Appeals from the denial of component status will be submitted to 100 FSS/FSMC
   through the Servicing Personnel Office detailing any new evidence which was not originally
   available. 100 FSS/FSMC will reconsider the application, in coordination with 3 AF-UK/JA,
   for a final decision.
      7.1.1. If the original decision is reversed, the passport will be submitted as per paragraph
      5.3. If original decision is upheld, a letter detailing the decision will be forwarded to the
      Servicing Personnel Office for issuance to the applicant.
   7.2. Eligibility for membership in the US Civilian Component is not a statutory prerequisite
   to gaining employment with US DoD agencies in the UK.
8. Termination of Civilian Component Status.
   8.1. When a member terminates employment, the Servicing Personnel Office must void the
   Component Stamps in the individual’s passport and provide the employee an out-processing
   sheet to ensure notifications are made to agencies so that entitlements granted by the
   Component Endorsement Stamps are appropriately terminated. Servicing Personnel Office
   will notify 100 FSS/FSMC and local councils when a member terminates employment or no
   longer satisfies the eligibility criteria outlined in paragraph 2.




                                            W.W. PISCHNOTTE, Colonel, USAF
                                            Staff Judge Advocate
6                                                           3AFI36-104 21 AUGUST 2009


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-1, General Civilian Personnel Provisions and Authorities, 7 March 1995
NATO SOFA, North Atlantic Treaty Organization Status of Forces Agreement, 19 June 1951

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
AAFES— Army and Air Force Exchange Service
AF— Air Force
AFRC/ANG— Air Force Reserve Command/ Air National Guard
CPF— Civilian Personnel Flight
CPO— Civlilan Personnel Office
3 AF—UK/JA - Third Air Force-United Kingdom/Office of Legal Services
FSS— Force Support Squadron
DOD— Department of Defense
DODDS— Department of Defense Dependent Schools
HRO—Human Resources Office
MWR— Morale, Welfare, and Recreation
NATO SOFA— North Atlantic Treaty Organization Status of Forces Agreement
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
SJA— Staff Judge Advocates
SUSLO— Special United States Liaison Office
UK— United Kingdom
UK USCR— United States Country Representative for the United Kingdom
US— United States
USAF— United States Air Force
