BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                THIRD AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-245
THIRD AIR FORCE (USAFE)                                                            16 FEBRUARY 2004

                                                                                              Operations

                                                                AIR FORCE ANITITERRORISM (AT)
                                                                                  STANDARDS



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 3 AF/A38 (SStg Chirstopher Dunning)                                        Certified by: 3 AF/CC
                                                                    (Major General Michael W.Wooley)
                                                                                               Pages: 7
                                                                                        Distribution: F

This instruction implement Air Force Policy Directive 10-2, Readiness. It applies to all 3d Air Force (3
AF) Installations. Commander, United States Air Forces in Europe (COMUSAFE) Antiterrorism Plan
(AT) Plan 10-245 provides vast AT guidance and to prevent duplication, this 3 AF instruction will provide
specific AT guidance for items that must be routed through HQ 3AF for review, coordination, or approval.


1. Assignment of Force Protection (FP) Responsibility:
   1.1. Tactical control (TACON) for FP is inherent in combatant command authority. The combatant
   commander delegates TACON for FP responsibility to component service commanders through coun-
   try specific MOA. The matrices attached to the MOAs outline service responsibility for FP for all
   noncombatant commander elements in the country. Force protection does not skip echelons.
   COMUSAFE broadly delegates FP responsibility to numbered air force (NAF) commanders. NAF
   commanders assign specific responsibilities for force protection of Department of Defense (DoD) per-
   sonnel and assets to installation commanders to assess and mitigate risk to missions assigned to
   USAFE.
   1.2. TACON for FP enables commanders to order implementation of force protection measures and
   to exercise authority over all security programs governed by DoD/Department of State Universal
   Memorandum of Understanding, Agreement (MOU/MOA) and respective Combatant Com-
   mander-Chief of Mission (COM) MOAs. It also authorizes commanders to change, modify, prescribe
   and enforce force protection measures for all DoD elements and personnel under the combatant com-
   mander for force protection. TACON for force protection includes the authority to inspect, assess
   security requirements, to direct DoD activities to identify the resources required to correct deficien-
   cies, and submit budget requests to parent organizations to fund identified corrections.
   1.3. Installation commanders are required to take appropriate action to execute AT/FP programs for
   all personnel and activities under their command. This includes all organizations, geographically sep-
2                                                                      3AFI10-245 16 FEBRUARY 2004


    arated units, tenant organizations and noncombatant commander assigned elements regardless of ser-
    vice. Local host-tenant agreements should be executed to specify command relationships as well as
    AT/FP support and funding arrangements for each tenant unit.
    FP responsibility for geographically separated units is based on proximity to the unit in the best posi-
    tion to provide support, oversight, and command and control.
    1.4. The 3 AF/CC maintains TACON for FP responsibility for all installations identified in the
    USAFE FP responsibility matrix. Third Air Force Chief Security Forces (Third Air Force/A38) will
    validate the USAFE FP responsibility matrix through the installation Antiterrorism Officers (ATO).
    The installation ATOs must ensure that the installation commanders review the matrix. Installation
    ATOs have until 7 February of each year to complete the review. 3 AF/A38 will route for approval of
    the 3 AF/CC and forward to USAFE/SFP, no later than 15 February of each year. All units must thor-
    oughly review the subordinate units’ matrices to ensure compliance.
    1.5. Once installation commanders become aware of the force protection issues for an installation or
    activity, and have visited the facilities, they then become directly accountable for the force protection
    status of the installation, activity.
       1.5.1. Commanders must be proactive in all matters pertaining to force protection. Commanders
       must study the force protection assessments and then visit the installations, activities under their
       command. They must work diligently to fix what they can, and elevate those items that cannot be
       resolved at their level. Force protection enhancement efforts should be approached in the follow-
       ing manner:
           1.5.1.1. Installation commanders must elevate force protection issues through their chain of
           command until resolved. Installation commanders will elevate issues that are blocked due to
           diplomatic impasses (host nation support) to the 3 AF/CC. If not resolved, the 3 AF/CC will
           notify COMUSAFE. Again if not resolved, COMUSAFE will notify the Commander, United
           States European Command (USEUCOM), who in turn will notify “in writing” the ambassador
           and Secretary of Defense (SECDEF).
           1.5.1.2. When there are apparent resource limitations, ensure that costs and financial require-
           ments are measured on a cost-benefit basis. Commanders must prioritize these requirements in
           their unit programming and budgetary process. When unable to obtain the necessary resources
           locally, elevate the total (prioritized) bill up the chain of command while simultaneously work-
           ing interim measures to fix the problem.

2. Antiterrorism Officer Appointment:
    2.1. Installation commanders will designate, in writing, a commissioned officer, noncommissioned
    officer (E-6 or higher) or civilian staff officer as ATOs for each installation, base or deploying organi-
    zation. Primary and alternates must be assigned. ATOs will be trained in accordance with
    COMUSAFE AT Plan 10-245, Standard 6.
       2.1.1. The appointed ATOs will validate this appointment letter annually and forward to 3 AF/
       A38 and to HQ USAFE/SFP, NLT 7 February each year. HQ USAFE/SF or 3 AF/A38 may
       request an out-of-cycle update at any time.
       2.1.2. Other AT staff personnel (program managers) do not have minimum rank requirements.
3AFI10-245 16 FEBRUARY 2004                                                                               3


   2.2. The Commander (3 AF/CC) will appoint 3 AF/A38 personnel as the Numbered Air Force (NAF)
   ATO and program manager.
   2.3. All deploying units must appoint a trained ATO for each deployment. Appointed ATOs must con-
   tact 3 AF/A38 at least 6 weeks prior to the departure date (if possible).
   2.4. Each tenant unit and noncombatant commander assigned elements not located on the installation
   will appoint an ATO and identify them to their respective host installation with TACON FP responsi-
   bility.

3. Vulnerability Assessment Management Program 6 (VAMP 6):
   3.1. All personnel requiring access to the VAMP 6 must be appointed by the installation commander.
   The Directorate Security Force (USAFE/SF) maintains the right to determine whether or not someone
   will have access to the VAMP.
      3.1.1. There are different access levels for users of the VAMP and each level must be identified
      (ATO, installation VAMP administrator, Wing/CC, NAF ATO) on the appointment letter. The
      installation VAMP administrator may perform review functions of the installation commander but
      must be appointed in writing.
      3.1.2. ATOs must maintain a list of personnel requiring access to the VAMP. This list must be val-
      idated semi-annually and forwarded to 3 AF/A38 by 1 April and 1 October. The 3 AF/A38 will
      provide the reporting format.
   3.2. The 3 AF/A38 will consolidate the 3 AF main operating bases (MOB) lists and forward to HQ
   USAFE/SFP for action. All units may submit for new VAMP accounts or deletion of accounts at any
   time.
   3.3. Installation ATOs will validate all information in the VAMP for their installation and edit and, or,
   update prior to the last duty day of each month.
   3.4. Installations must enter into the VAMP, known critical vulnerabilities identified during a higher
   headquarters assessment no later than 10 duty days after the outbrief. Installations must input all
   other vulnerabilities identified by HHQ assessment no later than 30 days upon receipt of the writ-
   ten report.
   3.5. The 3 AF/CC review will be conducted only after each installation commander has conducted a
   final review. The VAMP will send 3 AF/A38 with a notification message upon completion of installa-
   tion commander review. The 3 AF/A38 will review and coordinate for 3 AF/CC review NLT 30 days
   of notification message.

4. Combating Terrorism Readiness Initiatives Fund (CbTRIF):
   4.1. All CbTRIF submissions should go directly to Headquarters USAFE Force Protection Division
   (HQ USAFE/SFP), with a courtesy copy provided to 3 AF/A38.
   4.2. CbTRIF packages for emergent needs must be submitted to USAFE/SFP prior to 1 September
   and 1 January for the EUCOM 1 October and 1 February deadlines respectively. CbTRIF packages
   for emergency needs can be submitted anytime. An example of an emergency need would be a perim-
   eter fence washed away by flooding.
4                                                                    3AFI10-245 16 FEBRUARY 2004


    4.3. All submissions will be IAW format in COMUSAFE AT Plan 10-245 and will be transmitted via
    Secure Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET) only.

5. Level I Antiterrorism Awareness Training Statistics and AT Plan Status
    5.1. According to COMUSAFE AT Plan 10-245, “Commanders will report the status of their AT Pro-
    gram and Training statistics every quarter.”
    5.2. Level I AT Awareness reports will be submitted to 3 AF/A38 NLT 3 January, April, July, and
    October.
    3 AF/A38 will consolidate all 3 AF installations reports and forward to HQ USAFE/SFP by 5 January,
    April, July and October of each year.
    5.3. AT plans must establish and identify the responsible position, person in each unit for tracking
    Level I AT training.
    5.4. Installations will report the status of their AT Plan as part of the quarterly Level I AT Awareness
    report. Sample format is provided in Tab A to Appendix 8 to Annex M to COMUSAFE AT Plan
    10-245.

6. AT/FP Design Standards
    6.1. Installation commanders will submit to HQ USAFE/CE their plan to evaluate existing inhabited
    structures (including family housing containing 13 or more units) in accordance with paragraph 3b of
    USEUCOM AT/FP OPORD 01-01. HQ USAFE/CE will coordinate plans through the USAFE staff
    for review and when approved by COMUSAFE, forward the coordinated package to HQ USEUCOM.
    These reports will be due annually on 15 February. ATOs will submit a courtesy copy to 3 AF/A38
    for NAF review.
    6.2. Waiver process: The HQ USEUCOM Chief of Staff is the approval authority for any deviation
    (exception, waiver or variance) to the AT/FP construction design standards contained in USEUCOM
    AT/FP OPORD 01-01. Commanders must use all means necessary to meet these standards and shall
    strive to eliminate all waivers within their areas of responsibility. Waivers will be considered if com-
    pliance with the standard at a particular installation or facility will adversely affect mission accom-
    plishment, unacceptably affect relations with the host nation, exceed local capabilities, or require
    substantial expenditure of funds at a location where forces will be removed or relocated in the near
    future. If a waiver request is unavoidable, all packages must be submitted through the 3 AF/CC to HQ
    USAFE/SFP. USAFE/SFP will coordinate the package through the USAFE staff for review and if
    approved by COMUSAFE, forward the coordinated waiver request package to HQ USEUCOM.
    Refer to D-1-A-1 of USEUCOM OPORD 01-01 for sample waiver format.
       6.2.1. A request for a waiver will be submitted to 3 AF/A38 for the NAF review. If the 3 AF/CC
       approves, the waiver will be forwarded to USAFE/SF for review. Although the HQ USEUCOM
       Chief of Staff is the approval authority, the 3 AF/CC may disapprove a waiver request if deemed
       necessary.

7. Frequency Requests:
3AFI10-245 16 FEBRUARY 2004                                                                               5


   7.1. Deploying units will submit their frequency proposals in the standard frequency action format
   through Third Air Force Chief, Comm and Information Division (3 AF/A6) with an information copy
   to USAFE CSS/SCOF.
   7.2. All units within the 3 AF AOR will submit their proposals through 3 AF/A6 for action/coordina-
   tion.

8. Local Vulnerability Assessments (LVA):
   8.1. Installations commanders are required to conduct an LVA annually. These local assessments must
   include all activities and elements residing as tenants on installations, or geographically separated but
   under the TACON of the local commander for AT/FP, as defined in the Combatant Commander-COM
   MOA and accompanying matrix.
   8.2. All identified vulnerabilities from an LVA must be submitted to 3 AF (POC: 3 AF/A38) for
   review by the 3 AF/CC.

9. Force Protection Compliance
   9.1. Commanders must report the status of the FP compliance for the host installation, GSUs, and
   noncombatant commander assigned elements. This report will be due to 3 AF (POC: 3 AF/A38) NLT
   1 April and 1 October each year. The status of FP compliance must include:
      9.1.1. Dates of last local vulnerability assessment (VA)
      9.1.2. Dates of next local vulnerability assessment (or HHQ VA)
      9.1.3. Date of AT/FP Plan
      9.1.4. Date of last Program Review
      9.1.5. Whether or not compliant with current FPCON measures
      9.1.6. Date of local threat assessment for each installation, location
   9.2. Installation commanders, in coordination with the installation Threat Working Group (TWG)
   and/or Force Protection Working Group (FPWG), shall review local FPCON measures semi-annually
   to ensure threat mitigation measures are appropriate.
      9.2.1. Installation commanders must forward any request, waiver to deviate from HHQ directed
      RAMs and FPCONs to the 3 AF/CC. 3 AF/A38 will act as the intermediary with the installation
      ATO. If a higher authority is required to approve deviation, 3 AF will route accordingly.
      9.2.2. All tenant units and noncombatant commander assigned elements must submit waiver
      requests through the MOBs, approved by the MOB installation commander.
   9.3. ATOs will forward all TWG minutes and Battle Staff Directives to 3 AF/A38 to ensure compli-
   ance with HHQ directives and to keep the 3 AF/CC aware of the FP status.

10. NAF ATO Responsibilities
   10.1. The 3 AF/A38 will develop procedures to ensure each deployment in their AOR has an assigned
   ATO and AT plan.
6                                                                  3AFI10-245 16 FEBRUARY 2004


    10.2. The 3 AF/A38 will coordinate with deploying units to ensure an ATO is assigned and an AT
    plan is developed. This will only apply to deploying units, expeditionary units and not for each
    deploying UTC (e.g., if 999 AW deploys the 99 EAW to a location that does not have an established
    AT program or plan, an AT plan must be written prior to the deployment).
    10.3. All deployment AT plans must be sent to 3 AF/A38 at least 30 days prior to the departure date.
    These plans must be coordinated and approved by the deploying commander. The appointed ATO for
    the deployment may contact 3 AF/A38 to determine if a plan has been accomplished for a particular
    location by a previous deploying unit.



                                                    MICHAEL W.WOOLEY, Major General, USAF
                                                    Commander
3AFI10-245 16 FEBRUARY 2004                                                  7


                                         Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
COMUSEUCOM AT/FP OPORD 01-01 FRAGO 1, 8 March 02
AFI 10-245, AF Antiterrorism Standards
DoD Directive 2000-12, DoD Combating Terrorism Program
DoD Handbook 2000.12-H, Protection of DoD Personnel Against Terrorist Acts
DoD Instruction 2000.16, DoD Combating Terrorism Program Standards

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AOR—area of responsibility
AT—antiterrorism
ATO—antiterrorism officer(s)
CbTRIF—combating terrorism readiness initiatives fund
COM—Chief of Mission
COMUSAFE—Commander, United States Air Forces in Europe
DoD—Department of Defense
FP—force protection
FPCON—force protection condition
LVA—local vulnerability assessment
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
MOB—main operating base
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
NAF—numbered air force
NLT—not later than
RAM—random antiterrorism measures
SECDEF—Secretary of Defense
SIPRNET—Secure Internet Protocol Routing Network
TACON—tactical control
USEUCOM—United States European Command
UTC—unit type code
VAMP—Vulnerability Assessment Management Program
