BY ORDER OF THE                                     THIRD AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-701
COMMANDER THIRD AIR FORCE
                                                                               1 DECEMBER 2008
                                                                                          Law

                                            CONTROL PROCEDURES FOR THE SUPPLY OF
                                              TAX-FREE GASOLINE AND DIESEL FUEL IN
                                                              THE UNITED KINGDOM


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 3AF-UK/JA                                             Certified by: 3AF-UK/JA (Col Rodgers)
Supersedes: 16AFI51-710, 25 January 2006                                                Pages: 8

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 51-7, International Law. It
outlines detailed procedures for the supply of tax-free motor fuel to entitled personnel of the
United States (US) Force at US bases throughout the United Kingdom (UK). The instructions
contained herein have been developed to provide a standardized system within the UK that will
ensure adequate internal control throughout the entire program. Strict adherence to these
instructions is required as deviations therefore may result in the withdrawal of this tax-free
privilege by the UK government from the US Force in the UK. This instruction applies to
personnel on temporary duty (TDY) to or permanently stationed within the UK. This regulation
provides a basis for punitive action under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) for US
Air Force military personnel or administrative action, to include possible revocation of all duty-
free privileges for military and civilian personnel. It applies to active and reserve United States
Air Force members, Air National Guard (ANG), and dependents and civilian employees as set
forth in paragraph 1. For application of this instruction to Army, Navy, and Marine Corps
members and respective civilian personnel, see AER 550-33/CINCUSNAVEURI
5840.17C/USAFEI 51-710, Regulations on Personal Property, Local Currency, and Motor
Vehicles for U.S. Personnel in the United Kingdom. Violations of the specific duties or
prohibitions in paragraph 7. and related subparagraphs of this instruction by military personnel
may result in prosecution or punishment under Article 92 of the UCMJ. Civilian personnel are
subject to disciplinary action (including loss of logistic support privileges) for violations of these
paragraphs according to applicable service regulations on civilian misconduct and adverse
administrative actions. Civilians may also be subject to criminal prosecution by the host nation
for violation of host nation laws. This instructions requires collection and maintenance of
information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. § 815. System of
records notice F024 AF IL C, Motor Vehicle Operators’ Records, applies. Ensure that all records
2                                                      3AFI51-701 01      DECEMBER 2008

created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil. Refer recommended
changes and question about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
Director of Legal Services (3AF-UK/JA), using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change
of Publication.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision incorporates the title change of 16AFI 51-710 to 3AFI 51-701 and the name change
of 16th Air Force, Detachment 3 to 3rd Air Force - United Kingdom (3AF-UK). It changes the
name of the ―Certificate of Eligibility - Motor Fuelԡ card to ―3 AF Driving/Fuel Permitԡ and
combines that document with the driving permit of AFI 31-204 USAFESUP1, Air Force Motor
Vehicle Traffic Supervision. It eliminates the requirement for controls on the printing of
certificates while maintaining controls on the issuance of permits. It moves responsibility for
issuance of the permits from unit orderly rooms to installation commanders who may designate
the office to be responsible to issue cards. Replaced forms include 16AF Form 435, Certificate of
Eligibility – Motor Fuel US Forces In The United Kingdom; 16AF Form 303, Register of
Certificates of Eligibility – Motor Fuel; 16AF Form 231, Application for Certificate of Eligibility
- Motor Fuel.

1. Scope. This instruction implements an agreement with Her Majesty’s Customs & Excise (now
Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs) on behalf of the UK government. The agreement is
applicable to all elements of the US Force in the UK. It provides control procedures for
providing tax-free motor fuel to US Force personnel. Violation of the provisions of this
instruction may result in the withdrawal of individual purchase privileges, and subject US Force
personnel, Department of Defense civilian personnel, and their dependents in the UK to
disciplinary action under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) or applicable service
regulations.

2. Definitions.

2.1. Tax-free Gasoline. Gasoline sold by the Army and Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES) at
a price exclusive of UK excise duty and other taxes for the purposes of duty driving.

2.2. Tax-free Diesel Fuel. Diesel fuel sold by AAFES at a price exclusive of UK excise duty and
other taxes for the purposes of duty driving.

2.3. Duty Driving. All driving in support of the US military mission by entitled personnel, as
defined in paragraph 3. below, done both in the performance of normal duties and in order to
serve and participate in other activities organized by, sponsored by, or beneficial to the US Force
in the UK. It does not include pleasure driving.

2.4. 3AF Form 435, Driving/Fuel Permit (DFP). A controlled card that identifies entitled
persons and the vehicles into which tax-free motor fuel for duty driving purposes only may be
dispensed. Except for personnel on short-term, Temporary Duty in the UK as discussed in
3AFI51-701 01      DECEMBER 2008                                                                  3

Paragraph 3.1. below, this card, along with a valid military identification (ID) card, must be
shown at the service station to authorize the purchase of tax-free motor fuel.

2.5. Permit Issue Office (PIO). The office designated by the installation commander or senior
military officer at an installation to be responsible for the issuance, records and control of DFPs.
Ideally, this will be the same office that maintains records of concession vehicles pursuant to
3AFI 31-204, Control of Concession Vehicles within the United Kingdom.

3. Entitled Personnel. The following personnel are entitled to a DFP, provided they meet the
provisions of Paragraph 4. below:

3.1. Military and civilian members of the US Armed Forces, including Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard personnel (ANG), permanently assigned or on
temporary duty (TDY) in the UK and their dependent spouses. Military and civilian members of
the US Armed Forces, including AFRC and ANG personnel, on TDY in the UK for less than two
weeks may present their military ID card and TDY orders verifying their TDY status in the UK
as proof of eligibility.

3.2. The dependent spouse of a US Armed Forces member who is performing a remote 12-month
unaccompanied tour with follow-on orders to the UK or the dependent spouse who remains
present in the UK after completion of a tour of duty within the UK while the US Armed Forces
member has deployed on a 12-month remote unaccompanied tour. NOTE: This entitlement is
limited to 12 months.

3.3. Civilian employees of US military departments (who are not UK nationals or persons
ordinarily resident in the UK), including non-appropriated fund activities thereof, but excluding
concessionaires and their employees. Dependent spouses of entitled civilian employees are also
entitled to a DFP. Civilian employees must be employed with a US military department for a
minimum of 20 working hours a week to be entitled to the DFP.

3.4. US civilians accompanying and serving exclusively with the US Armed Forces.

3.5. Individuals who are entitled to have a DFP but have temporarily relinquished their card for
traffic violation processing may be issued a temporary DFP for a period not to exceed 90 days.
Such cards shall be identified as ―temporaryԡ in the tracking database.

3.6. NOTE: Under certain circumstances, and on an exceptional basis, tax-free gasoline or diesel
fuel privileges may be granted to persons who are otherwise unentitled. Privileges may be
granted to qualified ―temporary guardiansԡ strictly for the benefit of an entitled dependent
when both parents (or the sole parent in a single parent household) of the dependent are deployed
or are otherwise outside the UK on official government business. Such cases will be reviewed
under separate procedures and applications will require review by the base Staff Judge Advocate
(SJA) and 3AF-UK Director of Legal Services (3AF-UK/JA). Base SJAs should be contacted for
further information when such a case may exist.

4. Eligibility Requirements. Entitled personnel must satisfy the following requirements:
4                                                      3AFI51-701 01      DECEMBER 2008

4.1. The vehicles concerned must be properly registered in accordance with applicable
regulations. This requirement also applies to vehicles rented by entitled personnel.

4.2. Current British road tax must have been paid on the vehicle, except during any period when
the vehicle is exempt from road tax under temporary import regulations or the vehicle is
otherwise entitled to be driven on the roads in the UK.

4.3. The vehicle must be covered by required insurance.

4.4. The entitled person must hold a driver's license or permit which is valid for driving in the
UK.

5. Procedures.

5.1. Each base in the UK will maintain a complete and current list of all personnel who have
been issued a DFP at that base. The list will include the person’s name, license plate numbers
and make and model of vehicles for which they are the registered keeper on the DVLA Form
V5C, Registration Certificate. The DFP shall also specify its expiration date. No applications for
a DFP will be approved for persons or vehicles not included on this list.

5.1.1. In the case of entitled personnel owning/keeping more than one vehicle, authorization for
four vehicles may be documented on each DFP. Entitled personnel owning/keeping more than
four vehicles will be issued an additional DFP, to accommodate those vehicles. Where an
entitled person seeks to document more than two (2) vehicles on a DFP the PIO shall be entitled
to require the entitled person to justify why more than two vehicles could be required by the
entitled person for duty driving purposes. In the event that the entitled person is unable to
provide justification the PIO shall refuse to document a third or subsequent vehicle.

5.1.2. In the case of an entitled person renting or using a vehicle temporarily because their own
has not arrived or is under repair, a temporary DFP may be issued for periods up to 30 days.
Such cards shall be identified as ―temporaryԡ in the tracking database. Temporary DFPs may
also be issued for the same period when the driving permit has been relinquished to local UK
authorities for processing of traffic violations.

5.2. Purchase. Tax-free gasoline will be purchased at authorized AAFES service station facilities
only. DFP (or TDY orders, see paragraph 2.4 above) and ID cards must be shown to the
attendant at the time of sale. Tax-free gasoline will only be dispensed into or used by registered
vehicles except in unusual cases that may involve the temporary use of a vehicle. Individuals
seeking to purchase tax-free gasoline for temporary use vehicles must provide adequate
documentation (e.g. car rental agreement, power of attorney, supervisor’s letter, etc.) for the
duration of the temporary use.

5.3. Expiration of DFP. Personnel will be required to relinquish, account for or have restrictions
placed upon use of their DFP on the following occasions:

5.3.1. When the DFP has passed its expiration date.
3AFI51-701 01     DECEMBER 2008                                                                 5

5.3.2. When an individual is transferred on Permanent Change of Station (PCS) orders.

5.3.3. When an individual sells or otherwise disposes of any vehicle listed on a DFP.

5.3.4. When an individual’s DVLA Form V5C has expired, is withdrawn or is otherwise
invalidated.

5.3.5. When the relevant conditions under which the DFP was issued no longer apply.

5.3.6. If an individual’s driver’s permit is withdrawn, expires or becomes invalid, the
individual’s commanding officer has discretion to determine whether the tax free fuel privilege
should also be withdrawn. A driving permit may be stamped ―Revokedԡ while allowing the
fuel permit to remain valid.

5.3.7. If AAFES ration privileges have been revoked by competent authority, the fuel permit
must be specifically revoked and the DFP turned in for re-issuance without listed vehicles.

5.3.8. If an individual breaches any of the requirements of Paragraph 7. below.

5.4. Pumping fuel without proper documents. The name, unit, base and supervisor’s name of any
individual who pumps fuel at an AAFES installation without all necessary documents shall be
forwarded to the Security Forces commander of the installation on which the fuel was pumped.
The individual’s commander will be notified and provided advice regarding appropriate
disciplinary action.

6. Control of Driving/Fuel Permits.

6.1. Permit Issue Offices in the UK may issue permits to entitled personnel who satisfy the
requirements of paragraphs 3. and 4. In each case an individual USAFE Form 3, Drivers
License/Vehicle Registration Application, must be prepared and maintained. In addition to
personal information and details of vehicles, the application form will have details including the
installation-unique identification number of any DFP issued to or canceled on behalf of an
applicant. Security Forces commanders are responsible for developing procedures to prevent
abuse in the distribution of DFP’s.

6.2. Each PIO will produce its own DFPs using the 3AF Form 435. Each DFP will have an
installation-unique identification number which includes an installation acronym, the year of
issue and a serial number. Serials will renew each year. For example: LAK-070001; temporary
numbers might be: LAK-070001T. Issuing offices may use any form of serial number conducive
to database searching and maintenance. Once an island-wide database is developed, the
installation acronym may be omitted.

6.3. The DFP will not be made valid beyond the individual’s date eligible for return from
overseas (DEROS) or other prospective end of the eligibility period. The expiration date of the
DFP is the date of the individual’s DEROS.
6                                                        3AFI51-701 01       DECEMBER 2008

6.4. The DFP must be laminated and made tamper proof.

6.5. The new 3AF Form 435 will be employed by the Permit Issue Office immediately and
unused prior versions destroyed. Personnel may replace prior versions with the new 3AF Form
435 at will. Otherwise, use of the new 3 AF Form 435 will take place through attrition.

6.6. PIOs will establish and maintain a searchable database to record the disposition of all DFPs
held, issued or canceled. USAFE Form 3s will be maintained according to normal disposition
rules.

6.7. Preparing the 3AF Form 435.

6.7.1. A electronic downloadable version of this form is available on the e-Publishing website. A
computer printable version of the form that is compatible with the database may also be
developed and employed by the PIO. Complete 3AF Form 435 in its entirety.

6.7.2. Once all information has been entered onto the form it will be overstamped by the base
registrar.

6.7.3. Before releasing the 3AF Form 435 to the individual it must be cut to size and laminated
on both sides.

6.7.4. Any spaces used to identify the vehicles entitled to receive motor fuel which are not used
must be completely filled in with a series of capital Xs to prevent tampering. E.g.,
XXXXXXXXXX.

7. PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES – It is forbidden to:

7.1. Alter, deface, counterfeit or, except as provided for by this instruction, sell, give away,
barter, pledge or dispose of a DFP in any manner.

7.2. Sell, give away, barter, pledge or dispose of gasoline or diesel fuel obtained under the
provisions of this instruction, or loan a vehicle containing tax-free motor fuel to persons not
entitled under this instruction (Paragraph 3.).

7.3. Fill, or permit to be filled, containers of any kind, except the tank which is an integral part of
the owner’s vehicle, with tax-free gasoline or diesel fuel except small quantities for personal
domestic use.

7.4. Pump fuel from any AAFES facility in the UK without having in one’s possession the DFP
and a Department of Defense (DoD) Identification card.

8. Interpretation. Questions involving interpretation of this instruction should be directed to UK
base legal offices.

8.1. Prescribed Form: 3AF Form 435, 3AF Driving/Fuel Permit.
3AFI51-701 01    DECEMBER 2008                                            7

8.2. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DVLA Form V5C, Registration Certificate
USAFE Form 3, Drivers License/Vehicle Registration Application




                                         W.W. PISCHNOTTE, Colonel, USAF
                                         Staff Judge Advocate
8                                                   3AFI51-701 01     DECEMBER 2008


                             Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFPD 51-7, International Law, 19 January 2001
AFI 31-204 USAFESUP1, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, 5 January 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
USAFEI 51-710(I)/ AER 550-33/CINCUSNAVEURI 5840.17C, Regulations on Personal
Property, Local Currency, and Motor Vehicles for U.S. Personnel in the United Kingdom, 11
March 2004
3AFI31-204, Control of Concession Vehicles within the United Kingdom, 10 March 2005

Abbreviations and Acronyms

AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Service
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFRC—Air Force Reserve
ANG—Air National Guard
DEROS—Date Estimated Return from Overseas
DFP—Driving/Fuel Permit
ID—Identification
PIO—Permit Issue Office
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
TDY—Temporary Duty
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
UK—United Kingdom
US—United States
