BY ORDER OF THE                                  THIRD AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 51-304
COMMANDER THIRD AIR FORCE
                                                                          15 DECEMBER 2008
                                                                                      Law

                                                   COMPLAINTS BY BRITISH NATIONALS
                                                   AGAINST UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
                                                                        PERSONNEL


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 3AF-UK/JA                                          Certified by: 3AF-UK/JA (Col Rodgers)
Supersedes: 16AFI51-304, 25 January 2006                                             Pages: 4


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 51-3, Civil Litigation. It updates
implementation of an agreement dated 31 August 1988 between the British Under Secretary of
State for the Armed Forces and 3rd Air Force delineating procedures to be followed when
complaints by British nationals (BN) are filed against United States Air Force (USAF) personnel
assigned or on temporary duty (TDY) to the United Kingdom (UK). Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008, and disposed of in accordance with the
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in AFRIMS (Air Force Portal.). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command
SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision incorporates the title change of 16AFI 51-304 to 3AFI 51-304 and the name change
of 16 AF, Detachment 3 to 3 AF-UK. It also sets out in detail the duties of the Complaints
Review Board and the Investigating Officer appointed to assist the Board.
1. Forwarding of Complaints. Complaints by BN’s alleging mistreatment by USAF members
while stationed in the UK and while in performance of their official duties may be initially
received by a local police force, the Ministry of Defense Police (MDP), the Royal Air Force
(RAF) Commander on a USAF occupied base, or the USAF itself. In each case such complaints
should be passed via the RAF Commander to the USAF Law Enforcement desk at the relevant
base and to the Senior RAF Liaison Office (RAFLO) at 3 AF-UK, RAF Mildenhall.
2                                                      3AFI51-304     15 DECEMBER 2008

2. Processing of Complaints. If a complaint is not capable of informal resolution it shall be
forwarded to the office of the United States Country Representative to the United Kingdom (UK
USCR), 3 AF/CV, RAF Mildenhall. A member of his administrative staff shall log in the
complaint.
3. Complaints Review Board.
3.1. The UK USCR or his designated representative in his absence will convene a board with
due diligence. The board shall be composed of three members: a representative from the Office
of Legal Services, 3 AF-UK/JA; a representative from the Air Force Office of Special
Investigations (AFOSI); and a Security Forces representative from the Office of International
Relations, 3 AF-UK. The junior ranking member shall serve as the recorder. The board is
authorized to augment with other advisors, as they deem appropriate; however only the three
board members shall be voting members. Once convened, the review board shall be the
primary duty of the board members.
3.2. The UK USCR or his designated representative in his absence may appoint an
Investigating Officer (IO) to assist the board. Once appointed, the duties of the investigating
officer shall be the primary duty of the IO.
4. Duties of the Board.
4.1. The board will immediately provide a copy of the complaint and any available
documentation regarding the complaint to the investigating officer for use in gathering further
evidence.
4.2. The board will investigate the complaint, ensuring the investigation is conducted
independently of all other investigations, though evidence obtained by other investigations may
be used.
4.3. The board will ensure, and may request from UK authorities, access to all pertinent
documentation necessary to facilitate a thorough understanding of the facts.
4.4. The board will receive all documentation and evidence gathered and review the same to
assure a complete investigation. If the board has authority to explore further avenues regarding
the complaint, the board may direct an IO to reopen his inquiries.
4.5. The board will provide a report of its findings to the US UKCR for his consideration,
attaching a copy of the IO’s Report of Investigation (Paragraph 5.4). The board may include
recommendations for corrective actions in its report.
5. Duties of the IO.
5.1. The IO will collect written statements from the complainant and any other witnesses the
complainant may produce or who the IO deems has relevant information to provide to the
board.
5.2. The IO may, at the discretion of the board, also interview the complainant or any other
witness, if the witness is willing to be interviewed. The UK police force may assist if requested
to do so by the IO. Any interview of the complainant should be recorded and transcribed
verbatim.
3AFI51-304     15 DECEMBER 2008                                                               3

5.3 The IO will gather all pertinent regulations, operating instructions and guidance concerning
any standards alleged by the complainant to have been breached by members of the US Forces,
and provide copies of the same to the board.
5.4. The IO will provide the evidence and documentation gathered to the board in the form of a
Report of Investigation (ROI). The ROI will not contain findings of fact, conclusions, or
recommendations for corrective action.
6. Reporting Results of Complaint Review. After completion of the investigation, and review
and consideration by appropriate USAF authorities, the results of the investigation will be
conveyed through the RAFLO (or his designated representative in his absence) to the RAF
Commander of the base concerned, who will then write to the complainant, informing the
complainant of the results of the investigation. NOTE: The USAF will release only the results
of the investigation to the RAFLO, and not the complete report. A copy of the letter to the
complainant shall be sent to the agency which originally received the complaint.




                                                   W.W. PISCHNOTTE, Colonel, USAF
                                                   Staff Judge Advocate
4                                                    3AFI51-304   15 DECEMBER 2008



                                   Attachment 1
                      GLOSSARY OF SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 51-3, Civil Litigation, 21 May 1993
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Record, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms

3 AF-UK – Detachment 1, 3rd Air Force also known as Third Air Force – United Kingdom
AFOSI – Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFPD – Air Force Policy Directive
IO – Investigation Officer
MDP – Ministry of Defense Policy
NATO – North Atlantic Treaty Organization
RAF – Royal Air Force
RAFLO – Royal Air Force Liaison Officer
ROI – Report of Investigation
SJA – Staff Judge Advocate
SOFA – Status of Forces Agreement
TDY – Temporary Duty
UK – United Kingdom
UK USCR – United States Country Representative for the United Kingdom
US – United States
USAF – United States Air Force
