BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                                                                3D AIR FORCE PAMPHLET 32-1001
THIRD AIR FORCE (USAFE)                                                                                                           20 MAY 2004

                                                                                                                            Civil Engineering

                                                                        OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE OF REAL
                                                                           PROPERTY FACILITIES IN THE UNITED
                                                                                                    KINGDOM


NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 3AF/HQ (Lt Col Lonny P. Baker)                                              Certified by: 3AF/HQ (Col John E. Watkins)
Supersedes 3AFR 85-3, 11 June 1994.                                                                               Pages: 24
                                                                                                             Distribution: F

This pamphlet implements and supplements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-10, Air Force Instal-
lations and Facilities, Air Force Instruction (AFI) 32-1001, Operations Management, USAFE Instruction
65-105 Order for Construction, Supplies and Services from British Government Agencies, the 1951 North
Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA), the 1973 United States/United
Kingdom (UK) Cost Sharing Arrangement (CSA) as supplemented and joint operating Defence
Estates-US Forces (DE-USF). It provides information and procedures that are specific to maintaining,
repairing, constructing and operating real property facilities in the UK. This pamphlet applies to all US
Air Force Civil Engineering (CE) personnel in the UK. Maintain and dispose of records created by pre-
scribed processes in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 37-139, Records Disposition Sched-
ule.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
      1.     General: ......................................................................................................................     2
      2.     Facility Assessments: .................................................................................................             5
      3.     Direct Scheduled and Planned Work Requests: ........................................................                                5
      4.     Self-Help Work: .........................................................................................................           7
      5.     Materiel Acquisition: .................................................................................................             8
      6.     Utilities: .....................................................................................................................    8
      7.     Financial Management: ..............................................................................................                8
      8.     Facility Project Development and Management. ......................................................                                13
      9.     Deployed Unit Employment--“Troop Labor”: ..........................................................                                19

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                  21
2                                                                     3AFPAM32-1001 20 MAY 2004


1. General:
    1.1. Scope. This pamphlet applies to CE organizations responsible for operating and maintaining the
    infrastructure of Royal Air Force (RAF) stations and other facilities in the UK provided for the use of
    the US Government (USG) by the Ministry of Defence (MOD) on behalf of Her Majesty’s Govern-
    ment (HMG). It provides guidance on the UK-specific CE structure, the partnering relationship with
    HMG and methods of operation. The Base Civil Engineer (BCE) manages a combined work force of
    US military and civilian personnel and the MOD Civil Engineer Labor Force (CELF) (employed
    through the RAF Personnel and Training Command (PTC)).
    1.2. Concept. Working with the representatives of HMG provides USAF CE with a unique opportu-
    nity. The good relationship between US Air Force CE and DE-USF should be fostered and strength-
    ened at every opportunity. To this end, the tenets of partnering can be adopted. Partners are
    responsible for their actions, expect and provide professionalism, resolve conflicts and respect each
    other’s interests within the limits of the governing documents.
    1.3. Agencies and Responsibilities:
       1.3.1. 3 AF/A47 is the office of primary responsibility or collateral responsibility for joint and
       multi-base CE policy actions affecting United States Forces (USF)-occupied MOD stations that
       are not delegated to the US Air Forces in Europe/Civil Engineer (HQ USAFE/CE). While HQ
       USAFE/CE directs programs and reports directly to base-level organizations, the 3 AF Com-
       mander is responsible to HQ USAFE for program accomplishment.
           1.3.1.1. Works with the 3 AF International Relations Division (3 AF/IR) in the preparation of
           memoranda between 3 AF and agencies of HMG that incorporate CE components. Coordi-
           nates with MOD and DE-USF concerning CE policy actions affecting all USF-occupied MOD
           stations.
           1.3.1.2. Manages and coordinates actions in preparation for and resulting from deployments
           of CE personnel, units or equipment. Assigns taskings issued by or through the USAFE The-
           ater Aerospace Operations Center (U/TASC) to the appropriate unit or units for accomplish-
           ment.
           1.3.1.3. Resolves infrastructure management situations or actions that are determined to
           involve or affect more than a single base.
       1.3.2. The BCE is responsible for all matters concerning the operation and maintenance of real
       property. The BCE exercises financial responsibilities as described in paragraph 7.3. The BCE
       coordinates with the Defence Estates Manager (DEM) (formerly the Associate CE) and the RAF
       commander to ensure that, where appropriate, UK legislation is applied and adhered to. The CE
       organization is modified by the presence of the DEM and the parallel DE-USF organization within
       the unit. In the integrated organization, US-paid MOD personnel may fill supervisory positions.
       1.3.3. The DEM is a DE-USF employee working in-house to provide technical and contracting
       support with DE-USF staff and UK-civilian contractors. The DEM is the DE-USF manager for the
       MOD Estate and has public accountability to the MOD. The DEM and his or her staff work for
       and report directly to DE-USF. The DEM works closely with the BCE within the CE unit structure
       to facilitate and evaluate work accomplishment by contractors employed by DE-USF. The DEM
       also works with the RAF commander on all matters concerning the ownership of the estate. The
       DEM is responsible to the BCE for actions funded via the USAFE Form 100, Supplies or Ser-
3AFPAM32-1001 20 MAY 2004                                                                          3


     vices Order Under US-UK Government Agreements (paragraph 7.). The DEM is responsible
     to the BCE for contractor-performed maintenance, repair and construction as delegated by
     DE-USF.
        1.3.3.1. The DEM has direct involvement in work performed by contractors on the station.
        These actions and responsibilities include:
            1.3.3.1.1. Performing facility inspections.
            1.3.3.1.2. Providing quality control for work done by contractors and in-house DE-USF
            staff, including functional management (safe systems of work, technical supervision).
            1.3.3.1.3. Providing resources to perform real property maintenance, repair and operation
            service when necessary to augment the US Air Force and CELF work force.
            1.3.3.1.4. Informing the BCE concerning UK-specific requirements and policies.
            1.3.3.1.5. Maintaining the installation copy of the DE-USF Code of Practice (CP) and DE
            technical and safety documentation.
            1.3.3.1.6. Providing DE-USF representation on committees and meetings as agreed with
            the BCE.
        1.3.3.2. The DEM (or staff) normally supports and attends the following:
            1.3.3.2.1. Facilities board, siting board and working panels
            1.3.3.2.2. Environmental protection committee
            1.3.3.2.3. Traffic safety coordinating group
            1.3.3.2.4. Energy steering committee
            1.3.3.2.5. Combined safety council
     1.3.4. The USAFE Regional CE (HQ USAFE/CEW) (formerly HQ USAFE/CER) provides direct
     support to the BCE for all major projects. The responsibilities and mission of HQ USAFE/CEW
     are stated in USAFE Mission Directive 38, Detachment 1, USAFE Civil Engineer Squadron. This
     office is the USAFE agent responsible for the design and construction management of all Depart-
     ment of Defense (DoD) major construction projects (over $750,000) and military construction
     (MILCON) projects in the UK. HQ USAFE/CEW works directly with DE-USF to accomplish
     major, MILCON and NATO projects. This office is responsible for US portion of NATO works in
     the UK, France, Spain, Portugal, Denmark and Norway. HQ USAFE/CEW provides USF over-
     sight and accountability, design and construction policy, regional environmental expertise and
     wartime construction management in these countries. The USF program managers (PM) at HQ
     USAFE/CEW perform many of the project management functions performed or delegated by the
     BCE at the base level.
     1.3.5. DE-USF:
        1.3.5.1. Headquarters DE-USF exercises the delegated authority of HMG as the business unit
        within the MOD responsible for the provision of facilities, project execution and contractual
        support on MOD stations occupied by USF and NATO. The DE-USF manager is responsible
        for the management and performance of all projects; contract work and technical support at
        USF stations not performed by in-house forces, deployed units (paragraph 9.), or via direct
4                                                               3AFPAM32-1001 20 MAY 2004


    contracting (paragraph 3.3.). A brief explanation of division responsibilities is as follows:
       1.3.5.1.1. The Major Projects Division provides complete management support for
       projects; from initial cost advice to complete project design, tender evaluation, construc-
       tion management and project close out. This division works closely with the BCEs and HQ
       USAFE/CEW. They work directly with the engineering flight on projects performed by
       contract that exceed the DEMs delegation authority and are not part of HQ USAFE/CEWs
       or NATO programs.
           1.3.5.1.1.1. The contracts branch is responsible for preparing specifications and letting
           contracts.
           1.3.5.1.1.2. The MOD office for the NATO Secretariat is assigned to this division.
       1.3.5.1.2. The Operations and Maintenance Division provides management and support
       for all contracted operations for which the BCE is responsible that fall within the DEMs
       management authority. The operations and maintenance manager has line responsibility
       for all DEMs and their personnel located on bases and for the Technical Support Team
       (TST) located at Stirling House.
       1.3.5.1.3. The TST provides professional engineering and technical support to the DEM,
       HQ USAFE/CEW, the engineering flight and contractors on engineering, operations, pre-
       ventative maintenance, fire, environmental and safety issues. The TST prepares and pro-
       grams Facility Support Contracts (FSC) and assists with professional inspections. The
       TST appoints, supports and audits all authorized persons (AP) and advises the BCE on
       compliance with UK statutory regulations for maintenance actions. The TST performs fire
       certification (UK and US) for all new facilities, provides guidance on UK health and safety
       legislation and performs UK building regulation compliance inspections and design
       reviews as required.
       1.3.5.1.4. Business Support. All non-MILCON work carried out by DE-USF for United
       States Forces is invoiced to BCEs by the Defence Bills Agency (DBA) at Liverpool. MIL-
       CON and P713 (military family housing improvement) project invoices are directed to HQ
       USAFE/CEW. Defense Accounting and Finance Service-Europe (DFAS-EU) at Vogelweh
       Air Station makes reimbursement to DE-USF after validation by base Financial Services
       Office (FSO) (paragraph 7.).
       1.3.5.1.5. The Quality Management Team is responsible for project document review and
       job-site contractor monitoring to ensure correct project accomplishment.
    1.3.5.2. Management of Work. DE-USF responsibilities include project planning, engineer-
    ing, designing, letting contracts, pre-financing, construction management, financial manage-
    ment, maintenance and repair work, inspection and recommendation of acceptance of services
    as requested by USF. DE-USF is tasked with supporting USF in the stewardship of their
    assigned stations in compliance with UK legislation. DE-USF also manages the NATO Secu-
    rity Investment Program in the UK. The USG reimburses DE-USF on the basis of actual con-
    tractor costs for providing these services plus a fixed percentage (7.5 percent) known as
    Departmental Expenses. Departmental Expenses are the USG portion of the overhead costs
    incurred by DE-USF in executing services on behalf of USF. MOD pays all additional over-
    head costs (paragraph 7.2.3.).
3AFPAM32-1001 20 MAY 2004                                                                             5


      1.3.6. The RAF commander is the senior RAF representative on each USF-occupied RAF station
      with the authority and responsibilities of a commanding officer for RAF personnel and MOD
      civilians (except MOD Police, DE-USF personnel and British employees directly hired by the US
      Air Force) in accordance with the RAF Commander’s Directive. The RAF commander acts as the
      RAF estates manager and works with the DEM in the property management of the station. The
      RAF commander advises and assists the USF commander and BCE on all matters of UK proce-
      dures and protocol, MOD policy and RAF support and regulations.
      1.3.7. The 3 AF RAF Liaison Officer for Armaments (3 AF/RAFLO/ARM) participates in the
      planning and design approval for any project or facility involving the handling, storage, mainte-
      nance and transportation of weapons, munitions and explosives to, from or within the UK. This
      includes all projects located within identified explosives outer quantity distances.

2. Facility Assessments:
   2.1. Purpose. Summarize UK-specific requirements for conducting essential facility assessments to
   identify facility maintenance and repair requirements.
   2.2. UK and DE-USF Assessments. Where similar requirements exist, the BCE and DEM should
   arrange for the consolidation of information obtained from USF and DE-USF facility assessments.
   Where overlapping US and UK assessment requirements have different intervals, the more frequent
   assessment should be performed to meet the requirement.
      2.2.1. The BCE should review assessment and documentation requirements incorporated into the
      Base Facility Management Agreement (BFMA) and other US-funded maintenance or operations
      contracts prepared by DE-USF. The nature of such actions should be examined to verify that the
      requirements call for US funding or accomplishment and the actions are not redundant.
      2.2.2. USF funds all assessment and inspection actions and contracts that support the US mission.
      NATO funding should be obtained when appropriate. USF are not required to accomplish or fund
      UK, MOD or DE-USF inspections, assessments, documentation requirements or frequencies that
      do not have a US, DOD or NATO counterpart. It is US policy and a treaty driven obligation to con-
      duct US activities in a manner, which meets the health and safety (H&S) requirements of UK leg-
      islation. Where an H&S assessment action is requested or incorporated by DE-USF into a
      US-funded contract, USF safety and inspection procedures should be examined to evaluate them
      for substantial compliance with the requirement. Where substantial compliance is not present or is
      incomplete, a suitable cooperative program should be implemented in consultation with DE-USF.
      Where USF funding or implementation is determined to be inappropriate, DE-USF may fund and
      accomplish the desired actions upon notification to the BCE and verification that the proposed
      activity has been scheduled to minimize mission impact.
   2.3. Procedures. UK procedures and guidance for conducting facility assessments are provided in the
   DE-USF CP section 1.3. The Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) Infrastructure Condition Stan-
   dard is not a USAFE-approved standard, but is available as a guide.
   2.4. Assessment Frequencies. Frequencies for conducting assessments vary according to mission crit-
   icality, safety and environmental factors, facility age, condition, occupancy, etc. In most cases,
   DE-USF assessment frequencies are driven by UK statutory requirements for compliance with H&S
   or other directives. These assessments are not necessarily directed on USF.
6                                                                     3AFPAM32-1001 20 MAY 2004


3. Direct Scheduled and Planned Work Requests:
    3.1. Purpose. Summarize UK-specific procedures for receiving, documenting, issuing and tracking
    work requests.
    3.2. Concept. Ref AFI 32-1001, Section B, paragraph 3, AFI 32-1022, Planning and Programming
    Non-appropriated Fund Facility Construction Projects, AFI 32-1032, Planning and Programming
    Real Property Maintenance Projects using Appropriated Funds, and USAFE Supplement 1.
    3.3. Direct Contracting. The BCE may employ direct contracting for maintenance and construction
    when circumstances make it more practical than utilizing the services of DE-USF. In such cases, the
    BCE advises DE-USF in writing of the appropriate details as required in the CSA paragraph 3(2). The
    CSA paragraph 3(2) provides DE-USF with the option to object to the employment of direct contract-
    ing within 15 days of receipt of the notice. If DE-USF does object and the BCE still decides to use
    direct contracting, resolution should be made through discussion between the BCE and the DEM. If
    necessary, the issue may be elevated to 3 AF/A47 and DE-USF or higher for resolution. The BCE
    advises the MOD Personnel Office (MODPO) if the proposed action could have impact on MOD per-
    sonnel. The applicability of UK regulations concerning Transfer of Undertaking-Protection of
    Employment (TUPE) is evaluated. Expenditures and management for direct contracting are the sole
    responsibility of the BCE.
    3.4. Employment of USF Personnel. USF CE personnel do not require UK certification to perform
    on-station duties that (as directed by UK law) must be performed by a skilled person (SP), as long as
    an appropriate AP sets up, inspects, and where appropriate, supervises the work. The BCE may obtain
    AP and SP training and certification for USF personnel. This action complies with CP sections
    2.1030, 2.1070, 2.203 and 2.5080 concerning interviews and SP or AP certification training. Work on
    permitted systems requires the continuous, on-site presence of an SP and the certification of work
    plans and completion by an AP.
       3.4.1. All personnel performing direct-scheduled work, planned work or recurring work on real
       property installed equipment or performing on-site supervisory duties in the 0X1, 0X2, 1X1, 4X1
       and 4X2 CE specialty codes must have AP or SP certification or be accompanied by a certified
       person (as directed by UK law). This requirement includes any work performed in a “confined
       space” as defined in the MOD Safe Systems of Work-Safety Rules and Procedures (SRP)--SRP 01
       (Electricity), 02 (Boilers and Pressure Systems), 03 (Petroleum), and 06 (Confined Spaces
       [Draft]).
       3.4.2. US Air Force Reserve, RED HORSE, or US Air National Guard CE personnel deployed to
       a UK station may perform work with prior approval of the BCE and notification to the DEM
       (paragraph 3.3. and 9.3.1.). The BCE provides technical and supervisory support to ensure all
       work complies with appropriate US and UK standards and safety requirements.
    3.5. DE-USF Methods of Contracting. Operations and maintenance work that is beyond the capabili-
    ties of the BCE's work force is normally performed using FSCs as identified in the BFMA. The con-
    tract scope is agreed between the BCE and DEM. An FSC is normally awarded for 3 years and can be
    extended to 5 years. It may include preventive maintenance, grounds maintenance, project manage-
    ment, design services, inspection services, supply of materials, and the hiring of plant and equipment
    and call-out service. The BCE should ensure that all actions provided in the contract are required by
    USF (paragraph 2.2.). It is important for the BCE to keep the DEM and the MODPO informed on mis-
    sion or funding changes affecting the workload of contractors. Facility support contractors can pro-
3AFPAM32-1001 20 MAY 2004                                                                               7


   vide flexibility for changing contract activity requirements. Authorization to perform work is
   provided by DE-USF.
      3.5.1. FSC 1 (Maintenance). A lump sum contract providing either engineering services or total
      facility maintenance is required, for a specified period, for the complete installation or facility
      (and repairs up to a limit) by resident staff and the 24-hour on-call service.
      3.5.2. FSC 2 (Rates Work/Multiple Trades). Multi-trade FSC work is similar to SABER (Simpli-
      fied Acquisition of Base Engineer Requirements) and can be ordered, priced using a published
      schedule of rates and carried out quickly. There are maximum single order limits for work per-
      formed under an FSC 2.
      3.5.3. FSC 3 (Projects and Work Orders). A term contract framework for consultant services with
      no minimum commitment to place orders.
      3.5.4. FSC 4 (Grounds Maintenance). A lump sum or rates-based term contract for grounds main-
      tenance, landscaping and other gardening work.
      3.5.5. FSC 5 (Region-Wide Rates Based Contracts). A term contract similar to FSC 2 used to pro-
      vide specialist capabilities for more than one station.
      3.5.6. Specialist Term Contract (STC). An STC is awarded for work on a specific schedule of
      equipment and can include emergency calls (example: inspection and maintenance of boilers).
      3.5.7. Jobbing Orders. Local contractors with no formal contract or conditions for work are avail-
      able for on-call completion of minor specialist work. Maximum cost restrictions apply.
   3.6. Work Cancellation. The DEM should be informed and provided a copy of each canceled work
   order that involves a contractor or is in planning at DE-USF. This enables expeditious reporting and
   coordination of canceled work to DE-USF. If a work order or project is determined to have been
   aborted, the requirements of paragraph 4(2) of the CSA apply (paragraph 8.20).

4. Self-Help Work:
   4.1. Purpose. Summarize UK-specific procedures for accomplishing facility maintenance, repair and
   modifications through self-help. Reference AF Pamphlet (AFPAM) 32-1098, Base Civil Engineer
   Self-Help Guide, and AFPAM 32-1098, USAFE Supplement 1.
   4.2. Personnel Briefing. Personnel managing and working in the self-help program should be briefed
   on pertinent aspects of UK and MOD requirements for performing the projects, repairs and mainte-
   nance that can be done on MOD stations. Emphasize the differences between US and UK utility sys-
   tems and the certification requirements. It should be coordinated with the DEM.
   4.3. Procedures. Support from DE-USF is directed through the DEM. Planning assistance should be
   provided in all cases, with technical advice and inspection by an SP or AP where electrical or mechan-
   ical systems or confined spaces may be affected. USF personnel may not be fully aware of UK
   requirements and MOD Safe Systems of Work as they apply to a self-help project.
   4.4. Self-help Store. An appropriate AP to identify material that is incorrect for the UK should review
   all publications, videotapes and detailed mock-ups available in the self-help store. A card should be
   prepared and attached for any errors and omissions that can be corrected with an addendum.
   Mock-ups should be marked to show actions requiring SP or AP involvement.
8                                                                       3AFPAM32-1001 20 MAY 2004


    4.5. Guidance. The installation self-help guide, local self-help store operating instructions and check-
    lists for common self-help jobs should prominently incorporate specific notes, cautions and warnings
    concerning UK requirements.

5. Materiel Acquisition:
    5.1. Purpose. Summarize UK-specific procedures for materiel transactions processed by the Materiel
    Acquisition Element (MAE).
    5.2. Procedures. DE-USF can provide contractual support to procure materiel through local or
    national sources. DE-USF may charge Departmental Expenses only on the cost of the contractor
    exclusive of procured materiel costs. DE-USF is responsible for materiel until a US or US-paid
    employee's signature of receipt is provided (excluding blanket purchase agreement transactions, inter-
    national merchant’s purchase authorization card transactions and purchases that are US administered).
    Personnel should be knowledgeable of UK Control of Substances Hazardous to Health standards and
    directives.

6. Utilities:
    6.1. Purpose. Summarize UK-specific policy and procedures for provision of utility services to USF
    facilities in the UK.
    6.2. Concept. Ref AFI 32-1061, Providing Utilities to US Air Force Installations. Under the terms of
    the NATO SOFA and the 1976 USAFE/MOD Agreement for Accommodation (Utilities) Services to
    the US Air Force in the UK, utilities are provided by the MOD to the USF on MOD property. The
    RAF commander, through the station warden, is the agent and manager for utility contracts.
    6.3. Procedures. In most cases, utilities are paid for by the MOD with reimbursement (where appro-
    priate) provided by the USF. MOD contracting performs contract negotiation and review. Contracts
    for major accounts are reviewed annually and minor accounts are reviewed every 3 years. The BCE
    should provide a representative to the negotiations and subsequent reviews. For large utility users, pri-
    vate utility companies electronically bill the MOD paying office in Glasgow, Scotland. This office
    reconciles utility readings with the RAF station warden. If no objection is raised and verified, the
    MOD paying office makes the payment. When the RAF station warden receives the MOD paid
    invoice, arrangements are made through financial management for reimbursement. This process min-
    imizes interest penalties for late payment. The RAF station warden and payment by Financial Man-
    agement (FM) send small utility bills (such as for small, off-station sites) directly to the owning
    organization for reconciliation.

7. Financial Management:
    7.1. Purpose. This paragraph defines UK-specific areas of responsibility for the BCE, CE Resource
    Flight (CERF), and DE-USF in managing element of expense investment code (EEIC) 570 facility
    operations and maintenance and EEIC 52X project funds.
    7.2. Terminology:
       7.2.1. Fixed Costs. CELF and firefighter wages, the 1.5 percent payroll surcharge expenses, trans-
       port and stores.
3AFPAM32-1001 20 MAY 2004                                                                              9


     7.2.2. Variable Costs. The contractual costs of recurring work, maintenance by DE-USF contrac-
     tors, risk, contingencies, minor construction and associated departmental expenses.
     7.2.3. Departmental Expenses. A 7.5 percent surcharge (specified in the CSA) added by DE-USF
     to the progress payments made to UK contractors on behalf of USF. The fee during design is set at
     6 percent with the additional 1.5 percent recovered when design is complete.
     7.2.4. Management of Financial Risk. DE-USF creates a risk register for the major elements of a
     project to identify an appropriate level of additional obligation that is added to the project cost.
     The risk set-aside covers occurrences that cannot be forecast on the expectation that some of the
     identified actions may become necessary. DE-USF is authorized to expend funds against a risk
     element up to the amount listed on the register. The USF PM is notified of the expenditure. Any
     requirement above the allowance is approved by the USF PM. This funding is not to be used for
     project changes or contingencies. The unexpended obligation is retained until physical handover is
     performed, then an appropriate portion may be deobligated. A risk assessment method used
     throughout the MOD is applied to each element of the project. This approach provides for compli-
     ance with the CSA paragraph 4(5).
  7.3. BCE Financial Responsibilities. These activities are normally delegated to the appropriate offices
  or program managers by the BCE.
     7.3.1. Initiates USAFE Forms 100 for:
         7.3.1.1. EEIC 52X and 72X projects
         7.3.1.2. EEIC 53X Design actions
         7.3.1.3. EEIC 570 facility operations and maintenance (O&M) projects and 5703X actions
         7.3.1.4. Non-Appropriated Fund (NAF) projects, accommodation services and tenant require-
         ments
     7.3.2. Revises USAFE Form 100 for all cost reductions or overruns.
     7.3.3. Monitors current status of ongoing 52X and 570 activities.
         7.3.3.1. When an invoice submitted for payment by DE-USF cannot be paid within 30 days of
         the date of submittal due to a dispute, error or funding shortfall, the reason for non-payment
         should be provided to DE-USF with a copy to HQ 3 AF/A47. The CSA paragraph 4(5) directs
         the submission of a report to HMG within 3 months for any late payment. If a requirement for
         action by DE-USF has been identified as the cause for delay, a response from DE-USF should
         be requested.
         7.3.3.2. When execution of a project leads to a claim for injury or damages from a British cit-
         izen, the DEM or DE-USF PM obtains all pertinent information from the contractor and pro-
         vides it to the BCE or USF PM for transmittal to the installation judge advocate and HQ 3 AF/
         A47/Judge Advocate/International Relations (JA/IR) as directed in the CSA.
  7.4. CE Resource Management Responsibilities. The CERF should understand UK financial termi-
  nology and accounting structure and DE-USF reports available for use and analysis. DE-USF has UK
  contractual responsibilities and should also understand USF financial management requirements and
  procedures. Quarterly reconciliation meetings with the BCE and the DEM are recommended. USF
10                                                                      3AFPAM32-1001 20 MAY 2004


     financial management guidance is contained in USAFE Instruction 65-105. MOD accounting respon-
     sibilities are held by the DBA.
     7.5. Authorizing Funds. The USAFE Form 100 is the only document used by the BCE to obligate
     funds to DE-USF for accomplishing facility maintenance, facility projects and other separately funded
     actions. The CERF processes USAFE Forms 100 in accordance with USAFE Instruction 65-105. HQ
     USAFE/ CEW PMs use the USAFE Form 11, UK Construction Fund Authorization, for the same
     purpose on major and MILCON projects. For time-sensitive or "straddle-bid" program projects,
     DE-USF may tender a project upon receipt of a written guarantee of funding from the BCE. A USAFE
     Form 100 should follow as soon as possible.
     7.6. Minor Construction. DE-USF work orders should be recorded to determine the value for real
     property capitalization. In this way, an AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, can
     remain valid into the next fiscal year. It is essential that DE-USF contractual work orders be coded for
     the fiscal year in which they are raised.
     7.7. EEIC 570 Upfunding. DE-USF technical officers should notify the CERF when additional funds
     are required. The BCE can then obtain and authorize additional funding. Contractor work orders can-
     not be issued in excess of the current-year authorized funding shown on the USAFE Form 100. Work
     orders should not be charged against prior fiscal year EEIC 570 USAFE Forms 100. It is imperative
     that copies of work orders are forwarded promptly to the CERF.
     7.8. USAFE Form 100. The BCE uses the USAFE Form 100 to authorize DE-USF to initiate design
     and construction actions on the part of the selected contractors. It is prepared and issued to DE-USF as
     described in USAFE Instruction 65-105, Section B. More than one geographical location can be
     included on a USAFE Form 100 to reduce the administrative workload. Fund authorizations on initial
     USAFE Forms 100 are based upon funding advice obtained through the base FSO. USAFE Forms 100
     for NAF projects clearly identify the actions to which NAF are to be applied. When the actual fixed
     cost of a project varies significantly from the initial estimate, a revised USAFE Form 100 should be
     sent to DE-USF and the DFAS-EU to update the shred-out between fixed costs and contractual ele-
     ments of cost. Revisions to USAFE Forms 100 for EEIC 570 funds clearly state why the revision is
     necessary. If additional funds are provided, revised USAFE Forms 100 should state the area being
     increased. Exchange rate changes should have no effect on the funding in pounds sterling (£) since the
     O&M rate of exchange is normally fixed at the annual budget rate for the entire fiscal year during
     which the USAFE Forms 100 are executed. The fixed exchange rate does not necessarily apply to
     reimbursable activities or all tenant organizations. A status review of a new project is required to
     ensure expenses are covered under the Foreign Currency Fluctuation Account before the "fixed"
     exchange rate is used. The unit comptroller can provide the correct exchange rate.
        7.8.1. Reporting. The DFAS-EU is notified of the total £ amounts chargeable to each USAFE
        Form 100. Copies of the USAFE Form 100 are provided to the appropriate resource advisors. The
        normal reporting cut-off date is the last day of each month, and the cut-off date for the fiscal year
        is 30 September.
        7.8.2. Fiscal Year-end Closeout. During March (end of UK fiscal year) and September, DE-USF
        and the CERF jointly examine expenses weekly (daily during the last week). The CERF should
        consider the expenses accrued in dollar terms in those areas which are subject to currency fluctua-
        tions and ensure additional funds, for example, unobligated balances, are used whenever possible.
        Once the final fixed cost charges for the year have been determined, DE-USF should issue con-
3AFPAM32-1001 20 MAY 2004                                                                             11


     tractual work orders to the value of the contractual balance. However, there should not be an
     excessive number of work orders issued during September solely to spend the balance of funds.
     All available funds should be obligated for work orders that can be scheduled and accomplished
     without unnecessary delay. Unneeded balances should be deobligated by revising the USAFE
     Form 100.
  7.9. EEIC 52X Design, Project Funding and Payment Procedures. The BCE initiates the design phase
  by issuing a design instruction (DI) to DE-USF supported by a USAFE Form 100. In accordance with
  the CSA, paragraph 4(5), DE-USF is paid 7.5 percent Departmental Expenses based on the actual
  final cost of each project. In order to meet programming and US law requirements, these expenses
  should be broken down into two components. Public law dictates that no more than 6 percent can be
  paid for design. The remaining 1.5 percent is allowed for supervision, inspection, overhead and han-
  dling (SIOH). In order to ensure this ratio is strictly adhered to, it is essential that the USAFE Form
  100 show the DE-USF shred-out of 6 percent design funding, 1.5 percent SIOH 52X/592 funds and
  the 52X/592 funding provided. DE-USF contracts for the majority of the design as a component of the
  project contract and then charges Departmental Expenses on the contract invoice.
     7.9.1. DE-USF normally submits an invoice for 2 percent of the current working estimate (CWE)
     at the ready-to-advertise (RTA) stage. Upon obtaining approval of the 100 percent design,
     DE-USF submits an invoice for the remaining 4 perent or the agreed percentage of the CWE. If a
     project is canceled, project abort fees may be applicable (paragraph 8.20.). The design portion of
     the Departmental Expenses is considered paid until final accounting is accomplished just prior to
     project financial completion.
     7.9.2. The BCE requests EEIC 52X funding based on the pre-tender estimate, or if accomplished
     by a maintenance term contractor, their quotation plus the 1.5 percent for SIOH. Upon receipt of
     EEIC 52X funding, the BCE issues a revised USAFE Form 100 with a dual fund cite, i.e. 6 percent
     of the CWE for design EEIC 532 funding and the CWE plus 1.5 percent SIOH in EEIC 52X fund-
     ing. As construction progresses, DE-USF issues invoices for progress payments as appropriate,
     including the prorated 1.5 percent SIOH. Therefore, the 1.5 percent portion of the 7.5 percent
     Departmental Expenses is included in each payment. When the DBA issues a DE-USF certified
     invoice to the BCE, the CERF verifies that the invoice is correct. The BCE may sign the certifica-
     tion or delegate that authority to the USF PM or the CERF. The CERF should then forward the
     invoice to the DFAS-EU within 3 working days. DFAS-EU should then make payment to DE-USF
     within 8 working days. Since payments to contractors are made under British Contracting Author-
     ity, the DE-USF certified invoice is sufficient confirmation that the work was accomplished.
     7.9.3. When a user change order is approved, the estimated cost of the change, in the appropriate
     52X funding plus 7.5 percent Departmental Expenses (DEs), is upfunded to the USAFE Form
     100. The cost of the change plus 1.5 percent is charged to EEIC 52X and 6 percent charged to
     EEIC 532 designs. Care should be taken to ensure that Departmental Expenses in excess of 7.5
     percent are not paid.
     7.9.4. If 52X/592 funds are changed on a project, then 532 funds should be adjusted accordingly.
     If the modification is due to a change in scope, then current year funds are cited. If there is no
     change in scope, use the fund cite for the fiscal year in which the obligation was originally made.
     The financial year cited is the year the EEIC obligation was originally made. This meets the bona
     fide need rule. Should the financial year be a lapsed appropriation, then current year funds are
     used.
12                                                                      3AFPAM32-1001 20 MAY 2004


     7.10. EEIC 52X Accounting Procedures:
        7.10.1. Cost Overruns. DE-USF or the DEM should provide the earliest possible notification of
        impending project cost overruns to the BCE. In cases where prior notification has not been possi-
        ble, revised USAFE Forms 100 may still be issued depending upon project year fund availability
        and project approval. The amount authorized on each USAFE Form 100 is not exceeded without
        prior approval of the BCE, nor is additional work added without an approved DD Form 1391,
        FY__ Military Construction Project Data (or computerized equivalent), an approved change
        order, and a revised USAFE Form 100. The DE-USF PM ensures an upfund and a revised USAFE
        Form 100 are obtained when the cost of the project exceeds the amount authorized. Cost overruns
        generally fall into one of three categories:
           7.10.1.1. Scope Increase. Where a cost overrun on a prior year project is attributable to an
           increase in the scope of work, the overrun is funded from current year funds. The increase
           should not be made by revising the original USAFE Form 100. Prepare a new USAFE Form
           100 for the scope increase using the same project number, citing current year funding and the
           cause of the increase. An increase in scope is not an after-the-fact cost overrun.
           7.10.1.2. Potential Overruns. Potential cost overruns can occur when a project is funded
           before going out for bid and the lowest acceptable bid from competing contractors exceeds
           funds authorized on the USAFE Form 100. Additional funds are obtained before the award of
           a contract. Particular care should be taken to prevent prior-year cost overruns.
           7.10.1.3. After-the-fact Cost Overruns. This type of cost overrun usually occurs when final
           contractor invoices exceed the cost on the original contractor work orders. This condition
           should be anticipated or identified as early as possible. The most frequent cause is project
           changes. Upfund procedures should be applied to prevent a shortfall when the contractor’s
           invoice is processed by DE-USF.
        7.10.2. Prior-Year Upfund Procedures. When an after-the-fact cost overrun is discovered, the bud-
        get office should be advised. Additional funds should then be requested via the obligation adjust-
        ment reporting system from the fiscal year in which the original USAFE Form 100 was obligated.
        If funds are not available, prior year funds should be requested from HQ USAFE.
        7.10.3. Physical Completion. Nearing physical completion of individual facilities or projects,
        DE-USF provides the documentation necessary to complete handover of the facility to the BCE
        for review by the engineering flight. After the engineering flight performs the US Air Force accep-
        tance inspection, the BCE or designated representative signs the statement indicating US Air
        Force acceptance or non-acceptance of work, places the copies in the project folder and returns the
        original to DE-USF. The engineering flight forwards the project folder to the resource advisor
        when project acceptance is accomplished. For minor construction work, the folder is forwarded to
        real property management for initial capitalization based upon physical completion. The folder is
        then returned to Engineering to be held until financial completion.
        7.10.4. Financial Completion. Within 6 months after handover, the DE-USF PM should have a
        close estimate of the final project costs. Any remaining risk elements and contractor difficulties
        should be identified. The DE-USF PM should provide this estimated final cost to the USF PM for
        adjustment of the project obligation. Upon payment of the contractor's final invoices, the DE-USF
        PM produces appropriate certification that a project is financially complete. The final certification
        should be provided within 4 months of the completion of any actions associated with the warran-
3AFPAM32-1001 20 MAY 2004                                                                             13


      tee. In special cases, contractual arrangements may require more time. DE-USF should provide
      the certification to the USF PM within 6 months after physical completion of a project that does
      not include a warrantee period. The BCE should request a statement of cause from DE-USF when
      the delay is extended.
          7.10.4.1. Upon receiving the preliminary certification from the DE-USF PM, the CERF per-
          forms a final account reconciliation. The amounts on any final invoices accompanying the cer-
          tification may be subject to amendment during reconciliation. DE-USF reassesses the 6
          percent design cost based upon the total cost of the project excluding Departmental Expenses.
          Upon completion of the reconciliation and agreement the DE-USF PM issues the certification
          to the BCE.
          7.10.4.2. Upon receipt of the certification, the CERF certifies the final invoice if sufficient
          funds remain. The CERF ensures the actual cost of the project plus 1.5 percent is paid from
          52X and not more than 6 percent of the actual cost for design from the fiscal year and
          exchange rate from which the original USAFE Form 100 was obliged. The CERF should
          request a credit if the payments for design exceed 6 percent. The CERF forwards the certifica-
          tion to the FSO/DFAS-EU for payment. The CERF contacts DFAS-EU to request closure of
          the USAFE Form 100 and project accounts and deobligation of remaining funds. The
          DFAS-EU prepares a Standard Form 1034, Public Voucher for Purchases and Services
          Other Than Personal, to pay the final claim and sends a copy of the disbursement voucher to
          the CERF.
      7.10.5. Upfund for Financial Completion. Upon receipt of the upfund approval, the CERF for-
      wards the DE certification of financial completion to the DFAS-EU for final payment. When the
      payment is made, the contract cost of the project plus 1.5 percent is funded from 52X, and 6 per-
      cent funded from EEIC 532 for design. DE-USF thereby receives the contract cost of the project
      plus 7.5 percent.
   7.11. Non-Appropriated Fund Projects - Accounting Procedures. USAFE Forms 100 are prepared by
   the CERF for NAF projects. USAFE Forms 100 for NAF projects clearly identify the actions to which
   NAF are to be applied. Payments to DE-USF for NAF projects are certified by the BCE and made
   directly by NAF/FM.
      7.11.1. When a project accomplished by contract through DE-USF is to be funded and paid for by
      a NAF activity (AAFES, Credit Union, etc.), there is a NAF letter of intent to fund the action. The
      letter should identify the specific actions to be funded with NAF. This letter constitutes the NAF
      activity's agreement to fund and pay their share of the costs. There should be a statement that the
      activity will pay all contract costs if the project is aborted.
      7.11.2. Distribution of USAFE Form 100 will be in accordance with USAFE Instruction 65-105
      except that minimum distribution should also include one copy to the FSO performing the
      accounting functions for the NAF custodian and two copies to the CERF.

8. Facility Project Development and Management.
   8.1. Purpose. This paragraph describes the UK specific procedures for developing, approving, and
   managing EEIC 52X facility projects on USF occupied MOD stations.
   8.2. Concept. The BCE ensures that DE-USF, as the contracting agency, satisfies the requirements of
   both the USF and the UK government while it administers design and construction contracts support-
14                                                                      3AFPAM32-1001 20 MAY 2004


     ing USF requirements. DE-USF is accountable to UK auditors for funds management and expendi-
     tures. USF and DE-USF project managers should understand each other's policies to facilitate project
     execution.
     8.3. Terminology:
        8.3.1. The USF PM is the USF person at a base or HQ USAFE/CEW delegated to oversee and
        manage projects. This person is responsible for the DI, project strategy, funding, over-sight and
        final project acceptance.
        8.3.2. The DE-USF Project Manager is responsible for the execution of assigned projects, liaison
        with USF project managers, appointment of the Project Support Consultant (PSC) for each
        project, design instruction clarification, scheduling, contract strategy and oversight of contractual
        and financial requirements.
        8.3.3. The PSC is the non-MOD construction professional selected by DE-USF to manage the
        design and construction of a project (formerly the Commercial Project Manager. The PSC works
        under the direct control of the project manager.
        8.3.4. Fixed-Price Contracts are generally used for clearly defined jobs over the maximum order
        value of the FSC. DE-USF uses two types of fixed-price contracts:
            8.3.4.1. Contractor Design. The PSC defines project quality requirements for the construction
            contractor who performs the design. This is the preferred DE-USF approach.
            8.3.4.2. Authority Design. The PSC performs the design in accordance with the DI and a con-
            struction contractor builds the project. This is a non-standard contract strategy and requires
            approval by the DE-USF Manager.
     8.4. Requirements Identification. The following are the primary methods by which project require-
     ments are identified:
        8.4.1. Facility inspections by Maintenance Engineering, DE-USF/TST, or contract inspectors.
        8.4.2. Work requirements identified on an AF Form 332.
        8.4.3. Mission taskings and higher-headquarters directed programs.
        8.4.4. Emergencies created by natural disaster or accident.
     8.5. Preparing Project Documentation. Documents are developed by the BCE in accordance with AFI
     32-1021, Planning and Programming of Facility Construction Projects and AFI 32-1022 Planning
     and Programming Non-appropriated Fund Facility Construction Projects as supplemented by HQ
     USAFE/CE. When preparing cost estimates, programmers may consult with DE-USF personnel who
     can advise on specialist work, local conditions, and cost trends.
        8.5.1. Order of Precedence. Tender documents are referred to in the following order when a con-
        flict between them is found after they are put out to tender:
            8.5.1.1. Conditions of contract
            8.5.1.2. Specifications
            8.5.1.3. Drawings
            8.5.1.4. Generic documents (building regulations, base standards etc.)
3AFPAM32-1001 20 MAY 2004                                                                               15


     8.5.2. If a counter offer is accepted; the elements that differ from the tender take precedence.
  8.6. Project Approval and Prioritization. Projects are approved in accordance with AFI 32-1021 and
  AFI 32-1022. Delegated project approval limits from HQ USAFE should be followed. The Facilities
  Board does prioritization of projects.
  8.7. US Air Force and DE-USF Responsibilities for Design:
     8.7.1. US Air Force Responsibilities. The USF PM prepares a complete and detailed DI in con-
     junction with the user, a communications systems PM, and any other appropriate service provid-
     ers. This is a firm statement of the scope and technical (functional) requirements for the project. It
     incorporates all mission essential elements and identifies the flexibility available to the designer.
     The impact on MOD personnel should be determined in coordination with the MODPO. Evalua-
     tion of the applicability of TUPE is a part of this process. Later changes to the DI should be mini-
     mized to prevent design delay and cost overruns.
     8.7.2. DE-USF Design Responsibilities. Provide design services to meet USF mission require-
     ments. Design management includes, but is not limited to, the following activities:
         8.7.2.1. Providing site investigations, surveys, and mapping.
         8.7.2.2. Obtaining UK approvals and permits.
         8.7.2.3. Preparing contract documents.
         8.7.2.4. Certifying project costs.
         8.7.2.5. Administering consultants and contractors responsible for design services.
         8.7.2.6. Completing a detailed 100-percent design approved by the BCE, USF PM and the
         user.
  8.8. Non-Design Related Actions. The USF may request actions by DE-USF outside those identified
  in paragraph 8.7.2. In such cases, the USF pays contractor invoice costs plus 7.5 percent Departmental
  Expenses. Examples of non-design services include:
     8.8.1. Preparing engineering analyses and feasibility studies to develop technical design parame-
     ters.
     8.8.2. Preparing environmental impact analyses, base comprehensive plans and site surveys.
     8.8.3. Defining the requirement for a project and comprehensive interior design.
     8.8.4. Verifying USF consideration of TUPE regulations.
     8.8.5. Value engineering studies and options studies.
  8.9. Project Planning:
     8.9.1. To best satisfy mission requirements, the BCE should provide an integrated planning and
     design priority list to DE-USF. It should be updated quarterly or as needed. DE-USF manages
     planning for projects requiring contracted construction.
     8.9.2. Planning begins after the BCE provides the following items to DE-USF:
         8.9.2.1. USAFE Form 100, funding the design
         8.9.2.2. DI, adequately describing the intended project
16                                                                      3AFPAM32-1001 20 MAY 2004


     8.10. Design Instruction. The DI provides a clear description of the proposed project. It provides suf-
     ficient information (detailed requirements, cost limits and schedule) for DE-USF to determine the
     appropriate design strategy and proceed with the selection of a designer. The DI includes a copy of the
     DD Form 1391 and DD Form 1391-C, FY___ Military Construction Project Data (Continuation),
     prepared as directed in AFI 32-1032, USAFE Supplement 1.
     8.11. Design Stages. There are specific stages during design, from a pre-design meeting and char-
     rettes to the 95 percent review. The DE-USF Project Guide includes flowcharts and details of the
     DE-USF design process.
        8.11.1. Project Definition Meeting. The USF PM clarifies requirements for the DE-USF PM.
        8.11.2. Pre-Design Meeting. Purpose of the meeting is to provide all relevant technical and man-
        agerial information necessary to produce an accurate design brief to the designer or PSC. Informa-
        tion available at the pre-design meeting should include:
            8.11.2.1. Amplification of DI describing user requirements to assist the design contractor.
            8.11.2.2. Special conditions such as access and scheduling restrictions.
            8.11.2.3. Urgency conditions requiring unusual contract actions.
            8.11.2.4. The need for a charrette process should be discussed at this time.
        8.11.3. Reviews. Formal reviews and charrettes may be held at viability and RTA depending on
        project complexity. The USF PM should announce required reviews at the pre-design meeting.
        The BCE or USF PM provides functional design and maintainability review comments. As appli-
        cable, the charrette or viability review time is set during the strategy review meeting. The designer
        should answer review comments and questions from the USF.
     8.12. Siting Clearances. The USF obtains siting clearances for MOD or RAF explosive safety and the
     RAF siting board, and local authority planning consent notification to meet UK requirements.
        8.12.1. RAF Siting Board. The USF PM identifies a proposed project to the RAF commander who
        schedules and chairs the siting board. Siting clearances are obtained prior to inviting firms to ten-
        der. A formal RAF siting board is required for new construction, major alterations to existing
        facilities or a significant change in the use of existing facilities.
        8.12.2. Local Planning Authority. DE-USF is responsible for obtaining planning consent from the
        local governmental authorities for all construction, maintenance, and repair projects.
     8.13. Bid Reporting. The DE-USF PM provides a flash bid report to the USF PM within 1 business
     day of bid opening. The report should include high and low bids, with justification for recommending
     a bid other than the lowest one, if applicable. This information is subsequently reported to HQ USAFE
     via message, fax, or email.
        8.13.1. Projects Under Term Contracts. The accepted bid is reported when the authorization and
        work orders are raised by DE-USF and accepted by the contractor. The estimated cost of the work
        order is the accepted bid.
        8.13.2. Lump Sum Tenders. Reporting of the acceptable bid is made after the bid has been evalu-
        ated by DE-USF.
     8.14. Funding and Paying for Projects. The "normal" procedure for O&M projects following receipt
     of an acceptable bid:
3AFPAM32-1001 20 MAY 2004                                                                              17


     8.14.1. Request the estimated project funds, the remaining 1.5 percent of DEs for SIOH (EEIC
     52X), and any adjustments to design funds.
     8.14.2. Upon receipt of funds, the BCE issues a revised USAFE Form 100.
     8.14.3. As work progresses DE-USF sends invoices for contract costs plus 1.5 percent DEs.
     8.14.4. The CERF verifies the invoices and authorizes payment by the DFAS-EU.
     8.14.5. The invoices are sent to the DFAS-EU for payment.
  8.15. Project Execution:
     8.15.1. Contract Management. The PSC provides the resources required for control and execution
     of a project. The scope of actions include:
         8.15.1.1. Contractor coordination, where more than one contractor is involved.
         8.15.1.2. On-site contract management.
         8.15.1.3. Convening progress meetings with the contractor and providing minutes.
         8.15.1.4. Ensuring schedule, cost and quality standards are met in accordance with the plans
         and specifications.
         8.15.1.5. Providing work status information.
         8.15.1.6. Coordinating utility outages and road closures.
     8.15.2. The DE-USF PM advises the USF PM of unexpected contract issues, user or contractor
     requests or impending cost overruns. No change is executed until approved by the USF PM in
     accordance with the agreed change order procedure.
     8.15.3. US Air Force Monitoring. The USF PM monitors progress of the contract. Control of con-
     tractors is a DE-USF responsibility. Base safety and bioenvironmental personnel regularly inspect
     project sites.
  8.16. Cost Accounting for Multiple Projects in a Single Contract. DE-USF cost accounting proce-
  dures should maintain a verifiable separation of costs for all projects. For projects with more than one
  class of work, a separate and distinct accounting of costs is required for each class. The BCE provides
  a USAFE Form 100 for each separate project and class of work. For major projects, the USF PM pro-
  vides a USAFE Form 11.
  8.17. Final Inspection and Acceptance. Representatives from engineering, operations, fire protection,
  the user, and DE-USF should participate in a meeting to review the final acceptance testing of a new
  or modified facility and its systems (if any).
  8.18. Physical Completion. DE-USF provides a Physical Completion Certificate to the BCE or USF
  PM for acceptance of new construction. Completion dates are set for any items remaining on the snag-
  ging or punch list. Dates for systems responsibility handover and commencing occupancy are also set.
  Warrantee start and end dates are established. All relevant as-built drawings and documents are turned
  over to the BCE or USF PM.
  8.19. Changes to the Scope of Work or Design. Changes in scope of work or design or several smaller
  changes may force the reaccomplishment of work already done. Reductions in scope at a late date or
  during construction due to budget constraints, mission changes, or cost overrun has the effect of
18                                                                     3AFPAM32-1001 20 MAY 2004


     reducing Departmental Expenses payment by USF while increasing contractor and management
     expenses to DE-USF. A significant change in scope may force DE-USF to consider the action to be a
     project abort and institution of a new one requiring payment of aborted project costs and restarting
     Departmental Expenses. Close consultation and project management is required to prevent undesir-
     able mission and project impact and unreasonable costs to DE-USF.
     8.20. Project Cancellation (Ref: CSA paragraph 4[2]):
        8.20.1. No Costs Incurred. DE-USF advises the BCE who issues a revised USAFE Form 100
        withdrawing funds.
        8.20.2. Costs Incurred. When the BCE cancels or aborts a project that has incurred costs by con-
        sultants or contractors, DE-USF should provide a final invoice reflecting project costs at the time
        of cancellation within 120 days of receipt of notice to abort. An assessment of expected residual
        costs should be provided to the BCE if a final invoice couldn’t be submitted in that time. In accor-
        dance with the CSA, the BCE reimburses DE-USF for the total actual contracted costs when
        projects are canceled or aborted. The BCE verifies the cost, and issues a revised USAFE Form
        100. No charge is made for Departmental Expenses by DE-USF.
        8.20.3. Third Party Claims. Canceling or aborting a project that has incurred costs to British citi-
        zens may result in claims for recovery and legal action. The USG may be responsible for the claim
        and reimbursing HMG for all costs associated with the clearance of such claims in accordance
        with the CSA paragraph 4(3).
     8.21. NATO Minor Works and Restoration Projects. The BCE issues DIs and monitors construction
     for NATO minor works and restoration projects. HQ USAFE/CEWN monitors NATO funding and
     assists base program manager with project execution as required.
     8.22. Transfer of NATO Facilities:
        8.22.1. Transfer of NATO-funded facilities to the NATO Inventory and to the user is done with the
        Joint Formal Acceptance Inspection (JFAI) report (NATO AC/4(PP) FA/...series) and the docu-
        ment stating final acceptance of the JFAI report by NATO Infrastructure. The Infrastructure Com-
        mittee can also perform formal acceptance on behalf of the user nation.
        8.22.2. DD Form 1354, Transfer and Acceptance of Military Real Property, is used to transfer
        NATO-funded facilities to the AF real property records. As NATO funds the facilities, they remain
        NATO facilities. The host nation and user nations agree on who is to provide maintenance and
        upkeep.
        8.22.3. Normally, the JFAI report is not prepared until well after the facilities have been com-
        pleted and transferred by DE-USF to the BCE. Thus the official NATO documents are not avail-
        able for Air Force real property accounting purposes at the time of transfer. As a consequence, the
        JFAI report is not a practical means of entering NATO-funded facilities in the USAFE real prop-
        erty inventory in a timely manner. To resolve this problem in the UK, DE-USF, Defense Secretar-
        iat (AIR) and HQ USAFE have agreed to the following procedures:
            8.22.3.1. For NATO-funded facilities, the USF uses handover documentation as described in
            the DE-USF Project Guide. The physical completion certificate, together with a handover cer-
            tificate from the DEM (normally executed at the same time) serves as interim transfer docu-
            mentation for establishing USF real property accountability.
3AFPAM32-1001 20 MAY 2004                                                                             19


          8.22.3.2. The NATO-funded portion of facilities is transferred as above, supplemented with a
          DD Form 1354. A separate DD Form 1354 transfers the US-funded portion.
          8.22.3.3. US-prefinanced NATO facilities are transferred from US to NATO in the USF real
          property accountable records.
      8.22.4. The JFAI report prepared by the NATO international staff serves as transfer documenta-
      tion. The real property voucher for the final NATO documents is cross-referenced to the original
      real property voucher prepared for the interim transfer documentation.
      The above procedures ensure NATO-funded facilities are included in the command real property
      inventory at the time of project completion. They apply to the transfer of all completed
      NATO-funded facilities at 3 AF installations and geographically separated units (GSU).

9. Deployed Unit Employment--“Troop Labor”:
   9.1. Purpose. To summarize procedures for accomplishing deployed unit employment through main-
   tenance, repair, and construction projects performed by US Air Force, Air National Guard and Air
   Force Reserve units. The governing directive for accomplishment of this type of work is USAFE Reg-
   ulation 85-5, Management of Projects Performed by Troop Labor.
   9.2. Concept. Deployed unit projects and work are identified by the BCE for accomplishment, focus-
   ing on those projects that enhance the deploying unit's specialized capabilities and meet mission pri-
   orities. The DEM is notified of work and projects identified by the BCE, providing guidance on UK
   statutory standards. HQ Air Force Reserve and the National Guard Board approve and select projects
   that fulfill valid deployed unit training requirements during an annual call. Attachment 1 to USAFE
   Regulation 85-5 outlines the project selection process and establishes time lines to meet deployment
   schedules.
   9.3. Responsibilities. The BCE is responsible for the overall management of projects performed by
   deployed units, including funds accountability for all expenditures associated with the projects. The
   BCE should appoint a coordinator to manage the project.
      9.3.1. The DEM provides support as requested by the BCE, e.g. purchase of materials, authorized
      persons for specialized systems or installation testing and certification). Departmental Expenses
      are paid to DE-USF based upon work performed by DE-USF and contracted personnel. Depart-
      mental Expenses are not paid for materials procured by the BCE for deployed unit project use or
      the value of work performed by deployed personnel.
      9.3.2. Deploying units are responsible for completing tasks identified on the DD Form 1391 and
      providing status to the BCE.
   9.4. Authorization. Projects identified for accomplishment during the annual troop labor call are
   approved by the BCE. Planning and programming documents are forwarded to HQ USAFE/CE Pro-
   gramming Division (CEP) for review. Projects are only considered candidates until approval is
   granted by CEP. The appropriate headquarters then contacts the deploying units to coordinate capabil-
   ities and team availability.
   9.5. Considerations. In addition to performing projects, deployed units are looking for contingency
   training opportunities such as chemical warfare, small arms, rapid runway repair, vehicle driving and
   any contingency related actions that are available. Deploying units should be incorporated into base
   exercises whenever their mission readiness could be enhanced by their participation. Care should be
20                                                                       3AFPAM32-1001 20 MAY 2004


     exercised to incorporate deployed units into functional positions. Where the deployed unit cannot be a
     significant participant in an exercise, schedule their projects and asset requirements around the exer-
     cise to minimize shortfalls and asset tasking.
        9.5.1. Project selection for Reserve and Guard units should be based on unit beddown, readiness,
        upgrade of work place and quality of life. Guidelines suggest:
            9.5.1.1. Paving and earth-moving projects, structural work and utility installation.
            9.5.1.2. "Standalone" projects are preferred over facility additions (construct vice addition/
            repair).
            9.5.1.3. Broad scope, multi-craft projects that match unit capabilities and provide contingency
            training.
            9.5.1.4. Small scope projects, as deployments are usually 12-15 days. Second units and
            sub-units can be used.
        9.5.2. Base beautification projects such as laying paving stones, building gazebos, or installing
        playground equipment; and projects requiring uncommon technical experience such as installing
        security alarm systems or carpeting are not considered appropriate and may hamper approval.
     9.6. Scheduling. Specialized training requirements unique to the UK such as vehicle operations
     should be built into the work schedule for the deployed units as early as possible. Where a class is nec-
     essary either before or during the deployment, the deployed unit should be provided with a handout on
     the subject and advised of the timing and personnel requirements. If the unit cannot meet the require-
     ment, the employing unit should designate supporting personnel for the deployment. Care should be
     taken to ensure that personnel involved in planning for the action are on duty (not on leave or tempo-
     rary duty (TDY) for the duration of the unit’s presence.
     9.7. Design. All project designs comply with UK building standards and regulations. If contracted
     design or materials procurement is provided by DE-USF, Departmental Expenses are paid as follows:
        9.7.1. 6.0 percent of the fees charged by the contractor.
        9.7.2. 1.5 percent of cost of materials procured.
        9.7.3. Procedures governing design review meetings should be followed. Final designs are sub-
        mitted to the BCE for review of functional adequacy and signature.
     9.8. Material Ordering and Receipt. The bill of materials, required tools, and supplies developed by
     design engineers (in-house or consultant) are submitted to the MAE for ordering. Upon receipt or des-
     ignation, the MAE should mark project materials, tools and supplies and place them in a secure hold-
     ing area. These materials should not be redirected to other projects without the BCE’s express
     approval. Construction should begin when the deploying unit arrives. Care should be exercised to
     ensure all project requirements are met before that date.



                                                       JOHN E. WATKINS, Colonel, USAF
                                                       Vice Commander
3AFPAM32-1001 20 MAY 2004                                                                       21


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-10, Installations and Facilities, and USAFE Supplement 1
AFPD 32-90, Real Property Management
Air Force Instruction (AFI) 32-1001, Operations Management
Air Fore Pamphlet (AFPAM) 32-1004, Volume 2, Working in the Operations Flight Maintenance Engi-
neering
AFI 32-1021, Planning and Programming of Facility Construction Projects
AFI 32-1022, Planning and Programming Non-appropriated Fund Facility Construction Projects
AFI 32-1032, Planning and Programming Real Property Maintenance Projects using Appropriated
Funds, and USAFE Supplement 1
AFI 32-1061, Providing Utilities to US Air Force Installations
AFPAM 32-1098, Base Civil Engineer Self-Help Guide, and USAFE Supplement 1
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-322, Records Disposition Schedule
AFI 32-7006, Environmental Program in Foreign Countries
AFI 36-2817, Civil Engineer Awards Program
AFI 36-2831, Commander-in-Chief’s (CINC) Annual Awards for Installation Excellence
AFI 65-601, Budget Guidance and Procedures
MOD Safe Systems--Defines work within confined spaces
USAFE Instruction 65-105, Order for Construction, Supplies and Services from British Government
Agencies
USAFE Regulation 85-5, Management of Projects Performed by Troop Labor
USAFE Mission Directive 38, Detachment 1, USAFE Civil Engineer Squadron
AFMC Infrastructure Condition Standard, April 1994
1978 US Air ForceE/MOD Arrangement for the Employment of MOD Civil Servants
1976 USAFE/MOD Agreement for Accommodation (Utilities) Services to the US Air Force in the UK
1973 US/UK Cost Sharing Arrangement (CSA)
1951 NATO Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA)
1989 US/UK Agreement concerning the Health and Safety at Work Act of 1974
US DOD Environmental Final Governing Standards for the United Kingdom (FGS)
STC/1/5/AOA, Directive to the Royal Air Force Commander
22                                                            3AFPAM32-1001 20 MAY 2004


CP, DE-USF Code of Practice
DE-USF Project Guide, January 1998

Abbreviations and Acronyms
3 AF—Third Air Force
3 AF/A47—Third Air Force Civil Engineer
3 AF/IR—Third Air Force International Relations Division
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AE—European Area
AP—Authorized Person
APO—Air Post Office
AOS/CAT—USAFE Crisis Action Team
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
BFMA—Base Facility Maintenance Agreement
CE—Civil Engineering
CELF—MOD Civil Engineer Labor Force
CERF—Civil Engineer Resources Flight
CEP—Programming Division
CP—DE-USF Code of Practice
CPM—Commercial Project Manager
CSA—973 Cost Sharing Arrangement
CWE—Current Work Estimate
DBA—Defence Bills Agency
Des—Departmental Expenses
DEM—Defence Estates Manager (formerly known as the Associate Civil Engineer [ACE])
DE-USF—Defence Estates-United States Forces
DFAS-EU—Defense Finance and Accounting Service-Europe
DI—Design Instruction
DoD—Department of Defense
EEIC—Element of Expense Investment Code
FGS—Final Governing Standards
FM—Financial Management
FSC—Facilities Support Contract
3AFPAM32-1001 20 MAY 2004                                                           23


FSO—Financial Services Office
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
HQ USAFE/CER—Former designation of the USAFE Regional Civil Engineer, UK
HQ USAFE/CEW—Regional Civil Engineer (Waterbeach), UK; Det 1, HQ USAFE/CE
H&S—Health and Safety
HMG—Her Majesty’s Government
HQ—Headquarters
IR—International Relations
JA—Judge Advocate
JFAI—Joint Formal Acceptance Inspection
MAE—Materiel Acquisition Element
MILCON—Military Construction
MOD—Ministry of Defence
MODPO—Ministry of Defence Personnel Office
NAF—Non-Appropriated Fund
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NAU—NATO accounting unit (approx. $3.5-varies)
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PM—Program manager (USF), project manager (DE-USF)
PSC—Project Support Consultant (formerly known as the commercial project manager)
PTC—Personnel and Training Command, RAF
RAF—Royal Air Force
RED HORSE—Rapid Engineer Deployable Heavy Operational Repair Squadron, Engineers
RAFLO/ARM—RAF Liaison Officer for Armaments
RPIE—Real Property Installed Equipment
RTA—Ready to Advertise
SABER—Simplified Acquisition of Base Engineering Resources
STC—Specialist Term Contract
SIOH—Supervision, Inspection, Overhead and Handling
SOFA—1951 NATO Status of Forces Agreement
SP—Skilled Person
24                                                              3AFPAM32-1001 20 MAY 2004


SSSI—Sites of Special Scientific Interest
STC—Specialist Term Contract
TDY—Temporary Duty
TST—Technical Support Team
TUPE—Transfer of Undertaking (Protection of Employment) Regulation
UK—United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
USAFE—US Air Forces in Europe
HQ USAFE/CE—US Air Forces in Europe/Civil Engineer
USF—United States Forces
USG—US Government

Terms
Charrete—A meeting at which project planning actions are completed
£—British pound sterling (approximately $1.50)
P713—Military family housing improvement
SRP—DE-USF safe systems of work, Safety Rules and Procedures
Upfund—Additional project funding required to meet unplanned costs
