BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                3RD WING INSTRUCTION 10-245
3RD WING (PACAF)
                                                                               30 JUNE 2011

                                                                                  Operations

                                               INSTALLATION ANTITERRORISM/FORCE
                                                      PROTECTION (AT/FP) PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 3 WG/ATO                                                          Certified by: 3 WG/CV
                                                                        (Col Darren Hartford)
Supersedes:   3WGI 10-245, 21 July 2010                                              Pages: 21


This instruction implements AFPD 10-2, Readiness, and is used in conjunction with the response
plans monitored and maintained by the 673d Air Base Wing (673 ABW), on Joint Base
Elmendorf-Richardson (JBER). The plans include, but are not limited to; full spectrum
contingency plan (FSCP), Consolidated Emergency Management Plan 10-2 (CEMP 10-2),
Medical Rersponse Plan, and Disease Containment Plan. In accordance with AFI 10-245, Air
Force Antiterrorism Standards; Department of Defense Directive 2000.12, DoD
Antiterrorism/Force Protection Program;Department of Defense Instruction 2000-14, DoD
Combating Terrorism Program Procedures; Department of Defense Instruction 2000-16, DoD
Antiterrorism (AT) Standards; Department of Defense O-2000.12-H, DoD Antiterrorism
Handbook; and Joint Pub 3-07.2, Joint Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures for Antiterrorism,
and 673ABWI 31-101, Elmendorf AFB Installation Security Plan. It establishes and defines
basic force protection responsibilities, guidance, and procedures for the 3rd Wing (3 WG) and
adapts United States Air Force (USAF) and major command (MAJCOM) directives to the local
situation, and describes support required for antiterrorism awareness programs and the minimum
procedures for all Force Protection Threat Condition (FPCON) alerting procedures. This
instruction applies to all military personnel, US civilians, family members, and Department of
Defense employees assigned or attached to the 3 WG. It does not apply to the US Air Force
Reserve or Air National Guard units and members. Compliance with this instruction cannot be
waived. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the office of
primary responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Route the AF Form 847 through the appropriate chain of command. Ensure all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
Air Force Records Information management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
 2                                                                                                  3WGI10-245 30 JUNE 2011


(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm.                                                         See
Attachment 1 for a Glossary of References and Supporting Information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This document has
been updated with reduction of the tasks required by the 3 WG since the activation of the 673
ABW as the installation host wing.

        1.     The 3 WG AT/FP Program. ...................................................................................                    2
        2.     Antiterrorism Planning. .........................................................................................              3
        3.     Terrorist Threat Reporting and Alerting System. ..................................................                             4
        4.     Key Antiterrorism Awareness Procedures. ............................................................                           5
        5.     Individual Antiterrorism Plan (IATP). ...................................................................                      5
        6.     Key Antiterrorism Program Responsibilities: ........................................................                           6
        7.     Squadron Commanders or Staff Agency Chiefs will: ............................................                                  8
        8.     Unit ATOs will: .....................................................................................................          9
        9.     RAM. .....................................................................................................................    10
        10.    Vulnerability Management. ...................................................................................                 10

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                               11


1. The 3 WG AT/FP Program. Antiterrorism and Force Protection are integral principles of
the 3 WG vision, mission, values, and operating style. The 3 WG Antiterrorism (AT) program
will complement the 673 ABW AT program. This instruction will identify specific
responsibilities required to be completd by 3 WG personnel. All other AT requirements will be
addressed in the 673 ABWI 10-245, Installation Antiterrorism/Force Protection (AT/FP)
Program, and the JBER Antiterrorism Plan. The 3 WG program enhances the Department of
Defense and the 673 ABW programs of deterrence designed to blunt terrorist acts against
personnel and resources by directly participating in the reaction to and timely guidance on
collecting and disseminating threat information. This will be accomplished by training
command members, ensuring cooperation in developing comprehensive plans to deter terrorist
incidents, training and evaluating the plans, allocating funds, implementing measures to defeat or
mitigate the threat, and reducing the effects of an attack.
     1.1. The ultimate objective of this AT/FP program is to preserve combat readiness and
     sustain the wing’s ability to survive and operate (ATSO) in all FPCON. The program is an
     integrated effort where all units and commanders must adhere to the following three tenets;
     combating terrorism requires every individual to maintain a level of awareness, to practice
     personal security measures, and to report suspicious activity. The 3 WG units will assign a
     primary and alternate antiterrorism officer (ATO). Commanders will forward appointment
     letters to the 3 WG ATO who will, in-turn, ensure the letters are provided to the 673
3WGI10-245 30 JUNE 2011                                                                        3


   ABW/CCW. Additionally, the 3 WG Antiterrorism Program, either on its own or in
   cooperation with the 673 ABW Antiterrorism Program, is designed to:
       1.1.1. Provide personnel, from commanders down, with the appropriate level of threat
       awareness to properly plan for and combat terrorist activities.
       1.1.2. Provide resources, facilities, and personnel assigned to 3 WG, a level of security
       protection resulting in the greatest possible deterrence to terrorist acts, sabotage,
       espionage, or other acts of aggression.
       1.1.3. Implement measures to defeat or mitigate the terrorist threat through a
       combination of physical protective measures, detection methods, procedures, and plans.
       1.1.4. Reduce the effects of an attack through standoff, physical security, early warning,
       plans, and procedures.
       1.1.5. Supplement installation antiterrorism programs by proactive unit or staff agency
       planning which integrates force protection as a key element of daily and contingency
       operations.
   1.2. The below list of committees and working groups hosted and/or chaired by the 673
   ABW OPRs will be attended as listed below to ensure participation and support to the JBER
   Antiterrorism (AT) Program:
       1.2.1. Antiterrorism Executive Committee (ATEC). The ATEC will be attended by the 3
       WG/ CC, or designated representative, 3 OG/ CC, and 3 MXG/CC. The 3 WG ATO will
       act as an advisor to the ATEC.
       1.2.2. The Threat Working Group (TWG), chaired by the 673 ABW ATO, will be
       attended by the 3 WG ATO as a minimum. The 3 WG ATO will provide a briefing
       immediately upon completion of a TWG to the 3 WG/CC, ensuring a detailed threat
       assessment and recommendation for appropriate FPCON changes taken by the 673 ABW.
       1.2.3. The 673 ABW Antiterrorism Working Group (ATWG) will be attended by all
       ATOs appointed in writing within the 3 WG. It’s recognized the ATWG may have
       meetings with specific members only due to direct relationship to a process being
       worked. In such a case, only the requested parties must attend to represent the 3 WG.
2. Antiterrorism Planning. Personnel will derive legal authority and designation of local
antiterrorism programs from Department of Defense (DoD) and USAF sources. Integrate
antiterrorism planning into overall force planning as recommended by DoDD 2000.12, DOD
Antiterrorism/Force Protection (AT/FP) Program, DODI 2000.16, Antiterrorism (AT)
Standards, and DoD O-2000.12-H, “DoD Antiterrorism Handbook.” Force protection measures
will receive priority command emphasis in all wing, group, and squadron plans. JBER will have
a single document that serves as an ―AT Plan,‖ however, the document will reference multiple
documents to meet the requirements of an installation AT Plan. In addition to filling roles
outlining preparation for, response to, and recovery from terrorist incidents, these plans and
instructions serve other functions as laid out by other higher headquarters directives and
instructions and therefore must be maintained and referenced separately.
   2.1. This wing instruction, coupled with activities outlined in plans the 3 WG will support
   within JBER will be the core of the AT/FP plan. In addition, this instruction references the
   installation threat assessment classified ―SECRET,‖ maintained and provided by the Air
 4                                                                   3WGI10-245 30 JUNE 2011


     Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI), Det 631. The criticality and vulnerability
     assessments will also be classified ―SECRET‖ and maintained and provided by 673 ABW,
     Antiterrorism Office.
     2.2. Other documents are also critical to the AT/FP program and round out the requirements
     of the installation AT/FP Plan.
        2.2.1. The 3WGI 10-202, 3rd Wing Recall Procedures, establishes and defines the
        activation, purpose, composition, overall responsibilities of the Senior Staff and further
        outlines responsibilities and procedures for recalling all personnel assigned to the 3 WG,
        and therefore, supports actions outlined in the FSCP and CEMP as well as other plans.
        2.2.2. Aircraft and Essential Equipment Dispersal Plan, outlines the procedures for
        ground dispersal of aircraft equipment and essential vehicles to protect them from the
        effect of attack or natural disasters and in an AT/FP context, supports the FSCP and
        CEMP.
        2.2.3. Other operational plans (OPLAN) and wing instructions containing security and
        force protection sections.
        2.2.4. Unit-level instructions and plans outline unit programs and define unit-level
        response to terrorist activities and FPCON changes. Unit level documents also add a
        significant level of specificity to FPCON measures.
        2.2.5. Memorandums of agreement and understanding (MOU/MOA), as well as mutual
        aid agreements (MAA), are also essential parts of AT/FP planning. These documents
        outline support that will be provided to the installation in preventing, responding to, and
        recovering from a terrorist attack.
     2.3. Risk analysis is a critical factor in the AT/FP planning process. Every commander must
     use operational risk management tools to balance threat information and asset criticality and
     vulnerabilities with the scarcity of resources to prioritize FPCON measures, AT/FP-related
     construction projects, equipment purchases, and personnel allocations. Commanders should
     reference the most recent threat, criticality, and vulnerability assessments to gain a better
     understanding of what threats they need to prepare for and how they are vulnerable to those
     threats.
     2.4. Customize installation and unit-level antiterrorism planning, checklists, and training to
     local mission, threat, and situation. Use of detailed emergency checklists, training, and
     evaluation programs are required. The unpredictable threat of terrorism requires training for
     a wide spectrum of potential attacks. Checklists and training will include duty hour and non-
     duty hour procedures for successfully reacting to a terrorist incident.
3. Terrorist Threat Reporting and Alerting System. Assigned personnel will be
knowledgeable of the terrorist threat reporting and alerting system described in this instruction.
     3.1. Units and staff agencies will train personnel to ensure knowledge of terms and
     procedures associated with the terrorist threat reporting and alerting system. Reporting,
     alerting, and recall procedures will be included in unit in-processing and orientation training
     checklists.
        3.1.1. FPCON and local measures are outlined in 673 ABWI 10-245, Attachment 2.
3WGI10-245 30 JUNE 2011                                                                          5


       3.1.2. Force protection condition alerting messages (FPCAM), down-channel alerting
       orders, and local procedures are outlined in 673 ABWI 31-101.
       3.1.3. The TWG is the primary advising council to the installation commander when
       determining protective measures. The 3 WG may increase security measures for 3 WG
       specific resources, personnel, and facilities, but cannot declare a different FPCON than
       the installation host.
4. Key Antiterrorism Awareness Procedures. The single most cost-effective aspect of the
antiterrorism effort to counter terrorist threats is a trained, aware, and alert force. This factor
holds true whether the intended target is resources, facilities, groups of people, or an individual
targeted indiscriminately. Antiterrorism awareness and threat reporting is everyone’s shared
responsibility. Antiterrorism programs and procedures should reinforce the need for and benefits
of constant vigilance. Commanders, supervisors, and sponsors will encourage personnel and
family members to be part of the wing and ultimately the JBER AT/FP team.
   4.1. During increased FPCONs, all primary building entrances and manned restricted area
   entry control points (ECP) will display the appropriate JBER visual aid reflecting the current
   force protection condition to identify the most current increased local FPCON.
   4.2. Unit commanders and equivalent are responsible for ensuring their personnel receive
   appropriate training and are notified of FPCON changes, as well as any changes to the local
   threat environment. Refer to paragraphs 8 and 9, this instruction, for further guidance.
5. Individual Antiterrorism Plan (IATP). This is a tracking process/program instituted by
Pacific Command (PACOM). This is not travel approval.
   5.1. The appointed ATOs in each unit/group are the IATP monitors for the process/program.
   5.2. A formal travel plan will be accomplished using the format provided by the 673 ABW/
   CCW to ensure travel approval is obtained in accordance with United States Pacific
   Command, Operations Order 5050-08, Antiterrorism and Critical Infrastructure Protection,
   Frago 2 (USPACOM OpORD 5050-08).
   5.3. The traveler will:
       5.3.1. After completion of the formal plan and approval to travel, access the IATP web
       site.
       5.3.2. Enter all travel requested information and submit for review.
   5.4. Unit Antiterrorism Officer/Representative (ATO/R) will:
       5.4.1. Use the checklist provided by the 673 ABW/CCW to ensure all information has
       been entered.
       5.4.2. Complete comments block to show review has been complete and person has
       provided all required information for travel.
5.4.3. Forward IATP on to the group level executive.
   5.5. Group Executives will:
       5.5.1. Review the IATP to ensure the group CC is aware of the travel in the instance the
       approving official was Lt Col or below.
 6                                                                3WGI10-245 30 JUNE 2011


        5.5.2. Complete comments block to show review had be complete and person has
        provided all required information for travel.
        5.5.3. Forward IATP on to the 3 WG ATO.
     5.6. The 3 WG ATO will:
        5.6.1. Review the IATP to ensure the 3 WG/CC is aware of the travel in the instance the
        approving official was Lt Col or below.
        5.6.2. Complete comments block to show review has been complete and person has
        provided all required information for travel.
        5.6.3. Forward IATP on to the next level appropriate review.
6. Key Antiterrorism Program Responsibilities:
     6.1. The 3 WG/CC will:
        6.1.1. Attend the ATEC as a voting member, or designate a representative, in his/her
        absence.
        6.1.2. Ensure an ATO responsible for the 3 WG AT Program is provided by, and
        appointed in writing from the JBER AT staff. The appointed ATO will report
        administrative functions through the 3 WG/DS to 3 WG/CC. On all AT/FP threat
        functions and issues concerning the 3 WG/CC, the ATO, appointed in writing, will have
        unfettered access to the 3 WG/CC and/or CV to ensure the most immediate contact and
        dissemination of information to protect 3 WG personnel and/or resources.
        6.1.3. Coordinate with 673 ABW/XP to ensure 3 WG is included in exercises scenarios
        as specified in AFI 10-245 and other AT directives. Exercise scenarios will evaluate the
        wing’s capability to respond and support the host installation in accordance with
        approved plans.
        6.1.4. Determine the number of Level II trained individuals required to support AT/FP
        operations within the 3 WG.
6.2. The 3 OG/CC will:
        6.2.1. Attend the installation ATEC as a voting member or designate someone in his/her
        place in their absence.
        6.2.2. Designate, in writing, an ATO for the Group Staff and to oversee all other ATOs
        in the Operations Group and perform other duties as directed by this instruction. NOTE:
        The ATO can be from one of the squadrons since the group staff is so few personnel.
        6.2.3. Appoint intelligence representatives from 3 OG/OGI to advise the 3 WG/CC, 673
        ABW/ CC, and 673 SFS/CC on current operational force protection intelligence (FPI) in
        order to provide situational awareness throughout the Base Boundary and Base Security
        Zone in accordance with AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense, during increased FPCONs.
           6.2.3.1. The 3 OG/OGI will attend all TWG and provide timely intelligence
           estimates for dissemination. OGI representative will coordinate with and provide
           assistance to AFOSI, Det 631 and 673 SFS/SFO in the production of local terrorist
3WGI10-245 30 JUNE 2011                                                                         7


         threat information and analysis in accordance with AFI 14-119, Intelligence Support
         to Force Protection.
         6.2.3.2. The 3 OG/OGI will provide a representative to the Intelligence Fusion Cell
         established and operated by the 673 SFS/CC during emergencies and incidents
         requiring its operation.
6.3. The 3 MXG/CC will:
      6.3.1. Attend the installation ATEC as a voting member or designate someone in his/her
      place in their absence.
      6.3.2. Designate, in writing, an ATO for the Group Staff and to oversee all other ATOs
      in the Maintenance Group and perform other duties as directed by this instruction.
      NOTE: The ATO can be from one of the squadrons since the group staff is so few
      personnel.
   6.4. The 3 WG ATO will:
      6.4.1. Ensure units are tracking Level I training as required by this instruction and higher
      headquarters instructions and guidance.
      6.4.2. Provide unit ATOs with clarification and guidance on Level I training and AT/FP-
      related travel guidance.
      6.4.3. Collect data regarding Level I training and provide data to 673 ABW ATOs, as
      requested.
      6.4.4. Respond to taskings by higher headquarters on issues related to 3 WG AT/FP.
      6.4.5. Disseminate appropriate AT/FP information and program guidance received from
      AFOSI, Det 631, higher headquarters, or other intelligence sources.
      6.4.6. Evaluate subordinate unit AT/FP programs annually.
      6.4.7. Ensure units are in compliance with the 673 ABW random antiterrorism measure
      (RAM) program.
      6.4.8. Maintain liaison with appropriate on and off-base organizations as outlined in Air
      Force and DoD instructions and directives.
      6.4.9. Serve as the wing commander’s primary advisor on AT/FP matters and provide
      oversight of the 3 WG AT/FP program.
      6.4.10. Coordinate AT/FP related funding issues with 673 ABW ATOs.
         6.4.10.1. Units will be responsible for submitting projects through proper planning
         and funding channels.
         6.4.10.2. The unit ATO, in conjunction with members of the ATWG, if necessary,
         will provide advice to commanders on AT/FP related projects. In addition, the ATO
         will advise commanders who wish to submit projects under the combatant
         commander’s initiative fund (CCIF) program.
         6.4.10.3. Projects will be loaded into the core vulnerability assessment management
         program (CVAMP) only if they counter a vulnerability listed in CVAMP.
 8                                                                 3WGI10-245 30 JUNE 2011


        6.4.11. Ensure facility modification, upgrade, remodel, and consruction are worked in
        concert with civil engineers and 673 ABW ATOs to ensure AT/FP and security
        requirements are met on construction projects.
        6.4.12. Work in concert with unit ATOs to ensure development of FPCON action
        measures in 673 ABWI 10-245, Attachment 2 and the base barrier plan in the JBER AT
        Plan.
        6.4.13. Work with units to ensure AT/FP needs is met for special events.
        6.4.14. Use the 673 ABW local ATO class for newly appointed unit ATOs, and offer the
        class at approximately once every other month.
        6.4.15. Work with the 673 SFS/CC on issues affecting the flight line security.
7. Squadron Commanders or Staff Agency Chiefs will:
     7.1. Identify to 3 WG ATO individuals from their organization that have attended the AT/FP
     Level II, Antiterrorism Course. This information will be forwarded to 673 ABW/CCW.
     7.2. Appoint, in writing, primary and alternate unit ATOs as their AT/FP focal points who
     have a minimum of 1-year retainability. Forward a copy of the memorandum to the 3 WG
     ATO.
     7.3. Ensure unit recall rosters are updated and disseminated, as needed, to authorized
     personnel only to remain accurate and effective.
     7.4. Ensure an AF Form 440, Bomb Threat Aid, card or approved equivalent is readily
     available at all government telephones.
     7.5. Ensure unit security managers, ATOs, or supervisors provide newcomers with localized
     briefings on unit specific operations security (OPSEC) and communications security
     (COMSEC) procedures. Newcomers will be provided a local area threat briefing if it’s not
     conducted during base in-processing.
     7.6. Ensure RAM program is being conducted in accordance with 673 ABWI 10-245.
     7.7. Appoint an OPR to post the appropriate FPCON signs and ensure dissemination of
     threat information upon FPCON implementation (actual or exercise) in accordance with the
     applicable plan. Should be handled by the applicable Unit Control Center.
     7.8. Ensure unit specific FPCON measure implementation checklists are developed in
     accordance with 673 ABWI 10-245. Each measure requiring clarification will have action to
     be taken by a person, position, or office. NOTE: In accordance with DoDI 2000.16, plans
     including site-specific FPCON measures that can be linked to a specific resource will be
     classified at a minimum CONFIDENTIAL. The measures themselves are not classified if
     separated.
        7.8.1. Ensure unit specific FPCON measures are specific, yet simple enough so all unit
        personnel are able to quickly and effectively implement required tasks.
        7.8.2. Ensure all recurring FPCON measures are completed and tracked daily, or as
        otherwise directed.
     7.9. Provide functional-area experts, as needed, to advise the ATWG.
3WGI10-245 30 JUNE 2011                                                                          9


   7.10. Ensure unit out processing checklists include completion of Level I and area specific
   threat awareness training for travel, official and unofficial, to overseas locations. Maintain
   Force Protection Plans/documentation of all travel related and Level I training completion for
   at least 1 year. (NOTE: For travel through/within PACOM, all personnel will use IATP
   established and mandated by PACOM.
   7.11. Forward, through the unit ATO, copies of FPCON checklists, MOUs/MOAs
   supporting the AT/FP program, and unit level AT/FP related plans and instructions to the 3
   WG ATO.
   7.12. Designate functional area points of contact to assist the 3 WG and/or installation ATO
   in conducting vulnerability assessments and to be on the ATWG, if needed.
   7.13. Ensure the unit AT Plan, all MOU/MOAs, support agreements, and MAAs the unit is
   responsible for are reviewed at least annually and any changes be forwarded to the 3 WG
   ATO.
   7.14. Provide for mitigation of any vulnerabilities or negative observations affecting
   buildings, assets, plans, or programs under their control. Report status of vulnerabilities to
   the installation ATO for tracking in CVAMP, including any projects requiring funding to
   mitigate the vulnerability.
8. Unit ATOs will:
   8.1. Ensure compliance with 673 ABWI 10-245, and this instruction.
   8.2. Serve as the unit commander’s primary advisor on AT/FP issues.
   8.3. Serve as a liaison between the unit and the 3 WG ATO/673 ABW AT/FP office.
   8.4. Level I Training will be accomplished in accordance with 673 ABWI 10-245, paragraph
   9.4.2.
   8.5. Ensure travelers follow required procedures for travel approval in accordance with
   PACOM OpORD 5050-08 FRAGO 2.
   8.6. Review IATPs using the checklist provided by the 673 ABW/CCW to ensure all
   required information has been entered in accordance with PACOM OpORD 5050-08,
   FRAGO 2.
   8.7. Organize and maintain an AT/FP continuity book containing items and documents listed
   in the 673 ABWI 10-245, paragraphs 9.1 – 9.2.12.
   8.8. Unit AT Plan consisting of the following:
      8.8.1. Unit specific FPCON measures identified in paragraph 8.8, this instruction.
      8.8.2. Facility specific bomb threat evacuation plans for facilities under the direct control
      of the unit. If unit personnel occupy space in a facility not owned/controlled by them,
      personnel will ensure they are familier with the owner’s bomb threat evacuation plan.
      8.8.3. Building Barrier Plan. The building barrier plan will ensure adequate stand-off is
      established in order to protect DoD resources and personnel against terrorist acts.
      Building barrier plans will be approved by the 3 WG ATO for inclusion into the overall
      673 ABW barrier plan.
 10                                                            3WGI10-245 30 JUNE 2011


9. RAM. RAMs seek to deter terrorist attacks on DoD facilities and personnel by varying
routines and being sensitive to changes in the security atmosphere around DoD facilities and
personnel without presenting an undue hardship. RAMs also allow for validation of existing
FPCON measures. RAMs will be conducted in accordance with 673 ABWI 10-245, paragraph
10.
10. Vulnerability Management. Will be in accordance with the 673 ABWI 10-245, paragraph
11.




                                          JOHN K. McMULLEN, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
3WGI10-245 30 JUNE 2011                                                                 11


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-2, Readiness, 30 October 2006.
AFI 10-208, Continuity of Operations Program (COOP), 1 December 2008.
AFI 10-245, Air Force Antiterrorism Standards; 30 March 2009.
AFI 14-119, Intelligence Support to Force Protection (FP), 15 August 2007.
AFI 31-101, Air Force Installation Security Program, 1 March 2003.
AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel, 29 January 2009.
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 8 March 2008.
DODD 2000.12, DOD Antiterrorism (AT) Program, 18 August 2003.
DODI 2000.16, DOD Antiterrorism (AT) Standards, 2 October 2006; change 2, December 8,
2006.
DODI O-2000.22, Designation and Physical Protection of DOD High-Risk Personnel (HRP), 22
January 2008 DODI 4525.8_AF Supplement 1, DOD Official Mail Management, 20 March 2006
DOD O-2000.12-H, Antiterrorism Handbook, 1 February 2004.
DOD O-2000.12-P, Department of Defense Antiterrorism Strategic Plan, 1 June 2004.
DOD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, 14 January 1997.
DOD 5200.08-R, Physical Security Program, 9 April 2007.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 440, Bomb Threat Aid,
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN—Air Force Manual.
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations.
AFRIMS—- Air Force Records Information management System.
AOR—Area of Responsibility.
AT—Antiterrorism.
ATEC—Antiterrorism Executive Committee.
ATO—Antiterrorism Officer.
ATO/R—- Antiterrorism Officer/Representative.
ATR—- Antiterrorism Representative.
 12                                                          3WGI10-245 30 JUNE 2011


ATWG—Antiterrorism Working Group.
BSAT—- Biological Select Agents and Toxins.
CbT—Combating Terrorism.
CbT—RIF – Combating Terrorism Readiness Initiatives Fund.
CBRNE—Chemical, Bioilogical, Radiological, Nuclear and High-Yield Explosive.
CCIR—- Commander’s Critical Information Requirements.
CEMP—Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan.
CI—Counterintelligence.
CONOPS—Concepts of Operations.
CRIMINT—- Criminal Intelligence.
CSAF—- Chief of Staff of the Air Force.
CTO—Counterthreat Operations.
DCI—- Defense Critical Infrastructure.
DIA—- Defense Intelligence Agency.
DIRLAUTH—- Direct Liaison Authorized.
DoD—Department of Defense.
EM—- Emergency Management.
EOD—- Explosive Ordnance Disposal.
FPD—- Force Protection Detachment.
FDP—- Force Protection Detachment.
FHP—- Force Health Protection.
FP—Force Protection.
FPCON—Force Protection Condition.
GCC—Geographic Combatnat Commander.
FPI—- Force Protection Intelligence.
HHA—- Higher Headquarters Assessment.
HRB—- High Risk Billet.
HRP—- High Risk Personnel.
JSIVA—- . Joint Staff Integrated Vulnerability Assessment.
LFA—- Lead Federal Agency.
MAA—- Mutual Aid Agreement.
MAJCOM—Major Command.
3WGI10-245 30 JUNE 2011                                                                       13


MET—Mission Essential Tasks.
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement.
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding.
OpORD—Operation Order.
OPLAN—Operational Plan.
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility.
PIR—- Priority Intelligence Requirement.
PPB&E—Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution.
PPO—- Protection Providing Organization.
PSD—- Protective Service Detail.
PSO—- Protective Service Officer.
RAM—Random Antiterrorism Measure
RED HORSE—Rapid Engineer Deployable Heavy Operations Repair Squadron.
RDS—- Records Disposition Schedule.
TCA—Task Critical Assets.
TACON—Tactical Control.
TTL—- Terrorism Threat Level.
TWG—Threat Working Group.
US—United States.
USAF—- United States Air Force.
VA—Vulnerability Assessment.
WMD—- Weapons of Mass Destruction.

Terms
Active Defense—The employment of limited offensive action and counterattacks to deny a
contested area or position to the enemy.
Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program—The single, integrated Air Force
program to coordinate and organize efforts to prepare for, prevent, respond to, recover from and
mitigate the direct and indirect consequences of an emergency or attack. The primary missions
of the Air Force EM program are to (1) save lives, (2) minimize the loss or degradation of
resources and (3) continue, sustain and restore combat and combat support operational capability
in an all-hazards physical threat environment at Air Force installations worldwide. The ancillary
missions of the Air Force EM program are to support homeland defense and civil support
operations and to provide support to civil and host nation authorities in accordance with DoD
directives and through the appropriate Combatant Command. The Air Force EM program is
managed by the Office of The Civil Engineer, AF/A7C.
 14                                                                 3WGI10-245 30 JUNE 2011


Antiterrorism (AT)—Defensive measures used to reduce the vulnerability of individuals and
property to terrorist acts, to include limited response and containment by local military and
civilian forces.
Assessment—Analysis of the security, effectiveness and potential of an existing or planned
intelligence activity. (JP 1-02) [The evaluation of progress toward the creation of effects and the
achievement of objectives and end state conditions.][AFDD 2-1.9]{Words in brackets apply only
to the Air Force and are offered for clarity.}
AT Awareness—Fundamental knowledge of both the terrorist threat and the measures to reduce
personal vulnerability to terrorism.
AT Officer (ATO)—The principal military or civilian advisor charged with managing the AT
program for the commander or DoD civilian exercising equivalent authority.
AT Planning—The process of developing specific guidance and execution-oriented instructions
for subordinates. An AT plan contains command-specific guidance for the establishment of an
AT program and the implementation of the AT Standards.
AT Program—One of several security-related programs that fall under the overarching
combating terrorism and force protection (FP) programs. The AT program is a collective,
proactive effort focused on the prevention and detection of terrorist attacks against DoD
personnel and their families, facilities, installations and infrastructure critical to mission
accomplishment as well as the preparation to defend against and planning for the response to the
consequences of terrorist incidents. Although not elements of AT, plans for terrorism
consequence management preparedness and response measures as well as plans for continuing
essential military operations are important adjuncts to an effective AT program. The minimum
elements of an AT program are AT risk management, planning, training and exercises, resource
application and a program review.
AT Program Review—The process of developing specific guidelines used to evaluate the AT
Program in order to assess satisfactorily and evaluate the effectiveness and adequacy of the AT
Program.
AT Resource Application—The process of applying risk management to vulnerabilities and
where the resultant risk is not acceptable after applying mitigation measures, elevate the
vulnerability with a resource request using the existing Planning, Programming, Budgeting and
Execution (PPB&E) system, the Combating Terrorism Readiness Initiatives Fund (CbT-RIF), the
Physical Security Program and other funding mechanisms. Central to success in resource
application is tracking and ensuring sufficient funding for identified AT program life-cycle costs
and assessed shortfalls to mitigate risk associated with terrorist capabilities.
AT Risk Management—The process of systematically identifying, assessing and controlling
risks arising from operational factors and making decisions that balance possible adverse
outcomes with mission benefits. The end products of the AT program risk management process
shall be the identification of DoD elements and personnel that are vulnerable to the identified
threat attack means. From the assessment of risk based upon the three critical components of AT
risk management (threat assessment, criticality assessment and vulnerability assessment), the
commander must determine which DoD elements and personnel are at greatest risk and how best
to employ given resources and FP measures to deter, mitigate or prepare for a terrorist incident.
3WGI10-245 30 JUNE 2011                                                                        15


AT Training and Exercises—The process of developing individual, leader and collective skills
and of conducting comprehensive exercises to validate plans for AT incident response,
consequence management and continuity of essential military operations.
Biological Select Agents and Toxins (BSAT)—Biological agents and toxins that present a high
bioterrorism risk to national security and have the greatest potential for adverse public health
impact with mass casualties of humans and/or animals or that pose a severe threat to plant health
or to plant products. The lists are reviewed and updated by HHS/CDC and USDA/APHIS.
Agents and toxins that are excluded in Title 42, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 73, and Title
7, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 331 are excluded as BSAT.
Combating Terrorism (CbT)—For the purposes of this Instruction, combating terrorism within
the DOD encompasses all actions, including AT, counterterrorism, terrorism consequence
management (preparation for and response to the consequences of a terrorist incident or event)
and terrorism intelligence support (collection and dissemination of terrorism-related
information), taken to oppose terrorism throughout the entire threat spectrum, including terrorist
use of Chemical, Bioilogical, Radiological, Nuclear and High-Yield Explosive (CBRNE).
Combating Terrorism Readiness Initiatives Fund (CbT-RIF)—Program established by
Congress in the FY 1997 National Defense Authorization Act and managed by the J-3
DDAT/HD. Provides funds for emergency and emergent high-priority antiterrorism projects or
equipment submitted by combatant commands and approved by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, or a designated representative, after coordination with the Assistant Secretary of
Defense for Special Operations and Low-Intensity Conflict and the Services.
Commander—Personnel assigned to command positions at all levels and the heads of the
Defense Agencies and DoD Field Activities.
Commander’s Critical Information Requirements (CCIR)—An information requirement
identified by the commander as being critical to facilitating timely decision-making. The two
key elements are friendly force information requirements and priority intelligence requirements.
Comprehensive AT Program Review—The systematic assessment of the AT program against
the AT Standards.
Consequence Management—For the purpose of this Instruction, consequence management is
those measures taken to protect public health and safety, restore essential Government services
and provide emergency relief to governments, businesses and individuals affected by the
consequences of a CBRNE situation. For domestic consequence management, the primary
authority rests with the States to respond. The Federal Government responds through the
Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency, as the Lead
Federal Agency (LFA) for providing assistance as required. DOS is the LFA for foreign
consequence management.
Coordination—The necessary action to ensure adequate exchange of information to integrate,
synchronize and deconflict operations between separate organizations. Coordination is not
necessarily a process of gaining approval but is most often used for mutual exchange of
information. Normally used between functions of a supporting staff. Direct liaison authorized
(DIRLAUTH) is used to coordinate with an organization outside of the immediate staff or
organization.
 16                                                                 3WGI10-245 30 JUNE 2011


Counterintelligence (CI)—Information gathered and activities conducted to protect against
espionage, other intelligence activities, sabotage or assassinations conducted by or on behalf of
foreign governments or elements thereof, foreign organizations or persons, or international
terrorist activities.
Criminal Intelligence (CRIMINT)—Law enforcement information derived from the analysis
of information collected through investigations, forensics, crime scene and evidentiary processes
to establish intent, history, capability, vulnerability and modus operandi of threat and criminal
elements.
Crisis Management—For the purpose of this Instruction, crisis management is those measures
taken to resolve a hostile situation and to investigate and prepare a criminal case for prosecution
under Federal law. Crisis management shall include a response to an incident involving weapons
of mass destruction (WMD), a special improvised explosive device or a hostage crisis that is
beyond the capability of the LFA.
Critical Asset—An asset that is of such extraordinary importance that its incapacitation or
destruction would have a serious, debilitating effect on the ability of one or more DoD
Components or Defense Infrastructure Sector Lead Agents to execute the task or mission
essential tasks (MET) it supports. Task critical assets (TCA) are used to identify defense critical
assets.
Criticality Assessment—For the purposes of this Instruction, an assessment of the effect of
temporary or permanent loss of key assets or infrastructures on the installation or a unit’s ability
to perform its mission. The assessment also examines costs of recovery and reconstitution
including time, funds, capability and infrastructure support.
Defense Critical Asset—An asset of such extraordinary importance to DoD operations in peace,
crisis and war that its incapacitation or destruction would have a very serious, debilitating effect
on the ability of the Department of Defense to fulfill its mission.
Defense Critical Infrastructure (DCI)—DoD and non-DoD networked assets and essential to
project, support and sustain military forces and operations worldwide.
Deterrence—The prevention from action by fear of the consequences. Deterrence is a state of
mind brought about by the existence of a credible threat of unacceptable counteraction.
DoD AT Program—The minimum elements of the DoD AT program as a whole and of DoD
Component AT programs are AT risk management, planning, training and exercises, resource
application and program review.
DoD Civilian Work Force—United States (US) citizens or foreign nationals working for the
DoD and paid from appropriated or non-appropriated funds under permanent or temporary
appointment. This includes employees filling full-time, part-time, intermittent or on-call
positions. Specifically excluded are all Government contractor employees.
DoD Component—The Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the combatant commands, the Office of the Inspector
General of the DoD, the DoD Agencies, field activities and all other organizational entities in the
DoD.
DoD Contractor—Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association or other legal non-
Federal entity that enters into a contract directly with the DoD to furnish services, supplies or
3WGI10-245 30 JUNE 2011                                                                           17


both, including construction. Defense contractors may includeUS nationals, local citizens or
third country nationals.     Defense contractors do not include foreign governments or
representatives of foreign governments that are engaged in selling to the DoD or a DoD
Component or foreign corporations wholly owned by foreign governments.
DoD Elements and Personnel—For the purposes of this Instruction, DoD military and civilian
personnel and their dependent family members; DoD contractors; DoD installations and
facilities; DoD-owned, -leased or -managed defense critical infrastructure.
DoD Personnel—For the purposes of this Instruction, Uniformed Military Service members and
DoD Federal civilian employees hired and paid from appropriated and non-appropriated funds
under permanent or temporary appointment.
Eagle Eyes Program—A Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF)-approved Air Force
antiterrorism defensive program created to enhance the collection of threat information by
educating members of the Total Force and off-base citizens on the nature of terrorist attack-
planning activities. The program also establishes 24-hour phone numbers to call when
suspicious behavior is observed.
Emergency CbT-RIF Requirement—An unanticipated CbT-RIF requirement created by a
combination of circumstances or the resulting state that requires IMMEDIATE action to
prevent, deter or respond to a terrorist act.
Emergency Responders—Firefighters, law enforcement, security personnel, emergency
medical technicians, emergency management and operations personnel, explosive ordnance
disposal personnel, physicians, nurses, medical treatment providers at medical treatment
facilities, disaster preparedness officers, public health officers, bioenvironmental engineers,
counterintelligence agents and mortuary affairs personnel.
Emergent CbT-RIF Requirement—A newly-formed unexpected CbT-RIF requirement
resulting as a logical consequence of unforeseen circumstances and calling for PROMPT action.
Facility—A real property entity consisting of one or more of the following: a building, a
structure, a utility system, pavement and underlying land.
Family Member—Individuals defined as ―Dependent‖ in section 1072(2) of title 10 U.S.C.
First Responder—Firefighters, law enforcement and/or security personnel, emergency medical
technicians and explosive ordnance disposal (EOD) personnel (for suspected explosive CBRNE
events) that provide the initial, immediate response to an accident, disaster, criminal, terrorist or
CBRNE incident.
Food and Water Security—The protection of food and water sources from disruption and
contamination or other terrorist acts that could severely impact operations. Food and water
security measures include those actions taken to detect, prevent and mitigate the effects from
intentional acts designed to disrupt or contaminate food and water sources.
Force Health Protection (FHP)—A comprehensive threat-based program directed at preventing
and managing health related actions against Air Force uncommitted combat power.
Force Protection (FP)—Actions taken to prevent or mitigate hostile actions against Department
of Defense personnel (to include family members), resources, facilities and critical information.
These actions conserve the force’s fighting potential so it can be applied at the decisive time and
 18                                                                 3WGI10-245 30 JUNE 2011


place and incorporate the coordinated and synchronized offensive and defensive measures to
enable the effective employment of the joint force while degrading opportunities for the enemy.
Force protection does not include actions to defeat the enemy or protect against accidents,
weather or disease. (JP 1-02) [An integrated application of offensive and defensive actions that
deter, detect, preempt, mitigate or negate threats against or hazards to Air Force air and space
operations and assets, based on an acceptable level of risk.]{Definition in brackets applies only
to the Air Force and is offered for clarity.}
Force Protection Condition (FPCON)—A DoD-approved system standardizing the
Department’s identification, recommended preventive actions and responses to terrorist threats
against US personnel and facilities. This system is the principal means for a commander to
apply an operational decision on how to protect against terrorism. It facilitates inter-Service
coordination and support for AT activities.
Force Protection Detachment (FPD)—A counterintelligence (CI) element that provides
comprehensive CI support to transiting ships, personnel and/or aircraft in regions of elevated
threat.
Force Protection Intelligence (FPI)—Analyzed, all-source information concerning threats to
DoD missions, people or resources arising from terrorists, criminal entities, foreign intelligence
and security services and opposing military forces. FPI supports FP decisions and operations.
Foreign Intelligence—Information relating to capabilities, intentions and activities of foreign
powers, organizations or persons, but not including counterintelligence, except for information
on international terrorist activities. See also intelligence.
High Risk Billet (HRB)—Authorized personnel billet (designated by the appropriate authority
as identified in DODI O-2000.22) that because of grade (normally, General, Admiral or Senior
Executive Service equivalent and assigned in a country with a Defense Intelligence Agency
(DIA) terrorist threat level of significant or higher), assignment, travel itinerary or symbolic
value may make a person filling it an especially attractive or accessible terrorist target.
High Risk Personnel (HRP)—Personnel who, by their grade, assignment, symbolic value or
relative isolation, are likely to be attractive or accessible terrorist targets.
Higher Headquarters Assessment (HHA)—An overall assessment by a higher headquarters of
how an organization is managing its AT program, including management and compliance efforts
by subordinate organizations.
Installation—A grouping of facilities, located in the same vicinity, which support particular
functions. Installations may be elements of a base.
Installation Commander—The individual responsible for all operations performed by an
installation.
Intelligence—The product resulting from the collection, processing, integration, evaluation,
analysis and interpretation of available information concerning foreign nations, hostile or
potentially hostile forces or elements, or areas of actual or potential operations. The term is also
applied to the activity which results in the product and to the organizations engaged in such
activity. See also acoustic intelligence; all-source intelligence; basic intelligence; civil defense
intelligence; combat intelligence; communications intelligence; critical intelligence; current
intelligence; departmental intelligence; domestic intelligence; electronic intelligence; electro-
3WGI10-245 30 JUNE 2011                                                                           19


optical intelligence; foreign intelligence; foreign instrumentation signals intelligence; general
military intelligence; human resources intelligence; imagery intelligence; joint intelligence; laser
intelligence; measurement and signature intelligence; medical intelligence; merchant
intelligence; military intelligence; national intelligence; nuclear intelligence; open-source
intelligence; operational intelligence; photographic intelligence; political intelligence; radar
intelligence; radiation intelligence; scientific and technical intelligence; security intelligence;
strategic intelligence; tactical intelligence; target intelligence; technical intelligence; technical
operational intelligence; terrain intelligence; unintentional radiation intelligence. Joint Staff
Integrated Vulnerability Assessment (JSIVA)—A vulnerability-based evaluation of an
installation’s ability to deter and/or respond to a terrorist incident. A vulnerability-based
assessment considers both the current threat and the capabilities that may be employed by both
transnational and local terrorist organizations, both in terms of their mobility and the types of
weapons historically employed.
Mutual Aid Agreement (MAA)—Written agreement between agencies, organizations, or
jurisdictions that they will assist one another on request by furnishing personnel, equipment, or
expertise in a specified manner. Reciprocal assistance by local government and an installation
for emergency services under a prearranged plan. Mutual aid is synonymous with "mutual
assistance," "outside aid," "memorandums of understanding," "memorandums of agreement,"
"letters of agreement," "cooperative assistant agreement," "intergovernmental compacts," or
other similar agreements, written or verbal, that constitute an agreed reciprocal assistance plan
for sharing emergency services. MAAs between entities are an effective means to obtain
resources and should be developed whenever possible. MAAs should be in writing, be reviewed
by legal counsel and be signed by a responsible official.
Physical Security—For the purposes of this Instruction, that part of security concerned with
physical measures designed to safeguard personnel; to prevent unauthorized access to equipment,
installations, material and documents; and to safeguard them against espionage, sabotage,
damage and theft.
Priority Intelligence Requirement (PIR)—Those intelligence requirements for which a
commander has an anticipated and stated priority in the task of planning and decision-making.
Protection Providing Organization (PPO)—Refers collectively to the US Army Criminal
Investigation Command, the Naval Criminal Investigative Service, Air Force Office of Special
Investigations, the Defense Criminal Investigative Service, the Pentagon Force Protection
Agency and the National Security Agency.
Protective Services—A specialized activity, which increases the personal safety and security of
a distinguished visitor or other principal. The activity may be limited to a protective threat
assessment or may extend to a major protective service officer (PSO) involving considerable
manpower and resources.
Protective Service Detail (PSD)—Trained and armed protective security officials capable of
providing continuous protection for a designated individual.
RED HORSE—Air Force units are wartime-structured to provide a heavy engineer capability.
They have a responsibility across the operational area, are not tied to a specific base, and are not
responsible for base operation and maintenance. These units are mobile, rapidly deployable, and
largely self-sufficient, for limited periods of time.
 20                                                                  3WGI10-245 30 JUNE 2011


Security—For the purposes of this instruction, measures taken by a military unit, activity, or
installation to protect against all acts designed to, or that may, impair its effectiveness. Also, a
condition that results from establishing and maintaining protective measures that ensures a state
of inviolability from hostile acts or influences.
Self—Supported Separate Facility—A real property entity consisting of one or more of the
following: a building, a structure, a utility system, pavement and underlying land that is separate
from an installation and has inherent responsibility for emergency response functions, for
example, 911 response functions.
Special Event—An activity characterized by a large concentration of personnel and/or a
gathering where distinguished visitors are involved, often associated with a unique or symbolic
event.
Tactical Control (TACON) for FP—TACON that enables the geographic combatant
commander (GCC) to order implementation of FP measures and to exercise the security
responsibilities outlined in any MOA concluded pursuant to MOU between DOS and DoD,
―Security of DoD Elements and Personnel in Foreign Areas, (known as the Universal MOU).
Further, TACON for FP authorizes the GCC to change, modify, prescribe and enforce FP
measures for covered forces. This relationship includes the authority to inspect and assess
security requirements, direct DoD activities to identify the resources required to correct
deficiencies and submit budget requests to parent organizations to fund identified corrections.
The GCC may also direct immediate FP measures (including temporary relocation and
departure) when in his or her judgment such measures must be accomplished without delay to
ensure the safety of the DoD personnel involved. Persons subject to TACON for FP of a GCC
include Active and Reserve Component personnel (including National Guard personnel in a title
10 status (Sections 134 and 1072(2) of title 10, USC)) in the area of responsibility (AOR) as well
as all DoD civilian employees and their family members in the AOR.
Terrorism—The calculated use of unlawful violence or threat of unlawful violence to inculcate
fear; intended to coerce or to intimidate governments or societies in the pursuit of goals that are
generally political, religious, or ideological. See also antiterrorism; combating terrorism;
counterterrorism; force protection condition; terrorist; terrorist groups.
Terrorism Consequence Management—DoD preparedness and response for mitigating the
consequences of a terrorist incident, including the terrorist use of WMD. DoD consequence
management activities are designed to support the lead Federal agency (domestically, the
Department of Homeland Security; foreign, the Department of State) and include measures to
alleviate damage, loss of life, hardship, or suffering caused by the incident; protect public health
and safety; and restore emergency essential government services.
Terrorism Incident Response Measures—A set of procedures established for response forces
to deal with the effects of a terrorist incident.
Terrorism Threat Assessment—The process used to conduct a threat analysis and develop an
evaluation of a potential terrorist threat or the product of a threat analysis for a particular unit,
installation, or activity.
Terrorism Threat Level (TTL)—An intelligence threat assessment of the level of terrorist
threat faced by U.S. personnel and interests. The assessment is based on a continuous
intelligence analysis of a minimum of four elements: terrorist group operational capability,
3WGI10-245 30 JUNE 2011                                                                      21


intentions, activity and operational environment. There are four threat levels: LOW,
MODERATE, SIGNIFICANT and HIGH. Threat levels should not be confused with FPCONs.
Threat-level assessments are provided to senior leaders to assist them determining the
appropriate local FPCON.
Terrorist—An individual who commits an act or acts of violence or threatens violence in pursuit
of political, religious, or ideological objectives.
Terrorist Groups—Any number of terrorists who assemble together, have a unifying
relationship, or are organized for the purpose of committing an act or acts of violence or
threatens violence in pursuit of their political, religious, or ideological objectives. See also
terrorism.
Unit—(1) Any military element whose structure is prescribed by competent authority, such as a
table of organization and equipment; specifically, part of an organization, (2) An organization
title of a subdivision of a group in a task force. (3) With regard to Reserve Components of the
Armed Forces, denotes a Selected Reserve unit organized, equipped and trained for mobilization
to serve on active duty as a unit or to augment or be augmented by another unit.
Unit Antiterrorism Representative (ATR)—The principal military or civilian advisor charged
with managing the AT program for a unit or DoD element not required to have an ATO as
stipulated in AF AT Standard 9.
Vulnerability—In AT, a situation or circumstance which, if left unchanged, may result in the
loss of life or damage to mission-essential resources. It includes the characteristics of an
installation, system, asset, application, or its dependencies that could cause it to suffer a
degradation or loss (incapacity to perform its designated function) as a result of having been
subjected to a certain level of threat or hazard.
Vulnerability Assessment (VA)—A Department of Defense, command, or unit-level evaluation
(assessment) to determine the vulnerability of a terrorist attack against an installation, unit,
exercise, port, ship, residence, facility, or other site. Identifies areas of improvement to
withstand, mitigate, or deter acts of violence or terrorism.
Weapons Of Mass Destruction (WMD)—Weapons that are capable of a high order of
destruction and/or of being used in such a manner as to destroy large numbers of people.
Weapons of mass destruction can be high-yield explosives or nuclear, biological, chemical, or
radiological weapons, but exclude the means of transporting or propelling the weapon where
such means is a separable and divisible part of the weapon.
