BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    3RD WING INSTRUCTION 31-209
3RD WING (PACAF)
                                                                                    16 JULY 2009
                                                         Certified Current on 8 August 2012
                                                                                   Security
                                                 JUVENILE CORRECTIONS PROGRAM (PA)



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 3 WG/JA                                             Certified by: 3 WG/JA (Lt Col Charles C.
                                                                                         Killion)
Supersedes:    3WGI31-209, 25 June 2008                                                 Pages: 7



This instruction implements AFPD 31-2, Air Provost Operations, and provides the framework
for disposition of juvenile misconduct cases and establishes the juvenile corrections board (JCB)
to address such cases. It applies to all residents of Elmendorf AFB and nonresidents authorized
to use base facilities and their guests. It does not apply to the US Air Force Reserve or Air
National Guard units and members. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the OPR (see Attachment 1) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication. Route the AF Form 847 through the appropriate chain of command.
Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Table 31-01, Rule 01.00 from the AFRIMS, Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil.

This publication requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the
Privacy Act of 1974. The authority to collect and maintain the records prescribed by this
publication is 10 USC 8013, Secretary of the Air Force, and Executive Order 9397.
Collected information is For Official Use Only.” Forms affected by the Privacy Act have
an appropriate Privacy Act Statement (PAS) either incorporated in the body of the form or
in a separate supplement to the form. Consult AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program,
for further guidance on PAS required prior to collection of personal information. Privacy
Act System of Records Notice number “F031 AF SP C - Complain/Incident Reports”
http://www.defenselink.mil/privacy/notices/usaf/F031AFSPC.htm applies.
2                                                                 3WGI31-209 16 JULY 2009


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision
clarifies the role of the 3rd Wing Commander (3 WG/CC) in processing incidents involving
juvenile dependents of officers ranked Colonel or higher. It also clarifies minor ambiguities
from the previous version.
1. Purpose. The JCB is an administrative body formed under the authority of the instruction.
JCB takes or recommends actions to 3 WG/CC, or designee, who ensures misconduct by
juveniles (see Attachment 1) does not disrupt the good order, morale, and discipline of the wing,
and ensures good neighbor standards of Pacific Air Forces Command (PACAF) are maintained
on Elmendorf AFB.
2. Policy. Not every instance of juvenile misconduct will be brought before the JCB. Only
those cases that demonstrate serious, negative behavioral patterns that are brought to the
attention of command will be considered by the board. Every action by the board will be
designed to encourage appropriate behavior by juveniles and to preserve good order and
discipline on Elmendorf AFB. It’s the policy of Elmendorf AFB that, ordinarily, no child under
the age of 10 years will appear before the JCB.
3. Responsibilities.
    3.1. Parents, guardians, or hosts (in the case of juvenile houseguests from off base) are
    responsible for the conduct of children in their charge and for ensuring compliance with
    applicable state and federal laws and governing Elmendorf AFB publications, and this
    instruction.
    3.2. The 3 WG/CC is responsible for maintaining good order and discipline on Elmendorf
    AFB, including ensuring acceptable conduct of all persons residing on or visiting Elmendorf
    AFB.
4. Curfew Hours. The following curfew hours are established for juveniles at Elmendorf AFB.

Table 1. Curfew Hours.
       Age                        Weekdays                      Weekends & Holidays


       15 AND UNDER               2200-0500                        2300-0500


       16-17                      2400-0500                        0100-0500



NOTE: Juveniles may be outdoors during curfew hours (if the sponsor has received written
permission from the Commander, 3rd Mission Support Group (3 MSG/CC). Examples include,
but not limited to, juveniles engaged in off-duty employment, or those participating in an
organized base or civic activity that require the juvenile to be outside during curfew hours.
3WGI31-209 16 JULY 2009                                                                       3


5. Unattended Youth. The unattended youth policy is established to supervise youth activity,
prevent youth misconduct, and ensure their safety. Unattended youth is defined as those
juveniles who are not supervised by someone 12 years of age or older. See listing below and
Attachment 1 for policy guidance on unattended youth. Only those youth 13 years of age or
older may be left unattended overnight. Military members remain responsible for maintaining a
family care plan during extended periods of absence in accordance with AFI 36-2908, Family
Care Plans, 1 October 2000).
6. Unattended Youth Policy.

Table 2. Unattended Youth Policy.
AGE         LEFT                    PLAYGROUND            LEFT IN CAR            WALK TO
            UNATTENDED IN           UNATTENDED            UNATTENDED             SCHOOL
            QUARTERS*                                                            ALONE


0-5             NO                       NO                   NO                     NO


6-9             NO                       YES                  YES                    YES


10-11           NO*                      YES                  YES                    YES


12-16+          YES**                    YES                  YES                    YES



NOTE: *Babysitters must be 16 years of age or older for overnight stays. ** Only youths 13
years of age or older may be left unattended overnight.


7. Juvenile Corrections Program (JCP). The objective of the JCP is to establish and provide a
means of rehabilitation for youth who commit acts of misconduct, including, but not limited to,
violations of all governing laws, instructions, and regulations.
8. JCB. The JCB is a standing committee of Elmendorf AFB. The board will meet at the
direction of the 3 WG/CC, or a designated representative, to review cases of juvenile
misconduct. Cases will normally be referred to the JCB by the Deputy Commander, 3rd Mission
Support Group (3 MSG/CD); however, case may also be referred by JCB members or through
any commander with the consent of the 3 WG/CC, or designee.
      8.1. JCB Proceedings. The JCB is not a judicial proceeding. It’s an administrative form
      under the authority of the 3 WG/CC that reviews the facts of alleged incidents of juvenile
      misconduct, makes findings of fact, and assigns appropriate punishment for juvenile
4                                                                   3WGI31-209 16 JULY 2009


    misconduct. The JCB chairperson will decide and order the appropriate action after
    discussion with the other board members.
    8.2. Rights Before the JCB. The juvenile’s appearance before the JCB is voluntary.
    Because the JCB is an administrative rather than criminal proceeding, juveniles and their
    sponsors brought before the JCB do not have the right to be represented by counsel, to
    remain silent, or to present witnesses. If a juvenile or the sponsor do not agree to appear
    before the JCB, the 3 WG/CC will address the incident through appropriate action, which
    may include barment or termination of military family housing.
    8.3. Composition of the JCB. The following positions, or their designated representatives,
    constitute the JCB:
       8.3.1. 3 MSG/CD (Chairperson).
       8.3.2. 3rd Wing Staff Judge Advocate (3 WG/JA).
       8.3.3. 3rd Security Forces Squadron Commander (3 SFS/CC).
       8.3.4. 3rd Wing Command Chief (3 WG/CCC).
       8.3.5. First sergeant of the juvenile’s military sponsor if the sponsor is enlisted, or the
       unit commander (squadron level or higher commander) if the sponsor is an officer.
    8.4. Actions of the JCB. The JCB may take appropriate action, including, but not limited
    to:
    8.1. No further action or dismissal of allegations.
    8.2. Oral reprimand.
    8.3. Written reprimand.
    8.4. Referral of the juvenile to the Elmendorf AFB Hospital, Family Advocacy, Mental
    Health Services, Chaplain Services, or other agencies for counseling, information, or
    treatment referral.
    8.5. Assigning the juvenile to complete community service work. The JCB will determine
    the number of hours to be assigned and the time in which the service must be completed.
    The military sponsor and military sponsor’s unit will be responsible for monitoring
    completion of community service. Community service must be performed on Elmendorf
    AFB. The military sponsor’s unit will notify the juvenile corrections officer (JCO) when the
    juvenile’s community service has been completed. Certification of completion will include a
    statement by the agency for which the service was performed. The statement will specify the
    number of hours worked, the work performed, and the quality of the juvenile’s work, and
    contact information for the individual supervising the community service..
    8.6. Assigning restitution.
    8.7. Assigning restricted curfew.
    8.8. Placing particular base areas and facilities off limits.
    8.9. Recommending to 3 WG/CC that the juvenile be barred from the installation.
    8.10. Recommending to 3 WG/CC that the sponsor’s government quarters be terminated.
3WGI31-209 16 JULY 2009                                                                         5


9. JCO. The JCO will be appointed by 3 WG/JA to oversee the administration of the JCP. The
JCO will:
   9.1. Review all incident/complaint reports pertaining to youth that are obtained from the 3rd
   Security Forces Reports and Analysis Section.
   9.2. Schedule the JCB when deemed appropriate by the chairperson.
   9.3. Advise the board members of the appropriate duty uniform (service dress) and the date
   and time of the hearing.
   9.4. Notify the military sponsor, by letter, through the sponsor’s commander or first sergeant
   of the appropriate duty uniform (service dress) and location and time of the hearing.
   9.5. Verify that the sponsor and juvenile have been notified by contacting the sponsor’s
   commander or first sergeant, as appropriate.
   9.6. Prepare a complete case report, including a history of the juvenile, for all members of
   the JCB.
   9.7. Prepare appropriate initiation letter for JCB recommendations regarding serious
   misconduct.
   9.8. Maintain contact with the sponsor’s commander or first sergeant to ensure completion
   of any community service, restitution, or other punishment imposed by the JCB.
   9.9. Keep and maintain records of each JCB session under the disposition instructions and
   authority of AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of in accordance with
   Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). The records will be maintained under the
   juvenile’s name and will include juvenile’s sponsor’s date eligible for return from overseas
   (DEROS).
   9.10. Track sponsor’s DEROS and destroy the juvenile’s JCB records upon the family’s
   permanent change of station (PCS), or the sponsor’s separation from service. Security
   Forces reports will be maintained in accordance with applicable records management tables
   and rules.
10. Sponsor’s Responsibility. The military sponsors of juveniles brought before the JCB
MUST appear before the JCB. The appearance of the juvenile is optional, but strongly
encouraged. If the juvenile has a non-military parent, that parent also is strongly encouraged to
appear with the juvenile. A military sponsor on temporary duty (TDY) who is unable to appear
before the JCB will be notified of the JCB appointment by the sponsor’s unit. The current
guardian of the juvenile then must appear before the JCB in the sponsor’s absence.
11. Service of Actions. The military sponsor will immediately acknowledge receipt of the
JCB’s decision by endorsing the memorandum. The JCO will advise the parents, juvenile, and
sponsor’s unit, in writing, of the board results and the actions to be taken.
12. Command Action. The command action taken will be documented on the appropriate
incident report and filed as prescribed by instructions governing the use of that incident report.
13. Completion of Actions. The sponsor’s unit will ensure all assignments given by the JCB
are carried out promptly and will report to the JCO when all actions are completed.
6                                                                   3WGI31-209 16 JULY 2009


14. Appeals. Written appeals of JCB actions must be submitted through 3 WG/JA to 3 MSG/
CC within 10 calendar days of the board’s decision. The decision by 3 MSG/CC is final.
15. Failure to Comply. Failure by the juvenile to comply with any board determination will be
documented and sent by the JCO to the JCB chairperson. When a juvenile fails to comply with a
JCB assignment, the JCB may take, but are not limited to taking, the following actions:
    15.1. Send a letter of warning from the JCB chairperson.
    15.2. Rescheduling the sponsor to appear before the next JCB.
    15.3. Recommend to 3 WG/CC that the juvenile be barred from the installation.
    15.4. Recommend to 3 WG/CC that the sponsor’s government quarters be terminated.
16. Documentation. Command action taken in response to juvenile misconduct will be
documented, as appropriate. The 3 WG/JA will maintain documentation regarding juveniles and
JCB actions taken.
17. Officers (Colonel and Above). The 3 WG/CC will take final action, based upon the
recommendation of the JCB, in all cases involving misconduct committed by juvenile family
members of officers in the grade of colonel or above. The 3 WG/CC will have available the full
range of disciplinary options described in paragraph 8.4. Written requests for reconsideration
may be submitted to the 3 WG/CC through the 3 WG/JA within 10 calendar days.
18. Adopted Form. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                            THOMAS L. TINSLEY, Brigadier General, USAF
                                            Commander
3WGI31-209 16 JULY 2009                                                                      7


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 31-2, Law Enforcement
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program
AFI 36-2908, Family Care Plans
AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule

Abbreviations and Acronyms
DEROS—Date Eligible from Overseas
JCB—Juvenile Corrections Board
JCO—Juvenile Corrections Officer
JCP—Juvenile Corrections Program
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PACAF—Pacific Air Forces Command
PAS—Privacy Act Statement
RDS—Record Disposition Schedule
TDY—Temporary Duty

Terms
Curfew-—The hours during which a juvenile must be indoors, unless accompanied by an adult
or unless the sponsor has received written permission from the 3 MSG/CC.
Juvenile-—Synonymous with child and defined for the purpose of this instruction as an
unmarried person under the age of 18 years.
Misconduct-—Any criminal act, violation of statute or regulation, or other behavior that does
not conform to reasonable community standards of expected conduct.
Unattended Youth-—Those youth who are not supervised by someone 12 years of age or older.
Juveniles age 12 and younger left overnight must be supervised by an individual age 16 years of
older.
