BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  3RD WING INSTRUCTION 91-201
3RD WING (PACAF)
                                                                            22 OCTOBER 2003
                                                                Certified Current 21 April 2012
                                                                                          Safety

                                                     ADVERSE WEATHER NOTIFICATION
                                                                      PROCEDURES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 3 SFS/SFOP                                         Certified by: 3 MSG/CC (Col Robert W.
                                                                                     Tirevold)
Supersedes:   3WGI91-201, 4 April 1997                                               Pages: 5



This instruction implements AFPD 91-2, Safety Programs, and prescribes adverse weather
notifications, reporting, and release procedures for military and civilian personnel assigned to
Elmendorf AFB. This publication does not apply to the US Air Force Reserve or Air National
Guard units and members. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
the OPR (see Attachment 1) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Route the AF Form 847 through the appropriate chain of command. Official
records created as a result of this publication will be maintained under the applicable table and
rule disposition authority of AFMAN 37-123, Records Disposition Schedule, Table 91-4.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Redefined delayed
reporting and early release; added the coordination with the Fort Richardson Military Police
Desk for road closures; and updated the different colors used to describe road conditions.
1. Procedures.
   1.1. The 3rd Security Forces Desk Sergeant, 3 CES Snow Barn, Base Operations, and 3
   OSS/ OSW will notify the 3rd Command Post (3 WG/ CP) when adverse conditions affect
   safe travel to or from Elmendorf AFB (that is, earthquakes, volcano eruptions, adverse
   weather, or acts of nature). NOTE: Notification will be accomplished when conditions
   warrant.
2                                                             3WGI91-201 22 OCTOBER 2003


    1.2. The 3 WG/CP will notify the 3rd Mission Support Group Commander (3 MSG/CC)
    who will notify the 3rd Wing Commander (3 WG/CC) and recommend one of the following:
       1.2.1. Mission Essential Reporting.
       1.2.2. Delayed Reporting.
       1.2.3. Early Release.
    1.3. The 3 MSG/CC will instruct the 3 WG/CP to implement the appropriate checklist for
    one of the options noted above. Personnel will be notified through their normal chain of
    command.
    1.4. The 3 MSG/CC will also contact 3 WG/PA (through the 3 WG/CP) who, in turn, will
    contact the local media and initiate changes to the Commander’s Access Channel.
2. General Instructions:
    2.1. Mission Essential Reporting. Unit commanders and supervisors must brief personnel,
    before adverse weather conditions occur, whether or not they are required to report as
    mission essential.
    2.2. Delayed Reporting. All personnel will report for duty, exercising caution and arriving
    as soon as conditions permit. Expectations are to have normal operations by 1000.
    2.3. Early Release. Unit commanders are responsible for managing early release within
    their organizations; however, this action may only be initiated at the direction of the 3
    WG/CC. The intent is a staggered departure to alleviate congestion leaving the base and to
    allow those who live farthest from base to leave first. Unless the circumstances are highly
    unusual, personnel residing on base should not be released early. If so, they should be the
    last released.
3. Tasks.
    3.1. The 3 SFS, 3 CES Snow Barn, Base Operations, and 3 OSS/OSW will notify the 3
    WG/CP of adverse weather conditions to include:
       3.1.1. Snow greater than 10 inches has accumulated and poses a hazard to the installation
       or is anticipated within 4 hours.
       3.1.2. Ice has formed on roadways and taxiways and poses a hazard to the installation or
       is anticipated within the next 4 hours.
       3.1.3. Volcanic or earthquake activity on or near the installation.
    3.2. The 3 WG/CP will:
       3.2.1. Confirm adverse conditions with 3 SFS, 3 CES Snow Barn, Base Operations and 3
       OSS/OSW, and notify 3 MSG/CC when one of the aforementioned conditions are
       present.
       3.2.2. Implement notifications through instantaneous telephone alerting system (ITASS)
       and advise base agencies and 24-hour unit control centers of adverse conditions, or
       implementation of early release or delayed reporting, as directed.
       3.2.3. Notify Anchorage School District Director of Transportation, who, in-turn will
       advise on-base school officials of adverse weather conditions effecting roadways, and if
3WGI91-201 22 OCTOBER 2003                                                                     3


     necessary dispatch bus transportation for the early release of students, delayed student
     pick-up during delayed reporting or the potential base closures.
     3.2.4. Notify group commanders and request they implement pyramid notification to
     advise assigned personnel of adverse weather conditions, implementation of early release
     or delayed reporting.
     3.2.5. Notify the Defense Commissary Agency (DeCA) of adverse conditions and
     implementation of early release or delayed reporting of employees.
     3.2.6. Coordinate flash e-mail messages with 3 CS/NCC.
  3.3. The 3 SVS will:
     3.3.1. During duty hours, notify on-base child development centers (CDC), Air Force
     Army Exchange Service and advise of adverse conditions. The Base Exchange Manager
     will consider closure of on-base Gas Stations, shoppette, and Base Exchange. The Base
     Exchange Manager will consider early release or delayed reporting of employees as
     necessary or directed.
     3.3.2. Coordinate food and shelter for personnel remaining on the installation during
     inclement weather or emergency conditions.
     3.3.3. Coordinate the closure of SVS facilities (that is, Base Fitness Center, Polar Bowl).
  3.4. The 3 SFS will:
     3.4.1. Coordinate road closures with Anchorage Police and request up-dates on road
     conditions affecting the Glenn and Seward Highways.
     3.4.2. Continuously monitor road conditions and update 3 WG/CP when roads become
     impassable, or as closures of off-base highways occur.
     3.4.3. Confirm and coordinate road closures and adverse conditions with the Fort
     Richardson Military Police Desk.
  3.5. The 3 CS/NCC will send flash message traffic to on-base e-mail accounts, advising the
  base populous of deteriorating weather or adverse conditions, and advise of early release
  and/or delayed reporting implementation. These reports will be coordinated with 3 WG/CP.
  3.6. The 3 CES will implement 3WGI 32-1002, Snow and Ice Control Plan, or OPLAN 32-
  1, Disaster Preparedness Operations, as applicable; and when available, position electronic
  signs at Base Entry Points and major intersections to advise individuals of potential road
  hazards.
  3.7. Unit Commanders will:
     3.7.1. Use pyramid notification to advise off-duty members of mission essential
     reporting or delayed reporting.
     3.7.2. Advise individuals released early to remain off roadways during snow/ice removal
     efforts.
     3.7.3. Release military members who’s dependants are affected by Anchorage School or
     CDC closures.
4                                                             3WGI91-201 22 OCTOBER 2003


       3.7.4. Only operate mission essential vehicles during base closures and extreme weather
       conditions (that is, emergency response, snow removal).
       3.7.5. Consider excusing individuals from duty when major roads between their home
       and Elmendorf AFB are closed by the Alaska State Highway Department (that is, Glenn
       or Seward Highways).
       3.7.6. Consider the early release of civilian employees. Civilian absence due to adverse
       weather or emergency conditions will not be charged as leave. Individuals already on
       leave will continue to be charged leave for periods of pre-approved leave.
4. Road Conditions.
    4.1. Approving Authority. Approving authority for road conditions is 3 MSG/CC. On-
    duty security forces and 3 CES/Snow Barn may recommend changes in road conditions to 3
    MSG/CC through the 3 WG/CP. However, any individual may contact the Security Forces
    Desk to report adverse or unsafe road conditions. On-duty flight chiefs will then verify these
    conditions and forward request to the 3 WG/CP. The road conditions are covered below with
    definitions and directed actions:
    4.2. GREEN. Roads are clear and dry. Comply with normal vehicle operating procedures
    and posted speed limits.
    4.3. AMBER. It has been determined that roads may be slippery due to snow, ice, or
    reduced visibility. Operators will exercise caution and reduce speeds by 5 miles per hour
    below the posted speed limit.
    4.4. RED. It has been determined that roads may be hazardous due to snow, ice, or reduced
    visibility. Only operate mission essential vehicles. Drivers of mission essential vehicles will
    exercise caution and reduce speeds by 10 miles per hour, below the posted speed limit.
    Operator’s will exercise extreme caution, minimize vehicle dispatches.
    4.5. BLACK. It has been determined that road conditions are extremely hazardous due to
    ice, snow, or reduced visibility. Vehicle dispatching is prohibited unless directed by
    command authority. Only operate emergency response vehicles. Drivers of the emergency
    response vehicles will exercise caution and reduce speeds by 15 miles per hour, below the
    posted speed limit.
    4.6. Road Conditions. The 3 MSG/CC will determine road conditions and coordinate
    requests for early release, mission essential reporting and or delayed reporting procedures
    with 3 WG/CC.

5. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                             ROBERTUS C.N. REMKES, Brig Gen, USAF
                                             Commander
3WGI91-201 22 OCTOBER 2003                                       5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 91-2, Safety Programs, 28 September 1993
AFMAN 33-363, Records Disposition Schedule, 1 March 2008
3WGI 32-1002, Snow and Ice Control Plan, 14 February 1999
OPLAN 32-1, Disaster Preparedness Operations, 4 September 2000

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CDC— Child Development Centers
DeCA— Defense Commissary Agency
ITASS— instantaneous telephone alerting system
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
