BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                            3RD WING INSTRUCTION 31-202
3RD WING (PACAF)
                                                                                   21 NOVEMBER 2005
                                                                      Certified Current 8 November 2012
                                                                                                  Security

                                                                               ANIMAL CONTROL (PA)


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:             Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
                           publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY:             There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 3 SFS/SFOX                                        Certified by: 3 MSG/CC (Col Robert M. Douglas)
Supersedes: 3WGI 31-202, 31 January 1997                                                     Pages: 4


This instruction implements AFPD 31-2, Law Enforcement, and applies to all personnel having pets on
Elmendorf AFB, including visitors and associated units. This instruction establishes procedures to
control pets on the installation. Small caged animals such as guinea pigs, hamsters, gerbils, fish and
birds are excluded. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the OPR (see
Attachment 1) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route the AF
Form 847 through the appropriate chain of command. All other rodents, primates, skunks, raccoons,
exotic felines, marsupials, reptiles, insects, spiders, wolf hybrids, and wild animals requiring special
permits may not be kept as pets on the installation. Ensure all records created as a result of processes in
this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN37-123, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Disposition Schedule.
This publication requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy
Act of 1974. The authority to collect and maintain the records prescribed by this instruction is 10
USC 8012. Each form, format, or form letter prescribed by this publication which requires a
Privacy Act Statement (PAS), in accordance with AFI 37-132 must have the PAS incorporated
thereon or the PAS will be prominently posted and be provided by the requester prior to
collecting the information. Privacy Act information taken from an existing Privacy Act system of
records, which authorizes blanket use of this information for this purpose, doesn't require a PAS.
Collected information is "For Official Use Only." Request to release Privacy Act information, to
persons or agencies outside the DOD must be in accordance with AFI 37-132, Air Force Privacy
Act Program. Privacy Act System Notice F125 AF SPI applies.

SUMMARY OFCHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision changes the
authority to release pets from Fort Richardson Veterinary Clinic back to the owner from 3 MSS/CC to 3
SFS/CC.
1. Chief, Security Forces (3 SFS/CC) Responsibilities:
2                                                                    3WGI31-202 21 NOVEMBER 2005


    1.1. Enforcement of provisions contained within this instruction.
    1.2. Coordination of capture, pickup, and disposition of stray pets, suspected rabid pets, and
    nuisance pets (See Attachment 1).
    1.3. Maintaining records of actions taken in compliance with this instruction.
2. Fort Richardson Veterinarian Responsibilities:
    2.1. Examination, immunization against rabies, and quarantine instructions for privately owned pets
    on Elmendorf AFB.
    2.2. Examination of suspected rabid animals.
    2.3. Maintain impounded animals captured on Elmendorf AFB until final disposition, when
    required.
3. Pet Owners’ Responsibilities:
    3.1. Pets maintained on Elmendorf AFB will be registered with the Fort Richardson Veterinary
    Treatment Facility within 3 duty days of arrival on base. All pets will be vaccinated, as required by
    Alaska State Statutes, to include a current distemper combination for dogs and cats. The rabies
    vaccination tag from the Fort Richardson Veterinary Treatment Facility will serve as the base
    registration tag. The tag must be securely fastened to the animal's collar or harness, and will be worn
    whenever the animal is outside the owner's quarters.
    3.2. The owner is responsible for any and all expenses incurred to comply with this instruction.
    3.3. Pet owners will adhere to the leash law in paragraph 1.6, this instruction, at all times.
    3.4. Pet owners will not walk their pets in other people's yards, school yards, picnic areas, sports
    fields, parade grounds or where the pet may become a public nuisance.
    3.5. Unattended pets will be on a restraining device no longer than 15 feet to prevent their access to
    public sidewalks, roadways, or other yards. Restraining devices will not be attached to government
    owned property.
    3.6. Pets will not be treated inhumanely or cruelly by leaving them outside for unreasonable periods
    of time, or being left without sufficient food and water. Pets maintained outside must have adequate
    shelter from the elements. Pets suspected of receiving inhumane treatment will be transported by
    security forces to the Fort Richardson Veterinary Treatment Facility for evaluation.
    3.7. Pet owners must remove animal feces from their home and yard daily, or more frequently to
    prevent a public health hazard. Animal feces must be immediately removed from public areas.
    3.8. Pet owners are responsible for all property damage caused by their pets.
4. Control measures:
    4.1. Pets may only be kept in on-base housing. Pets may not be kept in any billeting controlled
    facilities. Dormitory residents may keep fish.
    4.2. Stray animals will be transported to the Fort Richardson Stray Animal Facility. An incident
    report or blotter entry titled "Failure to Control Pet," will be accomplished by Security Forces.
    Owners will not be allowed to pick up their pet from the stray animal facility prior to reporting to the
    law enforcement desk. Once processing is completed, pet owners will be issued a Pet Release letter
    signed by 3 SFS/CC, which allows the owner to pick up the pet.
3WGI31-202 21 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                           3


  4.3. The 3 WG Form 17, Animal Impoundment Control Record, is maintained by the 3 SFS
  Administration Flight. The form is filed with incident report or blotter entry and may be reviewed to
  determine the status of a lost pet.
  4.4. Animals who have bitten or scratched someone, or who are suspected of having rabies will be
  transported to the Fort Richardson Treatment Facility by the next duty day.
  4.5. Security Forces, when requested by Aurora Housing, will remove problem animals from
  housing areas to ensure the safety of the base populace, or prevent an undue hazard to the base
  populace. Aurora Military Housing may also request Security Forces to remove the pet from the
  installation, following a second incident report.
  4.6. Pets must be controlled indoors and outdoors to the extent they may not bark excessively,
  threaten, or bite visitors.
  4.7. Security Forces may remove from quarters and yards, unattended pets creating excessive
  nuisance complaints or presenting an undue hazard to the base populace.
  4.8. Breeding on base for commercial enterprise resulting in personal profit is prohibited.
  4.9. Family housing occupants may maintain no more than two pets, unless authorized in writing, by
  Aurora Military Housing. Owners have 10 weeks following birth to dispose of litters.
  4.10. Pets restrained outdoors will be kept in backyards only. Residents immediately adjacent to the
  "Chateau" will consult Aurora Military Housing for additional guidance.
  4.11. Pets in estrus will not be left unattended outside the quarters.
  4.12. Design, construction, and location of dog houses in family housing areas must be approved by
  Aurora Military Housing; this requires the completion of an Aurora Military Housing work request.
  Dog houses must be removed and the area restored to its natural state prior to termination of quarters
  assignment. If the pet is capable of jumping the fence, additional restraints must be in place.
  4.13. Forms Adopted and Prescribed:
     4.13.1. Adopted: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
     4.13.2. Prescribed: 3WG Form 17, Animal Impoundment Control Record.




                                             HERBERT J. CRLISLE, Brigadier General, USAF
                                             Commander
4                                                                3WGI31-202 21 NOVEMBER 2005


                                             Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 31-2, Law Enforcement.
AFMAN37-123, Management ofRecords.
AFI 37-132, Air Force Privacy Act Program.

Abbreviations
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PAS—Privacy Act Statement.

Terms
Pet—A domestic dog or cat.
Nuisance—Any condition causing unreasonable annoyance to either residents or persons using public
areas.
Commercial Enterprise—Breeding for sale more than one litter per year, or keeping more than one
female for breeding and selling offspring for profit is considered commercial enterprise. Breeding on
base for profit is prohibited.
Estrus—The period of time when the female animal is able to be bred or is capable of being bred.
Animal's Domicile—The pet's dwelling, including the owner's quarters, and immediate area outside the
quarters.
Leash Law—Pets will be on a leash outside of the animal's domicile and under control of a responsible
person capable of completely restraining the animal if it becomes aggressive. Pets may be exercised off-
leash in uninhabited areas if control of the pet can be maintained by voice control.
Voice Control—An animal is under the control of a mature, responsible adult at least 18 years old. The
animal must quickly respond to the voice commands and the pet must be within line of sight at all times.
