BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  3RD WING INSTRUCTION 36-2805
3RD WING (PACAF)
                                                                               12 MARCH 2002
                                                            Certified Current 21 December 2012
                                                                                     Personnel

                                                                SAFETY AWARDS PROGRAM


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 3 WG/SEG                                          Certified by: 3 WG/SE (Lt Col George M.
                                                                                       Henkel)
Supersedes:    3WGI36-2805, 5 March 1999                                              Pages: 7



This instruction implements AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, and prescribes
nomination procedures for 3rd Wing (3 WG) safety awards. The safety awards program rewards
outstanding safety acts and achievements, and recognizes quality performers who contribute to
the prevention of mishaps through either sustained superior performance or a one-time act.
Recognition of deserving individuals and units is a vital avenue for building a culture of pride,
performance and mishap prevention. Recognition for heroic acts will not be considered for a
safety award. This publication applies to all units in the 3 WG on Elmendorf AFB, Alaska.
Safety awards in this instruction are for the submittal of safety award nominations through
command channels to HQ PACAF. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the office of primary responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication. Ensure all records created as a result of processes in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Disposition Schedule. This publication does not apply to the US
Air Force Reserves or Air National Guard units and members.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Realigned
redefined the nomination procedures for the headquarters Air Force, added ground safety team
salute award.
1. Responsibilities. Commanders are responsible for unit participation in the safety awards
programs and are encouraged to establish complementing incentives to supplement the programs.
2                                                            3WGI36-2805 12 MARCH 2002


The 3 WG Chief of Safety is responsible for managing the program and reviewing all
nominations.
2. Headquarters Air Force Awards. Units will forward nominations for Headquarters Air
Force awards (Air Force Chief of Staff Special Safety Achievement, Colombian Trophy, Koren
Kolligian Jr., Trophy, Flight Safety Plaque, and so forth.) to 3 WG/SE for consideration. The 3
WG/SE will not nominate units or individuals for awards unless previously nominated by their
commander. Headquarters Air Force annual award nominations are due to 3 WG/SE no later
than 3 October. The 3 WG/SE will forward exceptional award nominations to higher
headquarters for competition. Nomination procedures, eligibility, and selection criteria can be
found in AFI 36-2833 (see Attachment 1).
3. Nomination Procedures. Nominations should be prepared in accordance with AFI 36-2833
and this instruction. Nominations are forwarded through command channels to HQ PACAF/SE.
Nominations will be submitted in hard copy and accompanied by a disk in Microsoft Word
format. Nominations will be in letter format as shown in Attachment 2, this instruction.
4. Third Wing Safety Quarterly Awards. Quarterly award nominations are due 10 January,
10 April, 10 July, and 10 October. Units may forward as many nominations as deemed
appropriate for award categories. Order of preference must be indicated when submitting more
than one nominations for any award. Number of award selections will be determined by 3 WG/
SE, unless otherwise indicated. Nominations submitted in hard copy will be accompanied by a
computer disk. Nominations can also be submitted by e-mail. Nominations will be in letter
format as shown in Attachment 2, this instruction.
    4.1. Flight Safety Award of the Quarter:
       4.1.1. Purpose. Honors a 3 WG organization for sustained performance in flight safety.
       Winners will be nominated for 3 WG/SE Flight Safety Award of the Quarter.
       4.1.2. Eligibility. All 3 WG flying organizations.
       4.1.3. Selection Criteria. Selectee must have repeatedly contributed to aircrew safety
       through sustained superior performance and achievement.
    4.2. Aircrew Safety Quarterly Award:
       4.2.1. Purpose. Honors a pilot or aircrew for outstanding airmanship.
       4.2.2. Eligibility. 3 WG personnel assigned to a flying organization.
       4.2.3. Selection Criteria. A pilot or aircrew must have displayed skill and ingenuity in
       handling an exceptionally difficult or unusual situation successfully. The actions of the
       pilot or aircrew must have prevented or reduced injury to personnel, aircraft damage,
       other property damage or loss of life. Aircrews who prevented a potential mishap that
       was caused by their own misdeeds, lack of judgment, foolhardily or excessive risk taking
       are ineligible. Each aircrew member nominated must have contributed to resolution of
       the emergency.
    4.3. Flight Line Safety “Chainbreaker” Award of the Quarter:
       4.3.1. Purpose. Recognizes an individual whose exceptional achievements enhanced
       flight line mission completion or prevented injury to personnel or loss of aircraft.
3WGI36-2805 12 MARCH 2002                                                                    3


      4.3.2. Eligibility. All 3 WG active duty or civilian members performing flight line
      duties.
      4.3.3. Selection Criteria. Individuals submitted must display skill and ingenuity beyond
      that usually expected. They may be selected for their sustained superior performance or
      one-time act in enhancing mission completion.
   4.4. Ground Safety “Chainbreaker” Award of the Quarter:
      4.4.1. Purpose. Honors an individual for sustained superior performance in ground
      safety.
      4.4.2. Eligibility. All 3 WG active duty and civilian members.
      4.4.3. Selection Criteria. Selectee must have repeatedly contributed to ground safety
      through sustained superior performance and achievement or stopped an event.
   4.5. Weapons Safety Award of the Quarter:
      4.5.1. Purpose. Honors a work group or individual for sustained superior performance
      or specific achievement in weapons safety.
      4.5.2. Eligibility. All 3 WG active duty Air Force and civilian employees.
      4.5.3. Selection Criteria. Selectee must have contributed to weapons safety through
      sustained superior performance and specific achievements.
   4.6. Ground Safety Team Salute Quarterly Award:
      4.6.1. Purpose. To recognize a squadron for quality safety performance and
      achievements.
      4.6.2. Eligibility. All 3 WG organizations.
      4.6.3. Selection Criteria. Must have contributed to safety through sustained superior
      performance and achievement. Other criteria includes:
          4.6.3.1. Value-added improvements.
          4.6.3.2. Positive mishap trends.
          4.6.3.3. Enhancing safety practices through AFI, OI, or WGI changes.
5. The 3 WG Annual Awards.
   5.1. Quarterly winners will be automatically considered for these awards, however, units are
   encouraged to nominate deserving individuals for this award. For nomination procedures see
   paragraph 3, this instruction. Annual awards nominations are due no later than 5 October.
   5.2. Flight Safety Award of the Year:
      5.2.1. Purpose. Honors a 3 WG organization for sustained superior performance in
      flight safety.
      5.2.2. Eligibility. All 3 WG flying organizations.
      5.2.3. Selection Criteria. Selectee must have repeatedly contributed to aircrew safety
      through sustained superior performance and achievement.
4                                                             3WGI36-2805 12 MARCH 2002


    5.3. Aircrew Safety Award of the Year:
       5.3.1. Purpose. Honors a pilot or aircrew for outstanding airmanship.
       5.3.2. Eligibility. All 3 WG active duty Air Force and civilian employees.
       5.3.3. Selection Criteria. A pilot or aircrew must have displayed skill and ingenuity in
       handling an exceptionally difficult or unusual situation successfully. The actions of the
       pilot or aircrew must have prevented or reduced injury to people, aircraft damage, other
       property damage, or loss of life.
    5.4. Flight Line “Chainbreaker” Safety Award of the Year:
       5.4.1. Purpose. Honors an individual whose exceptional achievements enhanced flight
       line mission completion or prevented injury to personnel or loss of aircraft.
       5.4.2. Eligibility. All 3 WG active duty Air Force and civilian employees.
       5.4.3. Selection Criteria. Selectee must have repeatedly contributed to flight line safety
       through sustained superior performance and achievement.
    5.5. Ground Safety “Chainbreaker” Award of the Year:
       5.5.1. Purpose. Honors an individual for sustained superior performance in ground
       safety.
       5.5.2. Eligibility. All 3 WG active duty Air Force and civilian employees.
       5.5.3. Selection Criteria. Selectee must have repeatedly contributed to ground safety
       through sustained superior performance and achievement.
    5.6. Weapons Safety Award of the Year:
       5.6.1. Purpose. Honors a work group or individual for sustained superior performance
       or specific achievement in weapons safety.
       5.6.2. Eligibility. All 3 WG active duty Air Force and civilian employees.
       5.6.3. Selection Criteria. Selectee must have repeatedly contributed to weapons safety
       through sustained superior performance or specific achievements.
    5.7. Ground Safety Team Salute Award of the Year:
       5.7.1. Purpose. To recognize a squadron for quality safety performance.
       5.7.2. Selection Criteria. Selectees must have contributed to safety through sustained
       superior performance or achievement. Other selection criteria includes.
          5.7.2.1. Value-added improvements.
          5.7.2.2. Mishap analysis.
          5.7.2.3. Enhancing safety practices through Air Force Instructions (AFI), operating
          instructions (OI), or wing instructions (WGI) changes.
       5.7.3. Nomination Procedures. Winners and/or nominees for 3 WG Quarterly Safety
       Awards will be considered for an Annual Safety Team Salute Award.
3WGI36-2805 12 MARCH 2002                                                       5


6. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                        DOUGLAS M. FRASER, Brigadier General USAF
                                        Commander
6                                                   3WGI36-2805 12 MARCH 2002


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations
AFI 36-2833, Safety Awards
AFMAN33-363, Management of Records


Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI―Air Force Instructions
OI―operating instructions
WGI―Wing Instructions
3WGI36-2805 12 MARCH 2002                                                                          7


                                          Attachment 2
                             NOMINATION LETTER FORMAT

Table A2.1. Nomination Letter Format.
MEMORANDUM FOR 3 WG/SE
FROM: Unit Commander
SUBJECT: Sample Award Format (Name of Specific Award)
1. (Nominee’s name, rank, organization, duty assignment, AFSC, date of occurrence and type of
aircraft involved).
2. (Name, rank, office symbol and DSN of the writer or other person knowledgeable about the
nomination).
3. (Other awards the person, group, or unit was nominated for recognizing this act or
achievement.)
4. (Description of the event and narrative. Please use a story-type style with all specific facts to
enhance the award selection and increase the reader’s interest. The narrative should be
meaningful and written with substance. Give causes, when known, so the reader knows not only
how the situation was handled, but also the cause which brings a sense of closure to the reader.
Explain all acronyms and technical terms. Facts must not be drawn from privileged information
in safety reports. A narrative of 350-400 words will suffice).



                                                      Commander’s Signature, Rank, USAF
                                                      Title
