BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   3RD WING INSTRUCTION 32-9001
3RD WING (PACAF)
                                                                                   11 JUNE 1999
                                                                 Certified Current 20 JUNE 2012
                                                                                 Civil Engineering

                                                     FACILITY MANAGER’S PROGRAM (PA)


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 3 CES/CEOF                                             Certified by: 3 SPTG/CC (Col Joel M.
                                                                                       Peterson)
                                                                                      Pages: 14



This instruction implements AFPD 32-90, Real Property Management, and was complied to
assist the facility manager in managing the Air Force facilities located on Elmendorf AFB. The
facility manager is the key to effective management for repairs, use and care of facilities, and
energy management within the facility and should call the Civil Engineer (CE) Customer Service
Unit for assistance. This instruction also explains the real facility manager’s responsibilities and
pertinent information regarding procedures and services required to ensure they are met. The
facility manager acts as “landlord” of Air Force real property and controls all keys thereto. The
facility manager briefs occupants and users on the care, custody, and protection of the facility
(including financial liability for loss or damage in excess of fair wear and tear). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the office of primary
responsibility (OPR) (see Attachment 1) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change
of Publication. Ensure all records created as a result of processes in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Disposition Schedule. This instruction is applicable to all facility
managers on Elmendorf AFB; however, it does not apply to the US Air Force Reserves or Air
National Guard units and members.

This instruction requires collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy
Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 8013 Secretary of the Air Force: powers and duties;
delegation by AFPD 3290 and E.O. 9397. Privacy Act systems of records notice “F011 AF
A-Locator, Registration and Postal Directory Files” applies.

1. Appointment.
2                                                                    3WGI32-9001 11 JUNE 1999


    1.1. The Base Civil Engineer (BCE) has established the requirement and defined the
    responsibilities of the facility managers, including instructions for their assignment and
    relief. The following information should assist you in the performance of your duties as a
    facility manager:
    1.2. Organization commanders are assigned required facilities upon approval of the Base
    Facilities Board. The commanders assume responsibility for the facilities used by their
    organization and the real property installed equipment therein. The facility manager, as the
    commander’s representative, should have the authority and ability to perform the
    responsibilities.
    1.3. The organization commander will designate a primary and alternate facility manager for
    each building assigned to that organization and advise the BCE in writing, of the assignment.
    Provide names, organization, duty, telephone numbers, and home phone numbers
    (Attachment 2). Send any changes in facility managers in writing to 3 CES/CEOF, 10 days
    prior to the desired change date. Management support is required to keep facility manager
    changes to a minimum, since frequent changes adversely affect the level of support provided
    to the facility. Facility managers should have at least 18 months retainability at the time of
    appointment to lessen the impact of changes on all affected personnel.
    1.4. Where there is more than one organization located in a facility, the major user will
    assign the primary and alternate facility managers. An assistant facility manager can be
    appointed in multipurpose facilities for their respective areas if necessary. Assistant facility
    managers will report problems within their areas to the primary or alternate facility manager.
    Only the primary or the alternate should initiate or coordinate corrective action through BCE.
    If you are the facility manager of a tenant organization on your base, the local BCE provides
    your support. In your case, a copy of the host-tenant agreement with the BCE should be on
    file in the organization. If you cannot find a copy, call the BCE Real Property section for
    assistance. The host-tenant agreement will tell you about support you can expect from the
    civil engineer.
2. Duties and Procedures.
    2.1. Care, Custody, and Protection. The facility manager, in cooperation with occupants
    and users of facilities, is responsible for the care, custody, and protection of the assigned real
    property facility. Ensure every effort is exercised to safeguard the property from damage or
    loss. The facility manager serves in an administrative and advisory capacity.
       2.1.1. Below are some items that fall under the facility manager’s areas of responsibility:
           2.1.1.1. Replacement of burned out lights that are within 10 feet of the floor. You
           can procure bulbs and tubes from various sources.
           2.1.1.2. Replacement of stained, damaged, or broken ceiling tiles. Tiles can be
           picked up at the self-help store.
           2.1.1.3. Replacement of cracked or broken cover plates for outlets and switches.
           2.1.1.4. Painting of offices and halls.
           2.1.1.5. Tightening of door hinges, handles or knobs.
3WGI32-9001 11 JUNE 1999                                                                          3


         2.1.1.6. First attempt to correct minor clogs of toilets, urinals, and sinks prior to
         calling customer service. Plungers can be purchased from various sources.
         2.1.1.7. Removal of ice and snow from overhangs on one-story facilities and all
         sidewalks.
         2.1.1.8. Replacement of door weather striping, striker plates, sweeps, handles, and
         stops.
  2.2. Real Property Facility Manager Log. Facility managers will establish and maintain a
  folder for each facility to aid in the duties and responsibilities assigned. The folder should
  include: inspection log; key control log; work requirements log; customer complaint record;
  appointment letter; work requests; and other information added, as deemed necessary, by the
  facility manager.
  2.3. Key Control. Facility managers will ensure strict key control of their facility and
  establish procedures for turn-in of keys. Establish and maintain a key control log to use as a
  tool in managing effective key control. Facility managers will repossess all keys from
  personnel going permanent change of station (PCS), and will hold all keys issued to
  personnel going on extended leave or on temporary duty (TDY) for over 30 days. All
  requests for keys will be initiated by the facility manager and forwarded to BCE on an AF
  Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request. An AF Form 332 will include facility number,
  room number (if applicable), facility manager’s duty phone, and complete justification.
  Replacement keys for other than normal wear and tear will be the monetary responsibility of
  the individual to whom the keys were issued. The BCE will approve additional keys if
  justification is sufficient and with an approved request. All requests for master keys require
  the organization commander’s signature.
  2.4. Facility Security. The facility manager will establish a standard procedure for ensuring
  their facility is secure from illegal entry. The facility manager will post security rules for the
  opening and closing of facilities during normal duty hours and for after hours admittance.
  Facility manager is responsible for all breaches in building security and must take corrective
  action. Access to all roofs is restricted to 3 CES personnel only. The facility manager must
  ensure roof access points are secured at all times. Contact customer service to have locks
  installed.
  2.5. Emergency Conditions. When emergencies occur, notify CE Customer Service Unit
  immediately, describing the problem and what interim action is being taken or is required to
  minimize damage or loss to real property. CE provides 7 day-a-week, 24-hour-a-day
  emergency service call. During normal duty hours (0715-1615 M-F), call CE Customer
  Service at extension 3726/7. During no duty hours, phones are forwarded to the Alarm room
  at the Fire Department. Only emergencies are responded to during no duty hours. An
  emergency is a condition that is, in the judgment of a responsible person, detrimental to the
  overall base mission, which threatens the life or safety of an individual or causes a major
  power or utility system failure if correction is not accomplished immediately. Any condition
  that could result in further damaging a facility may be considered an emergency. Facility
  managers should be familiar with the location and operation of utility controls so they may
  be shut off in emergencies. The facility manager should maintain a log with the work order
  number provided by the facility maintenance controller. Date and time of completion should
  also be annotated.
4                                                                  3WGI32-9001 11 JUNE 1999


    2.6. Maintenance and Repair. Maintenance and repair requirements will be readily
    identified by conducting monthly inspections of the assigned facility and its real property
    installed equipment, with particular attention to doors, windows, glass, lights, plumbing,
    heating, ventilation and air conditioning equipment, to determine the condition of the
    property. Annotate required maintenance and repair on AF Form 1219, BCE Multi-Craft Job
    Order. Facilities Maintenance personnel will conduct an inspection every 60 days on high
    use facilities and semiannually on low use facilities to identify minor maintenance and repair.
    The facility manager will accompany the Facility Maintenance Supervisor on these
    inspections.
    2.7. Work Requests. Work requests are used by commanders to identify major
    maintenance and repair work; major or minor construction requirements (for example,
    construct new facility), reimbursable work and services (for example, repairs required due to
    abuse), alterations and improvements (for example, additional electrical outlets), and sign
    requirements. When new construction is requested, AF Form 332 should be prepared by
    occupants and/or users of the building and forwarded to the facility manager for review.
    After reviewing the request, the facility manager should date and initial in one of the
    coordination blocks on the AF Form 332. The facility manager should then obtain the
    signature of the organization commander or their designated representative (block 13). It’s
    very important the request provide an explicit description of the work to be accomplished
    (block 9). The justification must be clear, concise, and factual, and include a statement
    outlining the urgency of need and an impact if the work were not accomplished. Attach any
    required sketches, plans, and diagrams to the request. All work requests must be coordinated
    with the Fire Department, Wing Safety, and 3 CES Environmental Flight. At any time a
    hazard deficiency is quoted such as “fire,” “health,” or “safety,” a copy of that report must be
    attached with the AF Form 332 at time of submittal. Once completed and coordinated, send
    or bring all copies to customer service. The request will be reviewed and assigned a work
    order number. The customer’s copy of your AF Form 332 will be returned to you with a
    work request number annotated (block 4). Keep track of the work request number. After
    your work request has been reviewed, it will be reviewed by the Work Request Review
    Board (WRRB) for recommended approval or disapproval. You will receive a letter after
    your request has met the WRRB on the status of your work.
    2.8. Self-Help. The Self-Help Store is basically a one-stop store for over-the-counter items.
    It is primarily for minor maintenance and repair items, such as ceiling tiles, switch plates,
    paint, solvents, and so forth. To receive permission for “self-help” projects in your building,
    fill out an AF Form 332. The Self-Help Store has request packages that aid you in meeting
    the correct coordination procedures. To start processing, take the AF Form 332, signed by
    your commander, along with required coordination to the Self-Help Store located at Building
    5250, extension 5474/3956. Self-Help Store personnel will assist you in acquiring the
    materials and provide you with technical assistance when required. Self-Help is not normally
    authorized for electrical, plumbing, heating, or air conditioning work, or for the construction
    of real property. The facility manager will ensure unauthorized self-help work is not
    performed within any facility for which they are responsible. Cleaning the self-help area is
    the responsibility of the facility manager. Do not leave debris for the custodial contractor to
    clean up.
3WGI32-9001 11 JUNE 1999                                                                           5


  2.9. Custodial Services. This contract is for approved administrative areas to receive
  janitorial support. Timely and effective custodial services inspections by the facility
  manager are imperative to ensure all custodial services performed for the organization are
  accomplished in accordance with custodial services contract (a copy of the appropriate
  contract documents can be requested from 3 CES/CEOE). Each facility manager must be
  familiar with the terms of the contract, areas to be serviced, and frequencies of service. It’s
  the duty of the facility manager to ensure all unsatisfactory or incomplete work is
  documented and reported to 3 CES/CEOE, at extension 9627/5749/5754. You may also fax
  an AF Form 714, Customer Complaint Form, to extension 3270. Any proposed changes to a
  contract must be sent to us for review, in writing, with at least one month of notice. Should
  the contractor not perform the work, the facility manager must notify the QAE before 0900
  the day after service to ensure a valid complaint can be documented and a possible
  reperformance accomplished.
  2.10. Refuse Collection. Each facility manager must familiarize himself with the terms of
  the contract and frequency schedule. If discrepancies or problems exist, contact 3
  CES/CEOE at extension 5749/5754 with the dumpster number, facility number, and nature of
  problem. Items should not extend out of the dumpster. The contractor will not pick up items
  not in the dumpster. Hazardous items will not be placed in the dumpster and should be turned
  into your satellite accumulation point. Recyclable items will not be discarded in the
  dumpsters. Dumpsters must remain closed at all times.
  2.11. Carpet Installation. Self-Help is rarely authorized for carpet installation. A carpet
  installation request must be on AF Form 332 and include a completed carpet package
  (worksheet and floor plan). You will be contacted by 3 CES/CEOE for determination of new
  carpet. Asbestos checks will be required prior to carpet installation.
  2.12. Grounds Maintenance. As a facility manager, you are responsible for establishing a
  routine policing, inspecting and maintaining of the grounds 100 feet from your facility or to
  the nearest natural boundary (road, ditch, forest, and so forth) adjacent to your facility.
     2.12.1. All areas maintained will be policed of all paper, bottles, cans, and other debris.
     2.12.2. Keep all sidewalks and entryways cleared of snow and ice. Remove snow a
     minimum of six feet around fire hydrants. Civil engineers will clear parking lots
     according to the snow removal plan.
     2.12.3. For pothole repair, call extension DSN 317-552-2994/2995.
     2.12.4. Landscaping. Minor pruning of brushes and low tree limbs, and installation and
     maintenance of flowerbeds is required.
     2.12.5. Watering. Water lawns and flower beds when dictated by weather conditions.
     Do not leave hoses out when not watering.
     2.12.6. Lawn Maintenance. Fertilize lawns twice a year. Cut and weed eat as necessary
     to maintain a well-groomed appearance.
     2.12.7. Facility managers will maintain tools and equipment such as lawn mowers, weed
     eaters, hoses and sprinklers for ground maintenance.
  2.13. Fire Prevention. The facility managers or supervisors should ensure fire prevention
  orientation and training of assigned personnel is conducted. Supervisors at all levels are
6                                                                   3WGI32-9001 11 JUNE 1999


    accountable for the enforcement of sound fire prevention practices in their work areas.
    Facility managers must ensure that fire hydrants adjacent to their facility are cleared of snow.
    Inform the Fire Protection Flight, Technical Services section at extension 2620, if any fire
    extinguishers are discharged or damaged and report any damage to installed fire protection
    systems. The facility manager or a designated representative will accompany the fire
    inspector during the annual fire inspection. An AF Form 218, Facility Fire Prevention and
    Protection Record, is used as a checklist during the inspection. Unit commanders,
    supervisors, and facility managers must take immediate action to correct fire hazards noted
    during fire prevention inspections. They must return AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit
    Report, with corrective action taken to the Technical Services section within the time limit
    established by the Fire Department. Specific guidelines and procedures are contained in
    3WGI 32-2001, Fire Prevention Pro-gram.
    2.14. Lost or Damaged Property as a Result of Negligence :
       2.14.1. If the individuals admits liability, a statement of acceptance will be typed in
       block 27 of the AF Form 332 and signed by the responsible individuals. The AF Form
       332 will be immediately forwarded to BCE. CE Customer Service Unit will forward a
       copy of AF Form 332, cost estimate, and a letter requesting assistance, to the unit
       commander of the individual responsible for loss, damage, or destruction.
       2.14.2. Unit commanders will ensure that a DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher, is
       prepared and payment is effected or a DD Form 200, Report of Survey, is initiated prior
       to the discharge, TDY, or PCS of the responsible individual. BCE will, upon completion
       of repair or replacement, notify the unit commander in writing of the actual costs so
       reimbursement can be effected in that amount. In the event responsible individuals are
       scheduled for discharge, PCS, or TDY, damages will be collected on estimates provided
       by CE Customer Service Unit. The unit commander will send a copy of the document
       showing evidence of reimbursement to CE Customer Service or Financial Management.
       CE Customer Service Unit will make follow-ups to ensure that losses due to damage or
       destruction of real property are fully and completely accounted for, either through
       payment by those responsible, or by relief through Report of Survey action.
       2.14.3. Brief all facility occupants on their responsibility for the care, custody, and
       protection of the property including pecuniary liability for loss and damage in excess of
       fair wear and tear. Encourage good housekeeping practices including conservation of
       utilities and establish procedures to ensure interior and exterior lights are extinguished
       and the facility is secured when it is unoccupied.
    2.15. Energy Conservation. The facility managers are the key to an effective energy
    conservation program. A primary function of the facility manager is energy conservation.
    With the support of unit commanders, they can ensure the personnel using their facilities do
    not waste utilities or energy. The responsibilities of the facility manager for the conservation
    of utilities are defined in Attachment 3.
    2.16. Space Management. When vacating a facility for disposal or other reasons, ensure
    the facility is left in a clean and orderly condition. The facility manager’s duties are formally
    terminated when the property is completely vacated by the using organization, accepted by
    the Real Estate Officer as vacant, and all keys turned in. Unit commanders are responsible
3WGI32-9001 11 JUNE 1999                                                                      7


  for ensuring all furniture residue has been turned in to defense reutilization management
  office (DRMO) prior to termination of facility manager duties.
     2.16.1. The facility manager should ensure occupants do not alter the arrangements of,
     move or remove permanent water, lights, heat, ventilation, air conditioning, plumbing,
     and related fixtures or other real property installed equipment. Roof access is not
     authorized unless fully justified and coordinated with the Civil Engineer.
     2.16.2. Inform occupants that they are not to tamper with, replace, repair, or adjust
     electric equipment, including fuses and thermostats, heating and ventilation equipment
     such as radiators, registers, vents, and blowers.
     2.16.3. Mechanical rooms in all facilities are off limits to all non-civil engineer
     personnel. They are not to be used as storage rooms! Keys to the mechanical room will
     not be issued to anyone; if your unit has keys to these rooms, return them to your zone
     foreman. Doors to mechanical rooms will remain locked at all times.
     2.16.4. Prior to ordering any new equipment, coordinate AF Form 601, Equipment
     Action Request, or AF Form 2005, Issue and Turn-in Request, through BCE. This must
     be done far enough in advance to allow the technicians opportunity to check the
     availability of, and schedule, utility connections or disconnections. Too often, equipment
     on order for several months is not brought to their attention until arrival and requires
     immediate installation. Without adequate notification, the material required to make
     utility connections may not be available and the occupants will be deprived of the
     equipment until the material is bought and work scheduled.
  2.17. Environmental Management. As the facility manager, you are responsible to report
  any environmental concerns that arise at your facility. You are also required to have the
  appropriate supplies and equipment to clean up a spill. As a good management practice,
  walk around your facility at least once a week and perform a visual inspection of the facility
  and surrounding grounds for environmental problems. If you have any questions, contact the
  Environmental Flight at extension 2829. Awareness is the key to protecting the environment
  and we are here to assist you.
     2.17.1. To assist facility manager with these environmental issues, the Environmental
     Flight (CEV) developed the following guidelines as a quick reference for facility
     managers.
     2.17.2. All AF Forms 332 will come through CEV. If you think your work will impact
     the environment, complete AF Form 813, Request for Environmental Impact Analysis,
     and attach it to the AF Form 332.
     2.17.3. Some buildings still contain asbestos materials in their structure. These are
     typically found in mechanical rooms or in floor or ceiling tiles. If these materials are
     intact, do not disturb them. If you’re in doubt, contact CEV at extension 7305.
     2.17.4. Paint removal may be a cause of concern if the paint contains lead-based paint.
     Lead-based paint may not be removed by self-help. Paint applied before 1977 is likely to
     be lead-based. If in doubt, contact 3 AMDS/SGPB (Bioenvironmental) at extension 4451.
8                                                               3WGI32-9001 11 JUNE 1999


    2.17.5. Some older light fixtures have ballasts that may contain polychlorinated biphenyl
    (PCB) oils. Before you dispose of any of these older ballasts, contact CEV at extension
    7305 for proper handling and disposal instructions.
    2.17.6. If you are changing out fluorescent light bulbs in your facility, proper disposal is
    at the TSD facility, Building 4314.
    2.17.7. Simple painting or improvement projects can result in unused excess materials.
    Turn these materials back in for use by someone on another project. If you finish the
    project with excess open cleaners, solvents, paints and/or adhesives, please look for
    another self-help project in another squadron to use these materials. Remember, if you
    use an entire container of paint, allow the empty can to dry completely prior to disposing
    of the empty can. Once the paint can has dried, it is no longer considered a hazardous
    waste.
    2.17.8. Facility managers must ensure personnel in their facility are aware of the
    importance of reporting all leaks and/or spills. Each facility’s personnel should be
    familiar with the site-specific spill plan. If a large spill of any substances considered
    hazardous (fuel, chemicals, and so forth) occurs, notify the fire department immediately
    by calling 911.
    2.17.9. When cleaning up the site after a self-help project, make sure your facility
    personnel understand proper disposal procedures for the waste material (see Attachment
    4 for important numbers). Materials such as oil, fuel, paint, and hazardous chemicals do
    not go in floor drains, sinks, or toilets. Additionally, drains outside of the facilities are
    for storm water only and hazardous material/waste should not go down these storm
    drains; intentionally dumping hazardous material/waste in the storm system or dumpster
    is a crime, for which you can go to jail.




                                          JONATHAN S. GRATION, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
3WGI32-9001 11 JUNE 1999                                    9


                                        Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 32-90, Real Property Management

Abbreviations and Acronyms
BCE— Base Civil Engineer
CE— Civil Engineer
DRMO— Defense Reutilization Management Office
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
PCB—- Polychlorinated Biphenyl
PCS— Permanent Change of Station
TDY— Temporary Duty
WRRB— Work Request Review Board
10                                                              3WGI32-9001 11 JUNE 1999


                                        Attachment 2
                      REAL PROPERTY FACILITY MANAGER UPDATE

Figure A2.1. Real Property Facility Manager Update.
MEMORANDUM FOR 3 CEOF                                             Date:____________


FROM:


SUBJECT: Real Property Facility Manager Update


1. The following Personnel are relieved as Real Property Facility Manager:


Primary
Name and grade:
Facility number(s):


Alternate
Name and grade:
Facility number(s):


2. The following personnel are assigned as Real Property Facility Managers effective
_________:


Primary
Name, grade, and office symbol:
Facility number(s):
Duty phone:
Home Phone:


Alternate
Name, grade, and office symbol:
Facility number(s):
Duty phone:
3WGI32-9001 11 JUNE 1999                                                                        11


Home phone:
                                                                  (Squadron Commander)
Privacy Act Statement
Authority: Title U.S.C. 8013, Secretary of the Air Force: powers and duties; delegated by WI
32-9001 and E.O. Purpose: Principle purpose of data collection is to positively identify
managers responsible for tangible assets and provide current locator with off-duty contact.
Routine Uses: In addition to those disclosures generally permitted under 51 U.S.C. 552a(b) of
the Privacy Act, these records or information contained therein may specifically be disclosed
outside the DoD as a routine use pursuant to 5 U.S.C 552a(b)(3) as follows: The Department
of the Air Force “Blanket Routine Uses” set forth at the beginning of the Air Forces
compilation of systems of records notices in AFDIR 37-144. Disclosure is mandatory and
failure to provide information could result in improper management of AF assets and
disciplinary action against the individual. Privacy Act System of Records Notice “F011 AF
A-Locator, Registration and Postal Directory Files” applies.
12                                                                 3WGI32-9001 11 JUNE 1999


                                          Attachment 3
                                  ENERGY CONSERVATION

A3.1. The Real Property Facility Managers are the keys to an effective energy conservation
program. A primary function of the facility manager is to ensure personnel using their facilities
do not waste utilities or energy. The responsibilities of the facility manager for the conservation
of utilities are as follow:
A3.2. Heating:
     A3.2.1. Facility temperature levels will not exceed the current standard for heating
     (maximum 68 degrees Fahrenheit).
     A3.2.2. Unoccupied areas and facilities will be closed off and the temperature reduced to 60
     degrees Fahrenheit.
     A3.2.3. Minimum at night and on weekends where possible.
     A3.2.4. Storm windows and doors will remain in place.
     A3.2.5. Windows and doors will remain closed.
     A3.2.6. Hot water will be set at 105 degrees Fahrenheit maximum, except for health
     requirements such as in dining facilities, and so forth.
     A3.2.7. Lighting and electricity:
     A3.2.8. Unoccupied rooms will have the lights turned off. Use energy conserving bulbs
     where possible. Do not overload the bulb rating of the fixture.
     A3.2.9. Use large electrical equipment before 1100 and after 1700, Monday through Friday,
     to restrict the base peak electric demand.
     A3.2.10. Exterior lights will not be operated during daylight hours and will only be on if
     required at night.
     A3.2.11. Incandescent bulbs will be replaced with ones of smaller wattage to provide
     minimum lighting consistent with safety and security. In high use areas, replace
     incandescent bulbs with compact fluorescent lights (not closets).
     A3.2.12. Turn off equipment in the facility during extended periods of non-use and after
     duty hours unless the equipment must remain on for technical reasons.
     A3.2.13. Managers are responsible for stocking and replacing light bulbs in their facilities.
     Local source for bulbs is usually through TSD. Old Incandescent/Fluorescent bulbs will be
     accepted at TSD. Do not discard them in solid waste dumpsters.
A3.3. Air Conditioning:
     A3.3.1. Air conditioning levels will not be lower than the current standard except for special
     areas such as computer centers and hospitals (minimum 75 degrees Fahrenheit).
     A3.3.2. Thermostats will be set to 85 degrees Fahrenheit or turned off at night and on
     weekends where possible.
     A3.3.3. Doors and windows will remained closed.
3WGI32-9001 11 JUNE 1999                                                                       13


A3.4. Water:
   A3.4.1. Running or leaking restroom fixtures will be reported to CE Customer Service Unit
   immediately.
   A3.4.2. Drinking fountains will not be jammed open for continuous flow.
   A3.4.3. Manual lawn irrigation will be applied between 0600 and 1200 only and limited to
   30 minutes for any one area. NOTE: Deviations to this will comply with city water
   restriction policies for the base. Automatic sprinkler systems shall be set for the appropriate
   day and time.
A3.5. Other:
   A3.5.1. Employees will be encouraged to wear clothing consistent with the season.
   A3.5.2. Requests for approval of all portable electric heaters and coffeepots will be
   submitted to the unit commander and supervisor by the respective facility manager and
   coordinated with the fire department.
   A3.5.3. The facility manager should request assistance on the following items from their
   Facility Maintenance Foreman:
       A3.5.3.1. Change in thermostat settings.
       A3.5.3.2. Reduction in lighting levels (if disconnection is required).
       A3.5.3.3. Water, steam, and natural gas leaks.
       A3.5.3.4. Broken windows and doors.
       A3.5.3.5. Facility winterization (if the facility is vacant).
A3.6. The facility manager will centralize and minimize the use of coffeepots within his/her
building, and reduce electric loads by disconnecting coffeepots when not in use. The facility
manager will be contacted when any utility abuse is observed. Therefore, the facility manager
should have a dynamic conservation program that reaches every occupant of his/her facility.
Energy conservation saves money, pollution, and the future!
14                                                   3WGI32-9001 11 JUNE 1999


                                  Attachment 4
                     IMPORTANT PHONE NUMBERS TO REMEMBER

Table A4.1. Important Phone Numbers To Remember.
CUSTOMER SERVICE REPRESENTATIVES
Contract Management                                   552-4602/9575/4442
Customer Service Call                                 552-3726/3727
Energy Management                                     552-5638
Engineering Tech                                     552-2762
Fish/Wildlife                                        552-2282
Heavy Repair (Snow Control                            552-2294/2995
Housing Maintenance                                  753-2294/2298
Real Estate Property Officer                         552-3139
Refuse/Recycling Collection                          552-5742/5754
SABER                                                552-2747/4331
Self Help                                            552-5474/0211
Service Contracts                                    552-5749/9627


FIRE PROTECTION SERVICES
Emergency Number                                     911
Extinguisher Maintenance                             552-4649
Technical Services                                  552-2620/3267


FAX NUMBERS
Bioenvironmental                                   552-8483
CE Customer Service                                552-9620
Environmental                                      552-1533
Fire Department                                    552-8769
Security Forces                                    552-5785
