BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  3RD WING INSTRUCTION 91-212
3RD WING (PACAF)
                                                                                 9 MAY 2012
                                                          Certified Current 10 September 2012
                                                                                       Safety

                                                        BIRD AND WILDLIFE AIRCRAFT
                                                      STRIKE HAZARD (BASH) PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no restrictions on this publication

OPR: 3 WG/SEF                                                            Certified by: 3 WG/SE
                                                                     (Lt Col Mark A Snowden)
Supersedes:   3WGI 91-212, 19 May 2008                                                 Pages: 22


This instruction implements AFPD 91-2, Safety Programs, and is used in conjunction with
AFPAM 91-212, Bird Aircraft Strike Hazard (BASH) Management Techniques AFIs 91-202,
U.S. Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, AFMAN
91-223, Aviation Safety Investigations and Reports, PACAF guidance and 11th Air Force
guidance. This instruction provides a base program to minimize aircraft exposure to potentially
hazardous bird strikes and applies to all host, associate, tenant and temporary duty (TDY)
organizations on Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson (JBER) (Elmendorf Airfield side) including
the Air National Guard and US Air Force Reserve members and units. The 3 WG/SEF is
responsible for the implementation of this instruction. Blanket waivers for this instruction are
prohibited. The 3 WG/SE chief may grant waivers on individual sections/procedures. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the office of primary
responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Route the AF Form 847 through the appropriate chain of command. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained according to
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for
Glossary of References and Supporting Information. The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                                                                        3WGI91-212 9 May 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Changes to this
document include new JBER office symbols, specific responsibilities, and contact information.

        1.      BASH Program Management: ...............................................................................                       2
        2.      Environment: .........................................................................................................         3
        3.      Training: .................................................................................................................    3
        4.      Exclusion Zones: ....................................................................................................          4
        5.      Habitat Modification: .............................................................................................            5
        6.      Bird Hazard Warning System: ...............................................................................                    8
        7.      Specific Responsibilities: .......................................................................................             9
        8.      Bird Strike Reporting: ............................................................................................           15
        9.      Bird Hazard Working Group (BHWG): ................................................................                            15
        10.     Information Collections. ........................................................................................             16

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                17

Attachment 2—FLIGHT CREW INFORMATION FILE (FOR REFERENCE ONLY)                                                                                19

Attachment 3—ELMENDORF FIELD BIRD AND WATERFOWL EXCLUSION ZONES                                                                               21

Attachment 4—TRAFFIC PATTERN RESTRICTIONS                                                                                                     22


1. BASH Program Management:
     1.1. Introduction. This instruction establishes a program to minimize wildlife strikes. It
     delineates Elmendorf Airfield’s Bird and Waterfowl Exclusion Zones for dispersal purposes
     and defines Vegetation Management Zones designed to make Elmendorf Airfield
     unattractive to wildlife. Furthermore, it defines 3 WG/BASH responsibilities and outlines
     procedures for issuing bird conditions and reporting bird strikes. All agencies, to include but
     not limited to the Alaska air National Guard (AKANG) and Air Force Reserve units,
     operating at JBER will incorporated this instruction into their respective BASH plans. All
     BASH briefings and training will be adhered to in accordance with this instruction.
     1.2. Overall Program. The 3rd Wing Safety office will manage the overall program. The
     United States Department of Agriculture/Wildlife Services (USDA/WS) is Elmendorf
     Airfield’s primary BASH detection and dispersal agency. They will be the primary dispersal
     team for all of the wildlife within the airfield security fence and birds within the exclusion
     zones following guidance in both the wildlife hazard management protocol and the
     Interagency Agreement. The 673d Civil Engineer Group (673 CEG) will be responsible for
     vegetation management and overall wildlife management outside the airfield security fence.
     The 673 CEG Natural Resources Office (673 CES/CEANC) wildlife biologist will serve as
3WGI91-212 9 May 2012                                                                            3


   the Elmendorf Airfield BASH advisor and will secure the proper federal and state
   depredation permits required for the program.
   1.3. Phase I and Phase II. This plan contains two phases of operation: Phase I and Phase
   II. Phase I concentrates on wildlife control and habitat modification and is in effect year
   round. Phase II concentrates on bird avoidance using operating restrictions and increased
   dispersal efforts. Elmendorf and many of its associated Military Operations Areas, ranges,
   and low level routes are located near or within primary migration routes. Historical bird
   migratory patterns are used to determine Phase II periods (see Attachment 2). Phase II
   periods are typically 15 April thru 31 May (spring migration) and 15 August thru 31 October
   (fall migration). These periods are subject to change based on climatological variations such
   as mild winters. The 3 Wing Safety, the USDA, and the 673 CES/CEANC will coordinate to
   determine if Phase II operations will begin or end on different dates.
   1.4. Wildlife Strikes. All wildlife strikes to aircraft will be reported to 3 WG/SEF using AF
   Form 853, Air Force Wildlife Strike Report. Additionally, all bird remains found will be
   collected and give to the nearest military airfield safety office.
2. Environment:
   2.1. Elmendorf Airfield is located in south central Alaska. The airfield has an altitude of 212
   feet above sea level. Elmendorf constitutes a unique natural resource in terms of flora and
   fauna. The reservation consists primarily of boreal forest dotted by small lakes with a few
   streams. Base forest vegetation includes mature black spruce, white spruce, birch, aspen,
   cottonwood and alder, with majority being birch-white spruce forest type. Additionally, Ship
   Creek creates a ―river bottom‖ habitat on the southern portion of the base.
   2.2. Bird hazards exist on the airfield year round with peaks in the spring and fall during
   migration. Several species of birds could be encountered in the base area; of particular
   concern are Canada geese, other waterfowl, sandhill cranes, gulls, raptors, corvids, and
   ravens. The bird hazard on the aerodrome will be significantly reduced through minimizing
   habitat attractive for feeding, drinking, nesting, roosting and loafing, active and passive
   dispersal techniques, and effective warning techniques. Proper insect and habitat (grass
   height, converting grass to shrubs, eliminating open water) management are the best methods
   for controlling most birds. Abundance of or access to food sources should also be
   eliminated, including overflowing or broken dumpsters.
   2.3. Terrestrial wildlife also poses a threat to flying operations. Of concern are moose,
   wolves, coyotes, foxes, bears and smaller mammals. However, with diligence, maintained
   fencing, habitat maintenance and proper gate management, wildlife can be kept from the
   airfield complex. Maintaining the existing airfield fence and its gates as a wildlife barrier is
   key to BASH success.
3. Training:
   3.1. All personnel will be briefed at the Newcomer's orientation. This briefing will
   emphasize the responsibility each individual has in reporting bird or wildlife hazards. They
   will also be handed a BASH card depicting the exclusion zones for Elmendorf Airfield.
   3.2. All 3 WG, 673 ABW personnel working on Elmendorf airfield and tenant units, to
   include the AKANG and Air Force Reserve units located at JBER will receive an annual
 4                                                                    3WGI91-212 9 May 2012


     refresher brief just prior to the spring migration. The 3 WG/SEF will attempt to brief the
     groups in conjunction with a safety meeting or a commander’s call at the squadrons. If this
     cannot be accomplished prior to the beginning of the spring migration (April 15), unit
     commanders and unit safety representatives have the responsibility to ensure their members
     receive the required annual refresher training. The 3 WG/SEF will have the training
     available on the 3 WG SharePoint ® page under 3 WG/SE. Civilian personnel are highly
     encouraged to accomplish the training or attend a BASH briefing during the onset of Phase II
     conditions. This training can be accomplished on the 3 WG/SE SharePoint ® page under
     ―Training and Briefings.‖
     3.3. The 3 WG/SEF, in conjunction with squadron safety officers, will maintain a bird
     hazard awareness program. Briefings, films, posters, and other methods will be used to
     inform personnel about local bird hazards and reporting procedures.
     3.4. The 3 WG/SEF, 3 OSS/OSAM personnel and 673 CES/CEANC military conservation
     agents will maintain BASH dispersal/depredation qualifications. Although the USDA is
     Elmendorf Airfield’s primary BASH detection and dispersal agency, 3 WG/SEF and 673
     CES/CEANC military conservation agents will also maintain dispersal qualification to serve
     as a back-up for the USDA and, for 3 WG/SEF, to maintain deployment readiness.
        3.4.1. The 3 WG/SEF and 3 OSS/OSAM personnel will qualify by completing the
        following requirements:
            3.4.1.1. Complete the USDA Airfield Wildlife Hazard course; contact USDA for
            more information.
            3.4.1.2. Become shot-gun qualified (contact 673 SFS/CATM, 552-1852).
            3.4.1.3. If unable to attend formal training, SEF personnel will be familiar with bird
            identification, wildlife deterrent procedures, and the proper use of pyrotechnic
            devices outlined in the Wildlife Hazard Management Protocol Manual (March 2006),
            USDA-APHIS, WS, Alaska District. Coordinate with the USDA for ad hoc training
            sessions on using pyrotechnic devices and other dispersal methods.
     3.5. Once qualified, 3 WG/SEF and 3 OSS/OSAM personnel will maintain currency with
     annual shot-gun refresher training. BASH training records will be created and maintained.
     All training will be documented in accordance with AFP 91-212.
4. Exclusion Zones:
     4.1. These boundaries have been established to aid all agencies in defining when a bird
     hazard exists, dispersal priorities and vegetation management goals.
     4.2. Bird Exclusion Zone (BEZ). The BEZ includes all runways and taxiways and the
     immediate area (Attachment 3, Figure A3.1). Movable signs will be placed outlining the
     BEZ, using the airfield perimeter fence as a guide. The USDA/WS/3 WG Safety dispersal
     team will position signs in appropriate locations at the start of the migratory season. The
     signs will have a graphic representation of "no birds" with the 552-BIRD phone number on
     them. The BEZ identifies an area where no bird presence will be tolerated. Priority
     dispersals will be large birds, followed by smaller species.
     4.3. Waterfowl Exclusion Zone (WEZ). The Elmendorf Airfield WEZ consists of
     Elmendorf Airfield south of the port pipeline corridor, east along Dena’ina Road to Talley
3WGI91-212 9 May 2012                                                                           5


   Avenue, thence southeast to the southwest corner to Ammo Area A then due south o Zeamer
   Avenue to the base perimeter (to include Joint Military Mall and the hospital) west and north
   back to the intersection of Fairchild Avenue and Airlifter Drive, to include the Petroleum Oil
   and Lubricant area on the northwest side of this intersection (Attachment 3, Figure A3.1).
   The WEZ identifies an area where waterfowl, such as geese and ducks, will not be tolerated.
   Other large birds, such as raptors and gulls, will be dispersed as well. Habitat modification,
   to include minimizing open water and managing large open areas to be unattractive to geese,
   will be used in conjunction with aggressive hazing. All waterfowl activity in the WEZ
   should be reported. Dispersal of Bald Eagles requires specific approval from the US Fish
   and Wildlife Service, and unauthorized harassment of Bald Eagles could result in federal
   prosecution. If conditions warrant the dispersal of Bald Eagles, requests must be submitted
   to the 673 CES for appropriate approval.
5. Habitat Modification:
   5.1. By incorporating specific practices into the base land management, Elmendorf Airfield
   can maintain an airfield habitat less attractive to birds and other wildlife. The 673 CEG is
   primarily responsible for habitat modification.
   5.2. BASH Vegetation Management Zones. Vegetation management will vary by BASH
   vegetation zones as delineated by the following zones (see BASH Exclusion Zones figure).
      5.2.1. Airfield Zone. The Airfield Zone is that area inside the airfield perimeter fence.
      Within this zone the primary vegetation will be grasses within 300 meters of the edge of
      runways, taxiways or ramps. The objective is to create an area of dense, erect grass in
      accordance with paragraph 5.2, this instruction. The species of grass will include
      Canadian blue-joint redgrass (Calamogrostis canadensis) and beach wildrye (Elymus
      mollis) but may include as much as 60% erect domestic species such as red fescue
      (Festuca rubra). In those portions of the airfield greater than 300 meters from runways,
      taxiways and ramps, a similar grass stand is desired, but scattered non-berry producing
      shrubs or small trees may be evenly distributed at a density of 6-10 plants per acre to help
      discourage geese. Lawns within the airfield zone may extend no more than 1 meter from
      sidewalks and streets and no more than 20 meters from buildings.
      5.2.2. Cantonment Zone. The Cantonment Zone is the industrialized/housing area on
      the south side of the airfield within the BEZ/WEZ outside of the airfield perimeter fence
      and north of Ship Creek. The primary vegetation type is grassland with scattered
      shrubs/trees, as identified in the Airfield Zone. Groomed lawns are generally permitted
      within 2 meters of sidewalks, 5 meters of streets and parking lots. Lawns are allowed in
      association with buildings, housing, playgrounds, and displays. When possible, large
      lawns should have trees and shrubs dispersed at 6-10 plants per acres to discourage geese.
      All new trees and shrubs will be non-berry producing species. As funds allow, berry/fruit
      producing trees and shrubs will be replaced with non-berry/fruit producing species.
      5.2.3. Clear Zones. Clear Zones are those portions of the BEZ located at the end of
      each runway outside of the airfield perimeter fence. The preferred vegetation type is
      shrubland. The shrubland vegetation objective is to provide over 60% canopy coverage
      by shrubs and small trees to discourage raptors from hunting small mammals and to
      discourage the growth of grasshoppers. Grass will be the preferred vegetation in
6                                                                      3WGI91-212 9 May 2012


       association with approach lights and other navigational aids and within 50 meters of the
       airfield perimeter fence. Berry or fruit producing species will be eliminated.
       5.2.4. WEZ Remainder Zone. Within the remaining area of the WEZ, open, non-lawn
       areas greater than one acre in size will be managed as shrublands. Grass will be the
       preferred vegetation within 50 meters of the airfield perimeter fence. Berry or fruit
       producing species will be eliminated. Groomed lawns are generally permitted within 2
       meters of sidewalks, 5 meters of streets and parking lots. Lawns are allowed in
       association with buildings, but will be limited to no more than ½ acre. Limitations
       exclude the golf course.
    5.3. Managing Grass Height. The 673 CES/CEANC or 773 CES/CEORH will determine
    the timing of the mowing. The intent of grass management is to cut during the period when
    birds are least likely to be attracted to short grass, to remove the seed heads from the plants
    before they fully mature, late enough that alternate seed heads do not mature, and with
    adequate time for the grass to reach 11 inches by 10 August. Grasses will be encouraged to
    grow to at least 11 inches in height during periods of migration (April 15-May 31, September
    1-October 15) and staging (August 10-31). Unless otherwise directed, grass should be
    mowed to a height no lower than 8 inches, during the period July 10 –Jul 25. When mowing
    the Airfield Zone mow infield beginning adjacent to the runway and finish in the outermost
    areas to drive rodents and insects away from the runway.
    5.4. Managing Shrublands. Shrubs will be encourage/planted to fill gaps to reach a desired
    canopy coverage of at least 60%. Shrubs will include native, non-berry producing trees and
    shrubs that easily regenerate after aggressive cutting which include alder, willow, poplar, and
    birch. Shrubs will need to be cut to 6-8 inches above the ground on a 2-3-year rotational
    basis. Cutting should be conducted in early April prior to ground thaw and before leaf-out.
    5.5. Controlling Broad-Leafed Weeds. Keep volunteer broad-leafed plants to a minimum
    in grasslands in the Airfield and Cantonment Zones as they attract a variety of birds, may
    produce seeds or berries and may limit grass growth. Non-invasive broad leaved plants may
    be allowed in shrubland habitats in the Clear Zones and outside the BASH vegetation zones.
    5.6. Woodlands. Within the BEZ/WEZ managing woodland density and structure can
    effectively discourage large birds or large concentrations of birds. Woodlands within the
    Airfield Zone will be removed or greatly thinned to prevent moose, bears and canids from
    finding cover, to reduce raptor perches and to prevent birds roosting or nesting near the
    airfield. Within the remainder of the BEZ prune trees that attract roosting birds to reduce the
    number of perches.
    5.7. Berry/Fruit Producing Trees and Shrubs. Mature berries can attract several species
    of birds during fall and winter. Minimizing their presence within the BEZ/WEZ is a BASH
    objective. Berry/fruit producing trees within the BEZ will be phased out by the year 2015.
    No new berry/fruit producing trees or shrubs will be planted within the WEZ.
    5.8. Bird-Proof Buildings and Hangars. The 673 CES/CEPM will ensure all new
    structures within the BEZ/WEZ are designed to avoid attracting nesting birds. These designs
    will minimize open vents, covered ledges, and graveled flat roofs. Bird proofing of existing
    buildings and hangars within the BEZ/WEZ is required to exclude birds, primarily pigeons
    and swallows. Excluding birds from a structure they currently use will often displace them to
3WGI91-212 9 May 2012                                                                       7


  an adjacent structure. Existing bird nests should be destroyed prior to egg laying (in
  accordance with federal and state permits). All vents or other openings in buildings within
  the BEZ will be covered with ¼ or ½ inch hardware mesh to prevent nesting by tree and
  violet-green swallows. Facility managers are responsible to identify exclusion and nest
  removal needs to 773 CES/CEIUB if the actions are beyond their capabilities.
  5.9. Leveling of Airfield Zone. Level or fill high or low spots to prevent standing water
  and reduce attractiveness to birds.
  5.10. Maintaining Drainage Ditches. Regularly inspect ditches to keep them clear.
  Maintain ditch sides as steeply as possible (minimum slope ratio of 5 to1) to discourage
  wading birds and emergent vegetation. Improve drainage, as necessary, to inhibit even
  temporary ponds or puddles.
  5.11. Minimize Open Water. All activities affecting wetlands must be coordinated with
  673 CES/CEANC and US Army Corps of Engineers. When properly permitted, eliminate
  snowmelt ponds or standing open water in the BEZ, especially on the airfield. (NOTE:
  These activities will be coordinated with Airfield Management Operations (AMOPS) (3
  OSS/OSA) in accordance with AFI 13-213, Vol 3, Airfield Operations, Procedures and
  Programs. If unable to relocate snowmelt pond, ensure it’s drained as soon as possible.
  Monitor ponds throughout year and drain as necessary. The 673 CES/CEANC will manage
  beaver populations within the BEZ/WEZ for minimal populations.
  5.12. Erosion Control Vegetation. Outside of the Airfield Zone use vegetation that does
  not attract birds. Woody vegetation species such as willow, birch, poplar, or alder are
  desired species. Non-invasive annual grasses may be planted for initial soil stabilization.
  5.13. Pest Controls. Invertebrates and rodents are key food sources for many birds. Of
  special concern in the BEZ are grasshoppers that, when abundant, attract several species of
  gulls, ravens, magpies, and passerines. July and August are primary months of grasshopper
  abundance. Another attractant to avian predators, coyotes, and foxes are small mammals,
  primarily microtines. A reduction of mammalian predators will likely promote small
  mammal population outbreaks of greater frequency and higher numbers that will attract
  increased numbers of avian predator.
     5.13.1. Insects. Any persistent gull concentrations on the airfield should be considered
     an indication of a potential insect population outbreak. The 773 CES/CEIUB will
     conduct grasshopper population surveys on the airfield during July and early August, and
     will conduct pest reduction when required. Appropriate pesticides will be on hand to
     respond to insect outbreaks within a 24-hour period, and preventive treatments attacking
     larval stages will be applied within the Airfield Zone.
     5.13.2. Small Mammals. Small mammal surveys and control will begin early in the
     spring and prior to fall migration in coordination with 673 CES/CEANC as outlined in
     the Integrated Natural Resources Management Plan for JBER. The 773 CES/CEIUB
     may be tasked to conduct small mammal reduction activities that avoid producing visibly
     dying animals, which may attract aerial predators.
  5.14. Controlling Waste Disposal. All dumpsters used within the BEZ/WEZ will be
  designed to remain closed and inaccessible to wildlife. They will be equipped with securable
  lids that are windproof and bear-proof. Ravens, magpies, gulls and bears are frequently
 8                                                                   3WGI91-212 9 May 2012


     attracted to dumpsters that are not closed and secured. Facility managers within the
     BEZ/WEZ will have primary responsibility to monitor dumpster repair and removing waste
     stacked outside the dumpsters.
     5.15. Discourage Wildlife Feeding. Signs should be placed appropriately to educate the
     public to the legality and hazard posed by feeding any wildlife. Bird feeders will not be
     allowed within the BEZ but may be allowed seasonally (November 1 – March 31 only) in the
     WEZ for small birds only. Hazards of feeding wildlife will be presented during newcomer’s
     orientation.
6. Bird Hazard Warning System:
     6.1. These procedures establish methods to use for the immediate exchange of information
     between ground agencies and aircrews concerning the existence and location of birds that
     pose a hazard to flight safety. If a bird hazard exists, notify AMOPS (3 OSS/OSAM), the
     Supervisor of Flying (SOF) (3 OG/OGV), or the Tower Supervisor (3 OSS/OSAT). Radio
     net or telephone can be used to make this notification. Telephone reports can be passed to
     the dispersal team at 552-BIRD (-2473).
     6.2. Bird Watch Condition (BWC) Codes. The following terminology has been
     established for rapid communication of bird activity. Bird locations will be given with the
     condition code.
        6.2.1. Declaring a BWC. The Tower Watch Supervisor will coordinate with AMOPS to
        establish/change a bird watch condition. Conditions are declared based on ground
        observations, pilot reports, reports received from USDA personnel, and so forth.
        AMOPS and USDA personnel will provide recommendations of BWCs to the Tower
        Watch Supervisor when there is a visual observation of bird activity on or near the
        airfield. The 3 OG/CC (SOF) or Tower Supervisor may determine if bird activity near
        the primary runway constitutes a threat to flying operations. If it does not, the BWC may
        be lowered for the primary runway while keeping the higher BWC for the other runway.
        6.2.2. Condition SEVERE. Bird activity on or immediately above the active runway or
        other specific location representing high potential for strikes. Supervisors and aircrews
        must thoroughly evaluate mission need before conducting operations in areas under
        condition SEVERE. To allow maximum flexibility for the tower controllers and the
        SOF, a BWC may be declared for an approach or departure end of the affected runway,
        that is, ―BWC SEVERE, departure end, Runway 34; eagle soaring at 100 feet above
        ground level.‖
        6.2.3. Condition MODERATE. Represents bird activity near the active runway or
        other specific location representing increased potential for strikes. BWC moderate
        requires increased vigilance by all agencies and supervisors and caution by aircrews.
        6.2.4. Condition LOW. Represents bird activity on or around the airfield representing
        low potential for strikes.
     6.3. Specific Cardinal Direction. Additionally, controllers may declare a BWC for a
     specific cardinal direction, that is, ―BWC MODERATE north; a flock of seagulls at 1,000
     above ground level over taxiway Golf heading east.‖ Once the dispersal teams have moved
     the birds and the airfield is clear, the BWC will be lowered.
3WGI91-212 9 May 2012                                                                          9


   6.4. Traffic Pattern Restrictions. The SOF will direct aircraft according to Attachment 4,
   Table A4.1. If the SOF is absent, the Tower Supervisor will be the controlling authority.
   6.5. Dispersal Operations. During the migration seasons, a USDA/WS detection and
   dispersal team will operate on the airfield 24 hours a day. During the winter months, USDA
   personnel will be available during 3WG flying operations. They will manage all the wildlife
   following guidance in both the wildlife hazard management protocol and the Interagency
   Agreement between the USDA/WS and the 3 WG. The 67 3 CES/CEANC can also be called
   for further assistance, if required (552-0200/8609), or radioed on the LE or Wildlife nets.
   AMOPS (552-2444/2107) or 3 WG/SEF (552-4798) can also perform dispersal duties, if
   required.
       6.5.1. Prior to initiation of dispersal actions in the BEZ, the dispersal team will
       coordinate the location and methods with the Tower Supervisor and ensure the
       appropriate Bird Watch Condition has been declared prior to dispersal activities. Prior
       to any outside walking patrols carrying anything that resembles a weapon or the
       discharge of such devices, the dispersal team must ensure 673 SFS/Base Defense
       Operations Center (BDOC), at 552-3421, has been properly notified.
       6.5.2. Birds and mammals will be dispersed using physical harassment, the dispersal
       vehicle, harassment shooting, or with pyrotechnics. The method used will be at the
       discretion of the dispersal team based on the situation.
       6.5.3. When the target birds depart the area, the Tower Supervisor will be notified so the
       bird watch condition can be lowered, if necessary.
7. Specific Responsibilities:
   7.1. This list is not all-inclusive and should be tailored, as necessary.
   7.2. The Vice Wing Commander (3 WG/CV) chairs the bird hazard working group (BHWG)
   and is the approval authority for its recommendations.
   7.3. Wing Safety (3 WG/SE):
       7.3.1. Is the OPR for this instruction. The BASH Program Manager or alternate will
       ensure this instruction is reviewed and/or revised annually.
       7.3.2. Ensures 3 WG/SEF personnel are BASH dispersal qualified (reference paragraph
       3.4, this instruction).
       7.3.3. Maintains current BASH data and BASH training on the 3 WG SharePoint ®
       webpage under 3 WG/SEF.
       7.3.4. Manages all 3 WG bird strike reports. Forward remains in accordance with AFI
       91-223. After remains are identified, ensure Air Force Safety Automated System
       (AFSAS) reports are finalized. Assist temporary duty (TDY) aircrews with bird strike
       procedures, as required.
       7.3.5. Coordinates with the USDA and 673 CES/CEANC to determine if Phase II dates,
       listed below, need to be modified in response to significant changes in the local bird
       population or migratory activity.
       7.3.6. Coordinates with 3 WG/OGV and AMPOS to announce Phase II operations.
10                                                                3WGI91-212 9 May 2012


         7.3.6.1. BASH PHASE I - All dates not designated as Phase II.
         7.3.6.2. BASH PHASE II - 15 April through 31 May and 15 August through 31
         October. Ensure a notice to airmen (NOTAM) is published announcing the start and
         end of Phase II and coordinate with 3 OG/OGV to make BASH a special interest item
         (SII) accompanied by a Flight Crew Information File (FCIF) (Attachment 2).
     7.3.7. Briefs aircrew on bird strike hazards prior to each spring migration season.
     Ensures bird strike hazards and reports are briefed periodically during Flying Safety
     Meetings.
     7.3.8. Serves as the BHWG coordinator. Schedules meetings of the BHWG and
     publishes meeting minutes. Maintain BHWG meeting minutes for at least 3 years (save
     them in the BASH continuity binder).
     7.3.9. Ensures availability of AF Form 853, Air Force Bird Strike Report, for
     Maintenance Debrief, AMPOS, and all flying organizations, including mission/trip kits.
     This form can be found on the 3 WG SharePoint ® webpage under 3 WG/SEF.
     7.3.10. Ensures AMOPS has a current BASH Map that illustrates local BASH hazards to
     transient aircrews. Coordinate with 673 CES/CEANC and the USDA for updates, as
     required.
     7.3.11. Engages in constant communication between the USDA and 673 CES/CEANC to
     determine the best solution to any wildlife that may pose a threat to aircraft.
     7.3.12. Considers all sources for the improvement of this program. There are many
     national and international BASH conventions and committees that the 3 WG Safety
     office is encouraged to attend. Many of these opportunities are listed on the Air Force
     Safety Center’s BASH website.
     7.3.13. Reviews this BASH plan, in accordance with AFI 91-202, and runs the Self
     Inspection Checklist (AFPAM 91-212) annually. Document the review and self
     inspection via memo for record (MFR) and save in the BASH continuity binder.
     7.3.14. Provides guidance, when requested, on the collection of bird/wildlife remains for
     identification (reference AFMAN 91-223, paragraph 5.4). Also, reference the Air Force
     Safety     Center     BASH    website    for    the     latest    collection    methods:
     http://www.afsc.af.mil/organizations/bash/index.asp.
     7.3.15. Requests funding to support BASH programs, that is, training, equipment
     purchase and maintenance, conference attendance, and so forth.
     7.3.16. Maintains applicable depredation permits (separate from the USDA) in
     accordance with AFI 91-202, PACAF Sup.
  7.4. Command Post (673 WG/CP) will notify inbound aircraft that contact Command Post of
  any bird watch condition above low. Include location, movement, and other known data of
  the bird activity that is driving the bird watch condition.
  7.5. The Operations Group Commander (3 OG/CC) will issue specific guidance for aircrews,
  SOFs, Air Traffic Control, AMOPS, and Command Post on procedures to avoid areas and
  times of known hazardous bird concentrations, mission permitting.
3WGI91-212 9 May 2012                                                                        11


  7.6. Operations Group Standardization and Evaluation (3 OG/OGV) will:
     7.6.1. At the start of Phase II, makes BASH a SII accompanied by an FCIF.
     7.6.2. Brief bird hazard awareness and the Elmendorf Airfield BASH program to all
     TDY Red Flag personnel and distributes BASH cards at this briefing.
     7.6.3. Provide guidance to aircrews for the use of the United States Bird Avoidance
     Model (USBAM) and, if available, the avain hazard advisory system (AHAS) during the
     mission planning process.
        7.6.3.1. AHAS is a national radar bird detection system for the US Air Force.
        Currently it’s not available in Alaska but is available in the Continental United States
        (CONUS). It uses the Next Generation Radar (NEXRAD) weather radar system to
        monitor large-scale migratory bird activity in the lower 48 states. The current
        conditions shown by the AHAS web page also include the risk from migration and
        soaring bird activity, which is determined by predictive models using National
        Weather Service (NWS) weather data. More information is available on the AHAS
        website: http://www.usahas.com.
        7.6.3.2. The US Bird Avoidance Model (BAM) program objective was to develop a
        predictive bird avoidance model using Geographic Information System (GIS)
        technology as a key tool for analysis and correlation of bird habitat, migration, and
        breeding characteristics, combined with key environmental, and man-made geospatial
        data.       More      information   is    available   on     the   BAM       website:
        http://www.usahas.com/bam/.
  7.7. The SOF (3 OG/OGV) has responsibility to conduct airfield inspections and direct
  detection and dispersal teams, when necessary. The SOF will:
     7.7.1. Recommend declaration of a BWC to the Tower Watch Supervisor when there is a
     visual observation of bird activity on or near the field, when aircraft relay bird hazard
     information, or when any personnel or agency on or near the airfield relay observations to
     the SOF.
     7.7.2. Notify departing flights of the BWC when they check in on SOF frequency prior
     to takeoff. Notify arriving flights of the BWC when they check in during their arrival.
     7.7.3. Incorporate coverage of this instruction for all SOFs during initial and recurrent
     SOF training.
  7.8. Aircraft Maintenance Squadron Commanders will:
     7.8.1. Issue specific guidance to maintenance personnel for reporting hazardous bird
     activity to the SOF, Tower Watch Supervisor or AMOPS. If the 3 WG/SEF office is
     unable to provide the annual BASH training in March to all Maintenance Group
     personnel, ensure entire squadron completes online training available on the 3 WG
     SharePoint           ®           webpage          under          3          WG/SE:
     https://elmendorf.eim.pacaf.af.mil/3WG/SE/default.aspx.
     7.8.2. Issue specific guidance to maintenance personnel for reporting all bird strikes
     discovered on aircraft to Quality Assurance (3 MXG/MXQA) and Wing Flight Safety (3
12                                                                 3WGI91-212 9 May 2012


     WG/SEF) and the preservation of all remains. Even the smallest fragment of remains or
     blood will be forwarded for identification.
 7.9. Squadron Flight Safety Officers (SFSO) will:
     7.9.1. Brief aircrews to promptly report all bird strikes and hazardous conditions in
     accordance with this instruction.
     7.9.2. Ensure any applicable bird activity data is readily available to aircrews during
     mission planning.
     7.9.3. Make seasonal bird hazards a regular topic at flying safety meetings. Use movies,
     articles and other information to maintain awareness.
     7.9.4. If the 3 WG/SEF office is unable to provide the annual BASH training in March to
     all Operations Group personnel, ensure entire squadron completes online training
     available       on     the        3        WG        SharePoint      ®        webpage:
     https://elmendorf.eim.pacaf.af.mil/3WG/SE/default.aspx.
  7.10. AMOPS (3 OSS/OSAM) has responsibility to conduct airfield inspections and direct
  Detection and Dispersal teams, when necessary. The 3 OSS/OSAM will:
     7.10.1. Ensure all AMOPS personnel review this instruction, as the specific OSAM
     responsibilities have significantly changed in this revision.
     7.10.2. Recommend declaration of a BWC to the Tower Supervisor when there is a
     visual observation of bird activity on or near the field, when aircraft relay bird hazard
     information, or when any personnel or agency on or near the airfield relay observations to
     the SOF.
     7.10.3. Ensure detection and dispersal teams are dispatched to the location of the birds
     creating the hazard.
     7.10.4. Monitor bird/wildlife population, grass height, and standing water within the
     Airfield Zone and report problems to the appropriate OPRs for modifying or eliminating
     the problem.
     7.10.5. After being notified the BWC has changed, pass the updated information to the
     Command Post.
     7.10.6. Notify USDA Wildlife Services or 673 CES/CEANC for disposal of wounded
     animals.
  7.11. Air Traffic Control (3 OSS/OSAT):            the Tower Supervisor, or designated
  representative, declares Bird Watch Conditions as authorized by the 3 OG/CC in accordance
  with paragraph 6.1.1, this instruction:
     7.11.1. Declare a BWC immediately when there is a visual observation of bird activity
     on or near the airfield, when aircraft relay bird hazard information, or when personnel or
     agencies on or near the airfield relay observations. AMOPS will be notified of all BWC
     changes.
     7.11.2. Advise AMOPS and the SOF of bird activity on or near the airfield or in the
     traffic pattern and the associated BWC.
3WGI91-212 9 May 2012                                                                             13


     7.11.3. Allow detection and dispersal Teams priority access on the runway to disperse
     birds in the primary bird exclusion zone. Ensure BWC SEVERE has been declared prior
     to initiation of dispersal operations in the BEZ and as warranted by operations in the
     WEZ.
     7.11.4. Provide bird advisory information to aircraft in accordance with FAA Order
     7110.65R, Air Traffic Control, and FAA Order 7210.3U, Facility Operation and
     Administration. Include location of bird hazard that is driving the bird watch condition.
     Provide bird watch conditions above condition low in Elmendorf Airfield air traffic
     information system (ATIS) broadcasts. For rapidly changing BWCs, place a statement
     on ATIS advising aircrews to contact Ground, Tower, or Final Controller for the latest
     BWC.
     7.11.5. If BWC MODERATE or SEVERE is declared for extended periods of time and
     will impact flying operations, Elmendorf Airfield Tower will notify Anchorage Terminal
     Radar Control (TRACON) who will pass the information to the Anchorage Air Route
     Traffic Control Center (ARTCC).
     7.11.6. Notify other Anchorage area airfields (Merrill Field ® and Anchorage
     International, Fort Richardson) prior to major bird dispersal activities (greater than 100
     birds). After bird dispersal activities, notify other airfields if dispersal actions cause large
     flocks to fly towards them. Elmendorf Airfield controllers will make this notification via
     air traffic control (ATC) direct lines.
     7.11.7. Ensure all Tower personnel review and are familiar with their specific
     responsibilities as specified in this instruction.
  7.12. The 673d Civil Engineer Group (673 CEG/CC) will:
     7.12.1. Initiate surveys and write environmental assessments and environmental impact
     statements as required by law.
     7.12.2. Provide 673 CES/CEANC support in obtaining Federal and State permits
     required for depredation, salvage, collection and possession of all migratory or local
     species. Provide guidance and support for biological monitoring of wildlife populations
     and habitat management to improve technical advice for wildlife and vegetation
     management programs.
     7.12.3. Conduct operations in accordance with paragraph 5 of this instruction.
     7.12.4. Advise the 3rd Wing BASH officer of civil engineering projects that may impact
     airfield operations related to bird and wildlife hazards.
     7.12.5. Monitor bird migration activity and advise 3 WG/SEF if Phase II dates, outlined
     in paragraph 7.2.6.2, this instruction, should be modified.
  7.13. The Maintenance Group Commander (3 MXG/CC) will support this instruction as
  recommended by the BHWG and approved by the 3 WG/CC.
  7.14. The Medical Group Commander (3 MDG/CC) will support this instruction as
  recommended by the BHWG and approved by the 3 WG/CC.
  7.15. Aircrew will:
14                                                                    3WGI91-212 9 May 2012


     7.15.1. Check the BWC status before flight. Bird hazards mitigation will be considered
     during mission planning and briefed to the crew. Aircrews will reference the Bird
     Avoidance Model http://www.usahas.com/bam/ and, if operating in the CONUS,
     AHAS http://www.usahas.com.
     7.15.2. Following a bird strike, aircrews should land as soon as conditions permit to have
     the aircraft inspected by qualified maintenance personnel. Bird strike damage cannot be
     accurately assessed inflight and may result in a complex airborne emergency. Only
     maintenance personnel can make damage assessments. Bird strikes, which appeared to
     cause minor damage, have proven to be much more substantial and, had the pilots
     continued the mission, a serious emergency would have resulted. Structural damage,
     such as a dent in the wing, has led to fuel and hydraulic systems failure. Prolonged
     engine operation after known bird ingestion has resulted in irreparable damage to the
     engine.
     7.15.3. Exercise caution when conducting pattern work at airfields other than Elmendorf
     Airfield. The aircraft commander is responsible for securing off-station bird activity
     status. NOTE: Most other airfields in Alaska do not have the same level of wildlife
     management/ mitigation that Elmendorf Airfield does. Therefore crews should exercise
     caution particularly during the migratory season (15 April through 31 October).
     7.15.4. Promptly report all bird strikes and hazardous conditions to 3 WG/SEF (552-
     4681/4128) or your unit safety officer as soon as possible. Any time an aircraft
     experiences a bird strike; the pilot-in-command will fully complete an AF Form 853.
     These forms are available at AMOPS, Maintenance Debrief, and in the squadron mission
     planning areas. Aircrews that experience a bird strike while off-station are responsible
     for filling out AF Form 853 and collecting remains. In lieu of AF Form 853, aircrew may
     contact 3 WG/SEF via phone and pass the required information to them. For guidance on
     the collection of bird/wildlife remains, contact 3 WG/SEF or reference AFMAN 91-223.
     Also, reference the Air Force Safety Center BASH website for the latest collection
     methods: http://afsafety.af.mil/sef/bash/sefw_home.shtml. Bird bags are available in 3
     WG/SEF or through your unit safety representatives (USR) for the safe collection of bird
     remains and documentation of the incident.
     7.15.5. Pilot reports (PIREPS) by aircrews and ground observations are essential to
     adequately assess and help identify bird and wildlife hazards on the airfield and in the
     local flying vicinity. When pilots spot birds or other wildlife, notify the controlling
     agency so others can be informed of the hazard. Aircrew should relay the following
     information:
        7.15.5.1. Location.
        7.15.5.2. Altitude.
        7.15.5.3. Local time of sighting.
        7.15.5.4. Approximate number of birds and direction of flight.
        7.15.5.5. Wildlife type, species or size of bird, if known.
3WGI91-212 9 May 2012                                                                          15


8. Bird Strike Reporting:
   8.1. This section outlines the procedures and forms required to report bird strikes to enhance
   the BASH program at Elmendorf Airfield. All bird strikes WILL be reported and every
   effort will be made to collect samples or remains in accordance with AFI 91-204.
   8.2. Squadron Flight Safety Officers or aircrew involved in a bird strike will provide the AF
   Form 853 to 3 WG/SEF within 24 hours of the incident.
   8.3. Bird strikes that cause over $50,000 damage will be reported in accordance with AFI
   91-204. The 673 ABW/CP will submit reports in accordance with AFMAN 10-206,
   Operational Reporting, and PACAF Sup.
   8.4. For guidance on the collection of bird/wildlife remains, contact 3 WG/SEF or reference
   AFMAN 91-223. Also, reference the Air Force Safety Center BASH website for the latest
   collection methods: http://afsafety.af.mil/sef/bash/sefw_home.shtml.
   8.5. Maintenance personnel discovering a bird strike will notify Quality Assurance (3 MXG/
   MXQA) who will notify 3 WG/SEF (552-4681 or 552-4128) and USDA Wildlife Services
   (552-BIRD). Collect bird remains from the aircraft or airfield and forward to 3 WG/ SEF.
   8.6. AMOPS and Transient Alert personnel will assist transient aircrews and will obtain
   unit/organization information and forward the information to 3 WG/SEF.
   8.7. AMOPS will notify the USDA Wildlife Services dispersal team (552-BIRD) if any bird
   remains are found on or in the immediate vicinity of the runway or any area used by aircraft.
   8.8. The 3 WG/SEF will forward remains in accordance with AFI 91-223. After remains are
   identified, 3 WG/SEF will finalize the AFSAS report.
9. Bird Hazard Working Group (BHWG):
   9.1. The function of the BHWG is to collect, compile and review data on bird strikes,
   identify and recommend actions to reduce hazards, recommend changes in operational
   procedures, prepares informational programs for aircrews, and assist the commander by
   acting as a point of contact for off-base issues. The BHWG will submit all recommendations
   to the 3rd Wing Commander for approval.
   9.2. BHWG meetings should discuss, but are not limited to, the following topics: The 3rd
   Wing bird strike statistics, USAF bird strike statistics, USAF BASH team updates, locally
   observed bird activity, local wildlife habitat management/modification, local BASH plan or
   instruction procedures, responsibilities and changes, BASH awareness, education and
   training, and status and activities of the USDA Wildlife Services teams. BHWG meetings
   will concentrate on taking a proactive role in preventing future strikes, and not focus only on
   reviewing historical data.
   9.3. Meetings will be held two times a year. Recommended schedule is an initial meeting in
   March to focus on the upcoming BASH season and spring migration, and an October
   meeting to summarize the BASH season and any outstanding issues prior to the next season.
   Any other meetings will be held as directed by the 3rd Wing Vice Commander if unusual
   bird or wildlife conditions warrant. BHWG meeting minutes will be submitted through 3
   WG/SEF to 11 AF/SE and PACAF/SEF. BHWG minutes will be maintained in a continuity
   folder for a minimum of 3 years.
 16                                                                 3WGI91-212 9 May 2012


   9.4. The chairperson of the BHWG will be the 3rd Wing Vice Commander. As a minimum,
   the group will consist of a representative from 3 OG/CC, 3 MSG/CC, 3 MXG/CC, 673
   MSG/CC, 673 ABW/CC, 673 ABW/JA, 673 CEG/CC, 477 FG/CC, 673 SFS/CC, 732
   AMS/CC, JBER Wildlife Biologist, 673 ABW/PA, 3 WG/SE, 3 OSS/CC, 3 OSS/DO, 3
   OSS/OSA, 3 OSS/OSAM, 90 FS/CC, 525 FS/CC, 517 AS/CC, 962 AACS/CC, 537 AS/CC,
   3 WG/FOD, 3 OG/OGV, 176 WG/CC, 176 WG/SE, Aero Club Manager, USDA/WS, FAA,
   and a representative from Bryant Army Airfield. Attendance will be included in the BHWG
   minutes.
10. Information Collections. No information collections are required by this publication.




                                           DIRK D. SMITH, Colonel,, USAF
                                           Commander
3WGI91-212 9 May 2012                                                                17


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 10-206, Operational Reporting, 14 August 1998.
AFI 13-213, Airfield Operations, Procedures, and Programs, 1 September 2010.
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008.
AFMAN 91-223, Aviation Safety Investigations and Reports, 9 August 2006.
AFPAM 91-212, Bird Aircraft Strike Hazard (BASH) Management Techniques, 1 February
2004.
AFPD 91-2, Safety Program, 28 September 1993.
AFI 91-202, U.S. Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 1 August 1998.
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 September 2008.
Wildlife Hazard Management Protocol Manual (March 2006), USDA-APHIS, WS, Alaska
District.
FAA Order 7110.65R, Air Traffic Control, 10 March 2011.
FAA Order 7210.3U, Facility Operation and Administration, 1 February 2010.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 853, Air Force Bird Strike Report.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFRIMS—- Air Force Records Information Management System.
AGL—- Above Ground Level.
AHAS—-Aavain Hazard Advisory System.
ARTCC—Air Route Traffic Control Center.
ATC—- Air Traffic Control.
ATIS—- Air Traffic Information System.
BASH—Bird and Wildlife Aircraft Strike Hazard.
BAM—Bird Avoidance Model.
BEZ—- . Bird Exclusion Zone.
BHWG—- Bird Hazard Working Group.
BWC—- Bird Watch Condition.
CONUS—- Continental United States.
 18                                                            3WGI91-212 9 May 2012


FCIF—- Flight Crew Information File.
GIS—- Geographic Information System.
LOWAT—Low Altitude Training.
MDS—Mission Design Series.
MFR—Memo For Record.
MOA—Maintenance of Agreements.
NEXRAD—- Next Generation Radar.
NOTAM—- Notice to Airmen.
NWS—- National Weather Service.
OPR—- Office of Primary Responsibility.
PIREPS—Pilot Reports.
RDS—- Records Disposition Schedule.
SII—- Special Interest Item.
SOF—- Supervisor of Flying.
TRACON—- Traffic Control.
TDY—Temporary Duty
USBAM—- United States Bird Avoidance Model.
USDA/WS—- United States Department of Agriculture/Wildlife Services.
USR—Unit Safety Representative.
WEZ—- Waterfowl Exclusion Zone.
3WGI91-212 9 May 2012                                                                             19


                                          Attachment 2
          FLIGHT CREW INFORMATION FILE (FOR REFERENCE ONLY)

A2.1. BASH Phase II Implementation:
   A2.1.1. This FCIF implements BASH Phase II and OG SII 07-01, Phase II BASH
   mitigation. This FCIF supersedes BASH procedures in local supplements to AFI 11-2
   mission design series (MDS), Volumes 3.
   A2.1.2. BASH procedures for BWC LOW, MODERATE, and SEVERE in the local traffic
   pattern (Reference the IFG or 3WGI 91-212).
   A2.1.3. BASH Phase II is now in effect. Procedures for the State of Alaska are:
       A2.1.3.1. Remain above 5,000 feet above ground level (AGL) (fighters)/3,000 feet AGL
       (airlift) where the Bird Avoidance Model (BAM) predicts SEVERE. Numerous BAM
       SEVERE areas exist outside of the standard ―Day‖ fly window. Reference BAM website
       at http://www.usahas.com.bam/.
           A2.1.3.1.1. Maintenance of Agreements (MOA) with BAM SEVERE locations
           during the ―Day‖ period of BASH Phase II are:
              A2.1.3.1.1.1. . Stony: West of W15500 longitude line, 14 AUG – 27 AUG.
              A2.1.3.1.1.2. Naknek: Entire airspace, 14 AUG – 24 SEP.
A2.2. BAM Listings. When in BAM MODERATE or BAM LOW during the Phase II BASH
season, no sustained operations below 5,000 feet AGL (fighters)/3,000 feet AGL (airlift), unless
required for ready aircrew program (RAP) or valid training objectives. FOR EXAMPLE: A
momentary ―notch‖ or defending to low altitude training (LOWAT) airspace does not constitute
sustained operations for fighters, nor will operations within 10 nm of a planned drop zone for
airlift. Squadron Top-3s will verify the necessity of sustained low fly operations. For MOAs
and other the Class A gunnery range operations or drop zones with a controller present, aircrew
must fly a ―clearing pass‖ in the operating area to access the actual bird conditions.
   A2.2.1. Execute the clearing pass at the lowest practical airspeeds and slowly work down
   from 5,000 feet AGL (fighters)/3,000 feet AGL (airlift) to MDS minimums. If there have
   been significant bird sightings/reports of large birds or flocks of birds, the aircrew is required
   to climb above 5,000 feet AGL (fighters)/ 3,000 feet AGL (airlift) and move to a different
   area in order to reattempt sustained low fly operations. During low fly operations, fighters
   maintain 450 TAS or less to minimize risk of bird-canopy penetration. Safety of flight
   dictates extreme caution during migration season, especially in sustained low level flight.
   A2.2.2. For Class A ranges, primarily R2211,and manned drop zones, range/drop zone
   controllers may be queried for bird conditions in lieu of a clearing pass.
       A2.2.2.1. For low-level ROUTE operations, step down on the route in accordance with
       clearing pass guidance above, airspace permitting. Using the observation criteria above,
       aircrew will abort low-level operations and not attempt another letdown until well clear
       of the bird activity. As a guide, use at least 20nm past the point of the sighted activity
       before attempting another letdown.
 20                                                                    3WGI91-212 9 May 2012


A2.3. Uncontrolled Airfield Procedures. In absence of BAM information at uncontrolled
fields, if practical, over fly the field at 3,000 feet AGL to make the bird assessment. Aircrew
will use local bird procedures and restrictions (3WGI 91-212) in determining the restrictions for
that field. If unable, and the mission is essential, aircrew will make one approach to a full stop
landing.
A2.4. The 517th Airlift Squadron. The 517th Airlift Squadron will adhere to the procedures
defined in this FCIF with the following exceptions and guidance: C-12s may fly to
destinations that are in BAM MODERATE or SEVERE. Some of the destinations may not
advise users on the BWC for the field. In all cases, aircrews will attempt to contact the airfield
10 minutes out for an updated bird status or BWC, if available. If the bird status is still reported
as MODERATE or SEVERE, over fly the field at 3,000 feet AGL, if practical, and make a bird
assessment. If the observed bird condition is LOW, proceed inbound to land. If the bird status
is considered MODERATE, operations will be in accordance with the 3rd WG IFG. In IMC, C-
12s may fly an instrument approach to minimums in areas BAM predicts MODERATE or
SEVERE. If the observed bird condition is SEVERE at minimums, low approach and hold or
divert, as necessary.
3WGI91-212 9 May 2012                                              21


                                    Attachment 3
       ELMENDORF FIELD BIRD AND WATERFOWL EXCLUSION ZONES

Figure A3.1. Elmendorf Field Bird and Waterfowl Exclusion Zones.
 22                                                           3WGI91-212 9 May 2012


                                      Attachment 4
                         TRAFFIC PATTERN RESTRICTIONS

Table A4.1. Traffic Pattern Restriction
 PHASE OF        BWC               BWC MODERATE               BWC SEVERE
 FLIGHT


 Takeoff         Normal Ops        No Fighter Formation T/O   Prohibited without 3 OG/
                                   20 sec. Minimum spacing.   CC or higher approval.
                                   AB Takeoff Required
                                   (Fighters).
                                   T/O only when departure
                                   routes avoid identified
                                   bird activity


 Patterns        Normal Ops        No Fighter Formation       Aircraft will hold (fuel
                                   Approaches.                permitting).
                                   No Practice Approaches
                                   (VFR or Inst).


 Landing         Normal Ops        No Fighting Formation      Prohibited without 3 OG/
                                   Landings.                  CC or higher approval
                                   6,000’ between landing     (unless required for
                                   aircraft.                  emergency or to meet
                                   Only when arrival routes   normal/divert fuel
                                   avoid identified bird      requirement - landing
                                   activity                   authority delegated to SOF,
                                                              regardless of condition).
