BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                                           401 AIR EXPEDITIONARY WING
AVIANO (USAFE)                                                                 INSTRUCTION 24-102
                                                                                         15 MARCH 2004

                                                                                           Transportation

                                                         CARGO MOVEMENT PROCEDURES AND
                                                       PERSONNEL SITE TRAVEL REQUIREMENT

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 401 AEW/CCEA (TSgt Marvin Strange)                                      Certified by: 401 AEW/CCE
                                                                                  (Maj Kenneth A. Wong)
                                                                                                  Pages: 8
                                                                                           Distribution: F

This instruction establishes procedures and guidelines for 401 AEW airlift request/support and site travel
procedures for the 401 AEW Staff and Geographically Separated Units (GSUs). It supplements AFI
24-101, Passenger Movement, AFI 24-201, Cargo Movement, and DoD Regulation 4500.54-G, DoD For-
eign Clearance Guide (FCG), which prescribes all personnel and aircraft official travel clearance require-
ments. This instruction applies to personnel assigned to all 401 AEW units and its visitors, and will be
reviewed annually to ensure its currency. Proposed changes and corrections to this publication should be
sent to 401 AEW/CCEA for wing staff coordination. Ensure that all records created as a result of pro-
cesses prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
37-123, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS).


1. Cargo Movement Procedures.
   1.1. The information listed below describes airlift operations requests/tracking procedures, and sur-
   face movement requests/procedures for 401 AEW GSUs.
   1.2. There are two sources for air transport assets, military and civil aircraft. Each has various trans-
   port restrictions based on dimensions, weight, and shapes of the cargo to be moved.
   1.3. Shippers, users and port operators must provide accurate transportation data to enhance effective-
   ness and efficiency of the Defense Transportation System (DTS), to provide in-transit visibility (ITV)
   and ensure proper billing.
   1.4. Airlift Clearance Authorities (ACAs), Container Consolidation Points (CCPs), Ocean Clearance
   Authorities (OCAs), or Customer Service Branches (CSBs) are designated as the focal points for
   tracking, expediting (green sheeting) and diverting of cargo currently in the DTS. The ACA for
   USAFE is Ramstein AB at DSN 480-5313.
2                                                                   401AEWI24-102 15 MARCH 2004


    1.5. The shipper (other than the deploying unit) will prepare cargo and equipment for airlift. Prepara-
    tion includes weighing, marking, labeling, palletizing (when required), securing, and manifesting
    cargo, as well as computing center of gravity, when appropriate.
    1.6. To request a SAAM or movement via channel, unit transportation representatives will notify 401
    AEW/LGR with the requirement, to include the amount and type of cargo/pax to be moved, time-
    frame, destination, and POC. 401 AEW/LGR will, in turn, forward the requirement to the USAFE
    CAT and/or USAFE AMOCC, requesting a ULN/SAAM validation. Upon validation of the ULN/
    SAAM, 401 AEW/LGR will notify the GSU POC and ensure all coordination between the USAFE
    CAT/AMOCC and GSU is complete.
    1.7. 401 AEW/LGR will track cargo with the assistance of the ACA or CSB, or in an appropriate
    manner, which meets mission requirements (such as personal GTN accounts, etc.). Aerial ports use
    GATES or CAPS; remote or small ports will use RGATES. All the above systems use the TCN to
    track cargo movements. The ULN will not work in these systems. ULNs can be tracked in JOPES;
    however, JOPES feeds into GTN, CAPS, and GATES, and shows only a piece of the puzzle. Therefore
    GSUs will pass the TCN to 401 AEW/LGR and use the TCN for tracking purposes. The TCN is
    assigned to a piece of cargo as soon as it enters the DTS. GSUs may call the sending unit, on-station
    TMO, or aerial port to obtain the TCN for inbound cargo. If the GSU POC experiences trouble trying
    to retrieve the TCN, 401 AEW/LGR will provide assistance.
    1.8. Surface movements can be coordinated by the on-site TMO for outbound cargo. For major, high
    profile shipments, TMO POCs will ensure proper coordination with 401 AEW/LGR by relaying
    movement information as it happens. TMO will decide the fastest, most economical mode of transpor-
    tation to include contracting surface shipment.
    1.9. Special, one-time inbound cargo shipments will be coordinated by 401 AEW/LGR. The GSU
    POC will pass requirements to 401 AEW/LGR to include the items needed, justification, APO
    address, commercial address (if applicable), DODAAC, POC, and phone numbers (DSN and com-
    mercial).
    1.10. 401 AEW/LGR will coordinate with 16 AF and the USAFE CAT to source and ship the cargo.
    If cargo can be sourced from Aviano AB, 401 AEW/LGR will coordinate with 31 LRS/LGRT to move
    the cargo to the GSU. If surface movement is deemed quickest and most economical route based on
    priority, 401 AEW/LGR will coordinate a one-time-only commercial contracted shipment if no regu-
    lar surface channel exists. This must be done through 31 LRS/LGRT and the Military Traffic Manage-
    ment Command (MTMC) at Stuttgart, GE and can take up to 3 weeks to complete.

2. Passenger Clearance Types and Approving Authorities:
    2.1. Theater Clearance is clearance allowing the requester theater entry for official travel. Theater
    clearance is required for non-United States European Command (EUCOM) based personnel traveling
    to countries within the EUCOM area of responsibility. CINCEUR usually grants this clearance
    through COMUSAFE OR COMUSAREUR. According to the FCG para. 2.3.1., theater clearance is
    not required by personnel assigned to EUCOM who are traveling to other units with EUCOM (e.g.,
    members already deployed to the 401 AEW).
    2.2. Country Clearance authorizes a requester travel within a specific country. The host nation grants
    country clearances through the American Embassy located in that nation’s capital. This clearance
401AEWI24-102 15 MARCH 2004                                                                                3


   must not be assumed. Country clearance requirements vary, depending on the country to be visited,
   visitor rank, and even transiting countries.

3. Site Travel Request Procedures for all Personnel:
   3.1. All visitors to 401 AEW or 401 AEW subordinate units must consult the FCG and conform to
   FCG procedures.
       3.1.1. Visitors include both CONUS and USAFE (HQ USAFE, HQ 16th AF, 401 AEW) based
       travelers.
       3.1.2. 401 AEW staff and subordinate unit travelers shall consult the FCG for applicability to
       planned travel, complying with requirements as necessary. The senior-ranking individual among
       the travelers is responsible for coordinating the country clearance request with 401 AEW/LGR
       after the appropriate level approves the travel request covered below in paragraph 3.3.
       3.1.3. 401 AEW subordinate unit members should internally coordinate travel with other subordi-
       nate units. This includes all visit support requirements.
   3.2. All personnel traveling to the Balkans (e.g., Croatia, Bosnia, Macedonia, Kosovo) must have
   received annual SFOR/KFOR training prior to travel. The FCG specifies where this training can be
   accomplished. Persons without current SFOR/KFOR training will be denied travel.
   3.3. All visit requests must be submitted. 401 AEW staff then coordinates the request with the subor-
   dinate unit commander to assess the visit’s supportability and merit, to include the visit’s official pur-
   pose and itinerary. To determine most efficient mode of transportation to be used and obtain proper
   country clearance, the completed request must be submitted in final form to 401 AEW/LGR 30 days
   prior to the first day of travel if possible. However, it is best to check with LGR as soon as possible
   since each location has different foreign clearance guide requirement timelines. 401 AEW/LGR will
   compile the required information for the country clearance message and forward to 401 AEW/CCEA.
   CCEA will then forward the country clearance message through the Defense Messaging System
   (DMS) to the appropriate agency according to the FCG.
       3.3.1. 401 AEW/CC approves/disapproves visits for personnel O-6 (including civilian equiva-
       lents) and below.
       3.3.2. 16 AF/CC approves/disapproves general officer (including civilian equivalent) visit
       requests. 401 AEW/CC recommends and coordinates approval/disapproval to 16 AF/CC through
       executive officer channels.
       3.3.3. 401 AEW staff forwards visit approval/disapproval decision by e-mail message to the
       requester.

4. Site Travel Request Procedures for 401 AEW Staff Only:
   4.1. For 401 AEW staff, an example of the request is located on the shared drive..
   4.2. When 401 AEW staff members travel TDY to various 401 AEW sites, they should review the
   TDY assistance checklists located on the 401 AEW shared drive under “Staff Trip Reports” titled
   “Travel Tips” and “Travel to Downrange Sites.” These checklists will help prepare for the unique
   requirements of each site.
4                                                                   401AEWI24-102 15 MARCH 2004


    4.3. Individuals are required to notify all staff members of their travel intentions and complete one
    consolidated request. If members will be traveling by air, LGR will make consolidated travel arrange-
    ments through TMO. Members are required to pick-up their own tickets. If members travel by road,
    LGRV will schedule a vehicle to be used for that TDY, provide maps for travel, and issue toll passes.
       4.3.1. If TMO determines military air is available but the member requires commercial air travel
       as the best mode of transportation due to mission requirements, then the staff member traveling is
       responsible for writing a justification letter to TMO to be signed by the 401 AEW/CC (or CV).
       The letter must provide justification for use of commercial travel versus military air (see sample
       justification letter at Attachment 3).
    4.4. When traveling to and from commercial airports, train stations, etc. on official business, all 401
    AEW staff members are required to arrange their own travel. Individuals will have another 401 AEW
    staff member drive them to and from the airport, train station, etc. whenever possible. In the event
    other staff members cannot provide transportation assistance, LGRV will arrange travel to required
    destination.

5. Redeployment Procedures for 401 AEW Staff Members Only:
    5.1. 401 AEW staff members will be responsible for their own final redeployment reservations with
    the assistance of 401 AEW/LGR. Staff members will write a justification letter when requesting
    departure travel (see sample departure request letter at Attachment 2). All travel requests must be
    submitted in final form to 401 AEW/LGR NLT 5 duty days prior to first day of travel.
    5.2. When traveling to commercial airports or passenger terminals for redeployment, all 401 AEW
    staff members are required to arrange their own travel. Individuals will have someone drive them to
    and from the airport/passenger terminal whenever possible. In the event other staff members cannot
    provide transportation assistance, LGRV will arrange travel to required destination.

6. Mandatory Use of Channel Airlift for DET 1 and DET 2 Only:
    6.1. On occasion, individuals have redeployed back to Germany via NATO and DV support aircraft
    instead of regular C-130 channel missions. These out of the ordinary flights flew to locations other
    than Ramstein AB or Rhein Main AB/Frankfurt IAP, creating logistical difficulties and resulting in
    inefficiencies at the destination.
       6.1.1. All Det 1/Det 2 redeploying personnel must use regular channel airlift between Det 1/Det 2
       and Ramstein AB, Rhein-Main AB, or use commercial airlift to Frankfurt IAP. Some redeploying
       personnel may have to wait an extra day or two to transit to the CPC at Rhein-Main AB. Careful
       management review and action on Date Required In-place information is required to ensure
       non-channel airlift is not used. This policy will be briefed to all incoming personnel.



                                                     JOSEPH A. ABBOTT, Colonel, USAF
                                                     Commander
401AEWI24-102 15 MARCH 2004                                                                             5


                                             Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ITV—In Transit Visibility
JOPES—Joint Operation Planning and Execution System
MO—Mobility Officer
OPLIFT—Opportune Airlift
SAAM—Special Assignment Airlift Mission
TCN—Transportation Control Number
TO—Transportation Officer
TPFDD—Time-Phased Force and Deployment Data
ULN—Unit Line Number

Terms
In Transit Visibility—provides movement visibility of unit personnel, cargo and equipment. ITV
reporting gathers, maintains and distributes information on location, status of movement, and availability
of unit personnel, cargo and equipment. ITV is a key factor in managing defense transportation efficiency
during peacetime and wartime contingencies.
Joint Operation Planning and Execution System—the DoD system used to conduct joint planning and
operations. Senior-level decision makers use JOPES to plan, execute and monitor deployment,
employment, sustainment and redeployment activities. It supports national, theater and supporting
organizational levels in both peacetime and in crisis.
Mobility Officer—the person(s) designated or appointed for planning, coordinating and /or executing
mobility operations for assigned or supported units.
Opportune Airlift—capability is space via air or surface modes, which may be available for use after
planned requirements are met.
Special Assignment Airlift Mission—a mission performing special assignment airlift. SAAM is defined
as airlift requirements for special pick up or delivery by AMC at points other than established AMC
routes, and which require special consideration because of the number of passengers involved, the weight
or size of the cargo, the urgency or sensitivity of movement, or other special factors.
Transportation Control Number—a 17-position number assigned to control a shipment throughout the
transportation cycle of the DTS.
Transportation Officer—person(s) designated or appointed to perform traffic management functions.
Time-Phased Force and Deployment Data—provides timing, priority and mode selection for
movement of personnel, cargo and equipment. The supported CINC determines movement priorities in
the TPFDD based on transportation scheduling data in the JOPES “scheduling movement” sub-program.
6                                                            401AEWI24-102 15 MARCH 2004


Unit Line Number—the seven-character, alphanumeric field which uniquely describes a unit entry in
JOPES.
401AEWI24-102 15 MARCH 2004                                                                                 7


                                              Attachment 2

                             SAMPLE DEPARTURE REQUEST LETTER
(Use 401 AEW Letterhead)
Date
MEMORANDUM FOR 401 AEW/CC (or CV)
FROM: 401 AEW/(Office Symbol)
SUBJECT: Departure Request Letter
1. Request 401 AEW/CC (or CV) approval to depart Aviano AB, Italy and return to my home station at
(name of base) . This Departure Request is not related to mission-essential travel or a family hardship.
2. My replacement is (name and social security number of replacement and base) . The following infor-
mation is provided regarding our overlap transition period.
a. Arrival Date:
b. Overlap Training:
c. Requested Departure Date:
d. Mode of Transportation:
3. I understand that if a seat is available on a rotator that’s scheduled within 48 hours of my requested
departure date, TMO is obligated to book me on that seat, and I will adjust my departure arrangements
accordingly.
                                              Signature block
                                              Director, Airfield Operations
Approved/Disapproved
                                              Commander Signature Block
The Privacy Act of 1974 applies.
8                                                                  401AEWI24-102 15 MARCH 2004


                                             Attachment 3

                     SAMPLE COMMERCIAL AUTHORIZATION LETTER
(Use 401 AEW Letterhead)
MEMORANDUM FOR 31 LRS/LGRTP                                                       Date
FROM: 401 AEW/CC (or CV)
SUBJECT: Commercial Travel
1. ______(name)______, assigned to the 401st Air Expeditionary Wing (401 AEW), is required to travel
to __(place)_____ on __(date)_________ for official business. Military aircraft is not available until
___(date) and _ (name)___ needs to meet with his/her counterparts at (date and time) . He/She will be
attending a pre-organized meeting that cannot be changed. I authorize him/her to travel by commercial air
to meet mission requirements.
2. If you have any questions regarding this matter please contact 401 AEW/LGR at DSN 632-4687.
                                                    Signature of Commander
