BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                                           401 AIR EXPEDITIONARY WING
AVIANO (USAFE)                                                                INSTRUCTION 10-2501
                                                                                     9 FEBRUARY 2004

                                                                                               Operations

                                                             FULL SPECTRUM THREAT RESPONSE



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 401 AEW/CCEA (TSgt Gregory Scott)                                      Certified by: 401 AEW/CCE
                                                                             (Capt Juanita M. Gonzalez)
                                                                                                 Pages: 3
                                                                                          Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-25, Full Spectrum Threat Response,
and provides guidance from Air Force Instruction (AFI) 10-2501, Full Spectrum Threat Response Plan-
ning and Operations. It applies to all 401 AEW subordinate units and personnel. This instruction will be
reviewed annually to ensure its currency. This instruction establishes general procedures for ensuring 401
AEW and its subordinate units meet all USAF readiness planning and response requirements. This
instruction will assist unit commanders in understanding and assigning their unit’s readiness responsibili-
ties and directing effective full spectrum threat and disaster response efforts. Maintain and dispose of
records created as a result of prescribed processes in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
37-139, Records Disposition Schedule.


1. APPLICABILITY.
   1.1. All 401 AEW subordinate unit commanders must ensure their personnel and assets are ade-
   quately considered in either host unit/nation Full Spectrum Threat Response (FSTR) and readiness
   plans or a stand-alone, unit tailored management directive.
       1.1.1. These checklists/plans will be tailored to match the unique requirements of each specific
       unit and location and must be coordinated with US/host nation organizations to ensure support
       requirements comply with host-nation agreements.

2. GENERAL.
   2.1. Each 401 AEW unit faces unique challenges associated with coordinating their FSTR plans and
   response activities with those of the host service or nation owning primary readiness responsibility.
       2.1.1. While this fact presents challenges, it also means that, at most locations, 401 AEW units
       can fully satisfy their readiness requirements simply by ensuring the plans of their hosts ade-
2                                                               401AEWI10-2501 9 FEBRUARY 2004


       quately consider 401 AEW personnel, assets and operations, as opposed to developing and leading
       a comprehensive readiness program.
       2.1.2. In all cases, 401 AEW full spectrum threat and disaster response efforts will focus on the
       safety and security of 401 AEW people and assets and the environment.

3. PROGRAM MANAGEMENT.
    3.1. 401 AEW subordinate unit commanders are responsible for management of all readiness require-
    ments and activities impacting their units. Wherever participation in a host base/nation plan is possi-
    ble, unit commanders should appoint a readiness representative to participate in host base/nation full
    spectrum threat and disaster preparedness planning efforts. In general, the planning process includes
    reviewing existing plans, identifying known and potential hazards, assessing current response capabil-
    ities, and establishing clear lines of command and control.
       3.1.1. If a host base/nation DP plan is not available at a given site, commanders are responsible
       for developing and/or maintaining of a site-unique FSTR 10-2 plan, or other management direc-
       tive IAW AFI 10-2501. In either situation, commanders must promote awareness by ensuring full
       spectrum threat response procedures are either clearly posted or included in a local readiness train-
       ing program.
    3.2. In all cases, 401 AEW/CE will monitor the status of readiness planning efforts within all 401
    AEW subordinate units and provide or facilitate readiness planning support as requested.

4. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES. The objective of the 401 AEW full spectrum threat response program is
to ensure 401 AEW units are prepared to respond to a terrorist or other disaster situation in such a way as
to maximize protection of our personnel and assets. To accomplish this, each unit must consider a set of
most likely attack or disaster scenarios and plan accordingly. Unit objectives associated with implementa-
tion of this program are to:
    4.1. Clearly understand the unit’s readiness responsibilities.
    4.2. Ensure unit-wide awareness of terrorist and disaster response plans and procedures.
    4.3. Ensure the 401 AEW personnel and assets are adequately considered in a local full spectrum
    threat response plan.
    4.4. Establish procedures for response documentation, checklists, reporting and follow up.
    4.5. Ensure biannual review of applicable readiness plans by qualified readiness flight personnel.
    4.6. If a local installation FSTR 10-2 plan does not exist, ensure a single, translated full spectrum
    threat response plan exists at each 401 AEW location and that all unit personnel clearly understand
    responsibilities, checklists and procedures contained therein.

5. TRAINING AND PROGRAM MAINTENANCE. Long-term readiness program effectiveness
depends primarily on two factors: adequately maintained plans and sufficient practice. To support this
effort, 401 AEW subordinate units will ensure readiness program effectiveness by adhering to the follow-
ing guidance. 401 AEW units will participate in major accident, attack and natural disaster response exer-
cises as requested by host units/nations. If the host unit/nation does not conduct at least one exercise
annually, 401 AEW units should plan and conduct exercises or other training to ensure 401 AEW person-
401AEWI10-2501 9 FEBRUARY 2004                                                                       3


nel are familiar with terrorist attack and disaster response procedures. 401 AEW unit exercises will be
conducted in accordance with the following guidelines:
   5.1. 401 AEW units should conduct or participate in major accident, attack or natural disaster
   response exercise or tabletop exercise at least once per calendar quarter.
       5.1.1. Units will develop a schedule of proposed exercises, and provide a copy to 401 AEW/CE at
       least one month prior to the beginning of each fiscal quarter.
       5.1.2. All exercises should be planned and conducted IAW AFI 10-2501.
       5.1.3. Unit commanders should report in writing the results of all exercises involving 401 AEW
       units to 401 AEW/CE within 72 hours of completion. The reports should include the commander’s
       overall assessment of the unit’s performance and lessons learned.
       5.1.4. Upon unit commander request, 401 AEW/CE will provide or facilitate supplemental readi-
       ness training or exercise support.



                                                   JOSEPH A. ABBOTT, Colonel, USAF
                                                   Commander
