BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                403D WING INSTRUCTION 36-2803
403D WING
                                                                                    2 MAY 2012

                                                                                      Personnel

                                                     WING COMMANDER COIN PROGRAM




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS INSTRUCTION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 403 WG/CCE                                                        Certified by: 403 WG/CC
                                                                             (Col. Jay D. Jensen)
                                                                                         Pages: 5


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-28, Awards and Decorations
Programs; and is in accordance with Air Force Reserve Command Instruction (AFRCI) 65-601,
Budget Programming and Financial Management and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 65-601, Vol
1, Budget Guidance and Procedures. This instruction applies to all 403 Wing (WG) personnel
and provides for personal recognition and appreciation by representatives associated with the 403
WG through use of a token coin. This coin is also referred to as a unit or commander’s coin. The
coin will be presented by Commanders, or designees, to military and civilian personnel, who, by
their dedicated individual effort, have facilitated the successful accomplishment of a particular
program, function, or mission. The purpose of this coin is to provide leadership with an informal
means to show special recognition of and appreciation for a job well done. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for change of Publication; route AF Form
847 directly to 403 WG/CCE at Keesler AFB MS. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at http://afrims.amc.af.mil


1. Responsibilities:
   1.1. The 403d Wing Commander is responsible for the Coin Program.
   1.2. The Wing Executive Officer is responsible for managing the program, procuring and
   maintaining inventory of coins distributed by the Commander and Vice-Commander.
 2                                                                 403WGI36-2803 2 MAY 2012


     1.3. Group Commanders are responsible for procuring and maintaining inventory of coins
     distributed by their associated Group.
     1.4. Clarification concerning coin procurement, inventory and distribution will be
     coordinated through the Wing Executive Officer and all actions will be approved by the
     Wing Commander.
2. Procurement:
     2.1. Procurement of coins is authorized for the Wing Commander, Vice Commander, and
     Group Commanders.
     2.2. Coins may be purchased using the Government Purchase Card with no limitations set to
     the amount, but coins should be reasonable in cost and be comparable to like items that are
     offered at the Base Exchange in design complexity, size, and cost. The funding or purchase
     of coins should only be considered after all operational requirements have been fully funded.
     2.3. It is highly recommended that when obtaining a source for coins, at least two vendors
     who specialize in coin fabrication are solicited for monetary quotes. Comparisons shall be
     reviewed by the using authority and the most economical quote shall be exercised.
     2.4. The annual amounts of expenditures need not breakout the cost by organization, but
     such information should be retained for any future requests for data.
     2.5. Organizational coins purchased by appropriated funds shall NOT be personalized. Do
     not personalize coins by stamping the presenter’s name after the coin has been cast. This
     privilege exists for the Secretary of the Air Force, Chief of Staff of the Air Force, Chief
     Master Sergeant of the Air Force, four (4) star general officers and four (4) star civilian
     equivalents. The coins are to be presented as cast from the die without further embellishment.
3. Inventory:
     3.1. Each unit will maintain an inventory, or log of coin issuance. This log shall contain the
     following information; Coin Recipient, Purpose of Award, and Date of Presentation.
     3.2. This inventory will be accessible to the Wing Historian and Public Affairs Offices to
     document and/or publish accordingly.
     3.3. Periodic inspections may be conducted by the Wing Executive Officer to insure
     compliance to this instruction.
4. Distribution:
     4.1. Coins are intended to be “near real time,” informal and in the vicinity of the recipient’s
     work center and/or peers.
     4.2. Airman or civilian personnel who have been identified by a Unit Commander, or their
     designee, may have their efforts of outstanding accomplishment in a particular program,
     function, or mission be acknowledged with a commander’s coin.
     4.3. To highlight the importance of reenlistment to the Air Force mission and the
     commitment of the member to that mission, coins may be presented to members reenlisting.
403WGI36-2803 2 MAY 2012                                                           3



  4.4. Coins will not be issued as mementos and should not be presented merely for an
  individual’s normal performance of regularly assigned duties.




                                      JAY D. JENSEN, Colonel, USAFR
                                      Commander
 4                                                                403WGI36-2803 2 MAY 2012


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, 1 August 1997
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 65-601 V1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 6 November 2009
AFRCI 65-601, Budget Programming and Financial Management, 2 March 2004
Adopted Form
Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRCI—Air Force Reserve Command Instruction
CC—Commander
CCE—Executive Officer
FY—Fiscal Year
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
WG—Wing

Terms
Adopted Form—a form used (required) in a publication other than the prescribing publication.
Certifying Official—a minimum of one organizational level above the OPR, this individual
certifies the need for the publication, to include currency of information, applicability to the Air
Force, and propriety of content.
Form—A tool used for the collection, recording and/or extraction of information whereby a
predetermined set of data fields have been established and defined to meet a definitive Air Force
purpose or objective.
Mandatory Coordination—required review by selected offices prior to publication. Mandatory
coordinators review draft publications for specific functional and/or legal purposes.
Office of Primary Responsibility—the originating office for a publication; the author of the
publication is an individual within the OPR. OPRs are solely responsible for the accuracy,
currency and integrity of their publications and forms.
403WGI36-2803 2 MAY 2012                                                                   5


Publication—an officially produced, published, and distributed document issued for
compliance, implementation and or information, includes Policy and Guidance Memorandums.
Publication/Forms Manager—One who supervises and manages the local publications and/or
the forms programs, is the focal point for publication and distribution issues.
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)—the official schedule that authorizes/governs the
disposition of Air force Records, which contains National Archives and Records Administration
(NARA) approval authority.
