BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 403D WING INSTRUCTION 10-245
403D WING
                                                                            14 JANUARY 2014

                                                                                    Operations

                                                              ANTITERRORISM PROGRAM



            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANADATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and forms are available for download or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 403WG/ATO                                                        Certified by: 403 WG/CC
                                                                       (Col Frank L. Amodeo)
                                                                                      Pages: 11



This supplement implements the requirements identified in AFI 10-245, Antiterrorism (AT), 21
September 2012 AFI 10-245 AETC Supplement I, Antiterrorism (AT), 24 June 2010;
Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 2000.12, Antiterrorism (AT) Program; Department of
Defense Instruction (DoDI) 2000.16, Antiterrorism (AT) Standards, Keesler Air Force Base Plan
10-245, Antiterrorism Plan Volume 1 and 2, 12 October 2010. It establishes responsibilities and
guidance for the 403d Wing Antiterrorism (AT) Program and integrates security precautions and
defensive measures. This instruction applies to all military and civilian 403 WG personnel
including contractors assigned to the 403 WG. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records         Disposition        Schedule       (RDS)         located       at        https://
www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. See Attachment 1 for a Glossary of References and
Supporting Information .

1. The 403 WG Antiterrorism Program. Force protection and antiterrorism are integral
principles of the 403 WG vision, mission, values, and operating style. The 403 WG/AT program
enhances the Department of Defense and the Air Force programs of deterrence designed to blunt
terrorist acts against personnel and resources by providing timely guidance on collecting and
disseminating threat information. This will be accomplished by training members, developing
comprehensive plans to deter terrorist incidents, training and evaluating the plans, allocating
 2                                                           403WGI10-245 14 JANUARY 2014


funds, implementing measures to defeat or mitigate the threat, and reducing the effects of an
attack.
     1.1. Provide personnel with the appropriate level of threat awareness to properly plan for and
     combat terrorist activities.
     1.2. Provide resources, facilities, and personnel assigned to the 403 WG a level of security
     protection resulting in the greatest possible deterrence to terrorist acts, sabotage, espionage,
     or other acts of aggression.
     1.3. Implement measures to defeat or mitigate the terrorist threat through a combination of
     physical protective measures, detection methods, procedures, and plans.
     1.4. Reduce the effects of an attack through standoff, physical security, early warning, plans,
     and procedures.
     1.5. The ultimate objective of this antiterrorism. (AT) program is to preserve combat
     readiness and sustain the wing’s ability to survive and operate in all FPCONs. The program
     is an integrated effort where all units and commanders must have the mindset of
     watchfulness; combating terrorism requires every individual to maintain a level of awareness,
     to practice personal security measures, and to report suspicious activity.
2. Antiterrorism Officer and Antiterrorism Representative (ATO and ATR)
     2.1. Commanders will designate ATOs or ATRs in writing (see AFI 10-245, Standard 26 for
     certification criteria). The ATO/ATR is the commander’s military or civilian advisor charged
     with managing the AT Program. The ATO/ATR advisory role does not replace a functional
     manager’s or commander’s responsibility to execute programs in support of the operational
     commander’s mission. Security clearance requirements will be established by the
     commander. ATOs shall be assigned to:
        2.1.1. Installations or self-supported separate facilities with inherent responsibility for
        emergency response functions.
        2.1.2. Squadrons having 300 or more personnel.
        2.1.3. Deploying squadrons and higher with potential perimeter security and access
        control responsibilities.
        2.1.4. Deploying units under the operational control of a designated commander having
        300 or more personnel (both civilian and military) assigned.
     2.2. ATRs shall be assigned to:
        2.2.1. Every subordinate unit of the 403d Wing at Keesler AFB.
     2.3. Once primary and alternate squadron ATRs have been designated, forward a copy of the
     appointment memorandum containing rank and/or civilian grade, name, social security
     number, security clearance, duty phone number, and e-mail address to the 403 WG/ATO.
     Update appointment memorandums as changes occur; pen and ink changes are not
     authorized.
3. Antiterrorism Planning. Force protection measures shall receive priority command
emphasis in all wing, and squadron plans.
403WGI10-245 14 JANUARY 2014                                                                  3


   3.1. As a tenant unit on Keesler AFB, the 403 WG shall comply with AFI 10-245 AETC
   Supplement I, Antiterrorism (AT) and Keesler Air Force Base Plan 10-245, Antiterrorism
   Plan.
   3.2. Risk analysis is a critical factor in the AT planning process. Every commander must use
   operational risk management tools to balance threat information and asset criticality and
   vulnerabilities with the scarcity of resources to prioritize FPCON measures and Random
   Antiterrorism Measures. The 403 WG will be fully engaged with the Installation ATO to
   apply the Integrated Base Defense Risk Management Process to determine the risk to our
   flying mission and reserve personnel both in a fulltime and part time capacity.
   3.3. Subordinate units shall develop and customize unit-level antiterrorism planning,
   checklists, and training to local mission, threat, and situation.
4. 403 WG/ATO Responsibilities:
   4.1. Attend an approved AT Level II course within 120 days of appointment, or as soon as
   possible. ATOs must complete AT Level II Refresher Course every three years. AFRC has
   an approved AT Level II course that is regularly offered by the 610 SFS and should be
   utilized to the greatest degree possible.
   4.2. Ensure units are tracking Level I training and higher headquarters instructions and
   guidance.
   4.3. Provide unit ATOs/ATRs with clarification and guidance on Level I training and AT-
   related travel guidance.
   4.4. Collect data regarding Level I training and provide data to the 81 Training Wing (TRW)
   Installation ATO and higher headquarters, as requested.
   4.5. Assist unit ATO/ATR develop local Force Protection Condition (FPCON) measures.
   4.6. Disseminate appropriate AT information and program guidance received from the 81
   TRW Installation ATO, higher headquarters, or other intelligence sources. The 403 WG
   ATO is not responsible for up-channel or down-channel reporting of FPCON measure
   implementation. Down-channeling of FPCON measures will normally be done through the
   command post and appropriate ATOs and unit control centers (UCC).
   4.7. Evaluate unit AT programs annually.
   4.8. Control and monitor the wing random antiterrorism measure (RAM) program.
   4.9. Serve as the wing commander’s primary advisor on AT matters and provide oversight of
   the wing AT program.
   4.10. The ATO in conjunction with members of the Antiterrorism Working Group (ATWG),
   as necessary, will provide advice to unit commanders on AT/FP related projects.
   4.11. In conjunction with 81 TRW/ATO, participate in Keesler AFB AT vulnerability
   assessments (VA).
   4.12. As directed, support/participate in ORIs, UCIs, SAVs, VAs, and wing exercises.
   Identify and document intelligence-related findings, observations, and best practices; update
   AT programs appropriately.
 4                                                           403WGI10-245 14 JANUARY 2014


5. Unit Commander Responsibilities:
     5.1. Approve a unit AT Plan that outlines unit programs and policies.
     5.2. Appoint, in writing, primary and alternate unit ATO or ATR as their AT focal point that
     have a minimum of 1-year retainability. Forward a copy of the memorandum to the wing
     ATO. Either the primary or alternate ATO/ATR appointed must be a full time AFRC
     employee. ATOs/ATRs (primary and alternate) must be a military member, rank E-5 or
     higher or a civil-service member, GS-7/equivalent or higher.
     5.3. Ensure unit recall rosters are updated and disseminated as needed to authorize personnel
     only.
     5.4. Ensure unit security managers, ATOs/ATRs, or supervisors provide newcomers with
     localized briefings on unit specific operations security (OPSEC) and communications
     security (COMSEC) procedures. Newcomers should also be provided a local area threat
     briefing if it’s not conducted during base in-processing.
     5.5. Ensure random antiterrorism measures (RAM) Program is being conducted in
     accordance with this instruction.
     5.6. Appoint an OPR to post the appropriate FPCON checklist and signs, and ensure
     dissemination of threat information upon FPCON implementation (actual or exercise) in
     accordance with the applicable plan.
     5.7. Ensure unit specific FPCON measure implementation checklists are developed. Each
     measure requiring clarification will have action to be taken appointed to a person, position, or
     office.
     5.8. Ensure unit specific FPCON measures provide enough specificity so that all unit
     personnel are able to quickly and effectively implement all required measures.
     5.9. Provide functional-area experts as needed to advise the FPWG.
     5.10. Ensure unit out processing checklists include completion of Level I and area specific
     threat awareness training for travel, official and unofficial, to overseas locations. Maintain
     documentation of all travel related Level I training completion for at least 1 year.
     5.11. Ensure the Unit Training Manager (UTM) records AT Training results for all unit
     personnel and provides reporting capability to the unit ATO/ATR.
     5.12. Provide for mitigation of any vulnerabilities or negative observations affecting
     buildings, assets, plans, or programs under their control. Report the status of vulnerabilities
     to the wing ATO for tracking.
6. Unit ATRs Responsibilities:
     6.1. Encourage compliance and implement a unit specific AT Plan.
     6.2. Maintain AT program continuity books in order to maintain standardization and
     consistency of AT programs across the wing. Continuity book requirements are listed in AFI
     10-245 AETC Supplement1. The installation ATO will, as a minimum, inspect all continuity
     books once every 12 months.
403WGI10-245 14 JANUARY 2014                                                                    5


   6.3. Attend the mandatory AT training and meetings held by 403 WG/ATO and the 81
   TRW/ATO.
   6.4. Monitor unit AT Level I training.
   6.5. Ensure random antiterrorism measures (RAMs) assigned are completed in accordance
   with AFI 10-245.
   6.6. Ensure RAMs are conducted by unit personnel in accordance with this plan, 81 TRW
   AT guidance, and unit specific program guidance.
   6.7. Upon completion ensure RAMs are reported as directed by the 403 WG/ATO.
   6.8. Serve as the unit commander’s primary advisor on AT issues.
   6.9. Coordinate with appropriate unit personnel to ensure unit personnel are conducting
   required FPCON measures, and unit personnel are aware of the current FPCON and the
   threat generating it.
   6.10. Conduct annual AT program self-inspection’s on unit AT programs using the self-
   inspection checklist.
   6.11. Brief all pertinent AT issues and initiatives to unit personnel as directed by the
   commander and the 403 WG/ATO.
   6.12. Monitor their surroundings and report suspicious activity through the Eagle Eyes
   program.
   6.13. Ensure an AF Form 440, Bomb Threat Aid, card or approved equivalent is readily
   available at all government telephones.
   6.14. Ensure Building Managers have an adequate number of FPCON signs available and
   they are posted on all exterior entrances/exits to all 403 WG assigned facilities and areas.
7. Building Manager Responsibilities:
   7.1. Assist Unit ATO/ATR in development of appropriate emergency action and evacuation
   plans for each assigned facility. Develop maps that highlight evacuation points.
   7.2. Train all building personnel on Heating Ventilation Air-condition (HVAC) emergency
   shut off procedures.
   7.3. Implement unit level FPCON checklist and emergency action procedures during both
   real world and exercise FPCON changes. Assist Unit ATOs/ATRs in training all assigned
   personnel and exercising them once completed.
8. Training.
   8.1. Level I training is required of all 403d WG personnel, to include civilians, each calendar
   year.
   8.2. Level I training can be accomplished in one of two ways.
      8.2.1. By computer-based training. The approved website address is through the Air
      Force Distance Learning web site from the Air Force Portal, Or through AT Level II
      certified unit ATO/ATR.
 6                                                         403WGI10-245 14 JANUARY 2014


        8.2.2. All individuals qualified to administer Level I - AT Awareness Training will be
        designated in writing by the 403d WG ATO. Individuals who complete a formal AF
        approved Level II - ATO Training (DoD Standard 26) course of instruction, whether in
        residence or through a mobile training team, may qualify to administer Level I - AT
        Awareness training.
     8.3. The unit ATR will complete AT Level II training and certification at an approved USAF
     course.
     8.4. Personnel who are qualified as an ATO but have not served as an ATO in the last 36
     months shall complete a formal AF approved Level II - ATO refresher training course of
     instruction. The refresher may be through a course in residence, mobile training team, or the
     approved ADLS CBT for Level II refresher.
9. Random Antiterrorism Measures (RAM). RAMs seek to deter terrorist attacks on DoD
facilities and personnel by varying routines and being sensitive to changes in the security
atmosphere around DoD facilities and personnel without presenting an undue hardship. RAMs
also allow for validation of existing FPCON measures.
     9.1. RAMs will be implemented in a random manner during every FPCON to include
     FPCON NORMAL so that times for implementation, location, and duration will be regularly
     changed to avoid predictability. Key to the installation’s RAM program is the support of
     individual work centers tasked to perform RAMs.
     9.2. A listing of Keesler AFB RAMs will be initiated by the 81 TRW ATO every month.
     9.3. No later than the 30th of each month the wing ATO will assign and send all RAMs to
     unit ATO/ATRs via email or the Antiterrorism SharePoint link.
     9.4. RAM completion is the responsibility of each ATO/ATR and/ or building specific RAM
     Monitor assigned the responsibility.
     9.5. Tasked organizations will perform their RAM as directed by the Wing ATO and report
     completion as directed by the 81 TRW/Installation ATO.
     9.6. To ensure any required follow-up actions are taken in a timely manner, all RAMs must
     be reported within 48 hours of completion. If something suspicious is discovered it must be
     reported by contacting the 81 SFS Base Defense Operations Center at 377-3040. Call 911
     for any real word emergencies or hostile terrorist activity.
     9.7. RAM Program Documentation. The 403 WG ATO will maintain a tracking document
     to document compliance with the RAM program. Unit ATOs that wish to maintain a log
     may do so.
     9.8. The wing ATO may conduct random visits to organizations tasked to perform a RAM to
     provide guidance and assistance in conducting any RAM and to evaluate the effectiveness of
     the RAM.
     9.9. The wing ATO will monitor, track and analyze RAM implementation efforts and
     provide the appropriate feedback through the chain of command to the 403 WG/CC and
     subordinate commanders.
10. Emergency Action Plans. All 403 WG units will develop local, unit specific plans for
emergency actions. Units can utilize locally developed FPCON checklists, 403 WG Shelter In-
403WGI10-245 14 JANUARY 2014                                                                  7


Place Guide and fire evacuation plans developed for 403 WG Safety. Plans will include the
following information.
   10.1. Unit specific FPCON measures and procedures.
   10.2. Bomb threat evacuation procedures.
   10.3. Fire evacuation procedures.
   10.4. Active shooter procedures.
   10.5. Shelter in-place procedures.
   10.6. Unit Emergency Action Plans should be maintained by the unit ATO/ATR and will
   include unit procedures and unit POCs for each action. Unit ATO/ATRs will coordinate
   these plans with the Unit Control Center (UCC) staff and Facility Managers to determine the
   best personnel to implement their plans. Plans should be kept in a binder in the UCC for
   implementation.
   10.7. Units collocated with other units will coordinate plans to determine the best personnel
   to implement each action.
11. OPERATIONS SECURITY (OPSEC). 403 WG ATO/ATRs must incorporate OPSEC
principles and countermeasures into their antiterrorism and force protection programs.
   11.1. ATO/ARTs will safeguard unclassified sensitive information such as antiterrorism
   working group minutes, random antiterrorism measures, security measures, maps, diagrams,
   layouts, photos, known vulnerabilities and “For Official Use Only” information.
   11.2. All ATO/ATRs will dispose of these documents by shredding and will refrain from
   distributing to personnel without a need to know.
12. Outside the Continental United States (OCONUS) Travel.
   12.1. Unofficial (Leave) Travel) All military personnel in Title 10 status will comply with
   the 81 TRW unofficial (Leave) travel requirements when traveling OCONUS. Personnel
   may contact their unit ATR or the wing ATO for assistance. Personnel in civilian status are
   highly encouraged to comply with this policy.
   12.2. Official Travel. All personnel traveling OCONUS in an official capacity will receive a
   threat briefing from 403 Wing Intel if required in AOR reporting instructions.
   12.3. In-Transit AT Plans. 50 or more personnel deploying as a unit will complete and file
   an In-Transit AT plan. This plan is the responsibility of the troop commander and will be
   completed by the unit ATR with the assistance of the wing ATO. Units will coordinate with
   MAJOM or ground combatant commanders to determine additional in-transit AT plan filing
   requirements.




                                           FRANK L. AMODEO, Colonel, USAFR
                                           Commander
 8                                                          403WGI10-245 14 JANUARY 2014


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-245, Antiterrorism (AT), 21 September 2012
AFI 10-245 AETC Supplement I, Antiterrorism (AT), 24 June 2010
Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 2000.12, Antiterrorism (AT) Program
Keesler Air Force Base Plan 10-245, Antiterrorism Plan Volume 1 and 2, 12 October 2010

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADLS—Advanced Distributed Learning System
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AT—Antiterrorism
ATO—Antiterrorism Officer
ATR—Antiterrorism Representative
ATWG—Antiterrorism Working Group
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
FPCON—Force Protection Condition
OCONUS—Outside the Continental United States
OPSEC—Operations Security
RAM—Random Antiterrorism Measure

Term
Antiterrorism (AT)—Defensive measures used to reduce the vulnerability of individuals and
property to terrorist acts, to include limited response and containment by local military and
civilian forces.
AT Officer (ATO)—The principal military or civilian advisor charged with managing the AT
program for the commander or DoD civilian exercising equivalent authority.
AT Program Review—The systematic assessment of the AT program against the AT Standards.
Terrorism—The calculated use of unlawful violence or threat of unlawful violence to inculcate
fear; intended to coerce or to intimidate governments or societies in the pursuit of goals that are
generally political, religious, or ideological.
Terrorist—An individual who commits an act or acts of violence or threatens violence in pursuit
of political, religious, or ideological objectives.
403WGI10-245 14 JANUARY 2014                                                                  9


Terrorist Groups—Any number of terrorists who assemble together, have a unifying
relationship, or are organized for the purpose of committing an act or acts of violence or
threatens violence in pursuit of their political, religious, or ideological objectives.
Unit Antiterrorism Representative—The principal military or civilian advisor charged with
managing the AT program for a unit or DoD element not required to have an ATO as stipulated
in Standard 9.
Vulnerability Assessment (VA)—A Department of Defense, command, or unit-level evaluation
(assessment) to determine the vulnerability of a terrorist attack against an installation, unit,
exercise, port, ship, residence, facility, or other site. Identifies areas of improvement to
withstand, mitigate, or deter acts of violence or terrorism.
 10                                                        403WGI10-245 14 JANUARY 2014


                                         Attachment 2
                       ATO/ATR APPOINTMENT MEMORANDUM

                          ATR Appointment Memorandum, Sample



                                                                     Date


MEMORANDUM FOR 81 TRW/AT


FROM: Unit/CC


SUBJECT: Appointment of Unit Antiterrorism Representative


1. The following individuals are appointed as Antiterrorism Officers (ATO) for the 403 Wing
and are responsible for managing the unit’s program IAW Air Force and host installation
instructions.


       Name (Primary)
       Security Clearance: Secret, Adjudicated on (date)
       DP: 228-377-xxx
       DSN: 597-xxxx
       NIPR: (email address)


       Name (Alternate)
       Security Clearance: Secret, Adjudicated on (date)
       DP: 228-377-xxxx
       DSN: 597-xxxx
       NIPR: (email address)


2. Individual’s Security Clearance data verified, via JAPAS, on (date).


3. Please direct any questions on this matter to (unit POC).
403WGI10-245 14 JANUARY 2014                                 11




                               Commander Name, Rank, USAFR
                               Commander
