BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  403D WING INSTRUCTION 21-104
403D WING
                                                                          25 NOVEMBER 2013

                                                                                    Maintenance

                                                        FOREIGN OBJECT DAMAGE (FOD)
                                                               PREVENTION PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 403 MXG/MXQ                                                      Certified by: 403 MXG/CC
                                                                          (Col. Anna M. Schulte)
Supersedes:   403WGI21-104, 5 October 2010                                               Pages: 3


This instruction implements AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, AFI 21-101, Aerospace
Equipment Maintenance Management, AFI 91-204 Safety Investigations and Reports, AFI 91-
203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction, Keesler AFB Instruction 21-103
Foreign Object Damage and Dropped Object. This instruction establishes the Foreign Object
Damage (FOD) Prevention Program. It applies to all units within the 403rd Wing (WG), at
Keesler Air Force Base. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional's chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction establishes the Foreign Object Damage (FOD) Prevention Program.
1. Procedures: All personnel must be aware of and practice the following basic methods of
FOD prevention:
   1.1. All personnel will be familiar with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 21-101, Aircraft and
   Equipment Maintenance Management, including AFRC Supplements.
   1.2. Diligently practice picking up all foreign objects and discard or stow them in the proper
   place. FOD containers will be provided in all vehicles that normally access the flightline. All
   FOD containers will be as prescribed in AFI 21-101.
 2                                                          403WGI21-104 25 NOVEMBER 2013


     1.3. Ensure all tools, test equipment and hardware are accounted for and secured prior to
     aircraft engine operation.
     1.4. Flight crews and aircraft maintenance personnel will always implement requirements
     listed in 403 WGI 21-105, Consolidated Tool Control Program, Chapter 5.
     1.5. Prior to entering the flightline all vehicles will be checked to ensure the vehicle is free
     of FOD. This includes tires and areas of the surface or internal portion of the vehicle where
     FOD can be introduced to the aircraft parking area or taxiways.
     1.6. All aircraft flight decks will be cleared of foreign objects after flight by flight crews and
     prior to flight IAW -6 inspection requirements.
     1.7. Spot checks of parking ramp and adjacent areas will be performed by Quality Assurance
     and documented in Qanttas.
2. Personnel Items:
     2.1. All personnel assigned duties requiring access to aircraft must account for all equipment
     and personal items prior to flight or maintenance to ensure foreign objects which becomes
     loose, damaged or lost is documented in the aircraft AFTO Form 781A, Maintenance
     Discrepancy and Work Document. A “Red X” will be entered for all equipment not found.
     The aircraft will remain in a “Red X” condition until every effort has been made to recover
     the lost item.
     2.2. The wearing of hats on the flightline is authorized due to the severe weather at this
     location. Hats with chin straps will have the chin strap stowed or removed unless the chin
     strap is a functional part of Personnel Protective Equipment (i.e. hard hats). Hats will not be
     worn in the immediate vicinity of aircraft while engines are operating. Immediate area is
     defined as 25 feet from any aircraft intake. Metal insignia are not authorized on the uniforms,
     hats or jackets while working on the flightline. Wigs, hairpieces, metal hair fasteners,
     earrings, or any other jewelry that may fall off, are not authorized on the flightline. Personal
     items such as hat pins, personal tools to include personal flashlights and multi tools, present a
     FOD hazard and are not authorized on the flightline. When working around aircraft intakes,
     dry bays, horse collars or inside panels remove all loose items (pencils, coins, keys etc.).
     2.3. Affix line badges to clothing with either a nylon/cotton cord, manufactured break away
     lanyard or worn inside a plastic arm band to prevent loss.
3. Responsibilities:
     3.1. The Vice Wing Commander (CV) is responsible for ensuring an effective FOD
     prevention program is established. All work centers performing duties on or around the
     flightline, including but not limited to Aircraft Maintenance, Operations and Security Forces
     are responsible for compliance with the following outlined responsibilities.
     3.2. The FOD Prevention Program Manager and the FOD Prevention Monitor are
     responsible for overall management of the Wing FOD Prevention Program. All other work
     centers are responsible for total program compliance within their areas of responsibility.
     3.3. The duties of FOD Prevention Monitor are assigned to the 403d Maintenance Quality
     Assurance Office (MXG/MXQ).
403WGI21-104 25 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                     3


   3.4. Work centers will assign and identify by appointment memorandum an individual to be
   section FOD monitor. A copy of the appointment memorandum will be forwarded to the
   Wing FOD monitor (403 MXG/MXQ).
   3.5. Work centers with flightline responsibilities will conduct monthly inspections of all
   work areas, ensuring all sources of FOD are identified and steps are taken to correct practices
   generating FOD and sources causing a FOD potential.
   3.6. 403 MXG will provide people to participate in weekly FOD walks of the aircraft
   parking ramps and all adjacent areas as requested (other work centers are welcome to
   participate).
4. Reporting:
   4.1. All actual or potential instances of FOD damage (engines, bird strikes, etc.) to aircraft or
   equipment will be immediately reported to the Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) at
   377-4220 or 377-4224. Instances occurring on the flightline will be reported to the
   Maintenance Expediter. The MOC will notify the FOD Monitor (QA) for investigation to
   determine cause and recommendations to prevent reoccurrence. Personnel involved in
   reporting procedures will use guidance contained in 403WG Instruction 21-103 Aircraft
   Impoundment Program, AFI 21-101 and advise all personnel receiving notification that an
   “impoundment” situation exists.
   4.2. Quality Assurance (MXG/MXQ) and Wing Safety (WG/SE) will be notified to ensure
   proper documentation and reporting procedures are followed.
   4.3. Report all transient aircraft with FOD related damage to the 81st Wing Safety, with the
   exception of transient aircraft that are the responsibility of the 403 WG.
5. Training:
   5.1. All military, civilian and contract employees assigned on or around aircraft or on the
   flightline, will be trained in FOD prevention within 30 days of assignment.




                                             FRANK L. AMODEO, Colonel, USAFR
                                             Commander
