BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 403D WING INSTRUCTION 21-165
403D WING
                                                                        24 SEPTEMBER 2014

                                                                                  Maintenance

                                                 AIRCRAFT FLYING AND MAINTENANCE
                                                          SCHEDULING PROCEDURES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS INSTRUCTION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 403 MXG/MXO                                                    Certified by: 403 MXG/CC
                                                                  (Colonel Michael W. Manion)
                                                                                      Pages: 10


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space
Maintenance, Air Force Reserve Command Instruction (AFRCI) 21-165, Aircraft Flying and
Maintenance Scheduling Procedures, and Keesler Air Force Base Instruction (KAFB) 13-201,
Airfield Operations and Local Flying Procedures. This instruction establishes policy and assigns
responsibility for the Operations Group and Maintenance Group standardized flying schedules
for each assigned mission design series aircraft. This instruction applies to all military and
civilian 403d Wing personnel including contractors assigned to the 403d Wing. Ensure all
records created as a result for processes prescribed in publication are maintained in accordance
with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. See Attachment 1 for a Glossary
of References and Supporting Information.

1. SCHEDULING STANDARDS:
   1.1. The flying schedule for Monday takeoff time will be no earlier than 1200L.Tuesday-
   Friday the flying schedule will be no earlier than 0900L.Night flying schedule will land no
   later than 2200L. First workday following a holiday takeoff will be no earlier than 1200L.
   All exceptions will be approved by the 403 OG/CC and 403 MXG/CC.
   1.2. Airfield operating hours:
 2                                                       403WGI21-165 24 SEPTEMBER 2014


Figure 1. Airfield operating hours.




        1.2.1. Cross country takeoff and returns will be during approved airfield operating hours.
            1.2.1.1. All exceptions will be approved by the 403 OG/CC and 403 MXG/CC.
     1.3. Minimum turn times from landing to takeoff for normal home station flying:

Figure 2. Minimum turn times from landing to takeoff for normal home station flying.




     1.4. Standard aircrew ready times are as follows:

Figure 3. Standard aircrew ready times.




     1.5. Standard sortie duration for normal home station flying:

Figure 4. Standard sortie duration for normal home station flying.




     1.6. Standard aircraft configuration for normal home station flying:

Figure 5. Standard aircraft configuration for normal home station flying.




     1.7. Standard Letter Check inspections days will be scheduled as follows:
403WGI21-165 24 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                              3


Figure 6. Standard Letter Check inspections days will be scheduled.




2. AIRCRAFT AVAILABILITY:
   2.1. When determining daily commitment rate, each of the following items will be deducted
   from the available aircraft column:
      2.1.1. Aircraft wash
      2.1.2. Letter Check inspections (A, B, C1, & C2)
      2.1.3. Depot coded aircraft
   2.2. The following items will be deducted from the Wing Training Allocation column, once
   the available aircraft calculation is applied:
      2.2.1. Trainer aircraft (Operations/Maintenance & Ground)
      2.2.2. Statics
      2.2.3. Spares
3. SPARES:
   3.1. 403 OG Current Operations (Current Ops) will identify spare requirements no later than
   the weekly scheduling meeting for the following week’s requirements.
      3.1.1. 403 MXG Plans & Scheduling (P&S) and Production Superintendents (Pro
      Supers) will allocate one spare aircraft per week Monday through Friday as long as the
      daily commitment rate does not exceed 65%.
          3.1.1.1. If the spare aircraft requires Non-Mission Capable maintenance actions, no
          other aircraft will be allocated as a spare until the aircraft is returned to an FMC
          condition.
      3.1.2. All exceptions will be approved by the 403 OG/CC and 403 MXG/CC.
   3.2. Production Supervisors will release the spare aircraft to operations when maintenance
   repair action Estimated Time In Commission (ETICs) do not allow for mission requirements
   to be met on the primary aircraft.
4. TACC SUPPORT:
   4.1. For each TACC commitment, P&S and Pro Supers will allocate a standby aircraft for
   TACC missions during the scheduling process. Standby aircraft will normally only be
   utilized for TACC taskings.
4                                                       403WGI21-165 24 SEPTEMBER 2014


       4.1.1. In the event of time constraints the mission loadmaster is responsible for any
       aircraft configuration changes.
5. STORM TASKING SUPPORT:
    5.1. Current Ops will provide P&S with the positive Plan of the Day (POD) flying
    requirements as soon as practical to allow sufficient time for planning. Additionally, Current
    Ops will submit an AF 2407 for all alterations to the printed weekly flying schedule.
    5.2. Upon receipt of the positive POD, P&S will disseminate the requirements to applicable
    403 MXG personnel. P&S and Pro Supers will allocate aircraft tail numbers on the AF 2407
    from Current Ops prior to final coordination signatures and distribution.
       5.2.1. All 53d Weather Reconnaissance Squadron (WRS) flying will be reviewed and, if
       required, higher headquarter cancelled based on available assets
       5.2.2. Aircraft release time will be 3 hours prior to scheduled takeoff.
       5.2.3. Maintenance will release the spare aircraft no later than 2.5 hours from scheduled
       takeoff. The Exceptional Release is not required to be signed until after the spare is
       designated the primary and re-fueling has taken place.
6. SURGES:
    6.1. Surge operations will be coordinated with 403 OG/CC, 403 MXG/CC and 403 WG/CC
    prior to execution.
7. NIGHT FLYING:
    7.1. Current Ops will identify to P&S and Pro Supers any night missions that will be flown
    outside the normal flying window during the Wednesday scheduling meeting. For ground
    safety, scheduled Night Vision Training (NVG) will be identified (with times) on the weekly
    flying schedule and coordinated with 81st Base Operations prior to turning off any Keesler
    airfield lighting.
8. CROSS COUNTRY SORTIES:
    8.1. Cross country missions departing/arriving over a non-Unit Training Assembly weekend,
    where no maintenance support is available, will self-launch/recover the sortie with the
    mission essential personnel (MEP) crew chiefs.
    8.2. All cross-country missions require MEP crew chief support from maintenance. MXG
    will identify and allocate MEP crew chiefs as required for each mission.
9. MISSION DESIGN SERIES:
    9.1. Squadron assigned aircraft will not be cross-utilized between MDS to accommodate
    squadron over commit of assets.
10. WG TRAINING/SAFETY DAYS:
    10.1. The first Friday in May and November will be designated as a 403 WG training/safety
    stand down days. Flying should be minimized/canceled as much as possible to enable
    training/safety events.
    10.2. Should the training/safety day fall upon a Federal holiday, it will be held on the
    Thursday of that week.
403WGI21-165 24 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                            5


11. COMMANDER RESPONSIBILITIES.
  11.1. This Wing Instruction cannot cover all situations. Commanders are expected to lead
  command and be accountable. Nothing in this instruction is meant to supersede higher level
  guidance. Effective and efficient aircraft utilization is a by-product of teamwork and
  adherence to published guidance. In those rare instances where the Operations Group and
  Maintenance Group reach an impasse, 403 WG/CC will more clearly and specifically
  articulate policy and provide direction.




                                         FRANK L. AMODEO, Colonel, USAFR
                                         Commander, 403d Wing
 6                                                   403WGI21-165 24 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFRCI 21-165, Aircraft Flying and Maintenance Scheduling Procedures
AFI 21-101, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management
AFI 21-103, Equipment Inventory, Status and Utilization Reporting
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance Management
KAFB 13-201, Airfield Operations and Local Flying Procedures

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AMC—Air Mobility Command
BPO—Basic Post-flight Operation
CC—Commander
ETIC—Estimated Time In Commission
FMC—Fully Mission Capable
L—Local time
MDS—Mission Design Series
MEP—Maintenance Essential Personnel
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
MO—Maintenance Operations
MXG—Maintenance Group
NLT—No Later Than
NVG—Night Vision Training
OCF—Operational Check Flight
OG—Operations Group
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OP-or OPS—Operations
OSS—Operations Support Squadron
403WGI21-165 24 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                    7


PAI—Primary Aerospace Vehicle Inventory
PDM—Programmed Depot Maintenance
POD—Plan Of the Day
POL—Petroleum, Oil, and Lubricants
P & S—Plans and Scheduling
ROE—Rules of Engagement
QA—Quality Assurance
SAAM—Special Assignment Airlift Mission
SE—Support Equipment
SP—Spare
TH—ThruFlight
TDY—Temporary Duty
USAF—United States Air Force
USAFR—United States Air Force Reserve
UTA—Unit Training Assembly
WG—Wing
WRS—Weather Reconnaissance Squadron
WX—Weather
XC—Cross Country

Terms
Addition—An increase in sorties or aircraft added to the printed weekly flying schedule.
Air Abort—An airborne aircraft that cannot complete its primary or alternate mission.
Air Deviation Code—A deviation from the scheduled sortie flight plan occurring after aircraft
take-off.
Alert Sorties—Sorties flown from alert because of a higher headquarters exercise, active air or
practice scramble, or committed to fly from alert on the printed weekly schedule will be
considered sorties scheduled and flown as scheduled.
Attrition—Losses expected based on historical data. Sorties added by maintenance scheduling
to a unit's sortie contract to allow for expected losses due to maintenance, operations, supply, air
traffic control, sympathy, HHQ, other cancels, and weather cancels as computed. If attrition is
less or more than planned, adjustments to the schedule should be made to prevent overextending
maintenance and/or to stay within the unit's sortie flying hour program. Attrition sorties are not
substitutes for capability shortfalls; they are additive to the contract to ensure mission goals are
met. A sortie lost will normally be flown in the week/month the loss occurred. If at the end of a
 8                                                       403WGI21-165 24 SEPTEMBER 2014


quarter, losses exceed attrition figures, the OG/MXG CCs will come to an agreement on how the
shortfall will be corrected.
Attrition Reserve—Reference AFI 16-402, Aerospace Vehicle Programming, Assignment,
Distribution, Accounting, and Termination. Attrition reserve aircraft are those aircraft required to
replace primary aircraft inventory losses in a given year projected over the life span of the
weapons system. These aircraft are distributed to operational and training units to evenly spread
life cycle fatigue and ensure all aircraft receive periodic systems upgrades and modifications.
Assigned attrition reserves are occasionally realigned to maintain fleet balance.
Cancellation—An aircraft or sortie that is removed from the printed schedule for any reason.
Change—A recompilation of a unit's month-by-month flying hour plan, this is required when
the unit's flying hour allocation changes.
Combat Sortie Generation—A process by which aircraft are generated in a minimum time,
during peacetime or wartime, through concurrent operations that may include refueling,
munitions loading/ unloading, aircraft reconfiguration, and -6 inspection and other servicing
requirements. These exercises test a wing‘s ability to meet current war plans and contingency
operations.
Continuation Sortie—A scheduled sortie containing scheduled operation stops. When a crew
completes their training/mission and performs an operation stop, the engines/APU remains
running and maintenance does not service the aircraft. The aircraft can subsequently be launched
without the participation of maintenance personnel, except for a fire/safety observer. The prime
purpose is to on/off load crew members. EXCEPTION: For safety, C-130 aircraft, engines may
be shut down to upload/download personnel. NOTE: N/A to fighter and attack aircraft.
Crew Ready—An aircraft that has been properly inspected, fueled, required weapons loaded,
necessary maintenance actions completed, the exceptional release signed off (for the first flight
of the day) and the tail number passed to operations. NOTE: Units will develop and publish
specific crew ready times for each assigned MDS as agreed upon by the OG/CC and MXG/CC.
Crew Show—The time that the aircrew arrives at the aircraft.
Deployed Sorties—Sorties launched away from home base or isolated areas at home base, with
parent-unit maintenance provided. For the purpose of this instruction deployed sorties are
considered home station sorties.
Exercise—A unit or higher headquarters event designed to test or evaluate an organization's
plans, procedures, and operational/maintenance capabilities. Exercises are a planned sortie surge,
a combat sortie generation, or an unscheduled tasking. Operational readiness inspections and
wing directed operational readiness evaluations are combat sortie generations.
Functional Check Flight (FCF)—The flight of an aircraft, in accordance with the applicable
dash -6 manual, to verify the airworthy condition of the aircraft.
Ground Abort—Event after crew show time that prevents a "crew ready" aircraft from
becoming airborne. Ground aborts are categorized as maintenance (GAA, GAB, GAC),
operations, HHQ, weather, sympathy, other, etc… The difference between a ground abort and a
cancellation is after crew show it is a ground abort, before crew show it is a cancel. A ground
abort by itself is not a deviation, but can cause a deviation such as lost sortie or late take-off.
403WGI21-165 24 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                    9


Higher Headquarters—A controlling agency above wing level.
Home Station Sortie—Sorties launched from the home base or deployed locations where parent
unit maintenance is provided.
Tail Swap—Tail number swaps made to the daily flying schedule. Aircraft tail swaps are swaps
between printed aircraft on the same day, between printed aircraft and spare aircraft on the same
day or between printed aircraft and aircraft that have previously flown that day (cross country
return, OCF, FCF, etc.) The term is synonymous with the previously used term ―Interchange.‖
Mission, Design, and Series (MDS)—An acronym for aircraft mission, design, and series. For
EXAMPLE: B052H, F015C, etc.
Off-Station Sorties—Sorties flown away from home base (cross-country) and parent unit
maintenance is not provided. This includes aircraft that divert or break off-station and parent unit
maintenance is sent to repair and launch the aircraft. NOTE: Off-station sorties are considered
flown as scheduled. Deviations incurred are not used in scheduling effectiveness or abort rate
computations.
Operational Check Flight (OCF)—The first flight of an aircraft that has had extended
downtime or extensive maintenance which does not require an FCF.
Operations and Maintenance Day (O&M)—Monday through Friday, not including federal
holidays or command directed family days.
Pen-and-Ink Changes—Changes made to next week's flying schedule on AF Form 2407 after
the WG/CC has signed the schedule and prior to 1600 hours local Friday. EXCEPTION: Pen-
and-Ink changes are allowed 2 hours after the squadron's last landing during printed wing night
flying weeks.
Planned Sortie Surge—A scheduling option where a unit may plan to produce sorties at a
higher than normal rate. To qualify as a surge, the number of planned sorties will exceed the
normal daily sortie rate by at least 50 percent. This will be based on the monthly daily sortie rate
as determined by P&S.
Possessed Aircraft—Aircraft under a wing commander's operational control and responsibility
IAW AFI 21-103, Equipment Inventory, Status and Utilization Reporting.
Scheduled Sortie—An aircraft scheduled for flight by tail number on the weekly flying schedule
and confirmed on the daily flying schedule. Incentive flights are considered scheduled sorties
and published in the weekly schedule. Functional Check Flights and Operational Check Flights
are excluded.
Scheduled Maintenance Action—A maintenance requirement printed in the weekly schedule.
Sortie—A sortie begins when an aircraft becomes airborne or takes off vertically from rest at
any point of support. It ends after airborne flight when the aircraft returns to the surface except
for continuation sorties.
Sortie Contract—A written agreement between operations and maintenance and approved by
the WG/CC. It specifies the number of sorties and hours to be flown.
Spare Aircraft—An aircraft specifically designated on the flying schedule to replace aircraft
that cannot fly its sortie. Spares can include aircraft that have been canceled, aborted, flown an
 10                                                      403WGI21-165 24 SEPTEMBER 2014


earlier sortie, scheduled in a later sortie, or an aircraft that has been released after FCF/OCF. Do
not count "Printed Spares" used as deviations when computing FSE.
Training Goal—The unit's completion of a formal course training syllabus and/or phase of
instruction (TF coded units only).
Unscheduled Tasking—Tasking in which initial notification occurs after publication of the
weekly schedule.
Unit Training Assembly (UTA)—A planned period when guard or reserve personnel
participate in training duty, instruction, or test alert. For the purposes of this instruction, one
UTA is considered a single Saturday through Sunday weekend. This is an authorized and
scheduled training assembly lasting at a minimum of 4 hours. This assembly is mandatory for all
troop program unit members.
Weekly Flying and Maintenance Schedule—The schedule (contract), agreed to by operations
and maintenance, and signed by the 403 OG/MXG/WG/CCs, to support the unit's flying and
maintenance requirements. In this publication it is referred to as the "flying schedule."
