BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                           403D WING INSTRUCTION 90-201
403D WING                                                                             1 FEBRUARY 2003

                                                                                         Command Policy

                                                                       SELF-INSPECTION PROGRAM




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 403 WG/CCX (Maj Patricia Baczuk)                                           Certified by: 403 WG/CC
                                                                                (Col Charles D. Ethredge)
                                                                                                  Pages: 3
                                                                                           Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities, and AFRCI 90-203, AFRC Inspec-
tor General Activities. It establishes set procedures to follow when collecting, maintaining, using, access-
ing and disseminating crossfeed material in the 403 Wing electronically or by hard copy if needed. This
instruction spells out the responsibility of each of the designees within the Wing. It takes precedence over
any other instruction that deals with crossfeed/crosstell material in the Wing and applies to all 403 Wing
assigned units.
This instruction requires collecting and maintaining information protected by AFI 37-131, Freedom of
Information Act Program (FOIA), which applies.


1. Responsibilities of the Wing Self-Inspection Program Manager:
   1.1. Will maintain designation letter on file from the Wing Commander appointing the Wing
   Self-Inspection Program Manager.
   1.2. Will develop policies and oversee the compliance of the Wing Self-Inspection program and
   maintain the program in accordance with applicable directives/instructions.
   1.3. Maintain a copy of Local Public Folders with will contain information pertinent to the effective-
   ness of the Wing Self-Inspection Program.
       1.3.1. Extract from HQ AFRC IG, HQ AMC IG and NAF XP homepage inspection reports, Spe-
       cial Interest Items, applicable crossfeed/crosstell and applicable checklist and guides.
   1.4. Maintain the Self-Inspection Tracking System (SITS) on the Local Area Network (LAN) shared
   drive for organizations to use.
   1.5. Maintain the Unit Self-Inspection Program (USIP) monitor appointment list. Establish and main-
   tain ownership of the electronic address distribution list for the 403 Wing USIP Monitors.
2                                                                 403WGI90-201 1 FEBRUARY 2003


    1.6. Provide initial and ongoing training to Group, Squadron and Unit Monitors.
    1.7. Monitor all Group discrepancies using the SITS program via the LAN and provide feedback to
    Group Monitors and Commanders.

2. Responsibilities of the Group Level USIP Monitors:
    2.1. Provide Group Level appointment letter to Wing Manager.
    2.2. Oversee Squadron Level USIP monitors Program.
       2.2.1. Ensure Squadron Level USIP monitors are reviewing provided crossfeed/crosstell informa-
       tion available in the local public folder.
       2.2.2. Ensure Squadron is performing at a minimum, annual inspections using applicable check-
       lists.
       2.2.3. Monitor Squadron SITS to ensure closure of identified squadron discrepancies.

3. Responsibilities of the Squadron Level USIP Monitors:
    3.1. Ensure that an appointment letter is on file for Squadron Level Self-Inspection Monitors and
    alternates and that a copy is provided to Group and Wing Self-Inspection Program Manager.
       3.1.1. Ensure that an appointment is on file appointing Functional Area USIP Monitors for each
       functional area in the squadron and that a copy is provided to the Group Monitor and the Wing
       Self-Inspection Program Manager.
    3.2. Review provided crossfeed/crosstell information available in the local public folder.
       3.2.1. Determine how it effects functional areas within the squadron.
       3.2.2. Distribute applicable information to the appropriate squadron functional area Self-Inspec-
       tion Monitor.
       3.2.3. Maintain updated copies of all applicable internal functional area checklists.
    3.3. As a minimum, conduct self-inspections annually.
       3.3.1. Ensure discrepancies are documented and input into SITS located on the LAN shared drive.
       3.3.2. Follow-up on open squadron discrepancies to ensure estimated completion dates are met
       and updated in the SITS.
    3.4. Establish and maintain a self-inspection continuity book that contains all pertinent items to your
    squadron in order to maintain an effective self-inspection program. As a minimum, this should include
    your Appointment Letters, UCI Guide, unit specific checklists, and applicable Special Interest Items
    (SIIs). This may be in a notebook or electronic folder or combination of both.

4. Responsibilities of the Functional Area Self-Inspection Monitors:
    4.1. Serves as the Subject Matter Expert within the assigned functional area.
    4.2. Review the crossfeed/crosstell reports provided
    4.3. Determine how it effects their functional area.
403WGI90-201 1 FEBRUARY 2003                                                                      3


  4.4. Develop a local checklist for functional area of responsibility, as required.
  4.5. As a minimum, conduct self-inspections annually.
  4.6. Input discrepancies into SITS located on the LAN shared drive.
  4.7. Follow-up on open functional area discrepancies to ensure that estimated completion dates are
  met and updated in SITS.
  4.8. Ensure SITS is update when a discrepancy has been closed.



                                                    CHARLES D. ETHREDGE, Colonel, USAFR
                                                    Commander
