BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 403D WING INSTRUCTION 21-102
403D WING
                                                                                 2 MAY 2012
                                               Incorporating Through Change 2, 26 JUNE 2014

                                                                                  Maintenance

                                                                     DROPPED OBJECT
                                                           PREVENTIONPROGRAM (DOPP)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 403 MXG/MXQ                                                    Certified by: 403 MXG/CC
                                                                       (Lt Col Kelly L. Bailey)
Supersedes:   403WGI21-102,                                                            Pages: 3
              23 February 2006


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment
Maintenance Management, AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, and AFI 10-206,
Operational Reporting. It establishes procedures and responsibilities for the Dropped Object
Prevention Program (DOPP). This Instruction is applicable to all 403d Wing personnel assigned
to Keesler AFB. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office
of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force Information Management Tool (AF IMT)
847, Recommendation for Change of Publications: Route AF IMTs 847 from the field through
the appropriate functional’ s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Responsibilities for Dropped Object Prevention IAW AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment
Maintenance Management have been updated and clarified.
1. Definition: A dropped object is any aircraft part, component, surface, or other item lost
during aircrew operations, unless intentionally jettisoned from engine start to engine shutdown.
Inadvertently released munitions or munitions released in excess of the quantity selected by the
aircrew, or a multiple release, are not considered dropped objects and will be reported in
accordance with AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports.
 2                                                                     403WGI21-102 2 MAY 2012


2. Responsibilities:
     2.1. The 403d WG/CV serves as DOPP Manager and will appoint the Wing DOPP Monitor
     under Quality Assurance (MXQ) which is the investigating office for this program. MXQ
     will immediately investigate reports of aircraft parts or objects that have dropped from an
     aircraft in an effort to identify the cause. Every effort is made to determine the precise cause
     to ensure positive corrective action is accomplished. Anytime a materiel or design deficiency
     is the cause or suspected cause, a Deficiency Report will be submitted in accordance with TO
     00-35D-54, even when an exhibit is not available. Investigation results will be distributed to
     each appropriate work center for inclusion in personnel training and education programs.
     2.2. It is the responsibility of all personnel to report objects that have fallen from an aircraft.
     Aircrew and/or maintenance personnel who observe or discover that an object has been
     dropped from an aircraft will make appropriate entries in the aircraft AFTO Form 781A
     immediately. Reporting process is implemented immediately starting with the Aircrew, Crew
     Chief, Expediter, Debrief, Maintenance Operations Center (MOC), and Quality Assurance.
3. Prevention:
     3.1. Effective prevention of dropped objects starts when an aircraft door, panel, or cowling is
     opened for maintenance and during munitions build-up, loading, and arming. Maintenance
     personnel will ensure the serviceability of fasteners and the proper fit of doors, panels,
     connectors, etc. Place special attention on the correct length of fasteners and condition of nut
     plates and other securing devices. Supervisors and Red X Production Inspectors place
     special emphasis on these areas during the inspection of completed maintenance actions.
     3.2. Dropped Object prevention inspections will be accomplished before the first flight of
     the day or prior to flight after completion of repairs, routine maintenance or servicing.
     3.3. DELETED.
     3.4. Qualified personnel will visually inspect the upper and lower fuselage, wings, vertical
     stabilizer, wheel well areas, and engines for loose or unsecured panels, covers, antennas and
     anything else that could become a dropped object in flight.
     3.5. The inspector will sign off the “Inspected By” block of the AFTO Form 781A upon
     completion.
4. Training:
     4.1. Commanders will ensure all maintenance personnel involved in on-equipment
     maintenance receive adequate Dropped Object Prevention training.
     4.2. Supervisors will ensure maintenance personnel are trained properly within their areas of
     responsibility and knowledge of command and unit requirements to prevent in-flight
     occurrence. They will also ensure individuals are trained on proper documentation and
     reporting procedures.
     4.3. All maintenance personnel who perform on-equipment aircraft maintenance will receive
     initial formal training on Dropped Object Prevention as outlined in the DOPP training plan
     provided to each flight. Refresher training will be conducted annually by viewing the
     Dropped Object Prevention VHS presentation and reviewing the Dropped Object Prevention
403WGI21-102 2 MAY 2012                                                                    3


   Program Booklet, the AFRC DOPP website, and any work center applicable 403d Dropped
   Object Reports. DOPP Training is documented in GO81 under course code ACFT 000650.
5. Reporting:
   5.1. Initial dropped object report will be made to the MAJCOM and 22d AF via telephone,
   e-mail, or message. If it involves casualties, property damage, or if adverse publicity is
   likely, report IAW AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting. The Wing DOPP monitor notifies the
   Base/Wing Safety Office of all dropped objects.
   5.2. Follow-up formal report will be made to the MAJCOM and 22d AF within 3 duty days
   after the occurrence.
   5.3. The formal report format dictated by AFI 21-101, paragraph. 14.11.1.5.2. Will be
   utilized.
   5.4. Quality Assurance will maintain reports on file for a minimum of 24 months.
   5.5. Transient Aircraft: The local Wing DOPP monitor will be responsible to investigate
   dropped objects from a transient aircraft. The Wing DOPP monitor will provide the home
   station DOPP monitor with sufficient data to generate a report for trending and tracking
   purposes.
   5.6. Tracking: Quality Assurance will enter all dropped object reports in the Quality
   Assurance Tracking and Trend Analysis System. Dropped Object data will be included in
   QA summaries and reviewed for trends, future prevention, and opportunities for product
   improvement.




                                           JAY D JENSEN, Colonel, USAFR
                                           Commander
