Administrative Changes to 403 WGI36-2801, OUTSTANDING COMPANY GRADE OFFICER (CGO),
SENIOR NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICER (SNCO), NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICER (NCO), AIRMAN
(AMN) OF THE QUARTER/YEAR AWARD AND FIRST SERGEANT OF THE YEAR AWARD
OPR: 403 MXG/MXQ
References to 403 MSF/DPMSC-CS should be changed to 403 FSS/FSMPS throughout the publication
20 July 2012
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    403d WING INSTRUCTION 36-2801
OF THE 403RD WING
                                                                              9 SEPTEMBER 2011

                                                                                           Personnel

                                                         OUTSTANDING COMPANY GRADE
                                                                OFFICER (CGO), SENIOR
                                                     NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICER (SNCO),
                                                      NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICER (NCO),
                                                        AIRMAN (AMN) OF THE QUARTER/

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 403 WG/CCC                                                           Certified by: 403 WG/CC
                                                                           (Colonel Jay D. Jensen)
Supersedes:    503WGI36-2801,                                                               Pages: 6
               13 June 2006


This instruction implements AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Program. It directs the
procedures that govern the Outstanding Company Grade Officer (CGO), Senior
Noncommissioned Officer (SNCO), Noncommissioned Officer (NCO), Airman (AMN), and
First Sergeant of the Year as well as the CGO, SNCO, NCO, and AMN of the Quarter Awards
for the 403d Wing. This instruction also establishes a selection process to nominate enlisted
personnel for the Twelve Outstanding Airmen of the Year (12 OAY) program. Additionally, this
instruction outlines the Annual Chief Master Sergeant Charles R. Gaffney Award procedures for
sustained contributions to the 403d Wing. All personnel meeting the eligibility criteria outlined
in this instruction are eligible for consideration. This instruction applies to all military personnel
and units assigned to the 403d Wing on Keesler Air Force Base, Mississippi 39534-2572. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force Information Management Tool (AF IMT) 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMTs 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.
 2                                                       403WGI36-2801 9 SEPTEMBER 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction maintains the categories for AMN, NCO, SNCO and CGO of the Quarter/Year,
First Sergeant of the Year and adds the Annual Chief Master Sergeant Charles R. Gaffney
Award, reduces the number of lines for a quarterly packages, adds a requirement for board
member submission at the same time unit nominees are submitted, and provides for quarterly
electronic boards and scoring of award packages. The intent is to keep the administrative
process associated with the quarterly program to a minimum yet still recognize the very best in
the Wing. It requires the use of the current AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award, for all
submissions. It maintains the primary responsibility for the program at the 403d Wing
Command Chief’s office and retains his responsibilities.

Introduction. Our personnel comprise an important segment of the United States Air Force.
Many of them are outstanding in their military and technical performance, as well as their civic
involvement. They perform key roles and have contributed significantly to the accomplishment
of unit, Air Force Reserve, and the United States Air Force mission. All outstanding personnel
are to be recognized and honored for their special accomplishments and contributions.
1. Criteria. The nominator must ensure nominees meet the following mandatory requirements
prior to submitting the nomination:
     1.1. No unexcused absences from Unit Training Assembly (UTA) during the period of
     consideration.
     1.2. Must be current on all on-the-job training, ancillary training, and upgrade requirements.
     1.3. Meet fitness standards.
     1.4. Has demonstrated outstanding duty performance.
     1.5. Not have an active Unfavorable Information File (UIF) during award period
2. Nominations for Wing Outstanding CGO, SNCO, NCO and AMN of the Quarter
Awards.
     2.1. Submit nomination packages on the current version AF Form 1206, single-space, 10
     lines not counting the appropriate headings: Leadership and Job Performance in Primary
     Duty, Significant Self Improvement, and Base or Community Involvement. Each group, the
     ASTS, and the wing staff may submit one nominee per category per quarter.
     Accomplishments/data included must have occurred during the nomination period. Forward
     the nomination package to the Customer Service Office, 403 MSF/DPMSC-CS, no later than
     the suspense date as follows for the following quarters:
        2.1.1. Jan - Mar Quarter Board package suspense, Tuesday of the last full week in Mar.
        2.1.2. Apr - Jun Quarter Board package suspense, Tuesday of the last full week in Jun.
        2.1.3. Jul - Sep Quarter Board package suspense, Tuesday of the last full week in Sep.
        2.1.4. Oct - Dec Quarter Board package suspense, Tuesday of the last full week in Dec.
     2.2. As part of the submissions, each group and the ASTS will designate representatives to
     fill the board positions in accordance with the chart in Attachment 1.
403WGI36-2801 9 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                  3


3. Nominations for Wing Outstanding CGO, First Sergeant, SNCO, NCO, and AMN of the
Year Award.
   3.1. With the exception of the CGO, submit nomination packages on the current version AF
   Form 1206, single-space, 27 lines not counting the appropriate headings: Leadership and Job
   Performance in Primary Duty, Significant Self Improvement, and Base or Community
   Involvement and a current printout of the nominee’s Fit-To-Fight report. Once a selection is
   made submission of an 8X10 service dress torso shot photo, five 5X7 action shots, a
   biography of the nominee, current record review rip, cover memorandum from the unit
   commander, and signed statement of intent to remain an enlisted member for 2 years will be
   submitted within one week. For the CGO category, only submit the 1206, cover letter and
   photo as above. All CGO nominees must have a minimum of 2 years retainability. Forward
   the nomination package and board representative contact information in accordance with the
   table in Attachment 1 to the Customer Service Office, 403 MSF/DPMSC-CS, no later than
   15 December. Each group, the ASTS, and the Wing Staff may submit one nominee per
   category. Accomplishments/data included must have occurred during the nomination period
   1 Jan – 31 Dec. Note: The 403d Wing’s reserve component annual winners for AMN, NCO,
   SNCO and First Sergeant categories automatically become the Wing’s nominees for 12
   OAY. Active-Associate Squadron members, with the exception of the CGO, will compete
   against the personnel assigned to their primary unit at Littlerock AFB.
4. Nominations for the Annual Chief Master Sergeant Charles R. Gaffney Award.
   4.1. This award recognizes a 403d Wing member who, through direct and sustained effort,
   influenced their unit, group, wing or other agencies for the better. Efforts that significantly
   improve quality of life, operational procedures, or work processes and exemplified superior
   service before self are eligible for consideration.
   4.2. Submit nomination packages on the current AF Form 1206, single space, with no more
   than 27 lines not counting the appropriate headings: Sustained Efforts, Significant Challenges
   Overcame, and Results of Efforts with a cover memorandum from the unit commander and
   forwarded to the Customer Service Office, 403 MSF/DPMSC-CS no later than 15 October.
   Each unit may submit one nominee. Each unit will also submit a board representative with
   their contact information in accordance with Attachment 1 Annual requirements. Note: This
   award timeframe can span multiple years.
5. Boards.
   5.1. The Outstanding Wing CGO, SNCO, NCO and AMN of the Quarter are selected by a
   board that convenes electronically through email. Quarterly boards for enlisted grades are
   comprised of three chief master sergeants and/or senior master sergeants, who serve as
   members. The wing command chief master sergeant serves as the board president. Quarterly
   boards for the wing Outstanding CGO of the Quarter are comprised of three majors and/or
   lieutenant colonels, who serve as members. The vice wing commander serves as the board
   president.
   5.2. Quarter boards are package review only. Board members will be emailed the packages
   and a score sheet by the Command Chief and will have one week to return the electronic
   score sheet to the Command Chief and the 403 MSF/DPMSC-CS.
 4                                                      403WGI36-2801 9 SEPTEMBER 2011


     5.3. The Outstanding Wing CGO, First Sergeant, SNCO, NCO, and AMN of the Year board
     convenes during the January UTA, unless mission requirements necessitate rescheduling.
     The board is comprised of four officers, with the vice wing commander or a group
     commander serving as president. The wing command chief serves strictly as an advisor to
     the board, unless his/her vote is needed to break a tie.
        5.3.1. Wing First Sergeant, SNCO, NCO, and AMN of the Year board members are to
        report 30 minutes before the board convenes. Uniform is the service dress uniform for
        annual board. Questions for the nominees are to be based on Air Force policies and
        procedures, customs and courtesies, history, and local and national current events.
     5.4. The Annual Chief Master Sergeant Charles F. Gaffney Award are package review only.
     The board president will email board members the packages and a score sheet. The members
     will have one week to return the electronic score sheet to 403 MSF/DPMSC-CS. The board
     is comprised of four officers in the grade of major or lieutenant colonels with the vice wing
     commander or a group commander serving as president. The wing command chief serves
     strictly as an advisor to the board, unless his/her vote is needed to break a tie.
     5.5. The Wing Commander appoints all board members based on unit recommendations.
6. Commander’s Responsibility.
     6.1. Year board nominees, with the exception of the CGO category, must personally appear
     before the board in service dress uniform; quarterly boards are package review only.
     6.2. Comply with AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel and
     AFI 10-248, Fitness Program.
     6.3. Nominate members in the category of award that corresponds to the grade held for the
     majority of the award period.
        6.3.1. AMN of the Quarter/Year – be in the grade of Airman Basic through Senior
        Airman
        6.3.2. NCO of the Quarter/Year – be in the grade of Staff Sergeant or Technical Sergeant
        6.3.3. SNCO of the Quarter/Year – be in the grade of Master Sergeant or Senior Master
        Sergeant
        6.3.4. First Sergeant of the Year – must have served and held a special duty identifier
        8F000 for at least 6 months
        6.3.5. Company Grade Officer of the Quarter/Year – be in the grade of Second
        Lieutenant through Captain
7. Customer Service Responsibilities.
     7.1. Notify year board members and nominees the date, place, and time the board is to
     convene.
     7.2. Provide a board advisor/recorder.
     7.3. Consolidate nomination packages for presentation to the board.
     7.4. Consolidate electronic board scoresheets into a single product and forward to the wing
     command chief for review.
403WGI36-2801 9 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                           5


   7.5. Prepare select and nonselect memorandums for the wing commander’s signature.
   7.6. Notify selectees, nonselectees, commanders, and 403d Wing Public Affairs of board
   results.
8. Command Chief Master Sergeant’s Responsibilities.
   8.1. Serves as the office of primary responsibility for this program.
   8.2. Selects/arranges board membership, forwards to the wing commander for approval, and
   notifies Customer Service.
   8.3. Coordinates with Customer Service to ensure boards run smoothly.
   8.4. Summarizes board results and provides recommended selections to the wing
   commander for approval.
   8.5. Ensures plaques/certificates are prepared for selectees.
   8.6. Solicits gift certificates from AAFES and/or Keesler Federal Credit Union.
9. The 403d Wing Public Affairs Office’s Responsibilities.
   9.1. Arrange for presentations by the wing commander.
   9.2. Arrange for publicity.
   9.3. Ensure selectees’ photos are displayed on wing bulletin board.




                                             JAY D. JENSEN, Col, USAFR
                                             Commander
 6                                                     403WGI36-2801 9 SEPTEMBER 2011


                                          Attachment 1
              UNITS REPONSIBLE FOR PROVIDING BOARD MEMBERS

This attachment specifies which units are responsible for providing the board members.
Quarterly boards for enlisted grades are comprised of three chief master sergeants and/or senior
master sergeants, who serve as members. For CGO and all annual awards, board members must
be major or lieutenant colonels.
                                   ASTS         Ops         Supt       Maint
                                               Group       Group       Group
                 St
                1 Qtr Enlisted       X           X           X
                 ST
                1 Qtr CGO            X           X           X
                 nd
                2 Qtr Enlisted                   X           X            X
                 nd
                2 Qtr CGO                        X           X            X
                 rd
                3 Qtr Enlisted       X                       X            X
                 rd
                3 Qtr CGO            X                       X            X
                 th
                4 Qtr Enlisted       X           X                        X
                 th
                4 Qtr CGO            X           X                        X
                Annual Board         X           X            X           X
