BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                403D WING INSTRUCTION 34-601
403D WING
                                                                                 4 JUNE 2014

                                                                                      Services

                                              LODGING OF UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
                                               RESERVE PERSONNEL AT KEESLER AIR
                                                          FORCE BASE MISSISSIPPI

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATIONS IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 403 FSS/CC                                                     Certified by: 403 MSG/CC
                                                                           (Col Kevin C. Riley)
Supersedes:    403WGI34-601, 1 August 2008                                             Pages: 4


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 34-1, Air Force Services and
AFI 34-246, Air Force Lodging Program. It provides guidance and procedures for host base
lodging of Reserve members. It references military pay authorizations according to DFAS-DER
177-102, Commercial Transactions at Base Level. This instruction applies to all 403rd Wing
personnel lodged at Keesler Air Force Base, Mississippi. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMTs 847 directly to 403 FSS/CC at
Keesler AFB. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Updates and changes to designate and clarify lodging procedures and requirements.
1. Lodging Reservation Procedures. For scheduled duty performed at Keesler AFB, MS
including Unit Training Assemblies (UTAs), Readiness Management Program (RMPs), and
Additional Flight Training Periods (AFTPS), Annual Tour and Active Duty for Special Work
(ADSW), reserve members authorized lodging will use the Automated Lodging Reservation
System (ALRS) when reserving rooms. Extensions for ALRS are: 228-377-6491/6479/6522/
6533. For Unit Training Assemblies, all reservations must be called-in no later than *2400 hrs
Friday, ONE WEEK prior to upcoming UTA. *403d Force Support Squadron (FSV) will
provide Keesler Inn a reservation request that identifies reserve members who will require
 2                                                                403WGI34-601 4 JUNE 2014


lodging for the next UTA. It is the member’s responsibility to coordinate any reservation
changes or cancellations through the ALRS system no later than 1500hrs Friday before the
upcoming UTA. Same day reservations for duty other than a wing scheduled UTA, need to be
called in prior to 1500 that day.
2. Additional Procedures for those Airmen commuting on C-130J space-available military
training missions. The 403d Operations Group currently schedules training lines which are also
made available to transport *403d Wing personnel from certain cities via assigned aircraft.
Airmen utilizing this airlift will also use the ALRS system. These “shuttle riders” are identified
in ALRS and will be checked-in prior to arrival at Keesler AFB based upon names in ALRS and
names entered on manifests at the departing locations. Since they usually have no immediate
access to individual ground transportation at Keesler AFB, “shuttle riders” will have priority for
on-base lodging. If no accommodations are available on base, all “shuttle riders” will be lodged
at the same hotel, if possible, and provided government ground transportation to the UTA.
3. Authorized Commuting Distance. For lodging purposes, the commuting distance is set at
50 miles (approximately one hour driving time). Exceptions to this list may be allowed based on
an emergency, adverse weather conditions, or military necessity as approved by group
commanders. However, travel pay is not applicable.
4. Lodging Expenses. Lodging for any type of inactive duty (RMPs, UTAs, and AFTPs) at
Keesler AFB will be paid by the *403d Wing. Lodging expenses for any type of inactive duty
away from Keesler AFB will be paid by member and submitted via SF 1164, Claim for
Reimbursement for Expenditures on Official Business, for reimbursement. Lodging expenses for
any active duty (MPA, RPA, and Annual Tour), regardless of location, will be paid by the
member and submitted via travel voucher for reimbursement. Any late check out, sundry, and
phone charges will be at the member’s expense.
5. Due to limited space at Keesler AFB and in contract quarters, members in grades E1-E6
may be required to share accommodations for UTAs. AFI 34-246, Air Force Lodging
Program, authorizes double occupancy for E1-E4s.
6. Checkout. Check out time is 1100 hours on the last duty day.           Any late fees are the
responsibility of the member and are not reimbursable.
7. No Reservations. *403d Wing members without reservations (excluding Aircrew and
newcomers reporting for their first UTA weekend) will be considered a “Walk-In”. *403
FSS/FSV will record the name, rank, and unit of each individual who requests a room without
making a reservation through the ALRS. This list will be distributed to unit commanders for
appropriate action. The first time an individual is a “Walk-In,” the applicable unit commander
will counsel the individual on their responsibility to utilize ALRS. For each succeeding
occurrence, the unit commander can deny lodging privileges for two months or two UTAs,
whichever is greater. The individual will be responsible for procuring their own lodging and for
paying any associated expenses
8. Reservation No Shows. “No shows” will not be tolerated. Any room that is reserved but not
checked into generates a cancellation fee that is charged to the wing’s Operating & Maintenance
lodging funds. Since this is a waste of government resources, commanders have various tools
available to manage the “no shows” and the resulting expenses. These tools range from verbal
and written counseling to letters of reprimand. First time offenders will be counseled on their
403WGI34-601 4 JUNE 2014                                                                         3


responsibility to cancel reservations if not required; second time offenders will be denied lodging
for a period of one month or one UTA (whichever is greater); and Third time offenders will be
denied lodging for a period of six months or six UTAs (whichever is greater). “No show”
expenses will be taken out of each unit’s Operating & Maintenance funds to replenish the wing’s
lodging funds account.
9. Newcomers. *403 Wing newcomers will be entered into ALRS upon receipt of the monthly
lodging request listing from *403 FSS. All newcomers will be required to use ALRS to make
lodging reservation after the initial in processing month. Newcomers can make a first time
reservation by calling *403 FSS/FSV lodging office at telephone number 228-377-3885.
Newcomers can also come to the front desk at *Tyer House upon initial arrival to Keesler for
UTA weekend to make their reservation.




                                             FRANK L. AMODEO, Colonel, USAFR
                                             Commander
 4                                                            403WGI34-601 4 JUNE 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 34-1, Air Force Services, 2 November 2012
AFI 34-246, Air Force Lodging Program, 11 November 2007
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DFAS-DER 177-102, Commercial Transactions at Base Level
Adopted Forms
AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
SF 1164, Claim for Reimbursement for Expenditures on Official Business

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADSW—Active Duty for Special Work
AFTPS—Additional Flight Training Periods
ALRS—Automated Lodging Reservation System
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RMP—Readiness Management Program
UTAs—Unit Training Assemblies
