                                        Commander’s
                                        Safety Vision




                                     JEFFREY T. PENNINGTON
                                          Colonel, USAFR
                                           Commander
 Safety is everyone’s business. As the 433D Airlift Wing Commander, I am personally committed to a
 strong mishap prevention program. I expect the same from all personnel within the Alamo Wing. As a
 commander or supervisor, you will be involved in the protection of your personnel and resources. All of us
 must take an active role in implementing proper safety practices in our activities, whether on or off duty.
 This will allow us to accomplish our mission successfully, with minimal risk to personnel and resources.

 Effective Risk Management (RM) programs are essential in today’s environment. Keep you, your family
 and your friends safe by practicing RM. The integration of RM with effective safety policies and
 procedures is a critical factor in the successful completion of the wing’s mission. An easy to remember
 version of RM is called ACT—Assess the situation, Consider options to mitigate the risk and Take
 appropriate action.

 Safety needs to be incorporated into the way we think all the time. It needs to be the ‘attitude’ we project
 every day in the workplace and off duty. We must continually work to eliminate accidents and incidents
 which arise from carelessness, inadequate training or complacency. All supervisors must implement and
 strongly enforce sound safety practices within their work area. Anything less than full commitment to safe
 and effective mission accomplishment is unacceptable.

 Remember, safety is everyone’s business. You are the key player in keeping safety and RM at the forefront
 of the 433D mission every day.


Prescribed by AFI 91-202                                           433 AWVA 91-301, 20 March 2013
OPR: 433 AW/SE                       RELEASABILITY: There are no release restrictions on this publication.
Certified by: Lt Col Gary W. Edwards                                       Supersedes: 12 January 2012
