BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                     433RD AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
OF THE 433 AIRLIFT WING                                                                                36-803

                                                                                                                     5 JANUARY 2012

                                                                                                                                  Personnel

                                                                             TIME AND ATTENDANCE CONTROLS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releaseability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 433 AW/CCE                                                                                      Certified by: 433 AW/CC
                                                                                                 (Colonel Kenneth D Lewis, Jr)
                                                                                                                     Pages: 50


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-8, Employee Benefits and
Entitlements and Work/Life Programs; extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-
807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observances, AFI 36-815, Absence and
Leave, and Air Force Instruction 36-2254V1 (, Reserve Personnel Participation; and it meets the
requirements of Air Force Reserve Command Instruction (AFRCI) 36-803, Air Reserve
Technician Time and Attendance Procedures and Audits. It establishes local procedures to
manage and document Time and Attendance (T&A) for employees, establishes local Alternative
Work Schedule (AWS) and Flextime procedures, defines Wing core hours, assigns
responsibilities to personnel to prevent dual compensation, and prescribes the use of
Headquarters, Air Force Reserve Command (HQ AFRC) Time and Attendance Record
(TIMECARD) and 433 Airlift Wing (AW) Form 1. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF
Form 847), Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s through the
appropriate chain of command, including any requests for waivers to specified provisions.
Ensure that all record created as a result of processed prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with the Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records and dispose of in accordance with Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.


       1.     Overview. ...............................................................................................................   2
       2.     Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................     2
       3.     Air Reserve Technician (ART) Duty Status. .........................................................                         5
 2                                                                                         433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012


        4.      Civilian Work Schedules. ......................................................................................                 9
Table 1.        Wing Core and Bandwidth Hours. .........................................................................                       11
        5.      Premium Pay. .........................................................................................................         15
        6.      Military Duty. ........................................................................................................        17
Table 2.        Table of Conversions. ............................................................................................             19
        7.      Leave. .....................................................................................................................   21
        8.      Excused Absences. .................................................................................................            30
        9.      Accounting and Records Maintenance. .................................................................                          32
        10.     Auditing. ................................................................................................................     33
        11.     Training. .................................................................................................................    33

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                 34

Attachment 2—PROCEDURES FOR COMPLETING AF FORM 428 REQUEST FOR
             OVERTIME, HOLIDAY PREMIUM PAY AND COMPENSATORY TIME                                                                               38

Attachment 3—REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OF EXCUSED ABSENCE & MEMORANDUM OF
             UNDERSTANDING FOR PHYSICAL FITNESS ACTIVITES          41

Attachment 4—SAMPLE DOCTOR’S STATEMENT                                                                                                         42

Attachment 5—433 AW TIMECARD FOLDER AUDIT CHECKLIST                                                                                            43

Attachment 6—QUARTERLY AUDIT REPORT COVER SHEET                                                                                                46

Attachment 7—UNIT TIME AND ATTENDANCE AUDIT PRODUCT FORMAT                                                                                     47

Attachment 8—GROUP TIME AND ATTENDANCE AUDIT PRODUCT FORMAT                                                                                    48

Attachment 9—SAMPLE OF IN-PLACE (PAID) LUNCH MEMORANDUM                                                                                        50


1. Overview.
     1.1. Management has the responsibility for assigning duties to ensure successful
     accomplishment of mission. In carrying out this responsibility, management sets schedules
     and compensates employees in accordance with all applicable laws, directives and policies.
     The provisions of this instruction contain the policies and practices that will be applied in the
     Wing.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. Wing Commander. In addition to providing program oversight and ensuring
     subordinate organizations carry out their respective responsibilities, the Wing Commander is
     the waiver authority for any deviations from this instruction. Waivers will be documented
     and kept on file with the OPR of this instruction.
     2.2. Group Commanders and Chiefs of Staff Offices. Group Commanders and Staff Senior
     Arts oversee mission operations and ensure subordinate levels adhere to proper assignment of
433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012                                                                   3


  duties; set work schedules to optimize mission accomplishment; and ensure employees are
  properly compensated for work performed. Oversight duties include coordination on or
  approval of requests for compensatory time or overtime; proper completion of required
  documentation such as timecards and supporting information; appropriate use and
  management of the leave programs; and proper maintenance of records in support of program
  actions. Oversight will be formalized through periodic internal audits and Group
  Commanders are responsible for ensuring sufficient auditors are available and trained to
  complete the process. Audit results along with remedial plans and time tables are reported to
  Financial Management (FM) and carried out to satisfy deficiencies identified in the audit
  process. In cases where the Group Commander is a Traditional Reservist, these
  responsibilities will be carried out by the senior Air Reserve Technician in the organization.
  2.3. Financial Management. The Financial Management Office is responsible for overseeing
  the operation of the Management Control Program, including the plans, schedules and review
  items/checklists used to carry out the program. FM will also consolidate review results and
  action plans for reporting to the Wing Commander. FM will also keep organizations advised
  on availability of funds for such things as compensatory time or overtime approval and will
  certify documents to this effect as needed. FM will also act as the focal point for
  coordination with higher headquarters and dispersing agencies regarding funds and work
  years needed and available to carry out mission requirements. This includes coordinating on
  the maintenance, collection, and comparison of information used in the audit process.
  2.4. Supervisors. Supervisors are responsible for time and attendance management of
  assigned employees, to include: scheduling, tracking, and documenting assigned work. They
  must have direct personal knowledge of their employees’ work schedules, certify actual
  hours worked, and verify civilian T&A. Supervisors must work closely with timekeepers on
  a daily basis to ensure the accuracy and integrity of T&A accounting. In the absence of the
  supervisor, an individual will be appointed, in writing and posted, to assume the
  responsibilities. Guidance and responsibilities for supervisors’ time and attendance
  certification is found in Department of Defense (DoD) 7000.14-R Vol 8 0204. In addition to
  assigning duties and establishing the work schedules to be followed in the unit, supervisors
  will:
     2.4.1. Review leave requests and administer the leave program for their respective
     program.
     2.4.2. Review and certify employee submissions, including AFRC Form 4, Air Reserve
     Technician Aircrew Work Hours Record and all supporting documents, to ensure the
     submission is complete and no dual compensation or improper use of leave exists.
     2.4.3. Submit AF Form 428, Request for Overtime, Holiday Premium Pay, and
     Compensatory Time, to the approving official with full justification for the request.
     2.4.4. Review and certify T&A Master Time History reports generated though the
     Defense Civilian Payroll System (DCPS).
     2.4.5. Monitor overtime, holiday premium pay, and compensatory time earned to ensure
     proper use of resources, distribution of opportunities, and to preclude employees from
     exceeding the mandated aggregate salary limitation. See DoD 7000.14-R Volume 8
     Paragraphs 0510 and 030103.
4                                                           433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012


       2.4.6. Approve Alternative Work Schedules (AWS) and Flextime. See AFI 36-807,
       Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observances.
    2.5. Employees. Employees are responsible for reporting to the work site ready, willing and
    able to carry out assigned duties and for completing their duties in the manner prescribed for
    satisfactory performance. In addition, employees must:
       2.5.1. Submit a request for annual leave at the beginning of the year showing the dates
       and amount of leave requested for the supervisor’s review and approval. The annual
       Projected Leave Schedule Planner can be used.
       2.5.2. Post daily entries on the time card that accurately account for duty time and
       authorized absence.
       2.5.3. Submit applicable forms to designated supervisor for approval and timekeeper
       coordination. See DoD 7000.14-R Volume 8 Paragraph 0202.
       2.5.4. Contact the appropriate leave approving official and request leave for unexpected
       absences. Written or supporting documentation as to emergency absence will be given
       due consideration at the supervisor's discretion.
    2.6. Timekeepers. Timekeepers are responsible for maintenance of employees’ T&A
    accounting records. They must become familiar with the Defense Civilian Payroll Systems
    (DCPS). Reference data can be obtained from Department of Defense (DOD) Federal
    Management Regulations (FMR) DoD 7000.14-R Vol 8, Defense Financial Accounting
    System (DFAS) information found on http://comptroller.defense.gov/fmr/08/index.html
    and guidance obtained from the local payroll servicing office. In addition, timekeepers will:
       2.6.1. Establish individual employee time and attendance 6-part work folders at the
       beginning of each calendar year (see 433 AWI 36-803 Paragraph 8). Folders will contain
       a copy of each T&A report along with the supporting documentation for each respective
       pay period (see 433 AWI 36-803 Paragraph 11.1. for prescribed forms).
       2.6.2. Coordinate with supervisors and employees to ensure accurate and timely T&A
       documentation is received, including all required supporting documentation and required
       time card signatures.
       2.6.3. Close out each pay period and input the required format to the Payroll function to
       insure proper payment to each employee.
       2.6.4. Receive corrected time cards and input the new information to the Payroll system.
       2.6.5. Maintain the employee time and attendance work folders and ensure required
       T&A reports and supporting documentation are filed in the work area so they are easily
       located and identified. Maintain records In Accordance With (IAW) The RDS for
       Civilian          Pay,          Table           T65-22,            Rules            1,
       (https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_rule_detail.cfm)                2,
       (https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_rule_detail.cfm)                3,
       (https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_rule_detail.cfm)             3.01,
       (https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_rule_detail.cfm)        and 4,(
       https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_rule_detail.cfm)
    2.7. Auditors.
433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012                                                                      5


       2.7.1. Audit all employees T&A records within their respective group. T&A records
       will consist of those records described in 433AWI 36-803 paragraphs 9.1, 11.6 and
       military pay records for employees who also serve with a Reserve or National Guard
       component.
       2.7.2. Compile a Report of Audit identifying findings, and forward the completed report
       to the respective Unit, Group, and Wing-levels for review and further action. Reports
       will be consolidated at each level to provide an overall view of program status.
       2.7.3. . The Wing Commander is the only waiver authority for deviations from the
       internal audit schedule. Waivers will be requested in writing, forwarded for approval,
       and kept on file.
3. Air Reserve Technician (ART) Duty Status. ARTs may perform some duties in civilian
status, some in military status, or switch between the two. Other duties must be performed only
in either military or civilian status depending on the nature of the work involved. The following
items provide guidance on determining the proper duty status in which the Technician will be
carried. In all cases, when military duty overlaps with civilian schedules, including travel to
perform military duties, proper leave must be charged for the overlap to avoid dual compensation
violations (see 433 AWI 36-803 paragraphs 7.8.3.)
   3.1. Inactive Duty for Training (IDT). There are five types of IDT for which eligible
   members may be paid and all are performed in military status:
       3.1.1. Training Period (TP) - a period of training, duty, or instruction that a member
       performs as an individual (includes Additional Ground Training Periods (AGTP).
       3.1.2. Unit Training Assembly (UTA) - a planned period of training duty, instruction, or
       alert performed by a Category A unit.
       3.1.3. Equivalent Training (ET) - a training period performed in place of a regularly
       scheduled UTA or TP missed, due to a member’s personal emergency.
       3.1.4. Additional Flying Training Periods (AFTP) - a training period that may be
       authorized for members who must fly frequently.
       3.1.5. Readiness Management Period (RMP) - a planned period that is used to
       accomplish readiness/training requirements that are a minimum of 4 hours in duration.
   3.2. Active Duty for Training (ADT). A tour of active duty for Reserve training under
   orders which provided for automatic reversion to non-active duty status when the specific
   period of active duty is completed. It includes Annual Training (AT), special tours of ADT
   and school tour, and Active Duty for Support (ADS), which are funded from the Reserve
   Personnel Appropriations (RPA). Also included are temporary tours of active duty support
   of active force mission which are funded from the Military Personnel Appropriation (MPA).
   Again, these duties are all performed in military status.
   3.3. Travel and Per Diem: Use the Joint Travel Regulations (JTR) for all specific guidance.
       3.3.1. Travel in civilian pay and per diem status solely to perform military duty is
       forbidden and vice versa. However, travel in civilian status to perform (any) civilian duty
       in conjunction with IDT or active duty is acceptable.
6                                                              433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012


       3.3.2. Travel and per diem may not be paid for travel to IDT except under limited
       circumstances involving duty away from home station. Reimbursement is limited to that
       authorized by the JTR.
    3.4. Attendance at formal schools: AFI 36-2254V1, Reserve Personnel Participation and
    Training Procedures, determines required duty status for formal schools.
    3.5. Duty Status Overseas
       3.5.1. Before sending ARTs overseas in civilian status, Commanders will ensure ARTs
       are briefed on legal ramifications, requirements, and proper immigration procedures for
       all countries that might be transited.
       3.5.2. ARTs may be in civilian status in all foreign areas NOT designated as active duty
       only by Air Force Reserve Command/Vice Commander (AFRC/CV) or the Wing
       Commander or as hostile fire/imminent danger areas by the Department of Defense
       (DoD), Air Force, or Air Mobility Command (AMC). ARTs may convert from civilian
       to active duty status while in flight at 0001 hours home station time. Current rules for
       conversion to and from military status still apply.
    3.6. Duty Status While Engaged in Training
       3.6.1. The duty status of ARTs while engaged in training is dependent upon the
       relationship of the training to the civilian position. If the training is solely related to the
       military requirements of the employee’s Reserve assignment and is not considered to be
       part of the technician’s duties, the employee must be in an appropriate leave status to
       attend that training during the civilian workday.
           3.6.1.1. Small arms training and chemical defense training (more commonly known
           as chemical warfare training) are two training situations that best represent this
           policy:
              3.6.1.1.1. Participating in small arms training during civilian workday is
              appropriate for security police, flight engineers, and aircraft loadmasters because
              the civilian position requires the employee to be qualified to carry small arms. In
              the case of the aircrew members, these employees carry duty of sky marshal and
              are responsible for protecting the aircraft. Pilots are not granted official time for
              this training because carrying a small arm is not part of their civilian position.
              This policy has been in effect since at least 1986 when HQ Air Force Reserve
              (AFRC)/Legal Office (JA) expressed concerns regarding injury/loss-of-life
              possibilities when an employee is engaged in such training. Their statement was
              ―...it is highly questionable as to whether the Office of Workers’ Compensation
              Programs (OWCP) would approve medical, compensation or death benefits..‖
              since the activity was not directly related to the performance of the civilian job.
              Additionally, they determined that the injury or death would not be considered
              ―line of duty‖ for military benefits since the employee was not in military status.
              3.6.1.1.2. Chemical defense training must be related to the civilian position
              (included in the position description) and/or required to qualify for the civilian
              position (included in the qualification standard) before it is appropriate to grant
              official time/excused absence for this training.
433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012                                                                 7


  3.7. Long Distance Flights. Long distance flights refers to those situations only where an
  employee departs his/her home station, arrives at another duty station and remains overnight
  at the remote duty station. Tours of duty and attendance reporting of air crew members on
  long distance flights are as follows. The ART aircrew member’s work will begin at the
  directed reporting time for preflight/preplanning duties based on the proposed takeoff time
  and will end upon completion of post flight duties and excusal from duty. Home station
  dates will be used. Changes that occur by crossing the International Date Line are to be
  ignored. Duty times will be recorded on a 24-hour basis in the hours of the time zone of the
  home station. If changes in duty status occur during the tour, the AFRC Form 4 must be
  completed and will be reviewed and certified by the aircraft commander. Explanations will
  be entered on the AFRC Form 4 for any late takeoffs.
  3.8. Pre-Mission Crew Rest. To the maximum extent possible, civilian aircrew duty days
  should be scheduled/adjusted to coincide with the flying schedule. When situations arise and
  aircrews are required to remain in crew rest past their scheduled workday reporting time or
  enter crew rest during the civilian workday, the following options apply:
     3.8.1. If an employee has already reported to work and is then placed into crew rest
     before the end of their regularly scheduled day they may be granted admin leave ―LN‖
     for the remainder of their regularly scheduled day. When they report back to work before
     midnight then the time between report and midnight is premium pay or credit time and
     the next duty day starts at midnight. Enter a comment in the remarks section of the
     AFRC Form 270 that includes the phrase ―required crew rest.‖ For example: A
     crewmember reported to work at their normal schedule time of 0700, at 1000 they are
     released for crew rest to be alerted at 2200 to report to work at 2300 the same day. The
     AFRC Form 270 would reflect 0700-1000 ―RG‖, 1000-1530 (with an appropriate meal
     period) as ―LN‖, 2300-2400 as ―CE‖, ―CD‖, and ―OU‖. The next duty day would begin
     at 0001.
         3.8.1.1. It is not appropriate to use LN for times when crew rest requirements are
         known in advance and overtime, compensatory time or credit hours will be earned as
         a result.
     3.8.2. If an employee is required to remain in crew rest past their scheduled workday
     reporting time, they may be granted LN from the normal start of their work day until
     reporting for duty but only when unforeseen circumstances (IAW paragraph 9.1.3.) occur
     which would jeopardize mission accomplishments if LN is not granted. Enter a comment
     in the remarks section of the AFRC Form 270 that includes the phrase ―required crew
     rest.‖ There are two occasions when this may be appropriate.
         3.8.2.1. Administrative Leave (LN) may be granted when the crewmember
         performed aircrew duties the day prior, and due to unforeseen circumstances, is
         subsequently scheduled to perform aircrew duties, to include Supervisor of Flying,
         the next day and cannot report to work at the regularly scheduled report time due to
         crew rest limitations. In this case, LN may be granted from the normal workday
         reporting time to the first time that the employee may report with crew rest. For
         example, a crewmember is accomplishing flight duties until 2330 and unforeseen
         circumstances require that crewmember to accomplish flight duties the next day. The
         crewmember has a normal civilian workday from 0700-1530.
8                                                          433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012


       3.8.3. Unforeseen circumstances are those where the planned schedule cannot be
       executed and mission accomplishment requires a crewmember to alter their schedule and
       depart duty location early or arrive after normal start time to comply with crew rest or
       Flight Duty Period. Normally, unforeseen circumstances are those which occur within 24
       hours prior to the scheduled mission. When circumstances can be rectified within an
       acceptable time frame (outside 24 hours or within local bargaining unit agreements) the
       civilian crew duty day should be adjusted to accommodate mission accomplishment.
       3.8.4. If the flight/flight duty for which the employee is in a crew rest status will be
       performed in civilian status, then no leave is to be charged.
       3.8.5. If the flight/flight duty for which the employee is in a crew rest status will be
       performed in military status, then the employee will either take annual leave, LWOP,
       accrued compensatory time off, or accrued credit hours, or adjust his/her duty day to
       accommodate the crew rest requirement.
    3.9. Changes in Duty Status.
       3.9.1. ARTs will convert to active duty status at 0001 hours local on the calendar day of
       departure from the last ground location prior to entering the foreign area designated as
       hostile fire/imminent danger/active duty only. Local time means the time at the last
       ground location prior to departure into the hostile fire/imminent danger/active duty only
       zone. ARTs will remain in active duty status until all of the following conditions are
       met–the active duty mission is terminated and on the ground, the individual is outside of
       hostile fire/imminent danger/active duty only designated foreign area, and the time is
       2400 hours based on the time zone in which the active duty began. At no time can an
       ART enter a hostile fire/imminent danger area in any status other than active duty
       military.
       3.9.2. Except as provided below, the duty status in which members depart home station
       will continue until they return. All periods of military duty must be scheduled in
       advance, meet normal Reserve participation requirements, and be annotated on official
       orders. Conversion duty status must be approved by an authority no lower than the
       orders authorizing official.
           3.9.2.1. If one or more inactive duty (IDT) periods are scheduled during home station
           flight training or while on temporary duty (TDY):
              3.9.2.1.1. Member will convert to IDT and back at times specified on the AF
              Form(s) 40/40a, Authorization for Inactive Duty Training/Record of Individual
              Inactive Duty Training or other scheduling documents.
              3.9.2.1.2. Civilian duty may be scheduled in conjunction with IDT flight training.
              Either preflight or post flight duties may be accomplished in IDT and/or civilian
              status as long as IDT duty requirements are met. Flight duty status conversions to
              or from IDT status are permitted in accordance with flight authorization
              documents. Endure duty status matches the status on the AFRO 781, Arms
              Aircrew/Mission/Flight Data Documents (AF Form 40A, AF Form 3956, AF
              Form 938, Request and Authorization for Active Duty Training/Active Tour etc.).
              RMPs may be used by a military technician before or after civilian duty hours, on
              a Scheduled Day Off (SDO) or weekend (If not part of the members normal work
433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012                                                                   9


              schedule.) However they may not be used by a military technician while in leave
              status from their civilian position. The number of RMPs performed in a Fiscal
              Year (FY) by any member shall not exceed 36 and no more than one RMP shall
              be performed by an individual in one calendar day.
              3.9.2.1.3. Crew rest may not be accomplished in IDT status.
              3.9.2.1.4. An IDT period may be completed on the same day as civilian duty
              provided a regularly scheduled civilian workday is completed or constructed
              using annual leave/military leave/accrued compensatory time off/LWOP/accrued
              credit hours.
          3.9.2.2. If one or more active duty periods are scheduled while TDY:
              3.9.2.2.1. All conversions from civilian to active duty or from active duty to
              civilian status will occur at 0001 hours, home station period.
              3.9.2.2.2. In-flight duty status conversions to or from active duty status are
              permitted at 0001 hours, home station time. Complete appropriate
              Aircrew/Mission Flight Data Document, IAW applicable Air Force and local
              directives. Include separate lines to record the flying time accomplished in each
              duty status.
          3.9.2.3. Conversion Procedures.      Orders are completed according to current
          guidance.
              3.9.2.3.1. Include a remark to annotate each conversion to active duty or civilian
              status at 0001 hours IAW with applicable order number. For example, ―member
              will convert to active duty status at 0001 on 12 September in accordance with
              Reserve Order Number D-245‖.
              3.9.2.3.2. Include a remark to indicate when IDT is authorized in conjunction
              with civilian TDY which identifies the dates and times of conversion. For
              example, ―Member will convert to IDT status on 12 September at 0800, revert to
              civilian status at 1700 on 12 September, convert to IDT status at 0800 on 13
              September, and convert to civilian status at 1700 on 13 September.‖
              3.9.2.3.3. An AFRC Form 4, Work Hours Report, will be completed during all
              civilian TDYs involving flying duties with conversion to/from military duty. The
              form will be turned in to the individual’s timekeeper at the completion of the
              mission.
4. Civilian Work Schedules. In completing this responsibility, management retains the right to
determine the number and kinds of employees required to be on duty during any given hour or
any given day in any given work section; to assure that essential work is being performed when
required based on manpower and mission; and to restrict an employee's choice of arrival and
departure times based on manpower and mission. Employees will be notified when work
requirements and/or times are changed.
   4.1. AFRC Wavier. AFRC has a waiver from HQ Air Force to the requirement that a 1-
   week notice be given prior to a change in an employee’s tour of duty. The employee must be
   notified before reporting for duty on the day of the change. This waiver applies to:
10                                                        433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012


     4.1.1. Aircrew on missions of more than one day’s duration
     4.1.2. Aircrew and ground support to meet special or essential unscheduled flying
     missions
     4.1.3. Aircrew and ground support performing weather reconnaissance or rescue
     missions
  4.2. Days of Duty. The calendar day on which a shift begins is considered the day of duty
  for that day even though the work schedule extends into the next calendar day only if a full
  workday cannot be performed by midnight. Management has the option of starting the next
  workday at 0001 or extending the workday and compensating the employee with
  overtime/compensatory time off for the additional hours. AFRC Sup to AFI 36-807, Weekly
  and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observances
  4.3. Basic Work Requirement. The basic work requirement is defined as the number of
  hours, excluding overtime hours; an employee is required to work or to account for by
  charging leave. Generally, a full-time employee's basic work requirement is 80 hours in a pay
  period. Full-time employees will be scheduled to work 80 hours and part-time employees
  (student help) will be scheduled to work not more than 64 hours per bi-weekly work period.
  An approved work schedule shall be maintained showing the planned arrival and departure
  for each day to support the time and attendance report. The basic civilian work week is an 8-
  hour day, Monday through Friday, beginning at the same time each day with half-hour, three-
  quarter, or one hour lunch periods. NOTE: For aircrew members on long-distance flights,
  duty will begin at the directed reporting time (showtime) for preflight/preplanning duties
  based on the proposed takeoff time and end upon completion of postflight duties and release
  from duty. Work scheduled in compliance with AFI 36-807/AFRC Sup becomes the crew
  member's regularly scheduled tour of duty.
  4.4. Alternative Work Schedules (AWS). Title 5, United States Code (U.S.C.), chapter 61,
  subchapter                II                               (http://uscode.house.gov/uscode-
  cgi/fastweb.exe?getdoc+uscview+t05t08+713+16++%28)                made the AWS program
  permanent in 1985 and establishes permanent authority for compressed and flexible work
  schedules. DoD 7000.14-R Volume 8 Paragraph 020206, Work Schedules sets the
  requirements to meet this authorization. Supervisors, at all levels, are authorized to approve
  AWS within their respective areas. Supervisors will be fair and equitable, and ensure work
  centers are properly manned in order to accomplish required work. Supervisors will not
  approve AWS when the obvious change is to avoid charges to military leave. AWS is a
  privilege. Exempt from an AWS, any employee or groups of employees whose participation
  would create an adverse impact on the mission. The program permits a variety of
  compressed and flexible work schedules. Employees requesting to use leave (annual, sick,
  and LWOP) or compensatory time off for the entire work shift will be charged an equivalent
  amount of time as the AWS shift scheduled for that workday. For example, AWS shift
  schedule is nine hours and employee requests sick leave, the employee will be charged nine
  hours of sick leave. NOTE: Military leave is charged in hourly increments.
     4.4.1. Compressed Work Schedule. A compressed schedule is a fixed schedule which
     enables the full-time employee to complete the basic work requirements of 80 hours in
     fewer than 10 full workdays in each biweekly pay period by increasing the number of
     hours in the workday. There are no flexible times in a compressed schedule. Employees'
433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012                                                                  11


      times of arrival and departure from work are set, as are the days on which they are to
      complete the basic work requirement. For employees working under compressed
      schedules, overtime pay will continue to be paid for work outside the compressed
      schedule (5 U.S.C. 6121                and 6128, (http://uscode.house.gov/uscode-
      cgi/fastweb.exe?getdoc+uscview+t05t08+713+16++%28). The two most common
      compressed schedules are the 4-10 and the 5-4/9 schedules. On the 4-10 schedule,
      employees work 10 hours a day for 4 days each workweek. On the 5-4/9 schedule,
      employees work 9 hours a day for 8 days, 8 hours for 1 day, and get 1 day off each pay
      period. Employees working a compressed work schedule shall be charged leave in
      accordance with their basic work schedule. For example, the work schedule is nine hours
      and the employee requests sick leave for the entire day, the employee will be charged
      nine hours of sick leave. Credit hours are not earned or available for use in a compressed
      schedule. Credit hours are earned and available only with flexible schedules.
      4.4.2. Flexible Work Schedules (FWS). Under certain flexible schedules, DoD civilian
      employees may work longer or shorter hours, including credit hours on any given
      workday, without taking leave or being paid overtime, so long as their basic biweekly
      work      requirements     are     met      (5     U.S.C.    6123)    (reference     (b)).
      (http://uscode.house.gov/uscode-
      cgi/fastweb.exe?getdoc+uscview+t05t08+708+16++%28). By electing to work hours
      in excess of their tour of duty, employees also may complete the biweekly basic work
      requirements in fewer than 10 workdays without being paid overtime or being charged
      leave for the non-workdays. Material variances or deviations, as determined by the FWS
      plan, shall be approved by the supervisor before the change occurs, if feasible, or
      promptly after occurring, if not feasible. As part of their approval of the change,
      supervisors or designees shall verify that the dates and amounts of material changes have
      been recorded in the appropriate time and attendance record. In the case of a full-time
      employee, an 80-hour biweekly work requirement allows an employee to develop a
      schedule within the limits set by the supervisor. A part-time employee develops a
      schedule for a biweekly work requirement of less than 80 hours.
         4.4.2.1. Core and Bandwidth Hours. Bandwidth Hours. The earliest time an
         employee can report for duty and the latest time an employee can stay at the end of
         the day. Core Hours. The hours in which all employees are required to be at work or
         in a leave status. 433AWI 36-803 Table 1 establishes broad core and bandwidth
         hours for the Wing. Supervisors may follow the Wing designations or establish
         specific work center core and bandwidth hours depending on mission, safety,
         customer service, and supervisory requirements.

Table 1. Wing Core and Bandwidth Hours.
     SHIFT                      CORE HOURS                    BANDWIDTH HOURS
12                                                         433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012



       Day                          0900-1100                              0600-1800
                                    1300-1500

     Swing                          1700-1900                              1400-0200

     Mids                           0100-0300                              2200-1000
                                    0500-0700

Note: Some schedules, such as Maxiflex shown below in 433 AWI 36-803 paragraph
4.4.2.2.4. and First 40-Hours (see 433 AWI 36-803 paragraph 4.4.2.2.5.) have no Bandwidth
or Core hour requirements.

         4.4.2.2. The following are examples of various flexible work schedules:
             4.4.2.2.1. Flextime is a flexible work schedule that splits the tour of duty into two
             distinct kinds of time: core hours and flexible hours. Under any flextime
             schedule, an employee must be at work or on approved absence during core hours
             and must account for the total number of hours he or she is scheduled to work.
             4.4.2.2.2. Flexitour is a work schedule in which an employee, once having
             selected starting and stopping times within the flexible hours, continues to adhere
             to these times. Further opportunities to select different starting and stopping
             times may be provided subsequently by the employing activity.
             4.4.2.2.3. Gliding schedule is a flexible work schedule in which an employee has
             a basic work requirement of 8 hours in each day and 40 hours in each week.
             Employees may select an arrival time each day and may change that arrival time
             daily as long as it is within the established flexible hours.
             4.4.2.2.4. Maxiflex Schedule: Full time basic work requirement consists of 80
             hours in a biweekly pay period. Maxiflex schedules provide for flexible time
             bands at the start and end of the workday and may also allow for flexible hours at
             midday (during the lunch break). Maxiflex schedules may be set up with or
             without core hours. When core hours are used employees must work during core
             hours or use leave, credit hours or compensatory time off. Employees may vary
             arrival and departure times on a daily basis during the established flexible hours.
             However, the schedules may be set without core hours thus providing maximum
             flexibility for employees. Employees may work less than 10 days biweekly when
             core hours are not set on one or more workdays.
             4.4.2.2.5. First 40-Hours. The first 40 hours of duty performed within a period of
             no more than six days of the administrative workweek may be established as the
             basic workweek when it is impractical to prescribe a regular schedule of definite
             hours of duty each workday.
      4.4.3. Alternative Work Schedule Procedures.
         4.4.3.1. Employees may request a change to the normal work shift by completing an
         AWS worksheet. Use 433 AW Form 1, Alternative Work Schedule Worksheet.
433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012                                                                  13


         4.4.3.2. Worksheets will be turned in to the supervisor for review no later than
         termination of the work shift on the Wednesday prior to the start of the affected bi-
         weekly work period. Once approved, the AWS schedule remains in effect until a new
         schedule is requested and approved. Changes to an already approved AWS cannot be
         made for the current bi-weekly work period unless mission requirements or
         emergency situations require exceptions to these procedures. A corrected AWS
         worksheet will be accomplished, an explanation entered into the Remarks/Comments
         starting reason for change, and returned to the supervisor not later than one day
         following the change.
         4.4.3.3. Supervisors will retain and file the approved AWS worksheet in the
         employee's work folder 433 AWI 36-803 paragraph 2.1.2. and provide a copy of the
         worksheet to the employee. Coordinate AWS schedules and any changes with the
         timekeeper.
  4.5. Lunch Periods.
     4.5.1. The lunch period must be at least at 30 minutes in length and is to be observed
     during the midday time frame. For example, on a workday of 730-1630, lunch should
     be taken between 1100-1300. It is inappropriate to schedule and take a lunch period at
     the beginning or end of the civilian workday.
     4.5.2. When absolutely necessary, compensable on-the-job meals are authorized. For
     compensation, the following situations must exist:
         4.5.2.1. More than one 8-hour shift is in operation during a 24-hour period and an
         overlapping of shifts to permit time off for lunch is not feasible. An on-the-job lunch
         period of 20 minutes or less may be authorized.
         4.5.2.2. When lunch is consumed in flight, an on-the-job lunch period not to exceed
         20 minutes is authorized.
         4.5.2.3. When mission requirements preclude a lunch break, e.g. maintenance being
         performed on a launching aircraft or long-duration flights, an on-the-job lunch period
         of 20 minutes or less may be authorized. Employee will not be charged for a lunch
         break. NOTE: The requirement to take a lunch period cannot be waived on the basis
         of an aircrew member flying an AFTP. Also, if sufficient time on the ground is
         available for an employee to take a 30-minute or longer lunch period, a 20-minute on-
         the-job lunch period may not be granted. The actual time away from the work site
         will be documented on AFRC Form 4. In those instances where lunch is consumed in
         flight; e.g. long distance flights, appropriate justification will be documented on
         AFRC Form 4. See AFI 36-807 and AFRCI 36-803. Requests for a 20-minute paid
         lunch on a continuing basis must be approved at the Group level and a copy of the
         approved request placed in the employee’s time card folder (see 433 AWI 36-803
         Atch 9). This schedule will also be clearly documented on the time card and on the
         work week schedule worksheet for the period this schedule is maintained.
     4.5.3. Employees who are subject to a maxiflex work schedule that allows for some
     workdays with fewer than 6 hours in a day may not be required to observe a lunch period
     on workdays with fewer than the 6 hours (subject to local determination and bargaining
     unit agreements).
14                                                        433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012


     4.5.4. A 20-minute on-the-job lunch period is authorized for aircrew members for any
     long duration flight regardless of the distance flown or the need for an over-night stay at
     another location. Long duration flights are defined as those flights performed in civilian
     status where the flight briefing, flight time, and post mission duties equal or exceed 80
     percent of aircrew member's regularly scheduled civilian duty day. This places the
     employee well beyond the midday timeframe when the lunch period is taken.
     4.5.5. This policy does not apply to active duty military flights, AFTPs, AGTPs, or short
     civilian training flights that occur during the midday timeframe. In addition, the 20-
     minute on-the-job lunch period is only authorized for long duration flights in those
     instances where it is not possible for the employee to take a meal break on the ground,
     whether it is during the flight briefing or post mission duty period. Refer to AFRCI 36-
     803
  4.6. Hours of Work.
     4.6.1. Constructive Credit Hours. When TDY on a scheduled workday and through no
     fault of the employee, an employee starts work but less than 8 hours of work are
     performed, the employee is credited with 8 hours total duty. (EXAMPLE: Employee
     reports as directed at 0600, takes off at 0800, lands at 1200, performs post flight duties,
     and is excused at 1300; that individual is credited with 7 hours of work and 1 hour of
     constructive credit (annotate AFRC Form 4, to reflect the number of hours actually
     worked and the number of hours of excusal from duty (constructive credit hours)) on that
     day. Use constructive credit hours when computing regular hours but not when
     computing overtime hours (use Administrative Leave code (LN) on the timecard).
     Regardless of the reason and whether or not it is within the employee’s control, if
     employees (for example, aircrew members) do not report for work they are placed in the
     appropriate leave category or have their workweek rescheduled. Constructive credit
     hours may not be granted if there is no work to be performed at the TDY location and it
     is known prior to the start of the employee’s civilian workday. In addition, constructive
     credit hours may not be granted at home station. Refer to AFRCI 36-803 the following
     options are to be considered in scenarios in which the granting of constructive credit
     might be appropriate:
        4.6.1.1. Send the aircrew in active duty military status. The issues of taking leave,
        use of constructive credit, loss of per diem, and earning overtime/compensatory time
        are then nonexistent.
        4.6.1.2. Have the employee report to work each day. If there is insufficient work for
        a full 8 hours, the granting of constructive credit may be appropriate. In those rare
        cases where it is known in advance that work will not be available, this option is not
        appropriate.
        4.6.1.3. Reschedule the workweek so that scheduled days off fall on ―down days‖,
        where possible, to minimize the possible use of leave.
        4.6.1.4. Send the aircrew home, keeping only the minimum number of crew required
        to be with the aircraft at the TDY location. This decision is made on the basis of
        commercial or available military air versus the cost of travel pay and paying
        employees when no work will be performed.
433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012                                                                     15


          4.6.1.5. Charge the employee leave on down days. Since the decision on whether or
          not an aircrew member will have to work is usually made on a daily basis, this should
          not be a recurring scenario. Refer to AFRCI 36-803
      4.6.2. "Deadheading" and Time Spent Traveling. Time spent traveling is considered
      hours worked if the travel is during regular working hours, or during hours on non-work
      days (applies to Fair Labor Standard ACT (FLSA) employees only) that correspond to
      regular working hours or if the employee is required to perform work while traveling.
      Accordingly, ―deadhead‖ time (duty time accrued by aircrew members in a passenger or
      Additional Crew Member (ACM) status not accomplishing crew duties), while not
      creditable under (FLSA), is creditable under Title V as hours worked. ―Waiting time‖
      (prior to takeoff), since no actual work was performed is not creditable under FLSA. (5
      C.F.R.,         Section         550.112        (http://ecfr.gpoaccess.gov/cgi/t/text/text-
      idx?c=ecfr&sid=6ec4e962fe9b39e75f4d6678ce4d             )    and     Section     551.422)
      (http://ecfr.gpoaccess.gov/cgi/t/text/text-
      idx?c=ecfr&sid=6ec4e962fe9b39e75f4d6678ce4d)
      4.6.3. Time Spent On Standby or in an On-Call Status.
          4.6.3.1. An employee will be considered on duty and time spent on standby shall be
          considered hours of work if:
             4.6.3.1.1. The employee is restricted to an agency’s premises, or so close thereto
             that the employee cannot use the time effectively for his or her own purposes; or
             4.6.3.1.2. The employee, although not restricted to the agency’s premises:
                  4.6.3.1.2.1. Is restricted to his or her living quarters or designated post of
                  duty;
                  4.6.3.1.2.2. Has his or her activities substantially limited; and
                  4.6.3.1.2.3. Is required to remain in a state of readiness to perform work.
          4.6.3.2. An employee will be considered off duty and time spent in an on-call status
          shall not be considered hours of work if:
             4.6.3.2.1. The employee is allowed to leave a telephone number or to carry an
             electronic-device for the purpose of being contacted, even though the employee is
             required to remain within a reasonable call-back radius; or
             4.6.3.2.2. The employee is allowed to make arrangements such that any work
             which may arise during the on-call period will be performed by another person.
             (5 C.F.R. 551.431), Time spent on standby duty or in an on-call status.
             (http://ecfr.gpoaccess.gov/cgi/t/text/text-
             idx?c=ecfr&sid=c2b8327129df4b8a08c4cb9e8792f4b6&rgn=div8&view=text
             &node=5:1.0.1.2.73.4.80.11&idno=5)
5. Premium Pay.
   5.1. Entitlement. Employees who work beyond their regular schedule, on Sunday, on
   holidays, or between the hours of 1800 and 0600 may be entitled to additional pay such as
   overtime, Sunday premium, holiday pay and/or night differential. General Schedule (GS)
   employees cannot earn compensatory time for work performed during normal duty hours on
16                                                         433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012


  either a holiday or day on which the holiday is observed. Premium pay for the holiday is
  required. See DoD 7000.14-R Volume 8 Paragraph 0303.
  5.2. Overtime and Compensatory Time. Overtime and compensatory time will be approved
  on an AF Form 428, prior to performance of work in accordance with 433 AWI 36-803
  Attachment 2. In an emergency, a supervisor may verbally approve compensatory time
  earned with completion of an approved AF Form 428 not later than the next workday.
  Specific justification of work to be performed will be included on all AF Form 428 requests.
  Separate AF Forms 428 will be submitted for each pay period. No lump sum approvals will
  be made in advance except for specific reasons; e.g., airlift missions or special projects.
  Supervisors will ensure employees do not exceed the maximum number of bi-weekly
  compensatory hours allowed. Supervisors will forward the approved AF Form 428 to the
  timekeeper for retention until the end of the pay period to which it pertains and verify posted
  entries on the T&A report.
     5.2.1. Under the (FLSA), non-exempt employees must be paid overtime for work in
     excess of 40 hours in a basic work week unless compensatory time is requested. Exempt
     employees may choose to earn compensatory time in place of payment for an equal
     amount of time spent in occasional or irregular overtime work. They may not earn
     compensatory time for regularly scheduled overtime. Compensatory time cannot be
     earned for holiday work. Guidance given in DoD 7000.14-R, Volume 8, paragraph
     030302.
     5.2.2. GS employees whose basic rate of compensation exceeds the minimum rate of
     GS-10 (step 1) may be required to earn compensatory time instead of overtime.
     Compensatory time earned may not be used in lieu of premium pay for regularly
     scheduled overtime. Guidance given in DoD 7000.14-R, Volume 8, paragraph 030302.
     5.2.3. Federal Wage System (FWS) employees (e.g., Wage Grade (WG) or Wage
     Supervisor (WS) may also earn and use compensatory time. The same considerations for
     exempt and non-exempt status under the FLSA apply.
     5.2.4. Except under certain circumstances, overtime or compensatory time may not be
     earned while in TDY or formal training. An employee on an 8-hour day work schedule
     assigned to training is counted as being in training for the same number of hours he or
     she is in pay status during the training assignment. An agency may not use its funds to
     pay premium pay to an employee engaged in training. CFR Title 5, Ch 1, Part 410
     Training provides detailed guidance.
     5.2.5. The approving official for authorizing overtime work, whether it is compensated
     by paid overtime or compensatory time off , will be the Group Commander, Senior
     ARTs or higher. Under some circumstances the requester and approving official may be
     the same person. Coordination with the Financial Management Office is required to
     certify funds availability if this information has not been previously provided to Group
     officials.
     5.2.6. The limit for use of compensatory time is the end of the 26th pay period after that
     in which the overtime was worked. The unused compensatory time then shall be paid at
     the overtime rate at which it was earned. The use of compensatory time for leave
     purposes requires supervisor approval. Refer to DoD 7000.14-R, Vol 8, paragraph 0510.
433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012                                                                  17


   5.3. Pay Cap. Compensatory time granted is subject to the aggregate salary limitations in
   Title         5         U.S.C.         5547            (http://uscode.house.gov/uscode-
   cgi/fastweb.exe?getdoc+uscview+t05t08+581+0++%28)
   5.4. Compensatory Time Off for Travel. Although compensatory time is normally viewed in
   the premium pay category, compensatory time off for travel does not follow the same rules
   and is actually a form of leave. Compensatory time off for travel is covered in 433 AWI 36-
   803 paragraph 7.8.5.
   5.5. Night Differential Entitlement for Air Crew Members. AFRCI 36-803 authorizes senior
   ARTs to establish daily hours for beginning and ending work. For aircrew members on long-
   distance flights, the tour of duty and daily hours of work are governed by and charged each
   day based on the directed reporting for duty time. The crew member’s work will begin at the
   directed reporting time for preflight/preplanning duties based on the proposed take off time
   and will end upon completion of post-flight duties and excusal from duty. Work scheduled
   in accordance with this supplement becomes the crew member’s regularly scheduled tour of
   duty. When regularly scheduled work is performed between the hours of 1800 and 0600, in
   the time zone where the duty began, night differential pay is appropriate for GS employees.
   Night differential pay is payable in addition to premium pay for regularly scheduled
   overtime. Night differential pay is not appropriate with irregular or occasional overtime.
      5.5.1. Night differential pay is authorized for work performed by an employee between
      1800-0600 except for irregular or occasional overtime work. Unless the employee's
      regularly scheduled daily tour of duty falls within the above hours, hours work between
      1800-0600 are considered to be irregular or occasional overtime work and no entitlement
      to night differential pay exists.
      5.5.2. If the employee's daily tour of duty is temporarily changed and falls between
      1800-0600, any hours of work beyond the basic workday are considered to be irregular or
      occasional overtime and night differential is not authorized for those hours.
      5.5.3. If the employee's regularly scheduled daily tour of duty includes hours of work
      performed between 1800-0600, and those hours of work also include regularly scheduled
      overtime, then night differential is authorized for both the basic workday and the
      overtime hours worked between 1800-0600.
      5.5.4. If the employee works their regular daily tour of duty, and then performs
      additional work all additional hours are considered to be irregular or occasional overtime
      and night differential is not authorized for those hours.              (5 CFR 550.121)
      (http://ecfr.gpoaccess.gov/cgi/t/text/text-
      idx?c=ecfr&sid=6ec4e962fe9b39e75f4d6678ce4d)
6. Military Duty.
   6.1. Inactive Duty for Training.
      6.1.1. Additional Flying Training Periods and Additional Ground Training Periods.
          6.1.1.1. AF Form 3956, Report of Inactive Duty Training Performance AGTP/AFTP
          (USAFR). For use by aircrew personnel only, these forms will be kept by the unit of
          assignment and maintained IAW AFMAN 33-363. Each unit/staff office will
18                                                        433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012


         appoint, in writing, personnel who are designated to certify AF Form 3956, and file a
         copy of the delegation in their respective area.
         6.1.1.2. After completion of an AFTP or AGTP, employees will report directly to the
         supervisor or timekeeper to complete verification of duty. The timekeeper verifies
         appropriate leave has been charged and initials the AF Form 3956. ARTs submit the
         AF Form 3956 to the supervisor at the end of each pay period. Supervisors or
         timekeepers will file a copy of the completed AF Form 3956 as supporting
         documentation and forward the original copy to 433 AW/FMP for pay.
     6.1.2. Unit Training Assembly/Equivalent Training.
         6.1.2.1. When an employee is also a member with a Reserve or National Guard
         component, the employee's assigned military unit will provide notification to the
         civilian supervisor of regularly scheduled UTA dates. The civilian supervisor will
         verify employee's civilian pay record is properly documented to preclude dual
         compensation.
         6.1.2.2. For Rescheduled Unit Training Assemblies (RUTA), Training Periods (TP),
         and Equivalent Training Periods (ET), employees will report to their civilian
         supervisor to have them verify that the civilian pay records are properly documented
         and to preclude dual compensation. ARTs will record civilian duty hours in the
         Remarks block of the AF Form 40A. Timekeepers will initial the Remarks block of
         the AF Form 40A.
  6.2. Active Duty.
     6.2.1. Employees who are also members with a Reserve or National Guard component
     (traditional reservists/guardsmen) will submit a certified copy of all active duty orders
     (AF Forms 938, Request and Authorization for Active Duty Training/Active Tour) to their
     civilian supervisor or timekeeper for submission to civilian pay. Include a copy of orders
     with timesheet.
     6.2.2. After completion of an active duty tour, employees will submit a certified AF
     Form 938, Request for Authorization for Active Duty Training/Active Tour to their
     supervisor or timekeeper who will ensure appropriate leave has been taken. Timekeepers
     will sign Item 48 on the AF Form 938. 433 AW Military Pay (433 AW/ Financial
     Management, Financial Services (FMF) will not process any AF Forms 938 without the
     timekeeper's signed statement.
  6.3. Appropriate types of leave for military duty:
     6.3.1. Military Leave (LM) can only be used to cover periods of military duty/travel that
     overlap the employee’s civilian duty hours and can only be taken in 1 hour increments.
     NOTE: Military leave must be rounded down to the nearest hour; cannot be rounded up
     (i.e., military duty overlapped civilian duty hours for 2.5 hours which would allow
     military leave to be used for 2 hours and a half hour must be another type of appropriate
     leave.)
     6.3.2. Annual Leave (LA).
     6.3.3. Compensatory Time (CT).
433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012                                                                      19


       6.3.4. Credit Hours (CN).
       6.3.5. Compensatory Time for Travel (CF).
       6.3.6. Leave Without Pay (LWOP-Uniformed Services (US)) = (KG). If employees
       choose to use LWOP instead of the other types of leave described above when
       performing military duty that overlaps their civilian duty hours, the LWOP-US Code
       (KG) must be used. Military Duty: All military duty performed by an employee will be
       approved, in advance, by the supervisor. Submit an Office of Personnel Management
       (OPM) Form 71 or appropriate form. Use of military leave will be verified by the
       supervisor and timekeeper prior to military orders being submitted for pay.
   6.4. Absences From Duty While in Military Status. Employees performing military duty
   during scheduled civilian work hours will be in an appropriate leave status. See AFI 36-815,
   Absence and Leave paragraph 5.8.
       6.4.1. Hours in the civilian workday that are not chargeable to military leave must be
       worked or charged to another leave category as appropriate.
       6.4.2. Employees who begin military duty after completion of their full civilian workday
       are entitled to civilian pay without charge to leave even though they receive a full day's
       military pay. However, when an employee receives military duty pay for consecutive
       days of active duty, the employee will be in an appropriate leave status to receive pay
       from their civilian position for the same respective days. If, at the end of the military
       duty, an employee reports to the civilian workplace at the beginning of the regular tour of
       duty, the employee is entitled to received civilian pay without charge of leave for that
       day. If the employee is released from active duty on the last day after the start of the
       civilian duty day, leave must be charged to cover the period of overlap with the civilian
       duty day. Refer to 433 AWI 36-803 Table 2
       6.4.3. To the maximum extent possible, civilian aircrew duty days should be
       scheduled/adjusted to coincide with the flying schedule. When situations arise and
       aircrews are required to remain in crew rest past their scheduled workday reporting time
       or enter crew rest during the civilian workday, the following options apply:
          6.4.3.1. If the flight/flight duty for which the employee is in crew rest status will be
          performed in civilian status, then no leave is to be charged.
          6.4.3.2. If the flight/flight duty for which the employee is in a crew rest status will be
          performed in military status, then the employee will either take annual leave, LWOP,
          accrued compensatory time off, or accrued credit hours, or adjust his/her duty day to
          accommodate the crew rest requirement.
       6.4.4. Employees who perform IDT during their scheduled civilian workday will be in an
       appropriate leave status for the period of time the IDT overlaps their civilian workday.
       Employees will be in an appropriate leave status beginning at directed show time and
       when performing mission planning, preflight, and post-flight duties associated with an
       AFTP. See AFI 36-807, AFRCI 36-803 and AFMAN 36-8001, for additional guidance.

Table 2. Table of Conversions.
 R A                                              B
20                                                          433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012


U
L
E
     If employee is converting from civilian     Then
     status to

1    Active duty status after civilian duty hours No leave is charged (examples 1, 4, 5, and 6)


2    Active duty status during civilian duty     Leave is charged (examples 2 and 3)
     hours

3    Active duty status for consecutive day      Leave is charged (example 7)


4    Inactive duty (IDT) status after civilian   No leave is charged (example 10)
     hours

5   Inactive duty (IDT) status during civilian    Leave is charged (example 8 and 9)
    hours
NOTE: When in a TDY status converting from civilian to military or vice versa, conversions
begin at 0001 hours and ends at 2400 hours.
Example 1. Employee's regularly scheduled civilian workweek is Monday through Friday,
0730-1630, with a 1-hour lunch break from 1130-1230. Employee is ordered to active duty on
Monday at 1700 and released from duty at 2300 on the same day. No charge to leave is
required because individual completed regularly scheduled civilian workday prior to start of
active duty tour.
Example 2. Employee has the same civilian tour of duty as example 1. Employee is ordered
to active duty on Monday at 1700 and released from duty on Tuesday at 1730. No leave is
charged for Monday because military duty began after employee's regularly scheduled civilian
workday. Leave is charged for Tuesday because of consecutive active duty.
Example 3. Employee's regularly scheduled civilian workweek is Monday through Friday,
0730-1630, with a 1-hour lunch break from 1130-1230. Employee is ordered to active duty for
three consecutive tours on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday at 1630 each day and released
from duty at 2300 each day. Leave is not charged for Monday because military duty began
after employees regularly schedule civilian workday. Leave is charged for both Tuesday and
Wednesday because the military duty tours are consecutively performed even though each tour
began after employee's regularly scheduled civilian workday.
Example 4. Employee's regularly scheduled civilian workweek is Monday through Friday,
0730-1630, with a 1-hour lunch break from 1130-1230. Employee is ordered to active duty for
3 one-day tours at 1630 on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. Employee is released from duty
each day in sufficient time to arrive home prior to 2400. Consecutive days have not been
performed and no leave is charged. Each active duty tour began after employee's regularly
scheduled civilian workday, and employee was released and arrived home prior to midnight.
When an employee is entitled to and receives travel days for an active duty tour on Monday or
Wednesday, leave is charged for Tuesday and Thursday.
433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012                                                                   21


 Example 5. Employee's regularly scheduled civilian workweek is Monday through Friday,
 0730-1630, with a 1-hour lunch break from 1130-1230. Employee is ordered to active duty for
 three consecutive days on Friday at 1630 and released on Sunday. No leave is charged.
 Employee's active duty tour began after the regularly scheduled civilian workday on Friday
 and released from duty before the start of the regularly scheduled workday on the following
 Monday.
 Example 6. Employee has the same civilian tour of duty as example 5. Employee is ordered
 to active duty for four consecutive days at 1630 on Friday and released the following Monday
 at 1200. Leave is charged for Monday because employee was unable to report for regularly
 scheduled civilian duty at 0730 even though employee may have worked in civilian capacity
 for the remainder of workday. No leave is charged for Friday because active duty tour began
 after employee's regularly scheduled civilian workday. No leave is charged for Saturday or
 Sunday. Appropriate hours of leave would be charged if employee's active duty began before
 the end of the regularly scheduled civilian workday on Friday.
 Example 7. Employee has the same civilian tour of duty as example 5. Employee is ordered
 to active duty on Monday at 1700 and is released at 0200 Tuesday. Employee reports to
 civilian duty at 0730 on Tuesday and performs regularly scheduled civilian tour on Tuesday
 and Wednesday. Employee is ordered to active duty on Wednesday at 1700 and released on
 Thursday at 0200. No leave is charged for Monday or Thursday because the employee was
 able to report to the civilian workplace prior to the start of the regularly scheduled workday.
 Appropriate leave would be charged in overlap situations.
 Example 8. Employee's regularly scheduled civilian workweek is the same as example 5.
 Employee is scheduled to fly an AFTP at 1530. Leave is required from 1530-1630. Employee
 is not authorized to work through the scheduled lunch period or adjust start time of civilian
 workday to avoid taking appropriate leave.
 Example 9. Employee's regularly scheduled civilian workweek is Monday through Friday,
 0700-1600, with lunch from 1100-1200. Employee elects to fly an Additional Flying Training
 Period (AFTP) from 1100- 1500. From 1100-1200 (lunch hour) no leave will be charged;
 however, three hours of leave will be charged from 1200-1500. Workdays will not be split to
 perform an AFTP, Additional Ground Training Period (AGTP), or Equivalent Training (ET).
 Employees cannot work portions of the regularly scheduled civilian workday, perform an
 AFTP, AGTP, or ET, and then complete the remaining portion of the workday without taking
 leave.
 Example 10. Employee's regularly scheduled workweek is the same as example 9. Employee
 elects to work IDT from 1630-0030. No charge to leave is required. Duties associated with
 flying may require leave to comply with crew duty day requirements.

7. Leave.
   7.1. General Information. The following guidance is provided concerning the administration
   of the leave program, particularly with respect to those circumstances in which management
   must approve an employee's request for leave and those circumstances in which management
   may exercise discretion in granting, denying or canceling leave. Law and OPM regulations
   permit agencies and activities to exercise a great deal of discretion in establishing their
   policies, instructions, and guidance, or provisions of negotiated agreements, and such
22                                                          433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012


  documents should be consulted to determine if they modify the guidance presented herein or
  establish other policies or procedures which are unique to the activity.
  7.2. Authority to Approve, Deny, or Cancel Leave. Normally, authority to approve leave
  requests is delegated to the lowest supervisory level having personal knowledge of the work
  requirements and of the employee's leave record. It is good practice to designate, in writing,
  a primary and an alternate approving authority. In some instances, approval of leave requests
  is mandated by statue, Executive Order, or regulation (see AFI 36-815, paragraphs 3.8 and
  4.1). In other instances approval of leave requests is a discretionary matter. Normally,
  denial of a leave request or cancellation of approved leave needs to be based on the necessity
  for the employee's services. Leave must not be denied or canceled for arbitrary or capricious
  reasons. Denial or cancellation of leave is not disciplinary in character and must not be used
  as a punitive measure.
  7.3. Recording Leave. All leave absences from civilian duty are to be documented with an
  approved OPM Form 71 or appropriate form. The recording of an absence in an approved
  category on an official time and attendance record upon which salary payments are made
  reflects approval of the absence. When leave has been requested, approved, and used by an
  employee, retroactive substitution of one category of leave for another category may only be
  made under conditions of law or regulation which permit a change in statutory rights. For
  example, an employee on approved annual leave becomes ill and upon return to duty requests
  substitution of sick leave for annual leave. An exception to this rule is the situation where it
  is subsequently established by audit that the employee submitted fraudulent documentation
  or misrepresented either the time taken or the reason for the absence. If an employee is
  absent without leave having been approved, it is appropriate that the time be recorded as
  Absent Without Leave (AWOL) and later changed to an approved leave category only when
  the approving authority determines that extenuating circumstances were such that the
  absence is improperly charged as AWOL.
  7.4. Supporting Evidence. Regardless of the duration of the absence, the authority may
  consider the employee's personal certification as acceptable evidence for some absences, or
  the authority may establish a limit on the length of the absence; e.g., in excess of 3 days, or
  may specify a leave category (sick leave or military leave) for which evidence is required
  (medical certification or military orders). When excessive absenteeism is developing, a
  supervisor may require documentation in addition to that required of other employees by
  providing the employee with a written notice explaining:
     7.4.1. The reason for requiring evidence.
     7.4.2. The type of acceptable evidence (certificate from a physician or such other
     practitioner as may be designated).
     7.4.3. The conditions for presentation of the evidence in order to obtain approval of
     subsequent leave requests.
     7.4.4. The consequences of not providing such evidence.
  7.5. Brief Periods Absence of Tardiness. Unavoidable absences less than one hour and
  tardiness may be excused by the supervisors for adequate reasons. When leave is charged, at
  the employee's request, use of annual or sick leave, or compensatory time, if available, will
  be used. Unauthorized tardiness or unauthorized absence during the workday may be
433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012                                                                 23


  charged as AWOL or LWOP if circumstances do not justify excusing the absence or
  approving leave as requested.
  7.6. Leave Balances. The supervisor, as well as the employee, is responsible for knowing
  whether the employee has enough accrued leave for the category of leave request.
  Employees have the responsibility for keeping their supervisors informed of their leave
  balance.
  7.7. Mandatory Approval of Leave Requests. There are instances in which approval of leave
  requests is mandatory. The mandatory requirement for granting leave is based on the
  assumption that the employee has followed leave procedures and has provided acceptable
  documentation. Such leave includes, but not limited to, treatment of disabled veterans;
  military service; pending retirement; other illness, injury, or pregnancy; and worker's
  compensation. See AFI 36-815, paragraphs 3.8 and 4.1
  7.8. Approval of Leave Requests. Approval of requests for the following types of leave is
  discretionary under the circumstances indicated.
     7.8.1. Sick Leave. Except for mandatory sick leave requests 433 AWI 36-803 paragraph
     7.7, requests for sick leave non-emergency medical, dental, or optical examination or
     treatment, and requests for advance sick leave, even though submitted with proper
     evidence, may be denied if it is determined that the employee's services are needed. If
     the employee fails to follow prescribed procedures for requesting or documenting either
     emergency or non-emergency sick leave, the approving authority may deny the request if
     he or she considers that such extenuating circumstances that would warrant approval did
     not exist.
     7.8.2. Annual Leave. Assuming the employee has followed prescribed procedures for
     requesting leave, the employee has the absolute right to take annual leave. Approving
     authorities are not obligated to approve a request for annual leave, except as provided in
     433 AWI 36-803 paragraph 7.7, whether made in advance or on an emergency basis,
     when the employee's services are required during the period involved. However, the
     employee and management official concerned are responsible for scheduling annual
     leave, which cannot be approved as initially requested, at a time which is mutually
     agreeable to both parties. When an employee submits a formal and timely request for
     leave the supervisor must approve the leave either at the time requested by the employee,
     or at some other time, and failure to do so constitutes administrative error.
     7.8.3. Leave for Military Duty.
         7.8.3.1. Military leave, annual leave, accrued credit hours, accrued compensatory
         time off, or leave without pay may be used when performing military duty that
         overlaps with the civilian workday. Employees on a traditional fixed work schedule
         may not change that schedule just to avoid taking leave for the performance of
         military duty. Employees on a flexible work schedule or compressed work schedule
         that allows for changes in the tour of duty may change their schedule to avoid taking
         leave for the performance of military duty.
         7.8.3.2. Military leave be charged only for hours during which a civilian employee
         would otherwise have been scheduled to work and receive pay. This guidance
24                                                      433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012


     specifies that members of the Reserve and/or Guard will not be charged military leave
     for military service performed outside of the civilian workday.
        7.8.3.2.1. Military duty overlaps civilian duty day: military leave will be charged
        in minimum 1-hour increments and can only be used for the actual period of
        overlap; military leave may not be used for an entire civilian workday if the
        member was released from military duty/travel before the end of the civilian
        workday. Employees who request military leave for inactive duty training will be
        charged only the amount of military leave necessary to cover the period of
        training and necessary travel (portal to portal).
        7.8.3.2.2. Consecutive day rule: A full day of annual leave, 15-day/120 hours
        military leave, accrued compensatory time off, accrued credit hours, or Leave
        Without Pay – Uniform Service (LWOP-US) must be charged for civilian
        workdays on which consecutive days of active duty pay are earned (whether the
        consecutive days of active duty are covered on a single order or a series of orders)
        unless one or more of the following exceptions apply:
            7.8.3.2.2.1. If on the first day of active duty, the member is not required to
            report for military duty until after the civilian duty day ends, no leave is
            charged for that first day of active duty. If the member is required to report
            for military duty on the first day of the period of active duty after the
            beginning of the civilian duty day, leave must be charged to cover the period
            of overlap with the civilian duty day.
            7.8.3.2.2.2. If the member is completely released from active duty on the last
            of the consecutive days of active duty prior to the start of the civilian duty
            day, no leave is charged for the last day of active duty. If the member is
            released from active duty on the last day after the start of the civilian duty day,
            leave must be charged to cover the period of overlap with the civilian duty
            day.
            7.8.3.2.2.3. When an employee terminates a period of active duty no later
            than 2400 hours on one calendar day and a need arises on the next calendar
            day to call that member back to active duty, no leave will be required for the
            next calendar day IF:
              7.8.3.2.2.3.1. The member had been completely released from active duty
              on the previous day,
              7.8.3.2.2.3.2. The military need did not arise or become apparent until after
              the first active duty period ended and the employee is under civilian control,
              and
              7.8.3.2.2.3.3. No other person is available to serve the second period of
              active duty.
            7.8.3.2.2.4. Multiple orders authorizing consecutive days of active duty must
            be approved at the Group Commander level or higher. Appropriate
            documentation certifying this approval must be maintained and available for
            review.
433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012                                                                  25


           7.8.3.2.3. Intervening non-workday rule: No military leave will be charged for
           civilian non-workdays (weekends, holidays, Scheduled Days Off (SDOs)).
           Employees who choose to use or intermingle other appropriate forms of leave to
           perform military duty, i.e., annual leave, LWOP, accrued compensatory time off,
           or accrued credit hours, for the entire length of their active duty (whether it is
           covered by one set of orders or several), will not be charged military leave for
           intervening non-workdays that occur during that tour or consecutive tours. An
           ART must be off duty or in an official leave (annual leave, military leave, leave
           without pay, compensatory status or credit hours) from civil service when he or
           she is in a point–gaining activity.
        7.8.3.3. Payment of Military Leave While on Extended Active Duty (EAD). Federal
        employees who are also reservists, to include ARTs, and who serve on an extended
        active duty tour that spans 2 or more fiscal years, may accrue and be paid for 15 days
        of military leave at the beginning of each year. Two Requests for Personnel Action
        (RPA) are required for this process, one to return the employee to duty on the first
        civilian workday on or after 1 October and one to place the employee back in LWOP-
        US effective the calendar day following the 15th civilian workday. This is a paper
        exercise only, and is accomplished to enable personnel/payroll offices to track
        military service deposits for retirement purposes and entitle the employee to make up
        contributions to the Thrift Savings Plan (TSP). A copy of the Standard Form (SF) 50,
        Notification of Personnel Action (LRA) should be forwarded to the civilian payroll
        office as usual. Timekeepers should reflect paid and unpaid military leave used, as
        appropriate, on the timecard or in the civilian pay system.
        7.8.3.4. Use of New Allotment of Military Leave While on Active Duty (AD).
        Employees serving on an active duty tour of any length that spans no more than 2
        fiscal years, e.g., 15 Sep – 15 Oct, are not required to apply the new allotment of
        military leave that accrues on 1 October to their current tour, but may choose to use it
        later in the second fiscal year. Refer to AFI 36-815, Chapter 5.
        7.8.3.5. Twenty-Two (22) Day Military Leave. There are two conditions when an
        ART is authorized 22 days of military leave; in support of civil authorities in the
        protection of life property and those who perform full-time military service as a result
        of a call or order to active duty in support of a contingency operation. Although the
        DCPS code ―LL‖ (Law Enforcement) may be used it is recommended that ―KG‖
        (LWOP-US) be used until the member returns to duty in order to avoid any DFAS
        complications. During this period, an employee is entitled to the greater of civilian or
        military pay. A DFAS remedy ticket will apply leave to the days leave is required
        and adjust civilian pay recorded for any funds due to the employee. This action must
        be processed through the local FM representative. Employees may use LWOP-US
        intermittently with annual leave, military leave, compensatory time off, or credit time
        earned. An SF 50 should be used to document an employee’s use of LWOP-US for
        duty with the uniformed services of one day or longer. There is no AFRC
        requirement to process return-to-duty actions for each period of paid leave.
        7.8.3.6. Use of the 44 Days of Military Leave. In addition to the military leave
        already available the law also authorizes 44 additional workdays of military leave in a
        calendar year. There are conditions placed on the use of this leave that is addressed
26                                                    433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012


     below. Timekeepers should use the administrative leave code Military Leave (LN) to
     record use of this category of military leave and supervisors must maintain a manual
     log to track the number of hours used during the calendar year.
        7.8.3.6.1. Military leave under this section can only be used to perform ―active
        duty without military pay‖ for participation in combat and noncombat operations
        outside the United States, its territories and possessions. It is appropriate to use
        this leave on the day of deployment from home station, any intervening stops
        within the United States, its territories and possessions, and the day of return to
        home station as long as the ultimate destination on the military orders is an
        overseas location and any intermediate destinations/stops are part of the
        continuing mission. The following guidance regarding use and implementation of
        military leave is provided:
            7.8.3.6.1.1. This category of military leave is limited to federal employees
            who are military technicians, which includes ARTs.
            7.8.3.6.1.2. Military leave under this section can be commingled with
            traditional military leave, annual leave, leave without pay (LWOP), earned
            compensatory time, and credit hours.
            7.8.3.6.1.3. This military leave category is available on a calendar year basis
            and leftover balances cannot be carried over to the next calendar year. The 44
            days are converted into hours and charged on the same basis that annual leave
            is charged. ARTs who work 80-hour pay periods (including flexible and
            compressed work schedules) are entitled to a maximum of 352 hours. This
            category of military leave is charged for civilian workdays only. This means
            that if an ART chooses to use only this category of leave for a military tour of
            duty that includes weekends/holidays/scheduled days off (SDO), there would
            be no civilian pay received for those days.
            7.8.3.6.1.4. In order for an ART to receive any pay for a civilian non
            workday, a change to ―active duty with pay‖ status is required. This requires
            use of a separate AF Form 938 for each period of conversion. Changes to
            civilian duty status on workdays during the same military tour are also
            authorized and require either the use of a DD Form 1610, Request and
            Authorization for TDY Travel of DoD Personnel, AF Form 3956, or AF Form
            40A. Use of this military leave is at the employee’s discretion.
            7.8.3.6.1.5. Use of this category of military leave is not appropriate in
            Hawaii, Alaska, Puerto Rico, or Guam unless the ultimate destination on the
            military orders is an overseas location and one of these locations is an
            intermediate stop that is part of the continuing mission. Use of this category
            of military leave is appropriate for Panama at all times since it is no longer
            considered a US possession.
            7.8.3.6.1.6. Since the employee is on ―active duty without military pay‖, all
            jurisdictional issues are covered by the military system; i.e., the employee is
            covered under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), injury
            compensation is covered under line-of-duty procedures, reimbursement for
433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012                                                                 27


                travel, per diem, and lodging are computed based on military entitlements, etc.
                ARTs receive their basic civilian pay, to include premium pay for regularly
                scheduled overtime work that would have been earned during the period
                covered by this leave, and points toward Reserve retirement while in this duty
                status. Regularly scheduled overtime work means overtime work that is part
                of the employee’s regularly scheduled administrative workweek. Within
                AFRC this is usually only applicable to firefighters and law enforcement
                personnel. It does not apply to additional hours of work performed while
                TDY, callback overtime, or additional hours of work performed due to long
                distance flights. This is irregular or occasional work.
                7.8.3.6.1.7. Credit hours may not be earned while ―on active duty without
                pay‖ since the employee is in military status.
     7.8.4. Leave Without Pay (LWOP). Except as provided in paragraph A1.7, approval of a
     LWOP request is at the discretion of the supervisor. Even though the reason for
     requesting LWOP is known to be legitimate; e.g., illness, injury, or personal emergency,
     the request may be denied if the employee's services are required or if the employee has
     not followed prescribed leave procedures.
     7.8.5. Compensatory Time Off for Travel. (All policies under 433 AWI 36-803
     paragraph 7.8.5. relate to compensatory time off for travel, whether or not specifically
     stated.)
        7.8.5.1. Creditable Travel Time.
            7.8.5.1.1. Employees will be credited with compensatory time off for time in a
            travel status if the employee is required to travel away from the official duty
            station and the travel time is not otherwise compensable. All General Schedule
            (GS), National Security Personnel System (NSPS), and Federal Wage System
            (FWS) employees are eligible to accrue and request use of credited time off for
            travel. Travel within periods covered by an employee’s regular work schedule do
            not provide compensatory time off credit because the time is otherwise
            compensable. The same is true for employees who are covered by the provisions
            of the Fair Labor Standards Act and who are credited with certain hours of work
            when traveling on non-work days as well as any employee credited with
            performing work while traveling.
            7.8.5.1.2. Time in a travel status includes the time an employee actually spends
            traveling between the official duty station and a temporary duty station, or
            between two temporary duty stations, and the usual waiting time that precedes or
            interrupts such travel, excluding bona fide meal periods and extended (not usual)
            waiting time between actual periods of travel in which the employee is free to
            rest, sleep, or otherwise use the time for his or her own purposes. Deter-
            minations regarding what is creditable as ―usual waiting time‖ are within the sole
            and exclusive discretion of the employing agency. The time spent at a temporary
            duty station between arrival and departure cannot be credited as time in a travel
            status.
            7.8.5.1.3. If an employee is required to travel directly between his or her home
28                                                    433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012


        and a temporary duty station outside the limits of the employee’s official duty
        station, the travel time is creditable as time in a travel status if it meets all the
        criteria; however, the time the employee would have spent in normal home-to-
        work or work-to-home commuting is deducted.
        7.8.5.1.4. Employees who are offered one mode of transportation and who are
        permitted to use an alternative mode of transportation, or who travel at a time or
        by a route other than that selected by the agency, the agency must determine the
        estimated amount of time in a travel status the employee would have had if the
        employee had used the mode of transportation offered by the agency or traveled at
        the time and by the route selected by the agency. In determining time in a travel
        status, the agency must credit the employee with the lesser of the estimated time
        in a travel status or the actual time in a travel status.
        7.8.5.1.5. Employees who are on a multiple-day travel assignment and who
        choose, for personal reasons, not to use temporary lodgings at the temporary duty
        station, but to return home at night or on a weekend, only travel from home to the
        temporary duty station on the first day and travel from the temporary duty station
        to home on the last day that is otherwise qualifying as time in a travel status is
        mandatorily creditable (subject to the deduction of normal commuting time).
        Travel to and from home on other days is not creditable travel time unless the
        agency, at its discretion, determines that credit should be given based on the net
        savings to the Government from reduced lodging costs, considering the value of
        lost labor time attributable to compensatory time off. The dollar value of an hour
        of compensatory time off for this purpose is equal to the employee’s hourly rate
        of basic pay.
        7.8.5.1.6. If an employee is required to travel between home and a transportation
        terminal within the limits of his or her official duty station as part of travel away
        from that duty station, the travel time outside regular working hours to or from the
        terminal is considered to be equivalent to commuting time and is not creditable
        time in a travel status. If the transportation terminal is outside the limits of the
        employee’s official duty station, the travel time to or from the terminal outside
        regular working hours is creditable as time in a travel status, but is subject to an
        offset for the time the employee would have spent in normal home-to-work or
        work-to-home commuting. If the employee travels between a worksite and a
        transportation terminal, the travel time outside regular working hours is creditable
        as time in a travel status, and no commuting time offset applies.
     7.8.5.2. Crediting compensatory time off for travel.
        7.8.5.2.1. An employee must comply with his or her agency’s procedures for
        requesting credit of compensatory time off. Employees must file such requests
        within the time period required by the agency.
        7.8.5.2.2. Upon a request, an employee must receive credit for compensatory
        time off for travel under the conditions specified above.
        7.8.5.2.3. Credit will be authorized in increments of one-quarter of an hour (15
        minutes). Agencies must track and manage compensatory time off for travel
433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012                                                                29


           granted separately from other forms of compensatory time off.
        7.8.5.3. Usage of accrued compensatory time off for travel.
           7.8.5.3.1. An employee must request permission from his or her supervisor to
           schedule the use of his or her accrued compensatory time off for travel in
           accordance with agency-established policies and procedures.
           7.8.5.3.2. Compensatory time off for travel may be used when the employee is
           granted time off from his or her scheduled tour of duty established for leave
           purposes. An employee must use earned compensatory time off for travel in
           increments of one-quarter of an hour (15 minutes).
        7.8.5.4. Forfeiture of unused compensatory time off for travel.
           7.8.5.4.1. Except as provided in 433 AWI 36-803 paragraphs 5.8.5.4.2, an
           employee must use accrued compensatory time off by the end of the 26th pay
           period after the pay period during which it was credited. If an employee fails to
           use the compensatory time off within 26 pay periods after it was credited, he or
           she must forfeit such compensatory time off.
           7.8.5.4.2. In an employee with unused compensatory time off separates from
           Federal service or is placed in a leave without pay status in the following
           circumstances and later returns to service with the same (or successor) agency, the
           employee must use all of the compensatory time off by the end of the 26th pay
           period following the pay period in which the employee returns to duty, or such
           compensatory time off will be forfeited:
               7.8.5.4.2.1. The employee separates or is placed in a leave without pay status
               to perform service in the uniformed services and later returns to service
               through the exercise of a reemployment right provided by law, Executive
               order, or regulation; or:
               7.8.5.4.2.2. The employee separates or is placed in a leave without pay status
               because of an on-the-job injury with entitlement to injury compensation and
               later recovers sufficiently to return to work.
           7.8.5.4.3. When an employee voluntarily transfers to another agency (including a
           promotion or change to lower grade action), he or she must forfeit his or her
           unused compensatory time off.
           7.8.5.4.4. When an employee separates from Federal service, any unused
           compensatory time off is forfeited, except unused compensatory time off will not
           be forfeited but will be held in abeyance in the case of an employee who separates
           from Federal service and later returns to service with the same (or successor)
           agency under the circumstance described in 433 AWI 36-803 paragraph 7.8.5.4.2.
           7.8.5.4.5. When an employee moves to a Federal position not eligible for
           compensatory time off for travel, he or she forfeits any unused compensatory time
           off. This requirement does not prevent an agency from using another legal
           authority to give the employee credit for compensatory time off equal to the
           forfeited amount.
 30                                                             433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012


              7.8.5.4.6. An individual may not receive payment under any circumstances for
              any unused compensatory time off for travel he or she earned. This prohibition
              applies to surviving beneficiaries in the event of the individual’s death.
              7.8.5.4.7. Accrued compensatory time off under this program is not considered in
              applying premium pay limitations or an aggregate limitation on pay.
   7.9. Absence Without Leave. An absence from duty which is not authorized or approved
   (including leave which is not approved until required documentation is submitted), or for
   which a leave request has been denied, if properly recorded as AWOL. Recording an
   absence as AWOL is not a disciplinary action. It does not necessarily mean that the
   employee has insufficient reason for requesting leave, but rather the employee's presence is
   required and the reason for requesting leave is one for which approval is not mandatory.
   However, absences without approved leave can become the basis for initiating adverse
   action.
8. Excused Absences. Excused absences are those for which no charge to leave is made.
Examples include absences authorized for emergency work and contributions that are in the
interest of the public and the government. Refer to AFI 36-815, Chapter 8. Also included are
unavoidable absences for brief periods of less than one hour excused by the supervisor. Two of
the most common are use of official time for representational activities and excused absence for
participation by civilian employees in approved physical activities.
   8.1. Use of official time for representational activities.
   8.2. Excused Absence for Physical Activities for Civilian Employees. The Air Force
   recognizes that participation in physical fitness programs typically improves individual
   energy levels, job attitude, work performance, overall morale and reduces health care costs.
   Consequently, there are occasions when appropriated fund civilian employees may be absent
   from their normal assignments to participate in fitness activities meeting the requirements for
   excused absence. Health and Wellness activities have always been recognized as beneficial
   and supported by AF leadership. This instruction sets out the criterion that authorizes
   supervisors to excuse absences, enabling civilian employees to participate in physical
   activities on duty time. Physical conditioning is a responsibility of the employee; not a
   responsibility assumed by management. The employee is expected to present him/herself
   ready, willing and able to perform the duties of the position at the required level. Duty time
   for physical activity is not an employee right or entitlement; however, supervisors may grant
   employee requests that meet the criteria. This instruction is not intended to impact on the
   supervisors’ authority in or use of such things as compensatory time, credit hours or any
   other timekeeping or duty assignment responsibilities that may also be appropriate in
   covering time away from duty to participate in physical activities. This instruction is not
   intended to cover participation in programs related to spirit/morale activities such as picnics
   and organizational events or in such things as physical conditioning program requirements on
   the military side. These activities are addressed in other guidance.
       8.2.1. Physical activity programs should address cardiovascular/aerobic endurance,
       muscular strength and endurance, flexibility and body composition. For an activity to he
       considered aerobic, the heart rate should be elevated into the age and physical condition-
       specific training zone for at least 20 minutes. Walking, jogging and biking are examples
       of activities that give this result. Golfing, bowling and softball are examples of activities
433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012                                                                  31


     that do not. Muscular strength and endurance exercises increase lean body mass, protect
     joints and increase the body’s metabolism. Machines, free weights and general
     calisthenics are activities that provide these results. Flexibility exercises involve
     stretching all major muscles in the body and help reduce injury risk and promote
     flexibility and mobility at each joint. Stretching sequences at the beginning and end of
     exercise sessions promote this result. Body composition relates to the amount of muscle
     tissue and fat tissue in the body. High levels of body fat should be reduced through a
     combined program of aerobic activity and strength training.
     8.2.2. Excused absence without charge to leave or loss of pay for fitness activity will be
     as the mission and workload allow, in the judgment of the first-line supervisor.
     Mission/workload impacts are the key elements in making this decision. Full Time
     Employees (40 hours per week) may be authorized a maximum of 3 hours per week, non-
     cumulative, for physical activities. Part Time employees working at least 20 and up to 39
     hours per week may be authorized 1.5 hours per week. Time spent to change clothes,
     shower and clean up will be part of the time allowed. The time must be used in blocks of
     time that are 1.5 hours or less. Unused time from previous periods can’t be banked.
     Physical fitness periods cannot be combined with authorized breaks, but may be done in
     conjunction with the lunch period. Participation in the physical fitness program is
     restricted to the use of facilities under the direct control of the installation commander.
     8.2.3. The following procedures will apply under this authority.
        8.2.3.1. A request sheet must be completed by the employee and submitted to the
        first-level supervisor (Attachment 3).
        8.2.3.2. Employees wishing to participate in a local program must also get a
        statement from their primary care provider/physician certifying that physical fitness
        activities of the type requested are permitted and identifying any limiting conditions
        (see attachment 4). For Air Reserve Technicians and traditional reservists who are
        also civilian employees, the doctor’s statement certifying that physical fitness
        activities are permitted and identifying any limiting conditions can be signed by the
        employee’s primary health care provider. Any physical assessment shall be the
        responsibility of the employee and all costs will be borne by the employee.
        8.2.3.3. The supervisor will review the request and certification, consider mission
        requirements, review impact on workload and overtime, and notify the employee of
        approval or disapproval. The employee should be notified of disapprovals quickly
        and of the basis for the disapproval decision.
        8.2.3.4. Time Cards of participating employees must show the time and days used
        and the time card must also be annotated with code LNF along with the remark
        location and type of physical fitness.
     8.2.4. Medical reviews are for the purpose of determining the employee’s ability to
     undertake the activity requested. Supervisory reviews are for the purpose of making
     proper determinations on the use of official time and they include several considerations,
     only one of which is the medical determination made by competent authority. Other
     considerations include mission/workload requirements, availability of needed skills, and
     proper use of limited resources. Supervisors should ensure that primary and alternate
 32                                                         433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012


      employees are not absent at the same time and overtime and compensatory time should
      not be increased as a result of granting duty time under this program. First level
      supervisors have the authority to disallow participation for a short period of time due to
      mission requirements and/or vary the times the employee may participate. Official time
      granted under this authority is for the specific type of physical activity requested by the
      employee and cleared through medical evaluation. Any abuse of the official time granted
      or changes to the type or location of physical activity without supervisory approval could
      constitute misuse of official time and subject the employee to revocation of the privilege
      and to possible disciplinary action. It will be the responsibility of every supervisor to
      ensure this program is not compromised or abused. Oversight of this program should be
      performed by a higher level of management on a regular basis. Supervisors may adjust
      employee daily work schedules to accommodate an employee’s request to participate in a
      physical activity program, but are not required to make adjustments. If an employee
      utilizes the end of duty day to participate, the supervisor may excuse the employee from
      returning to duty station; however, it remains the supervisor’s responsibility to ensure
      that the program is not abused.
      8.2.5. The employee’s request for physical fitness time and the doctor’s certification
      should be filed in the, AF Form 971, Supervisor’s Employee Brief (Computer Generated),
      whether approved or disapproved. The supervisor should also post continued activity
      under this authority and file appropriate backup documentation.
9. Accounting and Records Maintenance.
   9.1. TIMECARD. All employees will use HQ AFRC Time Card to accurately record T&A
   during a pay period. Employees will fill the form out daily, attach required supporting
   documentation, sign, and turn in to the immediate supervisor at the end of each pay period.
   Supervisors will review and certify entries and supporting documentation, sign, and forward
   the form to the timekeeper. Timekeepers will ensure the information is entered into the
   DCPS, sign AFRC Form 270, AFRC Time Card to verify information was accurately
   transcribed, and generate a T&A report. A copy of both the T&A report and supporting
   documentation will be maintained in the work area. See 433 AWI 36-803 paragraphs 2.4. for
   supervisor responsibilities.
   9.2. EMPLOYEE TIMECARD FOLDER
      9.2.1. Use a brown 6-part training folder.
      9.2.2. Install File Folder Label.
      9.2.3. Install the Privacy Act Statement label on the front cover.
      9.2.4. Install the employee name tag on the inside of the rear cover.
      9.2.5. Place the employee’s Work Schedule Worksheet (433 AW, Form 1) on top of the
      leave calendar.
      9.2.6. Place the employee’s maximum compensation earned per pay period worksheet on
      top of the Form 1.
      9.2.7. Place the employee’s AFRC timecard for periods 1 through 7 on the inside of the
      front cover (Part One, First Calendar Quarter).
433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012                                                                    33


       9.2.8. Ensure that a DCPS Master Time History Printout is attached to the timecard
       (Used for auditing after input.)
       9.2.9. Use the succeeding parts for the following quarters (Part Two, 2nd Quarter, etc.).
       9.2.10. Place a 433 AW military pay calendar on top of the Quarterly Audit.
       9.2.11. Place a 433 AW local Audit work sheet top of the military pay calendar.
       9.2.12. Place the Quarterly cover sheet on the 433 AW Audit work sheet.
10. Auditing. The purpose of internal audits is to review and identify T&A accounting errors
and inappropriate compensation. Each 433d Group Commander will appoint, in writing, four
individuals responsible for conducting quarterly internal audits within their respective units.
Audits will be conducted quarterly (January, April, July and October) of each calendar year with
the results to be sent to the Wing Auditor (OPR) no later than 29th of each month ending the
respective quarter. Special audits maybe performed at the Wing Commander’s request. Audit
instructions, checklists, and reporting formats are contained in 433 AWI 36-803 attachments, 5,
6, 7, and 8 below.
11. Training. The goal of T&A procedures is to ensure accurate accounting and prevent
inappropriate dual compensation.
   11.1. Employees. All civilian employees will be trained on time and attendance
   responsibilities, entitlements, and required documentation. Supervisors will annually
   document the training in employee’s Supervisor Work Folder.
   11.2. Supervisors. Supervisors will receive training on administrative requirements,
   responsibilities, and procedures to manage employee T&A.
   11.3. Timekeepers. Prior to assuming timekeeper duties, each timekeeper (primary and
   alternate) will attend training on their specific responsibilities and how to maintain T&A
   records.
   11.4. Internal Auditors. Designated individuals will be trained in procedures for conducting
   periodic random audits. The training will be conducted by appointed individuals with the
   assistance of the (HQ AFRC/DPCE) Headquarters Air Force Reserve Command Civilian
   Personnel staff or the Air Force Audit Agency, when available.




                                            KENNETH D LEWIS JR, C0L0NEL, USAFR
                                            Commander, 433d Airlift Wing
 34                                                          433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012


                                         Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Reference
CFR Title 5, Ch 1, Part 410 Training provides detailed guidance
(5 C.F.R. 550.121) (5 C.F.R. 551.431)
(5 C.F.R., Section 550.112 and Section 551.422) (5 U.S.C. 6123)
(5 U.S.C. 6121 and 6128) Title 5, (U.S.C.) 5547
Title 5, United States Code (U.S.C.), chapter 61, subchapter II
Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation (DOD 7000.14-R), Volume 8,
Chapter 2, Time and Attendance and Chapter 5, Leave
Department of Defense (DoD) 7000.14-R Vol 8,051002
Department of Defense (DoD) 7000.14-R Vol 8, Defense Financial Accounting System, (DFAS)
Department of Defense (DoD) 7000.14-R Vol 8 0204.
Department of Denfense (DoD) 7000.14-R Vol 8, paragraph 030102
Department of Denfense (DoD) 7000.14-R Vol 8, Chapters 0510 and 030103
Department of Denfense (DoD) 7000.14-R Vol 8, Chapters 02 and Labor Agreement, Article 13
AFPD 36-8, Employee Benefits and Entitlements and Work Life Programs, 10 February 2009
AFPD 65-2, Managers’ Internal Control Program, 28 August 2006
AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observation, 21 June 1999
AFI 36-815, Absence and Leave, 5 September 2002
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
AFI 36-2254V1, Reserve Personnel Participation, 20 May 2010
AFRCI 36-803, Air Reserve Technician Time and Attendance Procedures and Audits, 28
October 2009
Prescribed Forms
AW Form 1, Alternative Work Schedule Worksheet.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 40, Authorization for Inactive Duty Training
AF Form 40A, Record of Individual Inactive Duty Training.
AF Form 428, Request for Overtime, Holiday Premium Pay, and Compensatory Time.
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF From 938, Request and Authorization for Active Duty Training/Active Duty Tour.
433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012                                                    35


AF Form 971, Supervisors Employee Brief
AF Form 3956, Report of Inactive Duty Training Performance—AGTP/AFTP (USAFR)
AFRC Form 4, Air Reserve Technician (Aircrew) Work Hours Record.
AFRC Form 270, AFRC Timecard Worksheet
DD Form 1610, Request and Authorization for TDY Travel of DoD Personnel.
OPM 71, Request for Leave or Approved Absence
SF 50, Notification of Personnel Action (LRA)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AD—Active Duty
ADS—Active Duty for Support
ADT—Active Duty for Training
AEF—Air Expeditionary Forces
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFM—Air Force Manual
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRC/CV—Air Force Reserve Command Vice Commander
AFRCI—Air Force Reserve Command Instruction
AFTP—Additional Flight Training Period
AGTP—Additional Ground Training Period
AMC—Air Mobility Command
ART—Air Reserve Technician
AT—Annual Tour
ATCH—Attachment
AW—Airlift Wing
AW/CC—Airlift Wing Commander
AWOL—Absent Without Leave
AWS—Alternative Work Schedule
CC—Commander
CF—Compensatory Time for Travel
 36                                                   433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012


CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
CN—Credit Hours
COMP—Compensatory
CT—Compensatory Time
CV—Vice Commander
DCPS—Defense Civilian Payroll Systems
DFAS—Defense Financial Accounting System
DOD/DD—Department of Defense
EAD—Extended Active Duty
ET—Equivalent Training
FLSA—Fair Labor Standards Act
FM—Financial Management
FMF—Financial Management, Financial Services
FMR—Federal Management Regulations
FWS—Federal Wage System or Flexible Work Schedule (Determined by context of use)
GS—General Schedule
HQ—Headquarters
IADT—Inactive Duty Training
IAW—In Accordance With
IDT—Inactive Duty
IMT—Information Management Tool
JA—Legal Office
JTR—Joint Travel Regulations
KG—LWOP-US
LA—Annual Leave
LM—Leave Military
LN—Administrative leave
LNF—Leave for Fitness
LWOP—Leave without Pay
LWOP—US-Leave Without Pay-Uniformed Services
MPA—Military Personnel Appropriation
NSPS—National Security Personnel System
433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012                   37


OPF—Official Personnel Folder (201 File)
OPM—Office of Personnel Management
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OS—Overtime Scheduled
OT—Overtime
OU—Overtime Unscheduled
OWCP—Office of Workers Compensation Program
PA—Privacy Act
POC—Point of Contact
PT—Physical Training
SDO—Scheduled Days Off
SF—Standard Form
SUP—Supplement
RC/CC—Resource Code/Cost Center
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RMP—Readiness Management Period
RPA—Reserve Personnel Appropriation
RUTA—Rescheduled Unit Training Assembly
SSN—Social Security Number
T&A—Time and Attendance
TC—Time card
TDY—Temporary Duty
TP—Training Period
TSP—Thrift Savings Plan
USC—United States Code
UCI—Unit Compliance Inspection
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
USAFR—United States Air Force Reserve
UTA—Unit Training Assembly
WG—Wage Grade
WS—Wage Supervisor
 38                                                           433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012


                                          Attachment 2
  PROCEDURES FOR COMPLETING AF FORM 428 REQUEST FOR OVERTIME,
         HOLIDAY PREMIUM PAY AND COMPENSATORY TIME

A2.1. The AF Form 428 must be completed and approved before the employee works overtime,
holiday premium or compensatory time or not later than the next business day in the case of an
emergency.
A2.2. The supervisor requesting Overtime, Compensatory Time or Holiday Premium prepares
the request and forwards it through his/her chain of command to the Group level. Overtime or
Compensatory time may be approved by Group Commanders, Staff Senior Arts or Higher.
A2.3. The following guidance is provided for completing the form:
   A2.3.1. Justification. This is a clear, concise statement of work to be performed and a
   specific justification/reason why overtime, compensatory time or holiday premium is
   required.
       A2.3.1.1. Do not use vague and general justifications, such as ―preplan AEF incremental
       data‖, ―open up and set up office for daily routine‖, ―prepare for upcoming inspections‖,
       unit staff meeting and briefing‖, ―catching up on email‖, ―preparing for UCI‖, ―support
       management programs‖, ―to complete work backlog‖, or ―to cover for personnel
       shortage‖.
       A2.3.1.2. State the specific task/project being performed, such as ―reviewing and
       cleaning up OPFs for inspection in December‖, or ―fix engine on aircraft #5 to avoid
       mission delay‖. Justifications should provide enough information to show premium-time
       work is essential to satisfy mission requirements. Remember that overtime work should
       not be for regular and recurring work, but unknown/emergency or special project work.
       A2.3.1.3. Justifications should state if the overtime work is for pre- and post-shift work.
       A2.3.1.4. Some examples of unauthorized overtime work would be for hours spent in
       additional training while at a school or to perform strictly military duties that are not
       related to the civilian position, such as decorating for a civic event after the civilian duty
       day, attending a dinner dance, marching in a military parade.
   A2.3.2. Pay Period: Pay period and date.
   A2.3.3. RC/CC: May leave blank.
   A2.3.4. Request Number: Locally assigned number.
   A2.3.5. Social Security Number (SSN) and Name: Name and last four numbers of social
   security number of the employee.
       A2.3.5.1. If 10 individuals are all working additional hours for the same reason, all 10
       may go on one AF Form 428 with the estimated hours for each employee for a pay
       period. One form may cover only one pay period and work covering more than one pay
       period will need to be recorded on separate forms. Also, if more than one individual is
       shown on an AF Form 428, the SSN of all other employees must be marked out when the
       forms are filed in the respective timecard folders.
433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012                                                              39


  A2.3.6. Grade: Grade of employee.
  A2.3.7. Hours Requested: Estimated total number of hours for overtime, holiday premium
  pay, or compensatory time.
     A2.3.7.1. Overtime hours worked should not exceed approved hours. If the overtime
     hours worked exceed the approved hours, the supervisor must submit an additional AF
     Form 428 for approval of the additional hours.
     A2.3.7.2. If the overtime hours worked is less than the approved hours, the AF Form 428
     should be pen and inked to indicate the exact number of hours worked to match the hours
     input into the Defense Civilian Pay System (DCPS).
  A2.3.8. Date overtime will be worked: Enter the actual date the employee will work. If
  more than one date is involved, enter a range of dates, such as pay period ending and
  beginning dates.
  A2.3.9. Estimated Overtime/Holiday Rate: Enter the overtime rate from the employee’s
  leave and earning statement or use the overtime pay tables published by OPM. The premium
  rate is the employee’s hourly rate multiplied by 2.
  A2.3.10. Estimated Total Cost: If completing an electronic form, this will be computed
  automatically. If completing the form manually, multiply the hours requested by the
  estimated overtime/holiday rate.
  A2.3.11. Compensatory Time Hours: This is the estimated total hours of compensatory time
  requested.
  A2.3.12. Compensatory Time Date: Enter the actual date the employee will work
  compensatory time. If more than one date is involved, enter a range of dates, such as pay
  period beginning and ending dates.
  A2.3.13. Date: The date the request is prepared.
  A2.3.14. Typed Name, Grade and Title of Requester: Self explanatory.
  A2.3.15. Signature: Signature of the requester.
  A2.3.16. Fund Certification:
     A2.3.16.1. Accounting Classification: Leave blank.
     A2.3.16.2. Funds Available/Not Available: The certifying official checks one of these
     blocks as appropriate.
     A2.3.16.3. Typed Name, Grade, and Title: This can be someone appointed as a
     certifying official in FM or the organization resource advisor.
     A2.3.16.4. Date: The date of the fund certification.
     A2.3.16.5. Signature of Certifying Official: Self explanatory.
  A2.3.17. Approving Authority:
     A2.3.17.1. Approved/Disapproved: The Approving Official checks one of these blocks
     as appropriate.
40                                                      433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012


     A2.3.17.2. Date: This is the date of the approval. The approval must take place before
     the employee works overtime, holiday premium or compensatory time or not later than
     the next day in the case of an emergency.
     A2.3.17.3. Typed Name, Grade and Title: This is the official authorized to approve the
     respective request. ( Group Commanders,Staff Senior Arts or higher)
     A2.3.17.4. Signature of Approving Official: Self explanatory.
433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012                                                                      41


                                          Attachment 3
    REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OF EXCUSED ABSENCE & MEMORANDUM OF
          UNDERSTANDING FOR PHYSICAL FITNESS ACTIVITES

I, _________________________________________, request approval of excused absence, not
to exceed three (3) hours per week, (1.5 hours for part time employee) for the sole purpose of
participating in physical fitness activities.
I understand (employee must initial each line):
____ My participation is subject to supervisory scheduling and approval.
____ That excused absence may not always be possible, from week to week, based upon mission
requirements.
____ I may only participate in physical fitness activities on base during any period of excused
absence for such activities.
____ If my request is not approved or I cannot be released from work for physical fitness
activities due to mission requirements, I will be advised by my supervisor.
____ I must record each absence on my time sheet with the appropriate code for excused absence
(LN) along with the remark ―Physical Fitness‖.
____ That this request must be accompanied by a doctor’s statement certifying that physical
fitness activities are permitted with any limiting conditions identified. I am responsible for any
expenses required to obtain this certification.
____ I must report in to my duty station before going to the exercise site and I will report back to
my duty station upon completion, especially if the activity is the last thing done in the afternoon.
(unless excused by my supervisor).
____ That should my ability to participate in physical fitness activities become limited in any
manner, or should I desire to change the type or location of physical activity, I will notify my
supervisor immediately. Approval for the change in relation to the use of duty time may require
additional medical certification and considerations of mission/workload impact.
____ That I will not participate in any physical fitness activity that may violate any medical
restrictions I have and I will not participate in any type of high-risk activity.
Employee’s Signature                                                      Date
SUPERVISOR:
 ____ This employee is not on a temporary appointment of less than one year.
_____This employee is assigned to me.
_____ Enhancement of mission accomplishment considered.
_____ Excused absence approved/disapproved

REASON FOR DISAPPROVAL:
Supervisor’s Signature                                               Date
(Original copy to be filed in the Supervisor’s Employee Brief (AF Form 971)
 42                                                   433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012


                                     Attachment 4
                         SAMPLE DOCTOR’S STATEMENT

__________________________________(Employee’s Name) has indicated an interest in
participating in a physical activity program involving

______________________________________________________________________________


( ) ______________________________(Employee’s Name) is physically able to participate in
this activity without limitations.

( ) ______________________________(Employee’s Name) is physically able to participate in
this activity with the following limitations/restrictions:

______________________________________________________________


( ) ______________________________(Employee’s Name) is not physically able to
participate in this activity without limitations.

Remarks:______________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________


_____________________
Doctor’s Name and Signature                             Date
    433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012                                                                43


                                                Attachment 5
                         433 AW TIMECARD FOLDER AUDIT CHECKLIST

    Table A5.1. 433 AW Timecard Folder Audit Checklist.

1. Audit Performed by (Name):

2. Inclusive Period of Audit:

3. Employee Timecard Folder Audited (Name):

4. Employee Unit of Assignment:

II. TIMECARD FOLDERS                                                               YES   NO   N/A
5. Are folders arranged with timecards for each quarter in a separate section of
the six-part folder with the quarterly audit documentation on top of the section
audited?
6. Is a timecard for each pay period for this audit period filed in the folder?
7. Are their approved work schedule requests in the timecard folder?
Do approved work schedule requests match the tour of duty (compressed,
flexitour, etc.) and the duty hours on the affected timecards?
8. Has each timecard been signed and dated by:
    a. Employee at ―individual signature‖ block
    b. Supervisor or designated representative
    c. Timekeeper
9. Do absences for physical fitness (LNF code) on each timecard include the
activity type and activity location in the remarks section or other statement of
verification of activity?
10. Are any ―error codes‖ printed on the timecards that are not explained or
need to be fixed? If ―error code‖ does not apply, enter ―EC NA‖ in remarks.
11. Are the DCPS Master Time History Printout attached to each timecard?
 Did the Timekeeper and or Supervisor initial each DCPS Master Time History
Printout?
NOTE: Required to show quality check was completed against timecard.
Does the DCPS Master Time History Printout match the entries on the
timecard/DCPS Log?
If no, how many errors found: ___________
III. OVERTIME/COMPENSATORY TIME (Premium Pay)                                      YES   NO   N/A

12. Is approved AF Form 428, Request for Overtime, Holiday Premium Pay
and Compensatory Time, for any overtime or compensatory time worked filed
with affected timecard?
     44                                                         433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012


If yes, is the AF Form 428 completely filled out with specific justification,
appropriate signatures/approval authority, and approved/dated on or before the
first hour worked?
EXCEPTION: May be approved the next business day under special
situations/emergencies. Does justification explain these exceptions?
Are the total numbers of hours approved on the AF Forms 428 equal to or
more than the total number of hours earned on the affected timecard?
Are the AF Forms 428 ―pen-and-inked‖ to show the dates and hours
compensatory time and or overtime was earned to match what was recorded on
the timecard? NOTE ; if hours are less than approve pen and ink are allowed
,if more a new 428 must be accomplished.
Note: If more than one employee is on the 428 their SSN must be blanked out.
Is the correct overtime code used?
OS – approved before the start of the pay period overtime is to be worked
OU – approved after the start of the pay period overtime is to be worked
IV. MILITARY DUTY                                                              YES   NO   N/A
                  Use ―UNIT T&A REPORT‖ to answer Items 13-17
Codes under Type: AF Form 938 = 50 AF IMT 40A = UTA 02,20,22 , RMP 40A=04,,40 AFTPs =
03,30,33
13. Are certified copies of AFTPs (AF Form 3956 or automated) filed with
affected timecards?
Was appropriate leave recorded on the timecard if performed during civilian
duty hours?
If no, _____Dual Compensation _____Inappropriate Leave (how many
of each)
14. Are certified copies of AF Form 40A, Record of Individual Inactive Duty
Training, for rescheduled UTAs and Resource Management Periods (RMP)
filed with affected timecards?
Was appropriate leave recorded on the timecard if performed during civilian
duty hours?
If no, _____Dual Compensation _____Inappropriate Leave (how many
of each)
15. Are certified copies of AF Forms 938, Request and Authorization for
Active Duty Training/Active Duty Tour, filed with affected timecards?
Was appropriate leave recorded on the timecard if performed during civilian
duty hours?
If no, _____Dual Compensation _____Inappropriate Leave (how many
of each)
16. Do timecards show all military duty performed whether leave was or was
not required (i.e., UTAs, weekend/holiday duty, duty performed before or after
civilian duty hours)?
17. Did the days/times/military duty type code annotated on the timecards
match the military duty documentation attached and military duty audit
product?
    433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012                                                    45


18. Were the AF Forms 938, AF Forms 40A, and AFTP forms either signed or
initialed by the timekeeper as required by AFRC policy?
19. DISCREPANCIES/COMMENTS. (Any checklist item marked ―NO‖ must be explained below.)
46                                             433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012


                                Attachment 6
                QUARTERLY AUDIT REPORT COVER SHEET

FIRST QUARTER/SECOND QUARTER/THIRD QUARTER/FOURTH QUARTER
(Use the correct heading for the respective quarter being reported)
PAY PERIODS
Quarterly Audit Completed by: __________________________________
Date: _________________
Corrections completed by: ______________________________________
Date: __________________
Supervisor Review: ____________________________________________
Date: __________________
Time keeper:_______________________
Date:__________________
433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012                                                                   47


                                         Attachment 7
             UNIT TIME AND ATTENDANCE AUDIT PRODUCT FORMAT

MEMORANDUM FOR: Group Commander                                         DATE
Subject: Audit of UNIT XXXX Time and Attendance Documentation
1. Purpose: Audit of % of Time Cards for pay periods XX-XX.
2. Auditor:
3. Findings: The quantity and type of discrepancies noted for each section are summarized in the
table below.
                                     UNIT
Dual Compensation
Missing 433 AW Form 1,Master
time history, Military Pay
Calendar
Leave doesn’t match duty hours
Missing Time Cards
AF Form 428 Missing/Incorrect
Missing/Incorrect Form 3956
Inappropriate Leave
Missing/Incorrect DD Form 1610
Missing/Incorrect AF Form 40a
for RUTA/RMP
Incorrect Leave Status for IADT
Missing/Incorrect AF Form 938
Missing Military Duty Time
Incorrect code (e.g., missing
LN/Physical Training (PT))
Requirements
Missing Signatures/Initials
Time Card (TC) Does Not Match
Master History
Total Discrepancies
4. CONCLUSION
5. RECOMMENDATIONS
6. UNIT SUPERVISOR
 48                                                         433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012


                                         Attachment 8
           GROUP TIME AND ATTENDANCE AUDIT PRODUCT FORMAT

MEMORANDOM FOR: Wing Commander                                      Date:
Subject: Audit of Time and Attendance Documentation
1. Purpose: Audit of 100 % or the amount of % Time Cards for pay periods:
2. Auditor or Auditors:
3. Findings: The quantity and type of discrepancies noted for each section are summarized in the
table below.
                         UNIT      UNIT        UNIT      UNIT UNIT UNIT
                         XX        XX          XX        XX      XX       XX
Dual Compensation
Missing 433 AW
Form 1/Missing
Master pay
History/Mil pay
calendar
Leave doesn’t match
duty hours
Missing Time Cards
AF Form 428
Missing/Incorrect
Missing/Incorrect
Form 3956
Inappropriate
Military/Civilian
Leave
Missing/Incorrect DD
Form 1610
Missing/Incorrect AF
Form 40A for
RUTA/RMP
Incorrect Leave Status
for IADT
Missing/Incorrect AF
Form 938
Missing Military Duty
Time
Incorrect LN/PT
Requirements
Missing
Signatures/Initials
TC Does Not Match
History
Total Discrepancies
433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012                                                            49


5. RECOMMENDATIONS.
NOTES:
1. Single unit results will be forwarded to the Group Auditor.
2. Group Auditor will compile all unit results and forward them to the Wing Auditor.
3. Wing Auditor will Compile the Group results and forward them to the Wing Commander and
FM.
4. All reports will be kept on file.
 50                                                          433AWI36-803 5 JANUARY 2012


                                          Attachment 9
                SAMPLE OF IN-PLACE (PAID) LUNCH MEMORANDUM

                                                                             (Date)
MEMORANDUM FOR GROUP COMMANDER
FROM: (Name of Employee’s Supervisor)
SUBJECT: Request for Authorization of 20-Minute In-Place (Paid) Lunch
Request (Employee Name) be authorized a 20-minute in-place (paid) lunch due to the
responsibilities and requirements of the assigned position (job title/pay plan/series/grade).
Duties include continuous support of flight line and or flying mission activities. This approved
original memorandum will be on file in the employee’s timecard folder.
SUPERVISOR’S SIGNATURE
1st Ind                                                         (Date)

Approved/Disapproved
433 AW GROUP COMMANDER’S SIGNATURE
(5547) http://uscode.house.gov/uscode-cgi/fastweb.exe?getdoc+uscview+t05t08+581+0++%28
(551.422) http://ecfr.gpoaccess.gov/cgi/t/text/text-
idx?c=ecfr&sid=6ec4e962fe9b39e75f4d6678ce4d
(550.112) http://ecfr.gpoaccess.gov/cgi/t/text/text-
idx?c=ecfr&sid=6ec4e962fe9b39e75f4d6678ce4d
(6128) http://uscode.house.gov/uscode-cgi/fastweb.exe?getdoc+uscview+t05t08+713+16++%28
(6121) http://uscode.house.gov/uscode-cgi/fastweb.exe?getdoc+uscview+t05t08+706+16++%28
(6123) http://uscode.house.gov/uscode-cgi/fastweb.exe?getdoc+uscview+t05t08+708+16++%28
