BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         433D AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 21-129
433D AIRLIFT WING
                                                                                     24 JUNE 2014

                                                                                      Maintenance

                                                       CRASHED, DAMAGED, OR DISABLED
                                                                  AIRCRAFT RECOVERY

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing at website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: MXS/MXMT                                                            Certified by: 433 AW/CC
                                                                         (Col Aaron G. Vangelisti)
Supersedes:    433D MXGOI 21-129,                                                          Pages: 6
               13 January 2010


This Instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space
Maintenance, Air Force Instruction (AFI) 21-101 AFRC, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance
Management and AFI 21-101 AFRC Sup 1, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management.
It establishes procedures in the 433D Maintenance Group (MXG) for the Crashed, Damaged, or
Disabled Aircraft Recovery (CDDAR) Program in the event of an aircraft emergency or crash. It
establishes procedures for the recovery of aircraft that have been involved in a ground or air
incident and ensures adequate coverage 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. It will be used in
conjunction with other agencies, Joint Base San Antonio Instruction 21-105, Lackland Air Force
Base (LAFB) Crashed, Damaged, or Disabled Aircraft Recovery (CDDAR) Program and all
applicable Technical Orders (TOs) pertaining to the disabled aircraft. When requested, the 433D
MXG Crashed, Damaged, or Disabled Aircraft Recovery (CDDAR) Team will augment the
Lackland AFB emergency response team in expediting the removal of aircraft from active
runways. This Airlift Wing Instruction (AWI) applies to all personnel assigned to the 433D
Airlift Wing (AW) that are involved in the Crashed, Damaged, or Disabled Aircraft Recovery of
aircraft. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained In Accordance With (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command.
 2                                                               433AWI21-129 24 JUNE 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been formatted to comply with current publishing guidelines and to convert
the current MXG Operating Instruction (OI) into an AWI. This conversion is being
accomplished because the logistics squadron no longer falls under the MXG.
1. Responsibilities. The Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for the CDDAR program is
the Maintenance Flight (MXMT). Upon notification of the requirement for an aircraft recovery
operation or exercise, the appropriate work centers are required to respond as indicated.
Considerations such as an immediate need to use the runway and other flight operations will
weigh heavily on the urgency of moving the aircraft or wreckage. Members and supervisors will
apply Risk Management (RM) techniques during all phases of the operation to ensure personnel
safety and to minimize collateral damage. Furthermore, they will comply with all published
safety directives. All personnel will make every effort to preserve evidence and to minimize
subsequent damage.
     1.1. The Incident Commander (IC). The 433D AW Commander or designated alternate
     serves as on-scene command and control during the recovery phase. The senior fire
     department official is in command of on-scene operations during the initial phase.
        1.1.1. Coordinates the dispatch of the Crashed, Damaged, or Disabled Aircraft Recovery
        (CDDAR) Team to the recovery site Entry Control Point (ECP) after coordination with
        other agencies, as dictated by the incident. The IC coordinates with the Emergency
        Operations Center (EOC) and/or the accident investigation board to obtain release to
        move the damaged aircraft.
        1.1.2. Maintains communication with the CDDAR Team Chief, the Maintenance
        Operation Center (MOC), and other agencies to ensure a smooth recovery effort.
     1.2. The Maintenance Squadron (MXS) Aerospace Repair (AR) shop supervisor ensures
     adequate CDDAR Team personnel to include, as a minimum, one Team Chief and two
     qualified CDDAR Team members from the AR shop. Additional personnel from other
     maintenance activities or agencies will be provided on an as-needed basis.
     1.3. The Aircraft Maintenance Squadron (AMXS) superintendent will ensure availability of
     an aircraft tow vehicle and a qualified operator and that the MOC maintains communication
     with all required agencies.
     1.4. The MOC senior controller will ensure that a written log of all events and significant
     facts regarding aircraft recovery operations and/or exercises is maintained.
     1.5. The AMXS, MXS and Maintenance Operations Squadron (MOS) will develop and
     maintain recall rosters to identify personnel to be called in the event of emergencies during
     non-duty hours. These rosters will be maintained on file in AMXS, MXS, MOS, and MOC.
     1.6. The host base Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS) Vehicle Management Flight
     provides vehicles and drivers, as necessary, to support the recovery effort. The following
     items reflect the minimum required vehicle support; however, additional vehicle support may
     be needed, depending on the situation.
        1.6.1. One general-purpose truck with multi-frequency non-tactical radio for recovery
        crew transportation.
433AWI21-129 24 JUNE 2014                                                                      3


       1.6.2. One tow tractor and semi-trailer for transportation of aircraft recovery support
       equipment.
   1.7. Specific 433 AW CDDAR equipment is the responsibility of the Maintenance
   Squadron’s Repair and Reclamation Shop.
   1.7.1. Equipment is stored in the CDDAR trailer and in the 433D premises when not in use
   during exercises and actual events.
       1.7.2. Equipment is inspected on an annual basis (minimally) or as directed by applicable
       technical data. Inspection data is entered and tracked in the Maintenance Information
       System (MIS) and in the Tool Accountability System (TCMax).
2. Training.
   2.1. CDDAR Team Members and Team Chiefs will be designated in writing by the MXG
   Commander.
   2.2. The AR shop supervisor will develop and implement a CDDAR lesson plan,
   coordinated through the Maintenance Training Flight (MTF), to ensure personnel
   qualification as CDDAR Team members. This training will be entered into the MIS and
   tracked using program 9119, Personnel Training Records, course code ACFT 00100, Crash
   Recovery Procedures. CDDAR qualification training (ACFT 00100) will be repeated every
   12 months.
   2.3. Additionally, Team Chiefs and CDDAR members will be recertified annually by
   participating in a Crashed, Damaged, or Disabled Aircraft Recovery Exercise. Document
   recertification on an AF Form 1098, Special Task Certification and Recurring Training, and
   maintain in the individual’s AF Form 623, Individual Training Record, or separate folder for
   Master Sergeants and above or civilian employees.
3. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Due to the potential for exposure to various
occupational health and safety hazards at and around a crash site, all personnel involved in the
recovery operation will be trained and qualified in the use of the appropriate PPE as directed by
bioenvironmental services.
4. Procedures.
   4.1. Upon notification of an aircraft recovery or exercise, the MOC will immediately notify
   the appropriate agencies and initiate the impoundment process by running Quick Reaction
   Checklists (QRCs), Aircraft Emergency/Accident, and Aircraft Impoundment, in accordance
   with MXG OI 21-132, Maintenance Operations Center Quick Reaction Checklists.
   4.2. Upon notification of the event, the MXG Deputy Commander (MXG/CD) or appointed
   alternate will report to the incident site to assist in directing the recovery effort.
   4.3. The IC reports to the recovery site ECP and takes command of the recovery operation.
   The IC coordinates with the applicable agencies to ensure all fire, safety, disaster and/or
   ordnance disposal hazards have been abated or eliminated prior to dispatching the CDDAR
   Team to the ECP.
   4.4. Quality Assurance (QA) is the OPR for aircraft impoundments. The Impoundment
   Official and QA, will ensure the security of aircraft maintenance records/and or
4                                                            433AWI21-129 24 JUNE 2014


    impoundment exhibits in accordance with MXGOI 21-118, Aircraft Impoundment
    Procedures.
    4.5. The CDDAR Team Chief will assemble the CDDAR Team and await instructions from
    the IC.
    4.6. Safety precautions will not be abandoned to expedite removal of disabled or damaged
    aircraft.




                                          AARON G. VANGELISTI, Colonel, USAFR
                                          Commander, 433D Airlift Wing
433AWI21-129 24 JUNE 2014                                                            5


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 February 2003
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 July 2010
AFI 21-101 AFRC Sup 1, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 13 January 2011
Joint Base San Antonio Instruction 21-105, Lackland Air Force Base (LAFB) Crashed,
Damaged, or Disabled Aircraft and Recovery (CDDAR) Program 27 September 2011
MXGI 21-118, Aircraft Impoundment Procedures
MXGI 21-132, Maintenance Operations Center Quick Reaction Checklists
Adopted Forms
AF Form 623, Individual Training Record
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1098, Special Task Certification and Recurring Training

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AMXS—Aircraft Maintenance Squadron
AR—Aerospace Repair Shop
AW—Airlift Wing
AW/CC—Airlift Wing Commander
AWI—Airlift Wing Instruction
CDDAR—Crashed, Damaged, Disabled Aircraft Recovery
CEMP—Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan
EOC—Emergency Operations Center
ECP—Entry Control Point
IAW—In Accordance With
IC—Incident Commander
LRS—Logistics Readiness Squadron
 6                                          433AWI21-129 24 JUNE 2014


MIS—Maintenance Information System
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
MOS—Maintenance Operations Squadron
MTF—Maintenance Training Flight
MXG—Maintenance Group
MXG/CD—Maintenance Group Deputy Commander
MXMT—Maintenance Flight
MXS—Maintenance Squadron
OI—Operating Instruction
OPR—Office Primary of Responsibility
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
QA—Quality Assurance
QRC—Quick Reaction Checklist
RM—Risk Management
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TCMax—Tool Accountability System
TO—Technical Order
