BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       433 AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 36-2905
433D AIRLIFT WING
                                                                                11 APRIL 2013

                                                                                     Personnel

                                                                 WING FITNESS PROGRAM



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 433 FSS/FSV                                                      Certified by: 433 AW/CC
                                                                    (Col Jeffrey T. Pennington)
                                                                                      Pages: 18


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-29, Military Standards. This
instruction extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-2905, Fitness Program. It
provides 433 Airlift Wing guidance and procedures for administering the Wing Fitness Program.
This instruction applies to all units and personnel assigned to the 433 Airlift Wing, Joint Base
San Antonio-Lackland, Texas. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

1. Wing Commander.
   1.1. Provides an environment that supports and motivates a healthy lifestyle through optimal
   fitness and nutrition.
   1.2. Appoints Wing Fitness Program Manager (WFPM).
   1.3. Provides an environment for the Squadron Commander to have the authority and
   confidence to act swiftly with any fitness related issues.
   1.4. Provides wing guidance for consistent adverse actions for members who do not meet the
   standards.
   1.5. May provide input on administrative actions taken against a member for a fourth
   subsequent Fitness Assessment (FA) failure.
 2                                                              433AWI36-2905 11 APRIL 2013


     1.6. Develops a Wing Fitness Publication to give guidance to Units, Groups and Tenants
     assigned to the 433 Air Wing.
     1.7. Coordinates with Host Base Leadership to ensure level of support provided is IAW AF
     Directives and Host Tenant Agreement.
     1.8. Establishes a policy for subordinate unit commanders regarding the use of duty time for
     Physical Training (PT) during Unit Training Assemblies (UTA), Annual Tours (AT) and
     Special Tours. Note this is required per Management Internal Control Toolset Compliance
     Inspection (MICT CI) checklist for Wing Fitness Program.
     1.9. Designates approved testing facilities / locations.
     1.10. Submits waivers to Major Command (MAJCOM) to adjust scheduling of FA based on
     extreme seasonal weather conditions.
2. Group Commanders.
     2.1. Appoints a Managing Physical Training Leader (MPTL) should be an officer or SNCO.
3. Unit Commanders.
     3.1. Appoints two Unit Fitness Program Monitors (UFPM) and at least five Physical
     Training Leaders (PTL). It is highly recommended that at least one UFPM be in a full time
     status.
     3.2. Should make time available during Unit Training Assemblies (UTA) to conduct
     physical training, and encourage members to attend.
     3.3. Meets with or delegates a person to meet with members after each Fitness Assessment
     failure.
     3.4. Is the Initial authority for the Fitness Program and most fitness related issues should be
     handled at this level.
     3.5. Will make available, at least 3 of their PTLs to work under the Managing Physical
     Training Leaders (MPTL) for a period of 1 year.
4. Force Support Squadron.
     4.1. Acquires equipment required for the execution of the fitness program. Issues heart rate
     monitors and other relevant fitness equipment to the Wing Fitness Program Manager
     (WFPM) on an AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt.
     4.2. Tracks members who are separated, Individual Ready Reserves (IRR) or Air Reserve
     Personnel Center (ARPC) due to Fitness Assessment (FA) failures and turns in numbers to
     the WFPM to forward to Air Force Reserve Command on a quarterly reports.
     4.3. Assigns Sustainment Services Flight Personnel to act as liaison and provide function
     area fitness expertise as necessary to support Wing Fitness Program.
5. Medical Group (MDG).
     5.1. A representative from the MDG will provide Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation
     (CPR)/Automated External Defibrillator (AED) training to all PTLS on a biennial time line.
6. Wing Fitness Program Manager (WFPM).
433AWI36-2905 11 APRIL 2013                                                                   3


   6.1. Is appointed by the Wing commander, should be a fulltime member of the 433 Airlift
   Wing. Must be a Senior Noncommissioned Officer (SNCO) or a Company grade officer or
   above. The WFPM must be able to maintain a passing score on the Fitness Assessment and
   should be a fitness example to the wing, promoting fitness and a healthy lifestyle throughout
   the Wing.
   6.2. Recommends names to group commanders to appoint 4 Managing Group Physical
   Training Leaders (MPTLs) to oversee and perform the Fitness assessments during the Unit
   Training Assemblies (UTA), for Groups/Units that they themselves do not belong to. The
   WFPM Conducts and documents required initial and annual PTL and UFPM training.
   6.3. Conducts and documents an annual audit of each UFPM’s fitness program to ensure
   compliance and standardization to AFI 36-2905 and 433 AWI 36-2905 across the wing. The
   audit includes a thorough review of files, forms, continuity binders, and the manner of how
   the MPTL conducts a fitness assessment.
   6.4. Acts as the Fitness liaison between the wing commander and all wing personnel. The
   WFPM must keep the commander apprised of the wing’s fitness status.
   6.5. Maintains current appointment letters, Cardio Pulmonary Resuscitation/Automated
   External Defibrillator (CPR/AED) certifications, and documentation of training requirements
   for all Wing UFPMs and PTLs, in the Wing Fitness Program Manager Continuity binder.
   6.6. Provides initial and annual refresher training for 433 Medical Group providers on
   Fitness Program policies.
   6.7. Inventories FA related equipment quarterly, ensuring supplies are adequate and
   equipment is operating correctly.
   6.8. Conducts quarterly fitness meetings to keep all UFPMs/PTLs current on any fitness
   matters. Minutes will be recorded and distributed to all UFPMs/PTLs, including those not
   present.
   6.9. Manages base AFFMS users, granting access to commanders and UFPMs only after a
   letter of appointment is generated. Ensures changes to appointment letters are reflected on
   the Training Tracker Slides located in the 433 Airlift Wing Community Electronic Folder.
   6.10. Attends Monthly Deployment Activity Working Group (DAWG) meetings and
   provides fitness inputs for members on profile for same component for greater than 12
   months or exempt for more than 4 components within 24 months.
   6.11. Will be available to test Wing members at least 1 weekday out of the regular week.
   6.12. The WFPM will periodically perform Staff Assistance Visit (SAV) inspections in
   accordance with (IAW) AFI 36-2905 paragraph 1.15.5 to ensure all standards are being met.
7. Unit Fitness Program Manager (UFPM).
   7.1. Highly recommended that they be a fulltime member of the 433 Airlift Wing, available
   for at least one year after appointment. UFPMs must maintain a passing score on the FA.
   7.2. Prints a Member Status Report before each UTA, identifying those members who are
   either not current or will become not current before the unit’s next scheduled FA. These
   names must be forwarded to squadron leadership, identified as needing to test.
 4                                                             433AWI36-2905 11 APRIL 2013


     7.2.1. Members will be required to test even if not showing as overdue, if they will become
     not current before the unit’s next scheduled FA.
        7.2.2. Provides FSQ to member 90 days prior to fitness testing to alert UFPMs on any
        medical issues that will need routing for possible profiles. Retains a current copy of the
        FSQ for each unit member.
        7.2.3. Schedules individuals for FAs.
     7.3. Maintains a case file only for unsatisfactory members for 24 consecutive months. The
     information maintained on each unit member includes the most current Fitness Screening
     Questionnaire/FA Score Sheets, and Memorandum for Medical Clearance/AF Form 422,
     Notification of Air Force Member’s Qualification Status as appropriate.            Fitness
     Improvement Program (FIP) paperwork must also be maintained for members who are in an
     unsatisfactory category after their last fitness assessment.
     7.4. Request and gains access to the commander’s/Unit Health Monitor’s profile mail box.
     Forward Duty Limiting Condition (DLC) questionnaire to member if a member has an AF
     Form 469, Duty Limiting Condition Report refer the member to the Exercise Physiologist for
     an AF Form 422.
     7.5. Coordinates all items and necessary documents required to administer the FA.
     7.6. Produces FIP documentation in accordance with Chapter Four for those who do not pass
     the assessment by the first UTA following the failed assessment. Obtains all required
     signatures on the FIP documents.
     7.7. Manages those members enrolled in Self Pace Fitness Improvement (SFIP), and assists
     in completing the Be Well (BW) program, answering any FIP/fitness related questions.
     Members must complete the BW program within 60 days of the unsatisfactory FA.
     7.8. Conducts monthly meetings with all members enrolled in SFIP and reviews their current
     fitness status. Reviews and endorses the 433 Airlift Wing Fitness score cards prior to
     members taking the FA and reports progress to Unit Commanders.
     7.9. Provides list to WFPM of members who have been on the same component exemption
     for more than 12 months or have more than 4 total component exemptions within 24 months
     for referral to the DAWG.
     7.10. Forwards AF Form 422 to members after receiving in profile mail box.
     7.11. Send names of individuals who failed their fitness assessments’ to the Commander’s
     Support Staff for an appointment with the commander before the end of the UTA.
8. Managing Physical Training Leader. (MPTL).
     8.1. Each of the 4 Groups in the 433 AW will have 1 Managing PTL (MPTL) in the rank of
     Master Sergeant, Company Grade Officer or above, that a Unit Commander or their
     representative will utilize to schedule his/her members for Fitness Assessments at times that
     are convenient for their Squadron and will allow their members to remain current on their
     fitness assessment (FA).
     8.2. The MPTL will remain in place for one year and then rotated out. They will oversee at
     least 10 PTLs in their group and notify them of all testing dates and times that they will
433AWI36-2905 11 APRIL 2013                                                                    5


   administer the test to their assigned group. This will be accomplished a UTA ahead. For
   example: each UTA, this MPTL will have published test times for the following UTA after
   meeting or communicating with the respective Squadron Commanders of the groups they are
   matched with.
   8.3. The MPTL will also ensure that their group of PTLs is in strict adherence to the fitness
   regulations. The MPTL will have AFFMS access to enter all fitness scores/exemptions into
   AFFMS only for units they are assigned to test. This will be accomplished before close of
   business of the test date or no later than 5 days after the FA.
   8.4. They will not enter scores or exemptions for anyone in the groups they themselves are
   assigned to. To do so, will be grounds for immediate removal from the MPTL position by the
   WFPM.
   8.5. All 433 Airlift Wing Group MPTLs will report to the Wing Fitness Program Manager
   (WFPM).
9. Physical Training Leader (PTL).
   9.1. Should be available for at least one year after appointment, and maintain a passing score
   on the FA and will assist the MPTL with Fitness Assessments on the UTAs and the WFPM
   on an assigned weekday.
   9.2. Completes required PTL training within one UTA of being appointed as a PTL.
   9.3. Maintains biennial CPR/AED certification and annual PTL recertification. Will oversee
   work outs for members who are assigned to mandatory Fitness time by their commanders on
   the UTA.
   9.4. Where no FAC exists, PTL documents FA results on a hard copy score sheet, signs the
   score sheet, and obtains member’s signature on the score sheet, acknowledging run/walk
   time, abdominal circumference measurements, and muscular fitness repetitions. PTL
   provides a copy of the signed score sheet to UFPM for AFFMS entry and to member for their
   personal records. Note: PTLs may create unit specific score sheets if not provided by the
   FAC.
   9.5. PTLs who are full-time will conduct tests if required, during the weekday.
10. Air Reserve Component (ARC) Fitness Program Medical Liaison Officer.
   10.1. Schedules and maintains standard office hours each UTA to support the Fitness
   Program.
   10.2. Coordinates the education of all medical providers on Fitness Program policies and
   associated documentation.
   10.3. Completes AF Form 469 for members with functional limitation impacting unit fitness
   activity to include assessment and training IAW AFI 10-203, Duty Limiting Conditions.
   10.4. Will be available to commanders, WFPM, UFPMs and Unit Health Monitors (UHM)
   for any questions concerning fitness related medical issues i.e. DAWG, Medical Evaluation
   Board (MEB), AF Form 469 Duty Limiting Reports, etc.
11. Unit Health Monitor (UHM). Will work with UFPMs to get members with medical issues
scheduled for medical appointments.
 6                                                            433AWI36-2905 11 APRIL 2013


12. Unit Deployment Manager (UDM). Will ensure all deploying 433 Airlift Wing personnel
have current FAs prior to deploying. This will be accomplished at least one month prior to
deployment date to give the deploying member the opportunity to accomplish the FA. UDMs
and UFPMs will work together to ensure accomplishment of this requirement.
13. Fitness Screening Questionnaire (FSQs). Will be printed out and given to members who
are scheduled to test. Members must complete an FSQ as early as 90 days prior to testing when
taking any portion of the assessment. FSQs should be completed in a 7-to-90-day window prior
to testing, but is encouraged to be given out 90 days prior to FA to catch all members that have
medical issues and accomplish all appointments prior to testing.
14. High Risk Category/Assessment Deferrals.
     14.1. If, while completing an FSQ, a member is directed to “Stop. Notify your UFPM,” the
     member will begin the 90-day deferral process.
     14.2. If the member is directed to not take either aerobic portion of the test per Fitness
     Deferral Follow Up guidance, input zero (“0”) for the aerobic portion of the test. The
     member will be required to accomplish the remaining components.
     14.3. If, at the end of 90 days, the member has not provided Personal Care Provider
     paperwork documenting their medical condition, they are required to complete all but the
     aerobic components (1.5 mile run and 1.0 mile walk) of the FA. They will receive a “0” for
     the aerobic component and an overall score of Unsatisfactory.
15. Profiles. For members unable to complete any portion of the FA, members should see their
UHM and be told to see their Primary Care Provider (PCM) to provide them medical
documentation. Once documentation is obtained from their PCM, then the UHM will schedule a
World Wide Duty (WWD) appointment during the next UTA.
16. Exemptions.
     16.1. AF Form 422. Exemptions must have supporting information before the MPTL will
     enter into AFFMS. (See Attachment 4).
     16.2. When completed, 433 MDG sends all AF Form 422’s electronically to members’
     commanders and Unit Health Monitors. Unit Health Monitors will forward fitness related
     AF Form 422’s to UFPMs, if they do not have access to the electronic profile mailbox.
     16.3. Note: Only those AF Form 422’s relating to fitness need to be kept in a member’s
     Fitness file.
     16.4. Members will complete all portions of the FA from which they are not specifically
     exempted in the AF Form 422.
17. General.
     17.1. Under normal circumstances, members are required to be current on their fitness
     assessments at the time of their deployment. If the member is enrolled in SFIP, SFIP will be
     suspended for the duration of the deployment. However, it is the member’s responsibility to
     maintain satisfactory progress during the deployment period.
     17.2. Pending retirements or separations: Members within 180 days of an approved
     retirement or separation date are exempt from fitness assessments.
433AWI36-2905 11 APRIL 2013                                                                   7


18. Profiles. If members require an AF Form 469 to obtain a Fitness Form 422, members must
be scheduled a WWD Appt by the UHM prior to the UTA. This process will ensure that the
Wing member has obtained all pertinent medical documentation prior to the UTA. Without
medical documentation the Aerospace Medicine Squadron (AMDS) Physicians cannot properly
assess members.
19. Time and Location. All testing will be performed at the Lackland Basic Military Training
(BMT) 1.5 mile track, the Warhawk 400 meter track or any track or course on Lackland AFB
that the 433 Airlift Wing Commander certifies. Testing times will be worked out and coordinated
by the Managing Physical Training Leader (MPTL) and the Unit Commander they are working
with. Any requests to test at times other than those scheduled must be coordinated with the
WFPM.
20. Uniform. Members testing will wear official Air Force Physical Training (PT) gear without
exception. The PT shirt will be tucked in. The member may wear the short or long-sleeve style
AF shirt. Spandex shorts and legging (navy blue or black) may be worn under PT shorts (full
length leggings may be worn during cold weather periods). A jacket, when worn, must be
zipped at least half way. The jacket’s hood will be stored and zipped when not worn. Socks will
be white in color, any length and may have small conservative trademark logos. Only Air Force
Chevron Baseball caps, Black Beanies or Airman Battle Uniform colored acrylic hats are
authorized outside, but must maintain a professional military image. United States Air Force
duty uniform hair standards do not apply while working out wearing PT gear. Headphones and
earphones are authorized. Due to the various colors of running shoes, any colored athletic shoe
is authorized during the FA, but after testing, all shoes must be in accordance with Air Force
Instruction 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel in PT gear.
MPTLs and PTLs are authorized to be dressed in matching outfits, for example: Blue Polo
Shirts with the AF Chevron embroidered on the left upper chest area with official Air Force PT
shorts. This is to help identify them as test administrators.
21. Setup.
   21.1. For normally scheduled wing testing, the MPTL responsible for administering the test
   will ensure they have at least 10 PTLs (three female and 7 males’ minimum) to help
   administer the test. Prior to beginning, MPTL will ensure they have, scales, tape measures,
   land mobile radios (LMRs if they are minimally manned), an AED, stop watches and heart
   rate monitors available. These items are kept in a marked storage bin within the 4 Groups
   and managed by the 4 appointed MPTLs.
       21.1.1. All taping and weighing will be completed in a secluded area at or near the test
       site.
   21.2. The MPTL will coordinate/arrange the transporting of all testing equipment to the test
   site and will make it available to aid in the administering of the FA. Equipment will include
   an AED; stop watches tables, chairs, scales, heart rate monitors, mats, tape measurers and
   any other equipment deemed necessary by the WFPM.
22. Fitness Assessment Procedures.
   22.1. For abdominal circumference (AC) measurements, two assessors measure while the
   third assessor records measurements on members’ Assessment Scorecards.               After
   measurements have been completed, but before the 1.0 mile walk or muscular fitness portion,
 8                                                             433AWI36-2905 11 APRIL 2013


     members should be reminded - if they fail a portion of the FA, they are still required to
     complete the entire assessment. When all measurements are complete, those performing the
     1.0 mile walk portion of the FA will be issued heart rate monitors and report to the assigned
     running track for the start of the walk (a minimum of four UFPMs/PTLs will escort the
     walkers and be responsible for administering the remainder of their FA). Once all walkers
     have completed their walk test, they will report to push up/crunch area to complete the
     muscular fitness components of their test. Those who are cleared to run 1.5 miles will report
     to the crunch/pushup area immediately following the height, weight and abdominal
     circumference measurement. Members will use the buddy system; buddies will be randomly
     assigned by the PTL managing the muscular portion of the test. The MPTL or designee will
     read the push-up and sit-up (crunch) verbal instructions from the AF Guidance Memo (20
     July 2010) while a PTL demonstrates proper form. When the muscular fitness portion of the
     test is completed, the assigned PTL will call out the number of each individual who just
     finished the muscular portion of the test and ask for the correct amount the member has
     completed based on the PTL that was observing. This will occur after each component of the
     muscular portion of the FA. Those members will then be escorted to the run track and the
     members who had already completed the walk component of the FA, will be directed to the
     push-up and crunch area and then proceed to out-process at the finishing line and depart after
     signing their score card.
     22.2. Prior to beginning the 1.0 mile walk and 1.5 mile run, ensure the Wet Bulb Globe
     Temperature (WBGT) is less than or equal to 86 degrees F and a fitness representative is at
     the start, middle and finish line of the 1.5 mile course, each equipped with an LMR. Use
     channel 8 on the LMRs while conducting the fitness assessment at the 1.5 mile track. In case
     of emergency, contact the command post on channel 14 or dial 671-0911.
     22.3. Members who fail a component of the FA prior to test completion will continue to
     complete the entire test.
23. Administration.
     23.1. MPTLs/PTLs will not administer a FA for members of their own group.
     23.2. MPTLs will ensure the members’ FA Score Cards are picked up, and taken back to the
     facility where they will be entered into AFFMs. They will be kept in a secure location until
     the UFPMs can pick them up. MPTLs will have scores inputted into AFFMS preferably by
     the end of the duty day, but no later than 5 day following the FA if bad weather or AFFMs is
     down. The MPTL or designee will send an e-mail to the commander, First Sergeant, UFPM,
     WFPM and any member not passing their FA.
        23.2.1. Only MPTLs or designees will have access to enter FA scores into AFFMS.
        MPTLs will not enter scores for any members in their organizations. This will be
        randomly checked in AFFMs by the WFPM.
        23.2.2. After all scores have been inputted into AFFMS, the UFPM will run another
        Member Status Report to determine whether members passed or failed.
     23.3. Members on profiles will bring their AF Form 422 to the FA, and be ready to complete
     the portion of the test as the memorandum specifies.
433AWI36-2905 11 APRIL 2013                                                                  9


   23.4. Squadron commanders or their designees are the only UTA excusal approval
   authorities for members due or overdue for their FA, or who are enrolled in the FIP.
   23.5. Members who have failed the FA must participate in all directed fitness improvement
   activities. Failure to comply may result in being placed in a no-pay no-point status.
24. Fitness Incentives.
   24.1. Wing members who complete all four components of the FA and achieve a score of 90
   or greater — Excellent — can be recognized by the unit commander in the form of an early
   sign-out on a UTA. Commanders are encouraged to recognize these members at
   commander’s calls or similar functions.
   24.2. Individual Units within the 433 AW who display the least amount of members “not
   current” on their FA will be recognized on a quarterly basis by the Wing Commander or the
   WFPM.
25. Member Responsibility.
   25.1. Physical fitness is the member’s responsibility. Members who fail their FA will be
   placed into the Self-Paced Fitness Improvement category (SFIP). These members are
   encouraged to maintain a Fitness tracker to chart all their physical activity throughout the
   month. This form can be of any format and a copy will be placed in the members FIP folder.
   The form should be endorsed monthly by the member’s UFPM. It will also be used by the
   member’s commander to view the member’s physical activity throughout the preceding
   month.
   25.2. A member in the SFIP will not be excused from UTA unless his or her squadron
   commander approves and signs his or her UTA excusal form.
26. Fitness Improvement Case Files (six-part folder).
   26.1. UFPMs will maintain individual SFIP files until a program member has sustained a
   fitness score for 24 consecutive months and no longer has any medical restrictions to the
   fitness assessment.
   26.2. If a member fails a fitness assessment, the UFPM is responsible for managing his or
   her enrollment in the Be Well (BW) program. For failed assessments, the UFPM will
   generate the below listed documents, maintaining a FIP folder on each member enrolled:
   26.3. A SFIP letter to be signed by the commander and member.
   26.4. An AF Form 108, Physical Fitness Education and Intervention Processing (Section II,
   the BW Date/Time is the completion date from the Advance Distance Learning System
   (ADLS) certificate, the Location is ‘Online,’ the BW Core Session is checked ‘No,’ and the
   Approved by Unit Commander to Complete On-line Course is checked ‘Yes.’ The unit
   commander signs both signature blocks, and the UFPM signs and checks off when the
   member submits the ADLS certificate).
   26.5. A copy of the member’s AFFMS Individual Fitness Report.
   26.6. All FIP folders will be standard 6-part file folders and should contain the following
   items:
26.6.1. Most recent FSQ/Score Sheet with AFFMS Individual Fitness Report placed on top.
 10                                                           433AWI36-2905 11 APRIL 2013


       26.6.2. Fitness Improvement Program/First thru last failed test Letters.
       26.6.3. AF Form 108 /ADLS Be Well training certificate.
       26.6.4. Any Fitness Trackers.
       26.6.5. Fitness-related administrative action(s).
       26.6.6. Copies of all fitness related medical forms.
27. Follow Up.
   27.1. The UFPM tracks and documents a member’s completion of the Be Well program as
   annotated in Part II of the AF Form 108 by clicking the “Education and Intervention.” tab in
   AFFMS, entering the date in the “Attendance Date” column, and then clicking Submit.
   27.2. The UFPM also meets monthly with all members on the SFIP to review their current
   fitness status. UFPMs will also review and sign off Fitness Improvement Progress Charts,
   giving members new Fitness Improvement Progress Charts to use for the following month’s
   fitness activities.
28. Subsequent Failures. Subsequent failures may require the UFPM by the direction of the
unit commander to get with the UHM to schedule an appointment for the member to see a
Medical Liaison Officer (MLO) at 433 MDG during the following UTA. The MLO will
complete Section III of AF Form 108. Commanders should also review Attachment 19 to AFI
36-2905 to determine the appropriate administrative action for failed Fitness Assessments.
29. Fitness Workshop. Members currently enrolled in SFIP are required to attend a mandatory
fitness event every UTA. Events will rotate monthly based on mission requirements and weather
conditions but will include nutritional information, personal training and practice FA’s. As a
minimum, members could be taped and weighed every UTA to track progress in the program
(measurements will not be used as a source for official FA scoring).
30. Administrative Actions.
   30.1. Fourth Failure: Following a member’s fourth consecutive unsatisfactory FA, the
   UFPM will notify their Squadron Commander who will forward member’s medical records
   to the MLO. The member will be considered for retention or discharge based on the MLO’s
   findings.
   30.2. Members should be briefed that IRR is not an option to having a retention/discharge
   recommendation.
   30.3. Members retained by their Squadron Commander, will be monitored monthly for
   fitness improvement and the Squadron Commander will use fitness logs to make a decision
   on extending the member any further. If the member is retained, every subsequent FA failure
   requires the Unit Commander to submit another discharge or retention recommendation.
   This guidance supersedes guidelines established in AFI 36-2905 (dated 1 July 2010),
   paragraph 9.1.5.2.
31. Evaluations (OPR/EPR). At the evaluation closeout date, Officers and EAD Enlisted who
have an unsatisfactory FA will receive a “Does Not Meet Standards” for the fitness portion of
their performance report. This includes evaluations required for a Change in Reporting Official
(CRO). Please refer to AFI36-2406, Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems.
433AWI36-2905 11 APRIL 2013                                                                11


32. Enlisted Term of Service (ETS). Enlisted members who reach their ETS will receive 7 –
12 month ETS extensions, as necessary, until they either receive a passing FA or have received
four consecutive unsatisfactory FA’s at which time no additional extensions will be granted.
33. Not Currents. Members who report to a UTA that are not current on their fitness
assessment, will be allowed to sign in under the Unit Training Assembly Processing System
(UTAPS) for the first period of their UTA, but if they are not prepared to take their Fitness
Assessment, that member will be sent home in an unpaid status for the remaining three periods
of their UTA or until they are ready to test. This must be strictly enforced by the unit
commander. All exceptions must be approved by the unit commander. Possible disciplinary
actions will be taken for members failing their responsibilities.
34. Promotion. Members will not be promoted without a current and passing FA.
35. CONTINUITY BINDERS/FILES - Continuity binders will be maintained identically
across the Wing. They will include the following:
   35.1. Copy of current appointment letter.
   35.2. Copy of current AFI 36-2905.
   35.3. 433AWI 36-2905.
   35.4. Forms.
   35.5. Current Member Status Report from AFFMS.
   35.6. Copy of the current UCI checklist followed by the current UFPM Self Inspection
   Report.




                                           JEFFREY T. PENNINGTON, Col, USAFR
                                           Commander, 433d Airlift Wing
 12                                                        433AWI36-2905 11 APRIL 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-203, Duty Limiting Conditions, 25 June 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 36-2406, Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems, 02 January 2013
AFPD 36-29, Military Standards, 29 October 2009
AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, 18 July 2011
AFI 36-2905, Fitness Program, 1 July 2010
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 108, Physical Fitness Education and Intervention Processing
AF Form 422, Notification of Air Force Member’s Qualification Status
AF Form 469, Duty Limiting Condition Report
AF Form 1288, Application for Ready Reserve Assignment
AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AC—Abdominal Circumference
ADLS—Advanced Distributed Learning Service
AED—Automated External Defibrillator
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFFMS—Air Force Fitness Management System
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AMDS—Aerospace Medicine Squadron
ARC—Air Reserve Component
ARPC—Air Force Reserve Command
AT—Annual Tour
AW—Airlift Wing
AWI—Airlift Wing Instruction
433AWI36-2905 11 APRIL 2013                                 13


BMT—Basic Military Training
BW—Be Well program
CC—Commander
CI—Compliance inspection
COB—Close of Business
CPR—Cardio Pulmonary Resuscitation
CRO—Change in Reporting Official
DAWG—Deployment Activity Working Group
DLC—Duty Limiting Condition
EAD—Earliest Arrival Date
EPR—Enlisted Performance Report
ETS—Enlisted Term of Service
FA—Fitness Assessment
FAC—Fitness Assessment Cell
FIP—Fitness Improvement Program
FPM—Fitness Program Manager
FRP—Fitness Review Panel
FSS—Force Support Squadron
FSQ—Fitness Screening Questionnaire
FSVS—Flight Services
GRP—Group
HIPAA—Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
IAW—In Accordance With
IRR—Individual Ready Reserve
LMR—Land Mobile Radio
MAJCOM—Major Command
MEB—Medical Evaluation Board
MED—Medical
MDG—Medical Group
MICT—Management Internal Control Toolset
MLO—Medical Liaison Officer
MPTL—Managing Physical Trainer Leader
 14                                              433AWI36-2905 11 APRIL 2013


MSG—Mission Support Group
MXG—Maintenance Group
NPNP—No pay, No Points
OG—Operations Group
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OPR—Officer Performance Report
OPS—Operations
PCM—Primary Care Provider
PME—Professional Military Education
PT—Physical Training
PTL—Physical Training Leader
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
SFIP—Self Paced Fitness Improvement Program
SNCO—Senior Noncommissioned Officer
SORN—System of Records Notice
SSN—Social Security Number
TDY—Temporary Duty
UCI—Unit Compliance Inspection
UDM—Unit Deployment Manager
UFPM—Unit Fitness Program Manager
UHM—Unit Health Monitor
UTA—Unit Training Assembly
UTAPS—Unit Training Assembly Processing System
WBGT—Wet Bulb Globe Temperature
WFPM—Wing Fitness Program Manager
WWD—World Wide Duty
433AWI36-2905 11 APRIL 2013                                                                   15


                                         Attachment 2
          SYNOPSIS OF THE 433 AIRLIFT WING FITNESS TESTING PLAN

A2.1. The 433 Airlift Wing has a total of 4 Groups listed under the Organizational Structure:
Maintenance Group (MXG), Mission Support Group (MSG), Medical Group (MDG) and
Operations Group (OG). The Wing has a total of 23 squadrons that fall underneath these 4
groups. MXG and MSG are the largest in population. The MXG has approximately 810
members and the MSG has approximately 940 members. The MDG combined with the Wing
Staff has approximately 490 members. The OG has approximately 500 members.
A2.2. In order to be in compliance with Air Force Guidance Memorandum AFI 36-2905,
paragraph 5., “PTLs will conduct fitness assessments in the FAC and will not test members from
their own unit.” The 433 AW proposes to set up a fitness testing program/schedule that will
allow the four groups in the Wing to test each other and to rotate after a 1 year period.
A2.3. For example: the MXG which has approximately 840 members will have a total of 10
PTLs minimum that will administer the fitness test to the MSG that have Approximately 990
members. The MSG will also have the same amount of PTLs to test the MXG on the following
day of the UTA (Sunday) if that is what was scheduled by that squadron’s commander or
representative.
A2.4. The OG with approximately 508 members will have a total of 10 PTLs minimum and will
administer the test to the MDG. The MDG with the same amount of PTLs will test the OG,
following the same example in the paragraph above.
A2.5. Each Group will have a Managing PTL (MPTL) in the rank of a SNCO or Company
Grade Officer, that the opposite Unit Commander or representative will utilize to schedule
his/her members at times that are convenient for their Squadron and allows their members to
remain current on their Fitness Assessment (FA).
A2.6. The MPTL will oversee the 10 PTL’s in their group and notify them of all testing dates
and times that they will administer the test to their assigned group. This will be accomplished a
UTA ahead. For example: each UTA, this MPTL will have published test times for the
following UTA after meeting or communicating with the respective Squadron Commanders of
the groups they are matched with.
A2.7. This MPTL will also ensure that his group of PTLs is in strict adherence to the fitness
regulations.
A2.8. The MPTL will have AFFMS access to enter all fitness scores into AFFMS before Close
of Business (COB) of the test date.
A2.9. All four Group MPTLs will report to the Wing Fitness Program Manager (WFPM). The
WFPM will periodically perform SAV inspections IAW AFI 36-2905 paragraph 1.15.5. to
ensure all standards are being met.
A2.10. Unit Commanders may choose to allow a large group of their members to go “not
current” for a short period of time to allow the majority of their unit to test on the same
date/time. This will allow a commander to better manage and plan unit activities like
commander’s calls and Unit Training around the months of their mass test time. If a commander
chooses to do this, he/she must contact the Wing Fitness Program Manager, so that their high
 16                                                 433AWI36-2905 11 APRIL 2013


number of “not current members” could be explained to the Wing Commander or Higher
Headquarters.
433AWI36-2905 11 APRIL 2013                                                                  17


                                          Attachment 3
                       FITNESS TESTING SCHEDULE EXAMPLE

A3.1. Number in parentheses in Table A3.1 represents numbers of people who are
administering the test. An asterisk (*) Denotes lead MPTL and the amount of PTLs needed for
test administration.

Table A3.1. Fitness Testing Schedule Example.

Administering              Testing
Sept/March                 September                                March
MXG (10)*                  ALL MSG                                  ALL MSG
Wing (3)
MED GRP (10)               OPS GRP                                  OPS GRP
Oct/April                  October                                  April
OPS GRP (10)*              MED GRP                                  MED GRP



Nov/May                    November                                 May
ALL MSG (10)*              MXG                                      MXG
WING STAFF (3)             FSS                                      FSS


Dec/Jun                    December/June
MXG (10)*                     Anyone currently overdue, along with those who will be required
MED GRP(3)                    to test before their unit’s next scheduled assessment.


Jan/Jul                    January/July
OPS GRP (10)*
WING STAFF (3)                Anyone currently overdue, along with those who will be required
                              to test before their unit’s next scheduled assessment.


Feb/Aug                    February/August
ALL MSG (10)*                 Anyone currently overdue, along with those who will be required
                              to test before their unit’s next scheduled assessment.


A3.2. This sample testing schedule allows units to test half their members twice a year, and
accommodates retesting those who did not pass in 90 days.
A3.3. Six months of the year are designated for testing, but the other six months may be used to
test as required, weather permitting. Members may not test during their designated testing month
if they are not yet overdue, but will become overdue before the next designated month.
 18                                                       433AWI36-2905 11 APRIL 2013


                                       Attachment 4
      REQUIRED SOURCE DOCUMENTATION FOR EXEMPTIONS IN AFFMS

Table A4.1. Required Source Documentation for Exemptions in AFFMs.

Reason                   Source Documentation      Exemption       Maximum
                                                   Type            Duration

Retirement               Retirement Order          Commander       One year

Transferring to IRR      Unit/CC signed AF         Commander       Three months at a
                         Form 1288                                 time

Pending Discharge        Unit/CC signed Reserve    Commander       Three months at a
Unexcused Absences       Participation Notice to                   time
                         Career Enhancement,
                         indicating “Involuntary
                         Discharge Action”

Pending Discharge        Unit/CC signed letter     Commander       Three months at a
For Cause - Other        addressed to member                       time
                         instructing not to
                         participate

Not Current Prior        Email from Unit/CC        Commander       Three months at a
Service Newcomers        with name and full SSN                    time
that have not in
processed into the
Wing


Pregnancy                AF Form 469               Pregnancy       As stated on AF
                                                                   Form 469

Medically disqualified   AF Form 469               Non             As stated on AF
from pay or point                                  Participating   Form 469
gaining (NPNP)
activity
