BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                       433 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 65-201
433AIRLIFT WING                                                                              21 JULY 2008

                                                                                   Financial Management

                                                          GOVERNMENT TRAVEL CARD PROGRAM




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                        e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 433 AW/CCP                                                                  Certified by: 433 AW/CC
                                                                                 (Brig Gen John C. Fobian)
                                                                                                  Pages: 4

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 65-2, Management Control Program.
This instruction extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 65-201, Manager’s Internal Control
Program Procedures and Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation (DoDFMR)
7000.14R, Vol. 9, Chapter 3, Department of Defense Government Travel Charge Card. It provides guid-
ance and procedures for establishing the administration of the government travel card program and guid-
ance for personnel assigned to the 433d Airlift Wing (433 AW). This applies to all 433d Airlift Wing
units. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Respon-
sibility (OPR) using the Air Force Information Management Tool (AF IMT 847), Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. OPR has determined that no waivers may be granted for any part of the publication. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance
with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.


1. Purpose. All Air Force Travelers are eligible for the government travel card, subject to their unit com-
mander’s approval. Cash advances are no longer available for individuals at the Finance Office. The gov-
ernment travel card has replaced cash advances for authorized expenses associated with official
government travel and will be used all federal employees.

2. A Wing Agency Program Coordinator (APC) has been assigned to manage the overall travel card pro-
gram. The Wing APC is the Protocol Officer, and the alternate is the Financial Management (FM) Officer.
Commanders/Functional Managers have appointed squadron/functional area APCs to process new appli-
cations for their unit members and to manage the day-to-day travel card program. The squadron/func-
tional area APCs are responsible for: providing instructions on the proper use of the travel card; card
activation and deactivation; reviewing cardholder account activity; and responding to inquiries from card-
holders and supervisors.
2                                                                         433AWI65-201 21 JULY 2008


    2.1. Individuals needing to apply for a government travel card should complete an application, read
    and sign the statement of understanding and submit the forms to their commander. The Commander
    will forward the application and the statement of understanding to the unit APC for processing.
    2.2. Delinquent accounts will not be tolerated. Cardholders can use various ways to make payments.
       2.2.1. Split disbursement is mandatory. This form of payment is made when the travel settlement
       voucher is processed.
       2.2.2. Payment by phone can be made by the cardholder. The cardholder is responsible for any
       fees that are charged by the card company when using this method of payment.
       2.2.3. Payment by mail upon receipt of the monthly statements.
       2.2.4. Payments can also be made online.
       2.2.5. In dealing with delinquent accounts, the issuing bank will assess additional fees for delin-
       quent accounts. If the account is delinquent after 120 days, Defense Finance and Accounting Ser-
       vice (DFAS) will begin salary offset until the debt is satisfied. The issuing bank will not reinstate
       a member’s card that has been cancelled due to delinquency.
    2.3. The appropriate commander will take disciplinary action when a member’s account becomes
    delinquent. Courses of action that will be considered (in consultations with the 433 Airlift Wing Judge
    Advocate (AW/JA) or Civilian Personnel) are:
       2.3.1. Status Day 30: Action: Discuss with the member why the account is delinquent. Ensure
       the member understands their responsibility for timely payment of THE Government Charge Card
       bill.. Determine when the member received reimbursement for travel expenses, and allow the
       member seven days to pay. If the member has been reimbursed and has not paid the bill, consider
       this a warning sign.
       2.3.2. Status Day 60: Action: Direct the member to make immediate arrangements with Govern-
       ment Charge Card issuer for repayment of the debt and to report back to their commander as soon
       as arrangements have been made with proof of such arrangements. A Letter of Counseling (LOC)
       will ordinarily be appropriate. Commanders must make the member aware that further adverse
       action will be taken if payment arrangements are not made and complied with. Ensure the mem-
       ber’s Government Charge Card has been deactivated. In addition, member will not be eligible for
       re-enlistment, reassignment, to receive awards, or for promotion until the account is current. Unit
       commanders will screen re-enlistment, reassignment, award, and promotion actions against Gov-
       ernment Charge Card delinquencies.
       2.3.3. Status Day 90: Action: A Letter of Reprimand (LOR) will normally be appropriate. Com-
       manders should also order the member to repay the debt. Commanders and First Sergeants must
       also coordinate with the unit’s Agency Program Coordinator to monitor payment of the debt.
       2.3.4. Status Day 120: Action: Imposition of non-judicial punishment pursuant to Article 15,
       Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), will normally be appropriate. Discharge would also be
       an appropriate option at this point. A commander who is considering imposing non-judicial pun-
       ishment should do so only after consultation with JA. JA will prepare the record of non-judicial
       punishment proceedings, citing the appropriate provisions of the UCMJ and stating the offenses
       alleged. Regardless of whether non-judicial punishment is imposed, commanders will consult
       with JA and Department of Personnel Management (DPM) on the appropriateness of either
433AWI65-201 21 JULY 2008                                                                                 3


       administrative demotion or separation actions, based upon financial responsibility. NOTE: Com-
       manders should also consider establishing a Control Roster and/or an Unfavorable Information
       File (UIF) for non-participants. Consult AFI 36-2907, Unfavorable Information File (UIF) Pro-
       gram, for additional information.

3. Civilian employees that become delinquent or misuse or abuse the Government Travel Card will be
subject to appropriate disciplinary action as prescribed by Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-704, Discipline
and Adverse Actions, and in coordination with the Civilian Personnel Flight. Appropriate civilian disci-
pline will be determined on a case-by-case basis taking into consideration the required factors to be con-
sidered when determining appropriate penalty.

4. The Government Travel Card is only authorized for purchases and cash advances for official Govern-
ment travel expenses while on official travel orders. The card should be used for lodging, rental cars, reg-
istration fees, airline tickets, etc. Cash advances are currently authorized for a maximum of $665 per
billing cycle for standard accounts and $365 for restricted accounts. When possible, members are encour-
aged to charge authorized expenses to limit Automated Teller Machine (ATM) fees.

5. Individuals should be aware that all purchases/advances are subject to monitoring. The functional APC
will review cardholder usage monthly to ensure no card abuse (improper or unauthorized charges) and
document actions. The Wing APC will schedule and print a monthly listing of all delinquent accounts.
This information will be provided to the Commanders for appropriate action. In addition procedures have
been initiated s to prevent purchases in retail stores of unauthorized nature and measures are in place to
prevent purchases via telephone. Administrative and/or disciplinary action, as noted above, may be taken
as a result of any unauthorized use of the government travel card. If your position requires you to perform
official government travel and you have lost your card privileges, your ability to perform required duty
may be adversely impacted resulting in duty related disciplinary action.
   5.1. Prescribed forms. None.
   5.2. Adopted forms.
   AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication



                                                JOHN C. FOBIAN, Brig Gen, USAFR
                                                Commander, 433 Airlift Wing
4                                                                  433AWI65-201 21 JULY 2008


                                          Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-704, Discipline and Adverse Actions, 22 July 1994
AFI 36-2907, Unfavorable Information File (UIF) Program, 17 June 2005
AFI 65-201, Managers’ Internal Control Program Procedures, 12 October 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 65-2, Management Control Program, 28 August 2006
DODFMR 7000.14R,Vol 9, Chapter 3, Department of Defense Government Travel Charge Card, March
2005
Article 15, Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
APC—Agency Program Coordinator
ATM—Automated Teller Machine
AW—Airlift Wing
DFAS—Defense Finance and Accounting Service
CC—Commander
FM—Financial Management
JA—Judge Advocate
LOC—Letter of Counseling
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
UIF—Unfavorable Information File
