                                  433D AIRLIFT WING
                                 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
                                      GUIDANCE

    OUR Airmen enable the mission of the 433D Airlift Wing (AW).          We can successfully accomplish
    the mission only by allowing all personnel, military and civilian, to live up to their fullest potential.
    All members share the responsibility of keeping the 433 AW free from discrimination and sexual
    harassment as we strive to create an environment of trust and equality. Specifically, each of us has the
    right to contribute to the defense of our nation regardless of race, color, religious beliefs, national
    origin, or gender. Unlawful discrimination and sexual harassment not only deny these rights, but are
    detrimental to positive morale, mission effectiveness and combat readiness. Discrimination and
    sexual harassment are against the law, and will not be tolerated.


     ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
      Treat all people with dignity and respect
      Know and comply with EO policies
      Enforce and reinforce DoD and AF EO policies
      Examine your actions for subtle behaviors that
        could be viewed as double standards
      Set a positive example
      Confront inappropriate behaviors
      Take corrective action
      Know the referral agencies
      Chain of command
      Inspector General, Chaplain, Sexual Assault
        Prevention and Mental Health


    I am proud of our record in this area, and I am committed to continuing to build an even stronger
    team by ensuring all 433D Airlift Wing personnel are provided a work environment free from
    unlawful discrimination, sexual harassment and reprisal. Thank you for your help in making this
    policy a reality.




Prescribed by AFI 36-2706                                      433 AWVA 36-2707, 18 Novemebr 2013
OPR: 433 AW/EO                   RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
Certified by: 1st Lt Diana R. Pena
