BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         433D AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 21-103
433D AIRLIFT WING
                                                                                        9 MAY 2013

                                                                                       Maintenance

                                                           FOREIGN OBJECT DAMAGE (FOD)
                                                                              CONTROL

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 433 MXG/MXGQ                                                          Certified by: 433 AW/CC
                                                                         (Col Jeffery T. Pennington)
Supersedes:    433AWI 21-103, 13 April 2010                                                  Pages: 6


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space
Maintenance. This instruction extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 21-101,
Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, and AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated
Occupational Safety Instruction. It establishes procedures and precautionary measures for
ensuring effective prevention of Foreign Object Damage (FOD) to assigned aircraft and
equipment. This instruction applies to all 433 AW units working in, on, around, or traveling
through areas near aircraft, Aircraft Ground Equipment (AGE), engines, loading and unloading
cargo or components in the 433D Airlift Wing. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processed prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form
847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been formatted to change group and wing commanders, and to update
publication format.
1. Responsibilities.
   1.1. FOD Prevention Program Manager (Vice Wing Commander) will ensure:
       1.1.1. Reviews quarterly all FOD mishap reports and identifies areas requiring
       management action.
 2                                                                 433AWI21-103 9 MAY 2013


        1.1.2. Ensures applicable unit commanders provide FOD training for all aircraft
        maintenance personnel involved in on/off-equipment maintenance.
     1.2. FOD Monitor, Quality Assurance (QA):
        1.2.1. Briefs Vice Wing Commander on the FOD program data quarterly.
     1.3. Commanders / Supervisors.
        1.3.1. Will ensure each individual completes initial FOD training and refresher training
        every two years thereafter. Supervisors will stress the importance of the FOD prevention
        program to eliminate foreign object hazards while personnel perform assigned duties.
        1.3.2. Primary and Alternate FOD Prevention monitors will be appointed by their
        squadron commander. The name, grade, office symbol and duty phone of these
        committee representatives will be forwarded to the 433D Maintenance Group Quality
        Assurance (MXGQ), FOD Prevention Monitor in the form of an appointment letter and
        updated yearly, or as necessary. Squadron FOD monitors will attend the FOD Prevention
        Committee meetings and consolidate FOD monthly data and forward it to the 433
        MXGQ within 5 working days from the first of each month. Data will include tire
        changes due to FOD and lost tools.
2. Preventing Foreign Object Damage.
     2.1. There are many causes of FOD. Two major contributors are poor housekeeping and
     poor work habits such as not accounting for hardware, safety wire, tools, etc., during
     operations and maintenance. All loose objects, regardless of their origin, can cause
     catastrophic and costly damage to an aircraft, major end item or loss of life.
     2.2. FOD Prevention Practices. FOD awareness and prevention is everyone’s responsibility.
     Some FOD prevention requirements are listed below.
        2.2.1. Prior to aircrew show, maintenance personnel will perform a flight deck inspection
        for Foreign Objects (FO). Aircrew members prior to flight will ensure that the flight
        deck is FO free.
        2.2.2. Plug or cap all openings, ports, lines, hoses, electrical connections, and ducts on
        aircraft, engines, support equipment, AGE, trainers or components to prevent FOD from
        entering these systems. All necessary caps, plugs, covers etc. will be made readily
        available by management, for use by aircraft maintenance personnel in their immediate
        work area for the prevention of foreign object damage.
        2.2.3. All aircraft parking spots will be policed for foreign objects and debris prior to
        aircraft block-in and after aircraft block-out. Prior to towing an aircraft from any hangar
        or parking spot, the aircraft tow supervisor is responsible for ensuring the tow path is
        clear of foreign objects or debris and the hangar or parking spot being towed to is also
        clear of foreign objects.
        2.2.4. For protection from weather extremes, 2 types hats are authorized for flightline
        wear. The military issue cold weather knit cap and the military issue ABU hot weather
        hat (boonie hat). Personnel wearing these hats will remain outside of the aircraft wingtip
        span and no closer than the nose of the aircraft if engines are running.
433AWI21-103 9 MAY 2013                                                                      3


       2.2.5. Restricted area badges will be removed when performing intake/inlet/exhaust
       inspections if personnel physically enter these areas. Restricted area badges will be
       secured with a subdued nylon/cotton cord or plastic armband. Remove/Stow restricted
       area badges worn on a lanyard within 25 feet of an aircraft with engine(s) operating. Do
       not attach additional items to line badge or line badge lanyard/holder.
       2.2.6. Maintain cleanliness in maintenance and manufacturing areas at all times. Keep
       areas free of FO. A thorough cleanup, FO inspection and toolbox inventory will be
       accomplished upon beginning and completion of each task and at the beginning and end
       of the shift.
       2.2.7. Report damaged pavement in and around aircraft traffic                       and
       taxi/towing/runup/parking areas to the FOD Monitor immediately upon discovery.
3. FOD Walks.
   3.1. Weekly Wing FOD walks will be performed every Monday of the month on or about
   0800 hours and weather permitting. The wing FOD manager will make the determination to
   reschedule in the event of inclement weather. If Monday should fall on a holiday, the walk
   will be conducted on the following Monday. During Unit Training Assembly (UTA)’s the
   FOD walk will be conducted on that Sunday in lieu of the following Monday. Notification
   will be made through the Maintenance Operation Center (MOC) to all those participating no
   later than 0730 the morning of the walk.
       3.1.1. Individuals will report to spot #1 for a safety briefing from the FOD walk
       supervisor. FOD / trash bags and hearing protection will be provided at that time by the
       FOD walk supervisor. Group will then proceed to aircraft parking spot one and proceed
       towards spot thirteen (walking within the red boundary lines side by side for maximum
       area coverage). NOTE: Supervisor for the walk will be provided by Aircraft
       Maintenance Squadron (AMXS) and Maintenance Squadron (MXS), duties to be shared
       by both squadrons.
   3.2. Ensure unit commanders actively support the FOD Prevention Program.
   3.3. Weekly work center FOD walks will be performed on a day selected by the flight chief
   /area supervisor.
   3.4. Runway and taxi way FOD removal is accomplished by the Host FOD program as
   stated in Joint Base San Antonio Instruction (JBSANANTONIOI) 21-103, Foreign Object
   Damage (FOD), Dropped Object Prevention (DOP) and Tools and Equipment Control
   Programs.
4. FOD Prevention Committee meetings.
   4.1. The committee will meet quarterly or as directed by the Vice Wing Commander (CV).
   Unless otherwise stated, the meetings will take place in the 433 AW Command section
   conference room, building 909. Specific dates and times will be announced in advance.
4.2. Minimum attendee representation is group commanders, director(s), maintenance unit
commanders, squadron FOD monitors or their alternates and Safety. The Wing CV or designated
representative will chair the meeting.
5. FOD Investigation and Reporting.
4                                                                 433AWI21-103 9 MAY 2013


    5.1. FOD Investigation.
       5.1.1. Each case of FOD will be investigated to determine the cause. The investigations
       will use the expertise in maintenance, safety, and other staff agencies as needed. If the
       unit determines the FOD is attributable to personnel error, it will be included in the FOD
       rate.
    5.2. FOD Incident Reporting.
       5.2.1. Known or suspected FOD in an aircraft, support equipment, engine or component
       will immediately render it unsafe for use. If internal engine FOD is confirmed, the
       engine must be impounded. A complete search for the FO causing the damage will be
       conducted. If nicked engine blades are found, including during a test cell run, the cause
       will be investigated regardless of the extent of damage.
       5.2.2. All FOD incidents or mishaps will be reported on Air Force Reserve Command
       (AFRC) Form 42, Foreign Object Damage (FOD) Mishap Investigation Checksheet, and
       submitted to QA and the Engine Manager. All engine fan damage including minor nicks
       and blemishes which require blending will also be reported on an Engine Fan Blade
       Blending Worksheet and submitted to Electro Magnetic Acoustic Transducer (EMAT).
       If impoundment is required, 433D Maintenance Group Office Instruction (MXG OI) 21-
       118, Aircraft Impoundment Procedures will be used. When calculating the cost, include
       replacement/exchange parts and man hour costs (field level), or the total depot overhaul
       cost, according to Air Force Instruction (AFI) 91-204, Safety Investigation and Reports.




                                            JEFFERY T. PENNINGTON, COLONEL, USAFR
                                            Commander, 433D Airlift Wing
433AWI21-103 9 MAY 2013                                                            5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 July 2010
AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction, 15 June 2012
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 September 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 February 2003
JBSANANTONIOI 21-103, Lackland AFB Foreign Object Damage (FOD), Dropped Object
Prevention (DOP), and Tools and Equipment Control Programs, 18 November 2011
MXG OI 21-118, Aircraft Impoundment Procedures
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AFRC 42, Foreign Object Damage (FOD) Mishap Investigation Checksheet

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSHTD—Aircraft Flight Line Ground Operations and Activates
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AGE—Aerospace Ground Equipment
AMXS—Aircraft Maintenance Squadron
AW—Airlift Wing
BLDG—Building
CV—Vice Wing Commander
DOP—Dropped Object Prevention
EMAT—Electro Magnetic Acoustic Transducer
FO—Foreign Object
FOD—Foreign Object Damage
JBSANANTONIOI—Joint Base San Antonio Instruction
MOC—Mission Operation Center
 6                                            433AWI21-103 9 MAY 2013


MXG—Maintenance Group
MXG OI—Maintenance Group Office Instruction
MXGQ—Maintenance Group Quality Assurance
MXS—Maintenance Squadron
OPR—Office of Primary Resource
QA—Quality Assurance
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
UTA—Unit Training Assembly
