BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    434TH AIR REFUELING WING
434TH AIR REFUELING WING                                             INSTRUCTION 90-201

                                                                               4 JANUARY 2012

                                                                          Special Management

                                                             SELF INSPECTION PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 434 ARW/CCO                                                    Certified by: 434 ARW/CC
                                                                              (Colonel Cahoon)
                                                                                      Pages: 12


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-2, Inspector General – The
Inspection System, Air Force Instruction (AFI) 90-201, Inspector General Activities, and AFI 90-
201_AFRCSUP_I, Inspector General Activities. It establishes responsibilities for the 434th Air
Refueling Wing (ARW) Self-Inspection (SI) program. It provides guidelines regarding
deficiencies found during inspections of various units, unfavorable trends, recommendations
noted by the Inspector General (IG) and promotes the use of SI as a management control tool. It
applies to all units and activities assigned to the 434 ARW. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through
Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms manager. Ensure all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records     Disposition     Schedule      (RDS)     located   at   https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer,
commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by
the Air Force.

This is the initial publication of 434th ARW 90-201 Self-inspection Program.

1. Objectives and Responsibilities:
   1.1. The 434th Air Refueling Wing embraces self inspection as keystone in readiness and
   compliance items. Each member and functional area manager must take responsibility to
   accurately assess and improve their programs, in a timely manner, and to report program
   status. Toward that end, the Management Internal Control Toolset (MICT) is the ARW
 2                                                         434ARWI90-201 4 JANUARY 2012


     vehicle to accomplish and report self inspections. The concept will require frequent updates
     and database management as MICT develops; the frequency of updates will be practical and
     be determined by the commander and staff. Senior members of each organization/unit/work
     center will automatically serve as primary Self-Inspection (SI) Monitors for their area of
     expertise and are built into the MICT database. This change ensures that members with area
     responsibilities have necessary oversight of their organization, through the self inspection
     program.
     1.2. Commanders, supervisors, and designated SI monitors are responsible for overall
     management of the SI Program.
     1.3. The 434th ARW Commander will appoint in writing a primary and alternate SI program
     manager. Their responsibilities include developing procedures, overseeing compliance with
     the wing SI program and managing the MICT database.
     1.4. The operations group, mission support group, maintenance group and medical squadron
     commanders will appoint primary and alternate group SI monitors to assist the designated
     unit monitors within their assigned group. A copy of this appointment will be sent to the
     wing SI program manager. (See Attachment 2).
     1.5. Group SI monitors will oversee compliance with the group respective SI program and
     manage the group MICT database.
     1.6. Unit commanders will appoint primary and alternate SI monitors for the respective
     squadrons; those letters should be retained in the group SI binder or electronic folder.
2. Procedures.
     2.1. A thorough self-inspection will be performed within each functional area at least once
     each year or as directed. This instruction does not supersede or supplant other functional
     guidance requiring more than an annual inspection. The inspection will consist of a review,
     inspection, and reporting on all applicable HQ AFRC/IG checklists and the Common Core
     Checklists within MICT. As of 9 June 2009, MICT is the only authorized self inspection
     reporting system. (See Attachment 3).
     2.2. Discrepancies will be identified, tracked and reported in the MICT database. Most, if
     not all applicable checklists are loaded inside the program for each Functional Area, and
     Staff Agency. Common Core Compliance Area Checklists for all 434ARW units is attached.
     (See Attachment 4).
     2.3. Each group, squadron, flight or work-center appointed SI monitor is required to have a
     self-inspection program, using MICT. It should be accessible for review by the group
     monitor and available in the event the Local Area Network (LAN) is down, however,
     possible LAN outages don’t substantiate the need for hard copies. A good program could
     include the following:
        2.3.1. Section I. Unit guidance, this Wing Instruction (WI).
        2.3.2. Section II. Self-Inspection Checklists - common core and/or checklists in MICT.
        2.3.3. Section III. Discrepancies – An audit trail in MICT of all open discrepancies until
        closure. This should include follow-up date, current status, OPR and estimated date of
        completion.
434ARWI90-201 4 JANUARY 2012                                                                   3


      2.3.4. Section IV. Previous inspections accomplished at the 434 ARW. UCIs, EORI or
      Numbered Air Force (NAF) SAV excerpts applicable to the SI monitor’s level of
      responsibility.
      2.3.5. Section V. Cross feed newsletter/reports.
      2.3.6. Section VI. Any additional information deemed necessary.
   2.4. As the SI is completed, discrepancies are identified and entered into MICT.
      2.4.1. When entering a discrepancy into either MICT, provide as much detail as possible
      in addition to a get well or corrective action plan.
          2.4.1.1. Open discrepancies should be reviewed and updated periodically in order to
          note any progress made toward completion/closure.
          2.4.1.2. All discrepancies tracked in MICT require leadership oversight, particularly
          when open discrepancies become stagnant. Open discrepancies should be reviewed
          by the Commander/Section Chief/Unit SI Monitor at least quarterly and should be an
          agenda item at Unit Executive/Senior Staff Meetings.
   2.5. The SI program is a continuous process that includes all areas noted in this instruction.
   New discrepancies will be entered and tracked in MICT as they are identified.
   2.6. In MICT, discrepancies will be closed by a member assigned the ―MICT Commander‖
   permission. Prior to closure, comments need to be made in the discrepancy field and/or
   documentation needs to be uploaded in the support section by the OPR stating how the
   discrepancy was remedied and what process is in place to prevent the discrepancy from
   repeating.
   2.7. Findings found during HSI, UCI, SAV, FAV (based on the area reviewed) will be
   entered in MICT; since MICT is Functional Area Management (FAM)-centric, checklists
   tracked on MICT must be inspected and accounted for. Prior to closure, comments need to
   be made in the discrepancy field and/or documentation needs to be uploaded in the support
   section by the OPR stating how the discrepancy was remedied, identify the root cause for the
   discrepancy and identify corrective actions in place to prevent the discrepancy from
   repeating. Once the discrepancy is ready for review by the clearing/closing agency, inform
   the ARW/CCO via the MICT suspense feature.
   2.8. The Self-Inspection Program Manager will track all findings/observations/discrepancies
   identified during the Formal Inspections/SAVs to ensure timely closure and approval by HQ
   if required.
   2.9. The SI Program Manager will conduct SI Monitor Meetings and SI Executive Meetings
   periodically and on an as needed basis.
3. Requirements.
   3.1. The wing self-inspection program manager will:
      3.1.1. Maintain a copy of all current group level appointments within the wing.
      3.1.2. Ensure the SI program meets directives and communicate changes or unique
      inspection elements.
4                                                          434ARWI90-201 4 JANUARY 2012


       3.1.3. Coordinate permissions (administrative rights) for use of the MICT program for all
       authorized monitors based on appointment letters.
       3.1.4. As required, appoint an OPR for each SII to accomplish, research and report
       findings/results back to the wing SI program manager. Additionally, monitor the status of
       all SIIs and report to higher headquarters as directed.
       3.1.5. Ensure each group establishes an effective process for tracking and closure of
       discrepancies identified by internally developed checklists, NAF SAVs, ORIs, AFRC
       UCIs and SIIs.
       3.1.6. Review pertinent other unit compliance inspection reports. Determine how
       discrepancies affect the wing. Electronically distribute to Group level for their
       dissemination.
       3.1.7. Communicate to commanders and group monitors through the use of e-mail or
       other electronic media, changes or unique program elements found on the HQ AFRC/IG
       web pages.
       3.1.8. Monitor all group discrepancies using the MICT database.
       3.1.9. Review the results of self-inspections and ensure Group Commander has vetted.
       The wing SI manager will then forward to the wing commander and the vice commander.
       3.1.10. Provide training and assistance as requested by group, squadron, flight or work-
       center monitors.
    3.2. The group SI monitor will:
       3.2.1. Reinforce to squadron managers the use of the Crossfeed/Crosstell program; using
       other units compliance inspection reports. Monitor discrepancies and suspense dates
       using MICT.
       3.2.2. Notify the appropriate group commander of discrepancies identified by
       subordinate organizations which require assistance.
       3.2.3. Review IG Crossfeed/Crosstell material periodically. Communicate pertinent
       material benchmarking information to all squadron and work-center SI monitors.
       Periodically remind SI monitors to check the HQ AFRC/IG website for updates to their
       programs.
       3.2.4. Ensure appointment letters are on file for all group, squadron, flight or work-
       center SI monitors.
       3.2.5. Ensure self-inspections are complied with as directed. A letter certifying entire
       group inspections are complete will be sent to the wing SI program manager. (See
       Attachment 5).
       3.2.6. Provide training and assistance as requested by squadron, flight or work-center
       monitors.
    3.3. Squadron, flight or staff agency self-inspection monitors will:
       3.3.1. Review pertinent other unit compliance inspection reports.       Determine how
       discrepancies affect the functional area.
434ARWI90-201 4 JANUARY 2012                                                              5


     3.3.2. Input discrepancies into the MICT database. Review open discrepancies monthly
     to include changing the follow-up or estimated completion date, if required.
     3.3.3. Ensure self-inspections are complied with as directed. Complete a letter stating
     annual inspections have been complied with and file in the appropriate location. Send a
     copy of the letter and the results to the group monitor and courtesy copy the wing SI
     monitor.
     3.3.4. Directly inform the squadron commanders and unit managers of results and
     recommendations for corrective action.
  3.3.5. Base Operating Support personnel will manually complete SI checklists provided by
  Accountable Officers (AOs) or Quality Assurance Evaluators (QAEs). When the SI
  checklists are complete, the AOs or QAEs will enter the data in MICT.




                                         WILLIAM T. CAHOON, Col, USAFR
                                         Commander
 6                                                      434ARWI90-201 4 JANUARY 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 90-201_AFRCSup_I, Inspector General Activities, 10 Mar 2007
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities, 17 Jun 2009
AFPD 90-2, Inspector General - The Inspection System, 26 April 2006
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AO—Accountable Officer
ARW—Air Refueling Wing
CCCA—Common Core Compliance Area
CCO—Wing Process Manager
ECD—Estimated Completion Date
EORI—Expeditionary Operational Readiness Inspection
FAM—Functional Area Management
FAV—Functional Assistance Visit
FM—Financial Management
HHQ—higher headquarters
HSI—Home Station Inspection
IAW—In accordance with
IG—Inspector General
JLLIS—Joint Lessons Learned Information System
LAN—Local Area Network
MAJCOM—Major Command
MCITS—Management Control Inspection Tracking System
MCT—Management Control Team
434ARWI90-201 4 JANUARY 2012                                                                   7


MICP—Management Internal Control Program
MICT—Management Internal Control Toolset
NAF—Numbered Air Force
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—Point of Contact
QAE—Quality Assurance Evaluator
RDS—Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
SII—Special Interest Item
SI—Self-Inspection
SOA—Statement of Assurance
UCI—Unit Compliance Inspection

Terms
Crossfeed/Crosstell—Term used to compare and share information from one unit to another.
The purpose is to collectively gain insight and better understanding of an issue that may lead to
corrective action.
Vetted—Process of examination and evaluation for possible approval or acceptance.
8                          434ARWI90-201 4 JANUARY 2012


            Attachment 2
    SAMPLE APPOINTMENT LETTER
434ARWI90-201 4 JANUARY 2012                         9


                               Attachment 3
             WING COMMANDER SELF INSPECTION LETTER
10                                             434ARWI90-201 4 JANUARY 2012


                                Attachment 4
                 434ARW COMMON CORE CHECK LISTS

Table A4.1. COMMON CORE COMPLIANCE AREA CHECKLISTS.
            UNIT/SECTION SPECIFIC COMMON CORE CHECKLISTS

A1          Enlisted Performance Reports (MPF only)
A1          Officer Performance Reports (MPF only)
A1          Family Care Programs
A1C         Time/Attendance Program Overview
A1C         Time Card folders
A1C         Premium Pay
A1-CSS      CSS (Commanders Support Staff)
A1-EO       Equal Opportunity
A1K-09      UETM
A1K-10      Trafficking in Persons
A3XR        SORT Report
A3XR        Squadron SORTS
A3XX        OPSEC
A4RME       Equipment Management (CACRL)
A4X-10      Unit Deployment Responsibilities
A6IE-01     Publications/Form Management
A6IE-06     Records Management
A6X-03      IT Asset Management (EC)
FMF-06      PBAS-Personnel Budget Analysis System
FMF-07      AROWS-R
FMF-08      Unit Training Assembly Processing System
FP-01       Fitness Program
IP-03       Unit Security Manager
ORM-1       Operational Risk Management
SEG-18      Housekeeping
SEG-19      Fire Protection and Prevention
SEG-21      Electrical Safety
SEG-22      Jewelry Safety
SEG-23      Office Safety
SEG-35      SEG-AFOSH Training
SG NOT IN   Demand Reduction Program / L.DLR. 3.1.7 Demand Reduction Program, Drug
LIST        Testing
            GROUP LEVEL COMMON CORE CHECK LIST AS APPLICABLE
A6NMC-02    Client Support Administrator (CSA), Group
FMA-02      Resource Advisor
434ARWI90-201 4 JANUARY 2012   11
12                                 434ARWI90-201 4 JANUARY 2012


                    Attachment 5
     LETTER OF SELF INSPECTION COMPLETION FORM
