BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    434TH AIR REFUELING WING
434TH AIR REFUELING WING                                             INSTRUCTION 34-601
COMMANDER
                                                                            25 AUGUST 2011
                                                Incorporating Change 1, 19 SEPTEMBER 2012

                                                                                 Force Support

                                                                   LODGING PROCEDURES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication
OPR: 434 FSS/FSVL                                                    Certified by: 434 MSG/CC
                                                                          (Col Betty A. Bowen)
Supersedes:   434ARWI34-601,                                                            Pages: 8
              17 November 1997


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 34-6, Air Force Lodging. This
instruction extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 34-246, Attachment 3, Air Force
Lodging Program. It provides guidance and procedures on the policies, payment and
responsibilities on lodging for the 434 Air Refueling Wing (ARW) personnel. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms manager.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. This instruction requires collecting and maintaining information
protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by Title 5 U.S.C. 552a. System of records notice
FO12AFB, Privacy Act Request File, applies. The use of the name or rank of any specific
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change adds/deletes the may only participate in the activities discussed below:
(paragraph 2.2.1.) counsel to advise (paragraph 2.6.1.); Unit members will make all UTA
reservations…..group commander (paragraph 3.4..); UTA lodging is for reserve members. On
base lodging room…..guest is not present. (paragraph 3.4.1.); Spouses are authorized to occupy
 2                                                          434ARWI34-601 25 AUGUST 2011


lodging ……unattended in the room. (paragraph 3.11.); Quiet hours are from 2200-0600 hours,
all…..by 2200 hours. (paragraph 3.11.); 434 SVML to FSVL (paragraph 4.9.1.)
1. General. Reserve components are authorized to pay (or reimburse) lodging for their
members in an inactive duty for training (IDT) status only when government-controlled quarters
(i.e., on-base lodging or off-base contract commercial lodging) are provided. Government
lodging is authorized only for Air Reserve Component members whose normal residence is
located outside the designated lodging commuting distance as defined by AFI 34-246,
Attachment 3, except those personnel deemed mission essential by the 434 ARW/CC. Personnel
in a self-pay status are required to have either a valid credit card upon check-in or full cash
payment for the first two weeks of their stay. Debit cards are considered cash.
2. Responsibilities:
     2.1. Unit Commanders.
        2.1.1. Unit commanders will appoint the unit lodging representative and forward this
        designation to the lodging manager. The commander will forward any changes in the
        lodging representative or their alternate designations to the lodging manager.
        2.1.2. Commanders will enforce no-show and walk-in policies to eliminate the
        expenditure of funds for unused rooms and to maintain maximum utilization of quarters
        on base.
     2.2. Unit First Sergeants.
        2.2.1. Unit first sergeants will assist the commander in enforcing the wing’s lodging
        procedures and, as such, advise unit members for each instance they fail to show and do
        not cancel their lodging reservation. They will also advise unit members for each
        instance they are reported a walk-in and do not make their Unit Training Assembly
        (UTA) reservations before 1200hrs on the Wednesday before the UTA.
     2.3. Wing Lodging Point of Contact (POC).
        2.3.1. Wing lodging POC provides an annual UTA schedule to lodging and submits
        changes as they occur. In addition, the wing lodging POC submits a list of unit lodging
        representatives to 434 FSVL (Lodging).
        2.3.2. Wing lodging POC holds the credit cards to pay all on-base and commercial hotel
        UTA fees and is responsible for payment within authorized number of days.
     2.4. Unit Lodging Representative.
        2.4.1. The unit lodging representative is appointed by the unit commander and represents
        the unit on all lodging issues. This individual is normally available on a “full-time” basis
        and is the focal point for the 434 FSS/FSVL lodging manager.
        2.4.2. The unit lodging representative will notify lodging of any changes to their
        members’ ranks, names and lodging eligibility.
        2.4.3. Unit lodging representatives will notify 434 FSVL of all new members authorized
        lodging for UTA’s. The representative must forward to 434 FSVL the new unit
        member’s information to include full name, rank and social security number (SSAN) so
434ARWI34-601 25 AUGUST 2011                                                                  3


     that the reservist may be added to the Automated Lodging Reservation System (ALRS)
     database.
     2.4.4. Unit lodging representatives will ensure that all personnel are aware of the walk-
     in, no-show, family member, and no-smoking procedures and a member’s potential cost
     and loss of lodging privileges.
     2.4.5. The unit lodging representatives will make certain that billing statements are
     initialed, verified, corrected and forwarded to their unit Government Purchase Card
     (GPC) holder within five working days upon receipt.
  2.5. 434 FSS/FSVL lodging manager. The lodging manager and/or designee will establish
  UTA lodging reservations for both on-base lodging and contract commercial lodging
  establishments.
     2.5.1. The lodging manager and/or designee will ensure that all on-base room inventories
     are utilized prior to assigning commercial lodging.
  2.6. 434 FSS/FSVL accounting technician. The accounting technician will ensure that
  billing statements are provided to the unit lodging representatives within five working days
  of the UTA.
     2.6.1. Unit members will make all UTA reservations (main and alternate) no later than
     1200hrs on the Wednesday before the UTA using the ALRS. Confirmation and
     cancellation numbers will not be provided as they do not coincide with those of lodging's
     check-in system; the information can be retrieved by calling ALRS and reviewing
     reservations. UTA reservations will not be accepted at the front desk. Any reservations
     made after 1200 hours on the Wednesday before the UTA (main or alternate) will be
     considered space available and will not be unit paid unless authorized by relevant group
     commander.
  2.7. 434 ARW Members
     2.7.1. Unit members will make and cancel UTA reservations no later than 1200hrs on the
     Wednesday before the UTA using the ALRS. Confirmation and cancellation numbers
     will not be provided as they do not coincide with those of lodging’s check-in system; the
     information can be retrieved by calling ALRS and reviewing reservations. UTA
     reservations will not be accepted at the front desk. Members will be directed to the
     “house phone” to make their reservations.
     2.7.2. Once the lodging reservation has been made via ALRS, individuals are personally
     responsible for the cancellation of that requirement. Cancellations must be made via
     ALRS prior to 1200 hours on the Wednesday before the UTA. Any cancellations after
     the 1200 hour must be made through the front desk prior to 1800 on the day of arrival.
     Additionally, if a member is lodged in a commercial hotel, they will need to call both the
     front desk and it is their responsibility to call the hotel and cancel prior to 1800 on the
     day of arrival to avoid no-show fees.
     2.7.3. Unit members are personally responsible for hotel costs, both on and off-base,
     incurred as the result of damage caused by their individual negligence or that of their
     “guests” and for personal telephone charges. Unit members will be charged for all
     damages to facility, linens, bedding, furnishing, or other government property.
 4                                                            434ARWI34-601 25 AUGUST 2011


     2.8. Military Personnel Flight (MPF). The MPF will provide printed instructions to
     newcomers giving the telephone number of the lodging front desk, along with eligibility
     criteria and directions prior to the Wednesday before the UTA.
2.9. The 434 ARW contracting office prepares coordinated performance work statements (PWS)
to acquire additional contract quarters with a fixed price contract, separate from the lodging
Blanket Purchase Agreement (BPA) if required when adequate contract quarters under the
lodging BPA are not available.
3. Guidelines. It is the goal of the 434 ARW to provide quality lodging facilities and service,
while keeping official travel costs at a minimum.
     3.1. UTA lodging for reserve members. On-base lodging will be utilized to the maximum
     extent possible prior to granting guests commercial contract quarters.
     3.2. Pets are not authorized in any lodging facilities. (For a list of local kennels, contact the
     front desk). Any unit member who brings a pet will be charged a $150.00 cleaning fee. This
     cleaning fee will be paid at the unit member’s expense.
     3.3. Smoking is prohibited in all lodging facilities. There is a designated smoking area
     where smoking is authorized. Any unit member, or guest of any unit member, who smokes
     in a lodging facility will be charged a $150.00 cleaning fee. This fee will be paid at the unit
     member’s expense. Further violations will result in the loss of lodging privileges for repeat
     offenders.
     3.4. UTA lodging is for reserve members. On base lodging room configuration limits the
     number of occupants per room because they are single occupancy Visitor Quarter (VQ)
     rooms with one queen bed. Lodging does not have any Temporary Lodging Facility units to
     accommodate families and space limitations will not accommodate a rollaway bed. Guests
     must advise the desk of all visitors who will have unobstructed access to the guest room
     when the guest is not present.
        3.4.1. Spouses are authorized to occupy lodging with reserve member and minor infant
        children are authorized to accompany the member as long as maximum occupants per
        room are 2 adults and infants under the age of 18 months. An adult is defined as 18 years
        old and an infant is 18 months or under. Proper bedding is required for the infant and the
        infant may not be left unattended in the room.
        3.4.2. Children are not authorized to be left unattended without adult supervision in any
        lodging or force support business facility.
        3.4.3. Family lodging may be obtained for wing supported events which allow off-base
        lodging of member and family. The member must submit requests through their
        leadership for group and wing approval. Upon approval off-base lodging will be
        arranged. Members will NOT be authorized wing lodging support without a letter on file
        at lodging prior to reservations being made. Only one room will be authorized and
        Member will incur any and all additional room costs above wing rate to support
        additional family members.
        3.4.4. Members found to be in violation will be moved off-base at their own expense and
        member’s group and wing commander will be notified.
434ARWI34-601 25 AUGUST 2011                                                                     5


      3.4.5. Lodging may be utilized by spouses and family members on a space available
      basis during non-UTA times as long as the rooms utilized do not exceed the adult child
      ratio.
   3.5. Check-in time is 1500 unless lodging management determines that rooms are available
   earlier.
   3.6. Check-out time is 1100 hours on Saturday and Sunday of each UTA. Any unit member
   requiring a late check-out no later than 1200 hours must be pre-approved by lodging
   management. All requests must come from first sergeants and/or unit commanders. Any
   unit member that checks-out later than the 1200 check-out time must have pre-approval and
   will be charged a late check-out fee of the prevailing self-pay lodging rate at their expense.
   3.7. Any unit member that turns in their key to the front desk and later returns to their room,
   leaves belongings in their room, and/or leaves a “guest” in their room while the unit member
   reports to duty, will be charged another night’s prevailing self-pay lodging rate at their own
   expense.
   3.8. All IDT UTA reservations and cancellations will be made by using the ALRS. ALRS
   may also be used to make self-pay, Active Duty for Training (ADT) status reservations.
   Reservations made using ALRS will be accepted up to three months in advance.
   3.9. The installation commander reserves the right to refuse service to any guest for any
   cause.
   3.10. Military identification cards are required at check-in.
   3.11. Quiet hours are from 2200-0600 hours, all visitors must depart lodging by 2200 hours.
4. Procedures.
   4.1. The unit member will make UTA reservations by calling the ALRS and following the
   guidance provided on the ALRS Instruction Sheet. The member will enter their full SSAN
   and Personal Identification Number (PIN) number (first time users’ PIN numbers are the last
   4 of SSAN). The initial call will require a phone number to be kept on record as well as a
   PIN number change. Members will enter the arrival and departure dates in six digits only
   Month, /Day/Year (MM/DD/YY). Members in UTA status will select IDT (#2) and
   members in self-pay status will select ADT (#1). Select (#3) for multi-status requirements.
   Members will not hang up until they hear that the “reservation has been noted”. It is not
   necessary to report to the lodging office if assigned to a contract commercial lodging facility.
   4.2. UTA reservations must be made no later than 1200 hours on the Wednesday before the
   UTA. ALRS will not accept reservations after 1200 hours on Wednesday. Anyone who
   does not reserve a room before 1200 hours on the Wednesday before the UTA will be
   considered a space available walk-in and will be required to pay for those arrangements at
   the prevailing self-pay rate. Lodging personnel will not assist unit members with securing
   off-base quarters.
   4.3. Reservations problems with the ALRS should immediately be reported to the lodging
   front desk for resolution. The lodging front desk can track all calls made to ALRS through
   the ALRS log.
6                                                           434ARWI34-601 25 AUGUST 2011


    4.4. Reservists are required to check-in No Later Than (NLT) 0400 hours Saturday (for
    Friday night) and NTL 1800 hours on Saturday (for Saturday night) stay. Reservist who
    have a reservation and check in after these times are considered a no-show, but will be given
    a room if one is still available. Reservist not making a reservation will be considered under
    “space available” status and could be denied lodging regardless of their military status. For
    cancellation of reservations reservists must contact 434 FSVL NLT 1800 hrs the day of their
    reservation or if lodged in commercial hotel contact the hotel for cancellation.
    4.5. Contract commercial lodging. Only the Grissom Air Force Inn staff may contact
    commercial hotels to make additions to commercial lodging requirements once reservations
    have been established.
    4.6. Unit lodging representative. The unit lodging representative is responsible for providing
    all names, ranks and SSAN of all unit members eligible for UTA lodging to the lodging
    manager. All member updates will be provided to the lodging manager by the unit lodging
    representative. All information regarding unit members who have left the unit or who are no
    longer eligible for UTA lodging will be forwarded to the lodging manager.
    4.7. Unit Invoices. On the Monday after the UTA, lodging’s accounting technician will
    provide the billing statements to the unit lodging representatives. The unit lodging
    representatives will verify the statements and make any changes to the invoices and return
    the initialed, verified, corrected invoices within five days of receipt of said the billing
    statements.
    4.8. Payment. The lodging accounting technician will forward all corrected invoices to the
    wing GPC holder for payment. The wing lodging POC GPC holder will make payment
    within 20 working days of the UTA. Lodging costs charged are accounted for under EEIC
    59220 for on-base and 59222 for contract quarters.
       4.8.1. The POC makes payment to 434 FSVL for on-base lodging and to contractors for
       off-base lodging, and retains a copy of each bill and backup documentation for statement
       reconciliation.
       4.8.2. Upon receipt of statements from the banking institution, the POC has two working
       days to reconcile the statements to their approving official.
       4.8.3. The approving official reviews and signs statements and forwards them to the
       Finance Support Office.
    4.9. The Air Force Reserve guarantees payment for all rooms reserved; therefore, the 434
    ARW must pay for no-shows. Lodging annotates all reserve unit no-shows before the Friday
    and Saturday night audits and verifies in the lodging Defense Lodging Systems (DLS). 434
    FSVL sends the annotated lodging reservation sheets indicating no-shows to the unit lodging
    POC’s NLT Wednesday following the UTA. The 434 ARW is required to reimburse
    contract quarters even if there is a no-show for room.
       4.9.1. Unit members who fail to cancel UTA reservations and fall into No-show status
       will be subject to disciplinary action, and/or denied lodging at government expense.
    4.10. Individual Payments. All guests are required to have a credit card on file for incidental
    and damage charges. All reservations made in a self-pay status require an authorized credit
    card upon check-in and charges will be assessed at 15 day increments and upon check-out.
434ARWI34-601 25 AUGUST 2011                                                             7


  Debit cards are considered a cash payment requiring advance payment so all room fees will
  be assessed immediately for up to a 15 day charge.




                                         WILLIAM T. CAHOON, Colonel, USAFR
                                         Commander
 8                                                      434ARWI34-601 25 AUGUST 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 34-6, Air Force Lodging
Air Force Instruction (AFI) 34-246, Attachment 3, Air Force Lodging Program
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADT—Active Duty for Training
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
ALRS—Automated Lodging Reservations System
ARW—Air Refueling Wing
BPA—Blanket Purchase Agreement
DLS—Defense Lodging System
FSS—Force Support Squadron
FSVL—Lodging
GPC—Government Purchase Card
IDT—Inactive Duty for Training
MPF—Military Personnel Flight
MM/DD/YR—DAY/MONTH/YEAR
NLT—No Later Than
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PWS—Performance Work Station
PIN—Personal Identification Number
POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SSAN—Social Security Number
TLF—Temporary Lodging Facility
UTA—Unit Training Assembly
VQ—Visiting Quarters
