BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    434TH AIR REFUELING WING
434TH AIR REFUELING WING                                             INSTRUCTION 21-104

                                                                            22 AUGUST 2011
                                                Incorporating Change 1, 18 SEPTEMBER 2012

                                                                                 Maintenance

                                                             FOREIGN OBJECT DAMAGE
                                                         PREVENTION/DROPPED OBJECT
                                                               PREVENTION PROGRAMS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 434 MXG/QA                                                    Certified by: 434 ARW/CV
                                                                      (Col Brian J. Reinhardt)
Supersedes:   434ARWI21-104,                                                          Pages: 9
              19 November 2008


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space
Maintenance, and should be used in conjunction with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 21-101/AFRC
Sup, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, Air Force Occupational Safety and
Health Standard (AFOSH) 91-100, Aircraft Flight Line - Ground Operations and Activities, AFI
91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports and any applicable Major Command (MAJCOM)
directives. It establishes procedures and provides policy to implement the Foreign Object
Damage (FOD) Prevention Program and the Dropped Object Prevention Program (DOPP) for
Grissom Air Reserve Base (ARB). It applies to all squadrons, units, detachments, temporary
duty organizations, support squadrons, contractors, and personnel who maintain aircraft,
associated equipment, or have access to the flight line or maintenance areas. Note: Contract
Field Teams (CFT) under contractual obligations will comply. If conflicts exist between the
contract technical order of specification and this instruction, the provisions of the contract
technical order of specification shall prevail. Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from field through Major
Command (MAJCOM) publication/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manuel
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records     Disposition     Schedule      (RDS)    located    at    https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims The use of the name or rank of any specific manufacturer, commercial
product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                            434ARWI21-104 22 AUGUST 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change implements new guidelines that clarify requirements on vehicle operators
will stop and perform FOD checks at all flight line entry points, including Building 600 and
changing the Certifying Official.
1. General:
     1.1. The wing FOD prevention program is based on awareness and training with continuous
     individual and supervisory involvement. Professionalism and discipline are the keys to any
     successful program. The overall program objective is "ZERO FOD."
     1.2. Ensure the area is free of FOD and secure or remove loose items (maintenance stands,
     support equipment, tool boxes etc.) from the aircraft danger area before engine start.
     1.3. Ensure dumpster lids are kept closed and the area is kept clean at all times.
2. Flight Line FOD Prevention:
     2.1. Unnecessary flight line vehicle traffic is not authorized.
     2.2. Vehicle operators will stop and perform FOD checks at all flight line entry points,
     including Building 600.
     2.3. Use a locally manufactured tool to facilitate the removal of FOD from vehicle tires is
     authorized. If used it will be marked/etched with the vehicle identification number and
     attached to the vehicle key ring.
3. FOD Prevention Walks:
     3.1. Each unit is responsible for specific FOD prevention walk areas. These include areas
     immediately surrounding their buildings, grass areas, taxiways, and Entry Control Points
     (ECP) that are adjacent to their areas of responsibility. Areas of responsibility for FOD
     walks are as follows:

Table 1. Areas of Responsibility for FOD.
AMXS / MXS                              MPA and 592 and 600 ramps. Hangar areas (all paved
                                        areas to include policing grassy areas for trash)
Aerospace Ground                        Building 593 and the AGE parking areas (front and back)
Equipment(AGE) Flight

     3.2. Squadron commanders will ensure a FOD prevention walk is completed in their areas of
     responsibility before 0830 Sunday each UTA.
        3.2.1. For Non UTA weeks the FOD Walk will be conducted on Friday afternoon
        following aircraft launches.
        3.2.2. If for some reason FOD walks are not completed as required, the Quality
        Assurance (QA) office will be notified.
     3.3. Maintenance Group (MXG) flight and section chiefs will take the lead and direct the
     FOD prevention walk.
     3.4. All available personnel will participate in the FOD prevention walk.
434ARWI21-104 22 AUGUST 2011                                                                    3


   3.5. Perform FOD prevention walk after heavy rains or high winds.
   3.6. Perform FOD prevention walk following all ramp, taxiway, or runway construction.
   This FOD prevention walk will be normally coordinated by the wing FOD prevention
   monitor.
   3.7. Crew chiefs, specialists, and aircrew are responsible for the ramp area around their
   aircraft. Inspect aircraft areas for FOD each day and before any engine start or taxi. Then
   spot check area again after aircraft taxis out of the spot.
   3.8. Base operations personnel inspect the taxiways and runways daily for foreign objects.
   3.9. Real Property Maintenance (RPM) is responsible for sweeping aircraft parking and
   movement areas a minimum of once a week. If additional sweeping is needed a request
   should be made through Base Operations.
4. FOD Prevention Training:
   4.1. FOD Prevention Training starts with the initial orientation in which FOD should be
   briefed and continues throughout skill certification and annual refresher courses. At a
   minimum, training consists of the items listed in this instruction.
   4.2. Initial Training: The work center supervisor gives all newly assigned personnel an
   initial FOD prevention awareness briefing before performing duties on the flight line or in
   maintenance areas. Document this briefing as part of the individual's initial evaluation in the
   member's training record. This briefing includes common causes of FOD peculiar to
   Grissom ARB, squadron policies, hardware and tool control policies, individual
   responsibility to prevent FOD, operating vehicles in flight line area, control of personal
   items, equipment and consumables, and housekeeping (clean as you go).
   4.3. Task Training: Ensure FOD prevention training is part of all task certifications.
   4.4. Annual Training: Maintenance Training Flight incorporates FOD prevention training
   for maintenance personnel during annual maintenance training.
   4.5. Operations Group will incorporate FOD prevention training for operations personnel
   during annual aircrew training.
5. FOD Prevention Program Responsibilities:
   5.1. All personnel who enter the flight line (includes maintenance, aircrew, petroleum oil
   and lubricant (POL), security police, aerial delivery, and contractor personnel) are
   responsible for making the flight line and aircraft maintenance areas FOD free.
   5.2. Individual responsibilities for the FOD Prevention program are to be accomplished as
   designated in AFI 21-101/AFRC Sup.
   5.3. Additional Responsibilities:
      5.3.1. The squadron prevention representative will:
          5.3.1.1. Maintain a FOD prevention bulletin board.
          5.3.1.2. At a minimum, display the wing goals, FOD Program Monitor information
          and any available current FOD information.
 4                                                         434ARWI21-104 22 AUGUST 2011


            5.3.1.3. Focus squadron FOD prevention training efforts to ensure complete quality
            training at the lowest level possible.
            5.3.1.4. Work with squadron supervision and personnel to address problem areas at
            the squadron level.
            5.3.1.5. Direct/conduct and document the required FOD walk of their identified areas
            of responsibility.
            5.3.1.6. Notify the FOD program manager and program monitors Quality Assurance
            (QA) in the event a FOD council representative changes, to ensure the flow of
            communication is maintained.
        5.3.2. The FOD monitor will:
            5.3.2.1. Periodically inspect for damaged pavement, flight line construction, or other
            hazards in or near aircraft parking ramps or taxiways and report findings to the
            airfield manager.
            5.3.2.2. Monitor repair status and report those repair actions at the quarterly
            committee meeting.
            5.3.2.3. Act as liaison between the Wing (WG)/Vice Commander (CV) and airfield
            manager and other agencies for coordination of FOD prevention needs. The WG/CV
            will be notified via e-mail of any actions needed or taken concerning construction in
            progress on or near the flightline or other areas where FOD incidents may occur.
6. FOD mishap investigation and reporting:
     6.1. The initial FOD incident is reported to Maintenance Operations Center (MOC)
     immediately when discovered and followed up with the completion of an aircraft incident
     report.
     6.2. MOC then reports all FOD incidents to QA; an AFRC Form 42, Foreign Object
     Damage (FOD) Mishap Investigation Checksheet, is generated in the Qanttas data base
     program.
     6.3. The initial FOD incident report will be reported to Numbered Air Force (NAF) FOD
     Manager no later then the next duty day after the occurrence.
     6.4. All applicable sections (safety, jets, QA etc.) investigate IAW AFI 21-101/AFRC Sup
     and complete AFRC Form 42, with emphasis on investigation, action taken, and any
     underlying root problems which may cause incident to reoccur.
     6.5. When engine FOD is identified, other than minor sand nicks or scratches, prior to blade
     blending notify QA and ensure it is evaluated or repaired and documented in the AFTO IMT
     95, Significant Historical Data, IAW AFI 21-101/AFRC Sup.
     6.6. Completed AFRC Form 42 will be forwarded to WG/CV to be reviewed and analyzed
     for trends as indicated by block 8 of the form, then forwarded to Air Force Reserve
     Command (AFRC) and NAF FOD managers within 30 days.
     6.7. Comply with all reporting procedures as directed AFI 21-101/AFRC Sup.
434ARWI21-104 22 AUGUST 2011                                                                  5


   6.8. Investigation findings of all FOD incidents will be briefed to FOD prevention
   committee and reviewed.
7. FOD Prevention Assessment Program:
   7.1. FOD prevention will be considered during all applicable QA assessments as a
   supporting area.
   7.2. FOD Walks will be assessed at a minimum monthly.
   7.3. The Wing FOD monitor/QA will perform non-rated management inspections of vehicles
   entering the flightline area for compliance of FOD checks at a minimum monthly.
   7.4. The data from paragraphs 7.1 through 7.3 will be compiled for trend analysis at the
   quarterly FOD meeting.
8. Base Quarterly FOD Prevention Meeting:
   8.1. A base quarterly FOD prevention meeting will normally be held on primary UTA’s .
   The quarterly FOD meeting will be chaired by the FOD Manager when available; in his/her
   absence the meeting will be chaired by the MXG/CC. The FOD representatives include but
   are not limited to group commanders, directors, commanders of units with maintenance
   personnel, safety, Civil Engineering (CE), airfield manager and security forces or alternates
   are required to attend; agenda and times will be emailed to committee members.
   8.2. Monthly FOD meetings will be conducted when the unit exceeds the established
   standard as set forth in AFI 21-101/AFRC Sup, until those problems resulting in FOD can be
   resolved.
   8.3. When the WG/CV cannot be present at the quarterly meeting, all program data will be
   provided via e-mail for his review and comment.
9. Special Interest Items:
   9.1. Perform all aircraft engine runs above idle on spots designated by the MXG/CC.
   9.2. Report FOD discovered on pre and post engine run inspection immediately to the
   expediter.
   9.3. Flight line clothing policy: Any loose clothing or hats will be removed or secured prior
   to entering the danger area of an operating jet engine as defined by the applicable aircraft
   T.O. (The KC-135R is within 25 feet of the aircraft engine inlet, and 180 feet of aircraft
   exhaust at engine idle and 50 feet of the engine inlet and 900 feet from engine exhaust at
   Takeoff Rate Thrust (TRT) ground operations.)
       9.3.1. Metal insignias/badges, wigs, hairpieces, metal hair fasteners, earrings, rings or
       any other jewelry that may fall off without notice and become FOD are not authorized on
       the flight line. Note: per AFI 21-101/AFRC Sup, watches, unless restricted by technical
       guidance or Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Standard (AFOSH)/Occupational
       Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards, are excluded from this restriction.
       (Exception: During controlled functions (i.e., Change of Command Ceremonies,
       Retirements, or Commander Calls) held in a hangar – these items are permitted from the
       gate to inside hangar ONLY, with a FOD Inspection of the hangar area following the
       event).
 6                                                            434ARWI21-104 22 AUGUST 2011


        9.3.2. Restricted area badges will be secured IAW AFI21-101/AFRC Sup and removed
        when performing any maintenance in the aircraft engine intake or exhaust areas.
        9.3.3. Passes will be secured to eliminate loss.
        9.3.4. Escorts of visiting personnel will insure all FOD prevention measures are met.
        9.3.5. See 434ARWI 13-201, Base Airfield Operations, for additional information.
     9.4. Ensure elimination of foreign objects in aircraft cockpits and flight decks prior to flight.
     See LCL-434ARW-10-1.
        9.4.1. While completing the required aircraft panel and FOD inspections prior to flight,
        additional attention will be given to the aircraft flight deck area for cleanliness to remove
        any loose debris.
        9.4.2. Pilots and aircrew members must account for all equipment and personal items
        after each flight and ensure any items that become lost during flight are documented in
        the AFTO Form 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document, as directed by
        AFI 21-101/AFRC Sup.
10. Incentive Program:
     10.1. Wing FOD prevention incentives and awards program is used to promote a vigorous
     FOD prevention program through recognition of exceptional individual achievement.
     Encourage competitive programs in FOD prevention between squadrons, flights, sections,
     and shops.
     10.2. Wing FOD Prevention Award.
        10.2.1. Nominations for Grissom FOD Fighter Award are submitted by the section
        supervisor to the FOD Prevention Monitor and should be based on individuals going
        above and beyond picking up FOD, in FOD Prevention (i.e. finding out what caused the
        FOD or thinking of innovative ways to prevent and control FOD).
        10.2.2. Recognize an individual or his/her duty section as a "FOD Fighter" when he/she
        demonstrates innovative and effective application of the FOD prevention program. These
        individuals are recognized at the quarterly meetings.
     10.3. Wing Golden Bolt Award. A distinctive 1½" plastic bolt (painted gold) is placed on
     the flight line or in a maintenance area. The person finding the bolt returns it to the wing
     FOD prevention monitor and will receive the designated award.
11. Dropped Object Prevention Program (DOPP):
     11.1. The DOPP Program is designed to increase individual awareness of dropped object
     potential, protect critical resources by reducing dropped object incidents, and provide a
     formal reporting procedure. All personnel in the Maintenance Group (MXG) and Operations
     Group (OG) with primary responsibilities on the aircraft will participate in this program.
     11.2. A dropped object is any aircraft part, surface, or other item lost during aircrew
     operations, from engine start to engine shutdown.
     11.3. Responsibilities are outlined in AFI 21-101/AFRC Sup.
     11.4. Additional responsibilities at Grissom ARB:
434ARWI21-104 22 AUGUST 2011                                                               7


      11.4.1. The Operations Group Commander will ensure flight crews support and
      participate in the program, primarily by placing special emphasis on aircraft panels,
      surfaces, and secondary structures during their inspections and reporting any suspected
      dropped objects during sortie debrief.
      11.4.2. DOPP monitor will review and update the DOPP training program annually.
      11.4.3. Maintenance Group supervisors will ensure all aircraft maintenance personnel
      receive annual DOPP training. Training will be documented in GO81.
          11.4.3.1. Ensure "second look" inspections and documentation requirements are
          complied with.
          11.4.3.2. Ensure all removed panels are documented with a Red "X".
      11.4.4. AMXS Production Supervisor (Pro Super), upon notification of a dropped object
      will notify the MOC, providing the aircraft tail number and a brief description of the
      DOPP incident.
      11.4.5. The MOC will contact the following: MXG/CC, OG/CC, MXG/QA (DOP
      Monitor), and the Wing Safety Office.
12. Reporting Procedures:
   12.1. DOPP monitor will gather the information to meet AFI 21-101/AFRC Sup and forward
   to HQ AFRC and the NAF/Logistics Maintenance Section (A4M)
   12.2. The DOPP Monitor will use the reporting procedures outlined in AFI 21-101/AFRC
   Sup. The final report will be submitted to higher headquarters NLT 72 hours after the
   incident
   12.3. The DOPP Monitor will forward copies to the 434 ARW/CC, 434 Operations Group
   (OG)/CC, 434 MXG/CC, and Wing Safety Office.
   12.4. Quality Assurance Superintendent as assigned manages and oversees the prevention of
   dropped objects and assists in investigating incidents.
   12.5. All reports will be included in the Maintenance Standardized and Evaluation Program
   (MSEP) Report.
   12.6. All investigations will be in accordance with AFI 91-204.




                                           WILLIAM T. CAHOON, Col, USAFR
                                           Commander
 8                                                      434ARWI21-104 22 AUGUST 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 14 February 2006
AFI 21-101/AFRC Sup, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 29 June 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
AFOSH 91-100, Aircraft Flight Line - Ground Operations and Activities, 1 May 1998
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 February 2003
434ARWI 13-201, Base Airfield Operations, 31 Oct 07
Adopted Forms
AFRC Form 42, Foreign Object Damage (FOD) Mishap Investigation Check Sheet
AFTO Form 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document
AFTO IMT 95, Significant Historical Data

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A4M—Logistics Maintenance Section
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFOSH/OSHA—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Standard/Occupational Safety and
Health Administration
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFMAN—Air Force Manuel
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFTO—Air Force Technical Order
AGE—Aerospace Ground Equipment
AMXS—Aircraft Maintenance Squadron
ARB—Air Refueling Base
CE—Civil Engineering
CFT—Contract Field Teams
DK—Dock
DOPP—Dropped Object Prevention Program
ECP—Entry Control Points
FOD—Foreign Object Damage
HQ—Headquarters
434ARWI21-104 22 AUGUST 2011                                   9


IAW—In Accordance With
IMT—Information Management Tool
LCL—Local Check List
MAJCOM—Major Command
MPA—Mass Parking Area
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
MPA—Mass Parking Area
MSEP—Maintenance Standardized and Evaluation Program
MXG—Maintenance Group
MXS—Maintenance Squadron
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NLT—No Later Than
OG—Operations Group
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POL—Petroleum Oil and Lubricant
PRO SUPER—Production Supervisor
QA—Quality Assurance
QANTTAS—Quality Assurance Tracking and Trend Analysis System
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RPM—Real Property Maintenance
TRT—Takeoff Rate Thrust
UTA—Unit Training Assembly
WG/CV—Wing Vice Commander

Terms
GO81— Training tracking program
