BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        434 AIR REFUELING WING INSTRUCTION
434TH AIR REFUELING WING                                                      36-801

                                                                                 12 APRIL 2011

                                                                                      Personnel

                                                   ALTERNATIVE WORK SCHEDULE PLAN

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 434 ARW/DPC                                                     Certified by: 434 ARW/DPC
                                                                            (Mrs. Tammy Schlarf)
                                                                                         Pages: 7


This instruction implements AFPD 36-8, Employee Benefits and Entitlements. It provides
information, definitions, and instructions essential to implementation of the Flexible Work
Schedule. It implements AFI 36-807/AFRC Sup1, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and
Holiday Observances, AFRCI 36-803, Air Reserve Technician Time and Attendance Procedures
and Audits, 5 CFR Part 610, 5 USC Chapter 61, and The Handbook on Alternative Work
Schedules, published by the Office of Personnel Management. This instruction applies to the
entire 434 Air Refueling Wing (ARW) with the exceptions noted. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms manager. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https//www/my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

This is the initial publication of 434 Air Refueling Wing Instruction 36-801.

1. General. Alternative Work Schedules (AWS), represent an alternative to traditional work
schedules. There are four types of AWS programs approved at Grissom Air Reserve Base
(GARB); two which are Flexible Work Schedules (FWS) and two which are Compressed Work
Schedules (CWS). The two types of flexible schedules approved for use are Gliding and
Maxiflex and the two types of compressed schedules are 5/4/9 and 4/10’s. 434 ARW employees
are afforded the opportunity to work, consistent with mission requirements, a compressed or
flexible schedule. If an employee does not wish to voluntarily participate in these AWS options,
 2                                                            434ARWI36-801 12 APRIL 2011


he/she will be considered to be on a fixed default schedule of 0730 to 1630 hours with lunch
from 1130 to 1230 hours.
     1.1. Exceptions. Employees on shift in security forces, fire department, air traffic, and the
     command post has their own negotiated work schedules. These employees are required to
     utilize the 434 ARW Form 5, Work Schedule Change (WSC) Form, and AFRC Form 270,
     AFRC Timecard Worksheet and follow the basic work schedule concepts in this instruction
     (as applicable).
     1.2. The organizational unit as a whole remains open for business five calendar days
     (Monday through Friday) each work week, excluding federal holidays. Individual section
     supervisors are responsible for maintaining and documenting work schedules to ensure
     service as required through the work week. If working day shifts, the schedule will not end
     prior to 1500; if working second shift, the schedule will not extend past 2400 hours (N/A
     Maxiflex). No day shift will start earlier than 0600 without the written permission of the
     Group Commander, documenting the workload need for night shift differential (N/A
     Maxiflex).
        1.2.1. An employee’s regularly scheduled administrative work week must correspond
        with the employee’s actual work requirement. Management has the right to vary tours of
        duty and to change an employee’s scheduled hours of duty in order to meet mission
        essential requirements and will give the maximum notice possible to affected employees.
        FWS or CWS participants on temporary duty (TDY) and/or attending training will work
        the hours that coincide with the duty hours at the temporary duty or training location, as
        applicable.
     1.3. Lunch Period. Employees to include students will be scheduled a minimum 30 minute
     free lunch when scheduled six or more hours of work unless they are authorized a 20-minute
     on the job lunch. This includes work on an unscheduled workday for credit hours,
     compensatory time or overtime. The exception is those employees on Maxiflex are not
     required to observe a lunch period on workdays with fewer than six hours. Lunch periods
     must be entered on the timecard even during periods of leave in order to document the entire
     duty day. When flying, aircrew members must follow current HQ AFRC lunch schedule
     guidance in AFRCI 36-803.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. Group commanders will ensure the AWS program is applied fairly and equitably by
     supervisors in their organizations.
     2.2. Supervisors will:
        2.2.1. Provide employees as much flexibility as the individual work center mission
        allows in approving work schedule requests and provide all offered work schedule
        options, where feasible.
        2.2.2. Ensure that employees have access to a copy of this regulation.
        2.2.3. Ensure internal timecard audits are accomplished in accordance with AFRCI 36-
        803.
        2.2.4. Protect employee(s) privacy relative to work schedule issues and timecards.
434ARWI36-801 12 APRIL 2011                                                                     3


       2.2.5. Reschedule the employee’s administrative workweek to correspond with the
       specific days and hours the employee is expected to work. Notify the employee of the
       change, initiate the 434 ARW Form 5 and document the employee’s timecard as
       applicable. For night shift wage system employees, who are entitled to night differential,
       do not input the change into DCPS if employee is only temporarily being placed on day
       shift. For this purpose, temporary is defined as two weeks or less. All changes from day
       shift to night shift will be input into DCPS.
   2.3. Employees will:
       2.3.1. Choose a work schedule which will allow them to meet mission needs. This
       schedule will remain in effect until the next ―open season‖. Employees will not be
       allowed to change work schedules outside of ―open season‖ unless there is a mission
       need or bonafide personnel hardship.
       2.3.2. Ensure the accuracy and legitimacy of all submitted work schedule forms and
       timecard documents by signing or initialing, as appropriate. The AFRC Form 270
       reflects actual hours worked, not hours scheduled.
       2.3.3. Ensure that all periods of military duty are annotated on the AFRC Form 270,
       AFRC Timecard Worksheet regardless of whether the military duty/travel was performed
       after duty hours or on non-civilian duty days.
       2.3.4. Ensure a work schedule change, 434 ARW Form 5, is prepared when the tour of
       duty and/or duty hours need to be changed due to TDY or training. The Form 5 is
       normally submitted to the supervisor for approval no later than the Wednesday prior to
       the beginning of the next pay period.
   2.4. The civilian personnel office, employee relations section retains oversight of the AWS
   program.
   2.5. The financial management office, payroll section provides advice and assistance on
   matters relating to timecard submissions relative to this instruction.
3. Gliding. Provides for an 8-hour workday, with the ability to select and ―flex‖ or temporarily
alter start and stop times in the flexible bands. The lunch period must be a minimum of 30
minutes, but may be 45 minutes or 60 minutes. The following chart is the established workday:

Table 1. Established Workday.
                Flex Band        Core Start      Lunch Band       Core Stop       Flex Band
Day Shift       0600 - 0900      0900            1100 – 1300      1500            1500 - 1800
Afternoon       1400 – 1600      1600            1830 – 2030      2230            2230 – 2400

   3.1. Employees may submit a request for a permanent change in their gliding start/stop/lunch
   times at any time. The approved request must be submitted to the timekeeper NLT the
   Wednesday prior to pay period the change is to go into effect.
   3.2. Employees may, with management approval, temporarily alter starting, stopping and
   lunch times with advance notice inside the pay period (e.g., the previous day).
 4                                                             434ARWI36-801 12 APRIL 2011


     3.3. An employee may have a restricted choice of start/stop time if it is disruptive to the
     accomplishment of the work center objectives.
     3.4. Credit hours may be requested by the employee and/or offered by the supervisor, but
     cannot be ordered. Credit hours must be earned before use. Employees schedule the use of
     credit hours, like annual leave, in advance. Approval for earning and use of credit hours is
     up to the supervisor based on work center needs. Credit hours should not be earned/burned
     on a regular and recurring basis.
     3.5. Credit hours cannot be earned unless it is for work otherwise compensable under the
     law. Supervisors may require employee comment on the AFRC Form 270 as to the nature of
     the work accomplished for credit.
        3.5.1. Credit hours can be used or earned while on TDY with supervisor approval, but
        cannot be earned for TDY travel or while attending training.
        3.5.2. It is the responsibility of both the employee and the supervisor to zero out any
        credit time prior to employee transfer (to include an on-base transfer), termination, switch
        to a CWS or default schedule, etc.
4. Maxiflex Schedule. Maxiflex is a type of flexible work schedule that may contains hours on
fewer than ten workdays in the biweekly pay period and in which a full-time employee has a
basic work requirement of 80 hours for the biweekly pay period. The employee may vary the
number of hours worked on a given workday or the number of hours each week and may vary
start/stop times daily with supervisor approval.
     4.1. Core Hours. No core hours. Offices must remain open for customer service purposes
     between 0800-1500 unless the wing commander grants liberal leave. No core hours provides
     maximum flexibility.
     4.2. Lunch Period. Maxiflex employees scheduled with fewer than six hours in a work day
     are not required to observe a lunch period. Maxiflex employees are required to take a lunch
     period when scheduled to work six or more hours.
     4.3. Maxiflex Participation: Maxiflex is restricted to the wing direct report organizations,
     non-bargaining unit employees and other supervisory/management officials with Group
     Commander approval.
     4.4. Maxiflex Rules:
        4.4.1. Overtime will not be paid when an employee on his/her own initiative or because
        of personal preference chooses to work longer hours during one day or week in order to
        shorten the length or a subsequent workday or workweek. It is recommended that credit
        hours or compensatory time not be earned until the employee has accounted for the first
        80 hours.
        4.4.2. If the employee elects to work past 1800 or before 0600, the employee is not
        entitled to night pay (night differential (ND)). If mission dictates an employee be
        required to work between 1800 and 0600, a 434 ARW Form 5 will be required taking the
        employee off the Maxiflex schedule and converting them to a Gliding schedule showing
        the ND hours required to work. Another 434 ARW Form 5 will be required the
        following pay period returning the employee back to Maxiflex schedule.
434ARWI36-801 12 APRIL 2011                                                                    5


       4.4.3. Employees who infrequently volunteer to perform work on Sunday as part of their
       80 hour biweekly pay period are not entitled to Sunday premium pay. Only employees
       who are regularly scheduled to work on Sunday or are directed to do so by management
       should code their time to receive Sunday premium pay.
       4.4.4. Employees who volunteer to perform work on a holiday as part of their 80 hour
       biweekly pay period are not entitled to holiday premium pay. Only employees who are
       directed to work by management should code their time to receive holiday premium pay.
       4.4.5. Maxiflex employees are limited to eight hours of excused time on a holiday and/or
       base closure days.
5. Compressed Work Schedules (CWS). Provides for the 80-hour biweekly work requirement
to be completed in less than ten workdays per pay period. In the case of a part-time employee, it
is a biweekly basic work requirement of less than 80 hours which is scheduled for less than ten
workdays.
   5.1. A 5/4/9 is a schedule whereby an employee works eight 9 hour days and one 8 hour day
   per pay period. This provides one additional non-work day per pay period.
   5.2. A 4/10 is a schedule whereby an employee works four ten hour days per week. This
   provides one additional non-work day per week.
   5.3. An employee will request a CWS schedule on a 434 ARW Form 5. The work schedule
   will have the same start/stop times daily with a minimum of a 30-minute duty-free lunch.
   This schedule will remain in effect until the next ―open season‖.
   5.4. When an employee on a 5/4/9 or 4/10 is required to travel or participate in a training
   course where the hours of work are different than the employee’s schedule, the supervisor
   will make adjustments in work hours on a case by case basis to the schedule of the TDY
   location to obtain 80 hours of work during the pay period. These adjustments will be made
   in advance of the pay period.
   5.5. Duty section supervisors will designate start, stop and lunch times for each shift. The
   supervisor may vary lunch time one hour either way for mission requirements.
6. Alternative Work Schedules Conditions/Regulatory Restrictions:
   6.1. Employees may be permitted to vary from one schedule to another outside of open
   season for bonafide personal hardships.
   6.2. Management has the right to vary tours of duty and to change an employee’s scheduled
   hours of duty for operational requirements; supervisors will give the maximum notice to
   affected employees.
   6.3. Overtime and/or compensatory time may be paid to employees (to include wage system
   – WG and WS); regardless of the schedule they are working. Overtime and/or compensatory
   time requests must be submitted and approved on an AF IMT 428, Request for Overtime,
   Holiday Premium Pay, and Compensatory Time. No AF IMT 428 is required for
   compensatory time for travel granted to employees or Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA)
   overtime earned for travel.
       6.3.1. When the need for overtime exists, supervisors may offer credit hours/and or
       compensatory time IAW the overtime process in the section. When it is a workload that
 6                                                             434ARWI36-801 12 APRIL 2011


        the supervisor does not anticipate and could result in overtime, the offer of credit hours
        (or compensatory time) will be fair and equitable.
        6.3.2. If offered credit/compensatory time are refused and management determines
        overtime will be ordered to complete the work, then overtime procedures will apply.
        After overtime is ordered to complete the work, a selected employee may elect to receive
        compensatory time or credit ours in lieu of overtime payment.
     6.4. If the supervisor cannot approve an employee’s requested schedule, the employee and
     the supervisor discuss possible alternatives. Supervisors will make every reasonable effort to
     honor an employee’s request subject to constraints such as work requirements, mission
     impact and safety.
     6.5. CWS employees who are excused on a holiday are credited with eight, nine, or ten
     hours of excused time, dependent on their schedule for that day. There is no provision in law
     for the earning of credit hours or compensatory time during the duty day on a holiday.
     Holiday work during the normal scheduled duty hours must be for holiday premium pay.
     6.6. Scheduled breaks in the work day in excess of 1 hour will not be permitted (exception is
     Maxiflex).
7. Compensatory Time for Travel. Compensatory time for travel is earned in accordance with
OPM guidance. When compensatory time for travel is performed, supervisors should utilize
copies of the travel order, final settlement voucher and detailed itinerary showing
travel/meal/personal stops to make the supervisory calculations for the entitlement. The travel
order and supervisory calculations/approval are required to be filed with the T & A records.
8. Forms Prescribed. This instruction prescribes 434 ARW Form 5, Work Schedule Change
(WSC) Form and AFRC Form 270, AFRC Timecard Worksheet. An AFRC Form 270, AFRC
Timecard Worksheet will be maintained/documented by the supervisor for all employees
regardless of the type of work schedule (CWS, FWS, or fixed). Employees maintain the form
and provide it to the supervisor for documentation/audit purposes.




                                              WILLIAM T. CAHOON, USAFR
                                              Commander
434ARWI36-801 12 APRIL 2011                                                                     7


                                         Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Terms
Core Time (GLIDING ONLY)—The designated period during which employees must be
present unless on some form of leave.
Credit Hours (FWS ONLY)—Credit hours are performed at the employee’s option, with
supervisory concurrence. These are hours in excess of the employee’s scheduled workday.
Under Gliding, credit hours are earned for time worked past the employee’s approved scheduled
workday, which may include time before or after the shift and weekends. Under Maxiflex, credit
hours are those above the 80-hour pay period work requirement. There is no limit other than
reasonable and prudent on the total number of credit hours that may be accumulated and used
during the pay period. The earning and use of credit hours is in ¼ hour increments, however, no
more than 24 credit hours can be carried to the next pay period for full time (80 hrs per pay
period) employees. Part time employees (to include student hires) are limited to carry over credit
hours equivalent to 25% of their scheduled biweekly hours.
Flex Band (GLIDING ONLY)— That part of the schedule of working hours which employees
may choose their time of arrival and departure from the work site with the concurrence of
supervision.
Lunch Period— A minimum of (30) minutes is required as a duty-free, non-paid lunch period.
(For exception, see negotiated agreement). Under extenuating circumstances, credit hours or
compensatory time may be earned or overtime may be paid for work during the lunch break.
Open Season— The period from 1-15 April and 1-15 October during which employees may
request a permanent change in their work schedule or SDO via a 434 ARW Form 5, for all AWS.
Approved changes will go into effect the first full pay period in May and November,
respectively. Supervisors will respond in writing NLT the Wednesday prior to the pay period the
change is to go into effect.      Conflicts will be resolved based on SCD—Leave among
bargaining unit employees.
