BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            439TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
439TH AIRLIFT WING                                                            34-601

                                                                                23 APRIL 2014

                                                                                       Services

                                                        UNIT TRAINING ASSEMBLY (UTA)
                                                                LODGING PROCEDURES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and Forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 439 MSG/FSV                                                     Certified by: 439 MSG/CC
                                                                         (Col Kenneth M. Lute)
                                                                                        Pages: 7
Supersedes:   439AWI34-601, 10 July 2010


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 34-6, Air Force Lodging, and
establishes procedures and responsibilities for personnel authorized to occupy quarters (on-
base/off-base) during UTAs. It provides specific guidance for establishing UTA lodging
requirements, procedures and assigns responsibilities to 439th Airlift Wing (439 AW) units and
individual reservists assigned to Westover Air Reserve Base (WARB). It applies only to Air
Force reservists assigned to units within the 439 AW. Failure to comply with this directive may
result in loss of lodging privileges. This instruction requires collecting and maintaining
information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 8013, Secretary of the
Air Force and E.O. 9397. System of records notice F034 AF AFSVA A, Lodging Reservations
System, applies. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, route AF Form 847 to 439
MSG/FSV, 171 Galaxy Road, Box 56, Westover Air Reserve Base, MA 01022-1636.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially updated. Updates changes to Guidelines, Responsibilities
and Procedures sections. Deleted Adopted Forms (paragraph 5.). Added Attachment 1.
 2                                                                439AWI34-601 23 APRIL 2014


1. General. Reserve components are authorized to pay (or reimburse) lodging for their
members in an inactive duty for training (IDT) status only when government-controlled quarters
(i.e., on-base lodging or off-base contract commercial lodging) are provided. Government
lodging is authorized only for Air Reserve Component members whose normal residence is
located outside the designated lodging commuting distance as defined by AFI 34-246,
Attachment 4.
2. Guidelines. It is the goal of the 439 AW to provide quality lodging facilities and service,
while keeping official travel costs at a minimum.
     2.1. On-base lodging will be utilized to the maximum extent possible prior to granting guests
     commercial contract quarters. As such, members may be assigned to contract commercial
     lodging for single night reservations in order to maximize on base usage for all two-night
     reservations.
     2.2. Pets are not authorized in any lodging facilities. (For a list of local kennels, contact the
     front desk). Any unit member who brings a pet will be charged a $150.00 cleaning fee. This
     cleaning fee will be paid at the unit member’s expense.
     2.3. Smoking is prohibited in all lodging facilities. There are designated smoking areas
     where smoking is authorized. Any unit member, or guest of any unit member, who smokes in
     a lodging facility will be charged a $150.00 cleaning fee. This fee will be paid at the unit
     member’s expense. Further violations will result in the loss of lodging privileges for repeat
     offenders.
     2.4. Westover Air Reserve Base offers UTA lodging for Reserve Members. Lodging may
     not be available for spouses and family members as many buildings have shared living
     arrangements. In extenuating circumstances, lodging may assist with finding suitable
     accommodations when available. Reservists must understand that there is no guarantee of
     accommodations for their family members. If accommodations on-base are unavailable for
     family members, the member may have to pay for off-base lodging at their own expense.
     2.5. Check-out time is 0700 hours on Saturday and Sunday of each UTA. Any unit member
     requiring a late check-out no later than 0900 hours must be pre-approved by lodging
     management. All requests must come from First Sergeants and/or Unit Commanders. Any
     unit member that checks-out later than pre-approved check-out time will be charged a late
     check-out fee of the prevailing self-pay lodging rate at their expense.
     2.6. Any unit member that turns in their key to the front desk and later returns to their room,
     leaves belongings in their room, and/or leaves a “guest” in their room while the unit member
     reports to duty, will be charged another night’s prevailing self-pay lodging rate at their own
     expense.
     2.7. All IDT (UTA) reservations and cancellations will be made by using the Automated
     Lodging Reservation System (ALRS). ALRS may also be used to make self-pay, Active
     Duty for Training (ADT) status reservations. Reservations made using ALRS will be
     accepted up to 6 months in advance.
     2.8. Room assignments are assigned based on rank and the date the reservation is made.
     Once a unit member is assigned a room, members may not be moved to another room or
     building for convenience.
439AWI34-601 23 APRIL 2014                                                                        3


   2.9. The Installation Commander reserves the right to refuse service to any guest for cause.
   2.10. Military identification cards are required at check-in.
   2.11. Lodging privileges will be suspended for a period of six calendar months after three
   “no-shows” are recorded in one fiscal year.
   2.12. Lodging privileges will be suspended for a period of six calendar months after three
   “walk-ins” are recorded in one fiscal year.
   2.13. Quiet Hours are from 2200-0600 hours.
3. Responsibilities.
   3.1. Unit Commanders.
       3.1.1. Unit Commanders will appoint the Unit Lodging Representative (ULR) and his or
       her alternate and forward this designation to the Lodging Manager. The Primary ULR
       should be the First Sergeant and the Alternate(s) should be a full time member of the unit
       (vs. a Traditional Reservist). The Commander will forward any changes in the Lodging
       Representative or their alternate designations to the Lodging Manager. All notifications
       are required to be delivered electronically.
       3.1.2. Commanders will enforce no-show and walk-in policies to eliminate the
       expenditure of funds for unused rooms and to maintain maximum utilization of quarters
       on base.
   3.2. Unit First Sergeants.
       3.2.1. Unit First Sergeants will assist the commander in enforcing the wing’s lodging
       procedures and, as such, counsel unit members for each instance they fail to show and do
       not cancel their lodging reservation. After the third recorded no-show instance in any
       Fiscal Year, the First Sergeant will suspend the individual’s lodging privilege for a period
       of six months. They will also counsel unit members for each instance they are reported a
       walk-in and do not make their UTA reservations before 2400 hrs on the Wednesday
       before the UTA. After the third recorded instance in any fiscal year, the First Sergeant
       will suspend the individual’s lodging privileges for a period of six calendar months.
       3.2.2. First Sergeants will establish a control roster to track unit “no-shows” and “walk-
       ins”.
       3.2.3. On a rotating basis with other First Sergeants, they will assist Lodging’s Guest
       Services Representatives with peak check-in periods established as the Friday evening of
       each UTA between the hours of 1700-2200. Assistance may also be required on the
       Saturday of Air Show and Wing Picnic UTAs between 1530 and 1830 hours.
       3.2.4. The President of the First Sergeants Council will provide Lodging with a list of
       First Sergeants who will be assigned to assist Lodging on UTA Friday nights. The list
       should be provided at the beginning of the fiscal year and with each change made to the
       schedule.
   3.3. Unit Lodging Representative.
4                                                              439AWI34-601 23 APRIL 2014


       3.3.1. The unit lodging representatives are appointed by the Unit Commander and
       represents the unit on all lodging issues. One of the appointees is normally available on a
       “full- time” basis and is the focal point for the 439 FSV/FSVL Lodging Manager.
       3.3.2. The Unit Lodging Representative will notify Lodging of any changes to their
       members’ ranks, names and lodging eligibility quarterly via the ALRS Authorized
       Lodging Report. The ULRs are responsible for notifying Lodging of those members who
       are no longer authorized lodging. If a unit fails to do so, they will be liable for any no-
       show charges incurred as a result of a member having made a reservation and not
       showing up as a result of not cancelling.
       3.3.3. Lodging Representatives will notify Lodging of all new members authorized
       lodging for UTA’s. The Representative must forward to Lodging the new unit member’s
       information to include full name with rank and member phone number so that the
       reservist may be added to the ALRS database.
       3.3.4. Unit Lodging Representatives will ensure that all personnel are aware of the walk-
       in and no-show Policies and a member’s potential loss of lodging privileges.
       3.3.5. Lodging Representatives will ensure that UTA Reservation Lists, and Authorized
       Lodging Reports are verified and forwarded to 439 AW/FM Government Purchase Card
       Holder. Both reports must be digitally annotated with comments and signed and
       electronically submitted to both Lodging and 439 AW/FM GPC Holder. The UTA
       Reservation Lists are due within 1 working day of receipt and the Authorized Lodging
       Reports will be due within 7 days of receipt.
       3.3.6. The Unit Lodging Representatives will make certain that billing statements are,
       digitally verified, corrected and signed and electronically forwarded to the 439 AW/FM
       GPC Holder within 5 working days upon receipt. Lodging will be included on all billing
       correspondence between the ULR and 439 AW/FM GPC Holder.
    3.4. 439 FSV/FSVL Lodging Manager. The Lodging Manager and/or designee will
    establish UTA lodging reservations for both on-base lodging and contract commercial
    lodging establishments.
       3.4.1. The Lodging Manager and/or designee will ensure that all on-base room inventory
       is utilized prior to assigning commercial lodging.
    3.5. 439 FSV/FSVL Accounting Technician. The Accounting Technician will ensure that
    billing statements are provided to the Unit Lodging Representatives within 2 working days of
    the UTA.
    3.6. 439 AW/FM Government Purchase Card Holder. The 439 AW/FM Government
    Purchase Card Holder is responsible for ensuring payment of all room charges to The Flyers
    Inn and all commercial lodging facilities.
    3.7. Military members of the 439 AW (eligible to receive UTA lodging).
       3.7.1. Unit members will make and cancel UTA reservations no later than 2400hrs on
       theWednesday before the UTA using the Automated Lodging Reservation System
       (ALRS):1(800)367-1110, extension 557-2850. Confirmation and cancellation numbers
       are provided however they do not coincide with those of Lodging’s check-in
       system; the information can be retrieved by calling ALRS and reviewing reservations.
439AWI34-601 23 APRIL 2014                                                                       5


      UTA reservations will not be accepted at the front desk. Members will be directed to the
      “house phone” to make their reservations.
      3.7.2. Once the lodging reservation has been made via ALRS, individuals are personally
      responsible for the cancellation of that requirement. Cancellations must be made via
      ALRS prior to 2400 hours on the day of arrival. Cancellations will not be accepted at the
      front desk. Members will be directed to the “house phone” to cancel a reservation. Failure
      to do so may result in the suspension of lodging privileges. Members are not authorized
      to change reservations at commercial lodging facilities without going thru the Automated
      Lodging Reservation System. Doing so may result in the member being financially
      responsible for room charges incurred.
      3.7.3. Unit members are personally responsible for hotel costs, both on and off-base,
      incurred as the result of damage caused by their individual negligence or that of their
      “guests”, their non-payment of charges for received meals and/or beverages, or their non-
      payment of personal telephone charges.
   3.8. Military Personnel Flight. The Military Personnel Flight will provide printed
   instructions to newcomers giving the telephone number of the lodging front desk (413) 557-
   2700, along with eligibility criteria and directions prior to the Wednesday before the UTA.
   MPF will provide Lodging a list of newcomers who will require lodging prior to 1600 hours
   on the Monday before the UTA.
4. Procedures.
   4.1. The unit member will make UTA reservations by calling the ALRS at 1(800)367-1110,
   extension 557-2850. The member will enter their ALRS provided User ID Number and
   Personal Identification Number (PIN) number (first time users’ PIN numbers are the last 4 of
   User ID). The initial call will require a phone number to be kept on record as well as a PIN
   number change. Members will enter the arrival and departure dates in six digits only
   (MMDDYY). Members in UTA status will select IDT (#2) and members in self-pay status
   will select ADT (#1). Select #3 for multi-status requirements. Members will not hang up until
   they hear that the “reservation has been noted” and are provided with a confirmation number.
   The members will be provided the name and address of the lodging site they are assigned to.
   It is not necessary to report to the lodging office if assigned to a contract commercial lodging
   facility.
   4.2. UTA reservations must be made no later than 2400 hours on the Wednesday before the
   UTA. ALRS will not accept reservations after 2400 hours on Wednesday. Anyone who does
   not reserve a room before 2400 hours on the Wednesday before the UTA and receives First
   Sergeant and/or Commander approval will be considered a Walk-in and be placed on a Walk-
   in List which will be forwarded to the Unit Commander, Chief Enlisted Manager and First
   Sergeant. Each unit member without First Sergeant and/or Commander approval will be
   responsible for their own lodging arrangements as they will be considered Space A and be
   required to pay for those arrangements at the prevailing self-pay rate. Lodging personnel will
   not assist unit members with securing off-base quarters. All approvals will be considered a
   Walk-in Offense. Walk-in approvals will not be accepted from Lodging ULRs.
      4.2.1. Unit members who are unsuccessful with securing lodging will contact their
      Commander, Chief Enlisted Manager or First Sergeant for assistance.
6                                                               439AWI34-601 23 APRIL 2014


    4.3. Cancellations. The unit member is responsible for cancelling UTA lodging reservations
    prior to 2400 hours on Friday and Saturday of the UTA. The member must call the
    Automated Lodging Reservation System at 1(800)367-1110, extension 557-2850 to cancel
    these reservations. The database will record the cancellation and the call. Callers are
    instructed not to hang up until they hear that the “cancellation request has been noted”; they
    will be provided with a cancellation number by ALRS. Members who do not complete the
    call as instructed by ALRS will still have a reservation and will be recorded as a no-show.
    These members may be financially responsible for no-show charges incurred as a result of
    not properly following thru with cancellation procedures via ALRS.
    4.4. Contract Commercial Lodging. Only The Flyers Inn management staff may contact
    commercial hotels to make additions to commercial lodging requirements once reservations
    have been established.
    4.5. Unit Lodging Representative. The Unit Lodging Representative is responsible for
    providing all names and ranks of all unit members eligible for UTA lodging to the Lodging
    Manager. All member updates will be electronically provided to the Lodging Manager or his
    designee by the Unit Lodging Representative. All information regarding unit members who
    have left the unit or who are no longer eligible for UTA lodging will be forwarded to the
    Lodging Manager.
    4.6. Status Verification. The Lodging Manager and/or their designee will provide a list of
    personnel indicating which unit members who made UTA reservations via ALRS to the
    Unit Lodging Representatives no later than 1600 hours on the Monday after the UTA. The
    ULR will “certify that all members are authorized UTA Lodging”. The Unit Lodging point of
    contact will forward the list to the 439 AW/FM GPC Holder within 24 hours of receipt.
    4.7. Unit Invoices. Within 48 hours after the UTA, Lodging’s Accounting Technician will
    provide the billing statements to the Unit Lodging Representatives. The Unit Lodging
    Representatives will electronically verify the statements and make any changes to the
    invoices. The ULR will digitally sign and certify the statements that “all personnel are
    authorized UTA lodging” and forward electronically to the 439 AW/FM GPC Holder. The
    ULR is required to ensure discrepant charges for error status are paid by the unit member(s)
    within 30 days.
    4.8. Payment. The ULR will forward the digitally verified, corrected and signed invoices
    within 5 working days of receipt of said billing statements to the 439 AW/FM Government
    Purchase Card (GPC) holder for payment. The 439 AW/FM GPC holder will make payment
    within 20 working days of the UTA.




                                             STEVEN D. VAUTRAIN, Brig Gen, USAFR
                                             Commander
439AWI34-601 23 APRIL 2014                                                 7


                                      Attachment 1
       GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 34-6, Air Force Lodging, 22 July 1993
10 U.S.C. 8013, Privacy Act of 1974
F034 AF AFSVA A, Lodging Reservations System
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
