BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 439 AW INSTRUCTION 90-201
439TH AIRLIFT WING                                                                           16 JULY 2002

                                                                                          Command Policy

                                                                        SELF-INSPECTION PROGRAM




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 439 AW/CCX (CMSgt Kathleen Wood)                 Certified by: 439 AW/CC (Col Martin M. Mazick)
Supersedes 439 AWI 90-201, 22 August 2001                                                    Pages: 4
                                                                                      Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 90-2, Inspector General—The Inspection System. It establishes
responsibilities for the 439th Airlift Wing (AW) Self-Inspection Program (SI). It provides guidelines
regarding deficiencies found during inspections of various units, unfavorable trends, recommendations
noted by the Inspector General (IG) and promotes the use of SI as a management tool. It applies to all
units and activities assigned to the 439 AW. For purpose of this instruction, the term self-inspection
includes the following: self-inspection, crossfeed, crosstell, common core, and special interest items (SII).

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision changes the self-inspection completion date to 30 June (paragraphs 3.1. and 4.1.9.); pro-
vides instructions on the use of 439 AW Form 22, SITS Discrepancy Sheet (paragraph 3.3.); and pre-
scribes 439 AW Form 22 (paragraph 5.). A bar ( | ) indicates revisions from the previous edition.


1. Objectives. This instruction provides a systematic reporting procedure that will enable commanders
and supervisors to identify, track and resolve anticipated or actual problem areas. This systematic program
identifies the use of a computer-based tracking system located on the local area network (LAN). This
serves as an effective communication process through command channels to ensure identification and
correction of discrepancies documented in prior Unit Compliance Inspections (UCI), Expeditionary
Operational Readiness Inspections (EORI), Staff Assistance Visits (SAV), self-inspections, review of IG
crossfeed inspection reports from other units, crosstell-crossfeed news-letters, and dissemination of mate-
rials which communicate improvements, new developments, and innovative techniques to the field. Com-
puter technology will be used to provide immediate update information to commanders, supervisors and
SI monitors.
2                                                                       439AWI90-201 16 JULY 2002


2. Responsibilities.
    2.1. Commanders, supervisors, and designated SI monitor’s are responsible for the overall manage-
    ment of the SI Program.
    2.2. The installation commander will appoint in writing a primary and alternate SI program manager.
    Their responsibilities include developing procedures and overseeing compliance of the Wing SI pro-
    gram.
    2.3. The Operations, Logistics, Support Group, and installation commanders will appoint primary and
    alternate group SI monitors to assist the designated monitors with their assigned group.
    2.4. The squadron commanders will appoint primary and alternate SI monitors for the work centers
    under their control.

3. Procedures.
    3.1. A thorough self-inspection will be performed within each functional area at least once each year
    and will be completed by 30 June. This instruction does not supersede other functional guidance
    requiring more than an annual inspection. The inspection will consist of review/inspection based on
    all applicable checklists.
    3.2. Discrepancies will be identified and must be tracked to ensure closure. It is highly recommended
    that the Self-Inspection Tracking System (SITS) program be used as the tracking tool; however if a
    unit has a viable system already in place, they need to request in writing for approval of that system
    from the wing SI monitor.
    3.3. 439 AW Form 22 has been created for use in documenting SITS discrepancies. It may be used for
    self-inspection; however, it must be used when providing information to CCX for SITS update on any
    inspection, exercise or evaluation run by or affecting more than one functional area. An example
    would be an internal readiness exercise. Exercise Evaluation Team (EET) members would complete
    these forms and forward them to CCX. CCX would, in turn, update SITS and track the discrepancy
    until closed. Once data is entered into SITS, the forms may be disposed of or kept as backup docu-
    mentation until the discrepancy is closed.
    3.4. Each wing, group, squadron, flight or work-center appointed SI monitor is required to maintain a
    self-inspection binder, which can be a hard copy or electronic format. This binder must be accessible
    for review by the group monitor and available in the event the LAN is down. The binder or electronic
    format must contain, at minimum, the following:
       3.4.1. Section I. Appointment letters (applicable to your area only).
       3.4.2. Section II. SI, common core or UCI checklists as applicable to the SI monitors level of
       responsibility.
       3.4.3. Section III. An audit trail of all the open discrepancies until closure. This should include
       follow-up date, current status, OPR and estimated completion date.
       3.4.4. Section IV. Previous inspections accomplished at the 439 AW. UCIs, EORI, or Numbered
       Air Force (NAF) SAV excerpts applicable to the SI monitor’s level of responsibility. (Complete
       reports on the AFRC IG website do not require reproduction for file.)
439AWI90-201 16 JULY 2002                                                                                3


      3.4.5. Section V. List of current applicable SIIs and applicable SII instruction. (The wing SI pro-
      gram manager will ensure an OPR is assigned for each SII to accomplish research and report find-
      ings and results back to the wing SI program manager. The wing SI manager will review the
      OPR’s data and determine if the SII should be closed or be forwarded to the appropriate group
      monitors for action.)
      3.4.6. Section VI. Excerpts from other unit inspections as applicable to the SI monitor’s area of
      responsibility. This section may also be used for benchmarking data.
      3.4.7. Additional sections may be added. They may include but are not limited to: copies of any
      applicable TIG Briefs (AFRP 90-1), Air Force, AFRC (MAJCOM), AMC (gaining command),
      (439 AW) unit publications and local operating policy procedures. (The preceding publications
      will be marked as “reference only” as the official publications are in electronic format. If informa-
      tion is outdated, it will be removed from the binder.)

4. Requirements.
   4.1. The wing Self-Inspection Program manager will:
      4.1.1. Maintain group/unit appointment letters on file.
      4.1.2. Ensure the SI program meets directive compliance and communicate changes or unique
      inspection program elements.
      4.1.3. Set permissions (write capability) for use of the SITS program for all authorized monitors
      based on appointment letters.
      4.1.4. Ensure an OPR is assigned for each SII to accomplish research and report findings/results
      back to the wing SI program manager. (The wing manager will review the OPR’s data and deter-
      mine if the SII should be closed or be forwarded to the appropriate group monitors for action.) The
      wing SI program manager will monitor the status of all SIIs and report to higher headquarters as
      directed.
      4.1.5. Ensure each group establishes an effective process for tracking and closure of discrepancies
      identified by internally developed checklists, NAF SAVs, EORIs, AFRC UCIs and SIIs. Periodi-
      cally remind the group SI monitors to check the AFRC IG website for updates to binder materials.
      4.1.6. Ensure that each group monitor receives and has established a process for ensuring the IG
      Crossfeed, NAF SAV reports and SIIs are being reviewed for compliance by the squadron, flight
      or work-center monitors.
      4.1.7. Communicate through the use of e-mails or other fast media, providing data as to changes
      or unique program elements or related information on the AFRC IG web pages.
      4.1.8. Monitor all group discrepancies using the SITS.
      4.1.9. Ensure that SIs are complied with by 30 June each year.
      4.1.10. Upon completion of annual SIs, conduct a meeting or survey with the group SI monitors
      to determine if program objectives are being met. Brief the installation commander as required for
      findings requiring senior management involvement.
      4.1.11. Forward the results of the SIs to the installation commander.
4                                                                        439AWI90-201 16 JULY 2002


       4.1.12. Provide training and assistance as requested by group, squadron, flight or work-center
       monitors.
    4.2. The group SI monitors will:
       4.2.1. Reinforce to squadron managers the use of the crossfeed/crosstell program that is available
       through the websites. Monitor discrepancies and suspense dates through the SITS or other
       approved program.
       4.2.2. Maintain the group’s SI binder.
       4.2.3. Notify the appropriate group commander of discrepancies identified by subordinate organi-
       zations, which require assistance.
       4.2.4. Review and communicate through the use of e-mail and other fast media items such as IG
       Crossfeed/Crosstell material and associated benchmarking information to all squadron and
       work-center SI monitors. Periodically remind the SI monitors to check the AFRC IG website for
       updates to their binder materials.
       4.2.5. Ensure that appointment letters are on file for all squadron, flight or work-center monitors
       and alternates.
       4.2.6. Ensure that self-inspections are complied with as directed. A copy of the results will be sent
       to the wing SI program manager.
       4.2.7. Provide training and assistance as requested by squadron, flight or work-center monitors.
    4.3. The squadron, flight or work-center self-inspection monitors will:
       4.3.1. Review the crossfeed/crosstell reports in a timely manner.
       4.3.2. Maintain the self-inspection binder.
       4.3.3. Determine how discrepancies affect the functional area. Input discrepancies into the SITS
       program (or other approved system) after coordination with supervisor. Review all open discrep-
       ancies monthly to include changing the follow-up or estimated completion date, if required.
       4.3.4. Maintain follow-up status reports to ensure estimated completion dates are met.
       4.3.5. Notify the appropriate squadron commander or superintendent of discrepancies identified
       by subordinate work centers, which require management assistance.
       4.3.6. Ensure that self-inspections are complied with as directed. Complete a letter stating that the
       annual inspection has been complied with and file in the appropriate location. Send a copy of the
       letter and the results to the SI group monitor.

5. Forms Prescribed. 439 AW Form 22.



                                                     MARTIN M. MAZICK, Colonel, USAFR
                                                     Commander
