BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            439TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
439 AIRLIFT WING                                                              84-101

                                                                                 22 JULY 2011

                                                                                        History

                                               HISTORICAL PRODUCTS, SERVICES, AND
                                                                  REQUIREMENTS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 439 AW/HO                                                       Certified by: 439 AW/CC
                                                                 (Colonel Robert R. Swain, Jr.)
Supersedes:   439AWI84-101,                                                            Pages: 4
              3 August 2007


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 84-1, Historical Information,
Property, And Art and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 84-101, Historical Products, Services, and
Requirements. It implements the 439th Airlift Wing (439 AW) history program and provides for
accurate preparation and timely submission of annual wing histories and quarterly unit and staff
agency reports. It applies to all units and staff agencies assigned to Westover ARB and
geographically separated units. Annual history reports are based on a calendar year submission
(1 January through 31 December). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 to 439
AW/HO, 570 Patriot Avenue, Box 62, Westover ARB, MA 01022-1634.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The interim changes implements new guidelines that clarify requirements for paperless,
electronic formatting of history reports.
1. Preparation and Submission of Histories and Feeder Reports.
   1.1. Electronic reports are prepared by quarters and submitted to the wing history office by
   the close of business on Sunday of the first Unit Training Assembly following a quarter
 2                                                                 439AWI84-101 22 JULY 2011


     (March, June, September and December). Reports should not be completed before the close
     of a reporting period.
     1.2. All 439 AW organizations compile and submit unit histories via electronic format to the
     439 AW/HO email box or send computer disk through the base mail system (paperless or
     scanned when possible) in brief narrative chronology format and, when appropriate, with
     statistics and supporting documentation.
     1.3. In addition to quarterly supporting unit histories, all 439 AW organizations
     electronically forward appropriate documents to the historian as soon as they are completed.
     Those documents, for example, include "G" series special orders affecting the unit or key
     personnel, personnel actions, appropriate correspondence, papers incorporating policy
     decisions, after action reports, trip reports, monthly maintenance summaries, manning
     documents, status reports, airlift reports, and any other pertinent and historically significant
     documents which enable the historian to write a thorough and accurate account and to
     support the chronology and issues based narrative.
2. Appointments and Responsibilities.
     2.1. Each unit commander appoints two additional duty historians (primary and alternate)
     and the head of each staff agency appoints a history representative. In appointing unit
     historians, commanders may consider part-time or full-time members who have the time,
     availability, and access to information to send to the wing historian. The individuals should
     be knowledgeable about their unit mission. It is the unit commander’s responsibility to
     ensure histories are submitted by each suspense date.
     2.2. The installation commander appoints a history liaison officer who is a full-time member
     of the commander’s staff. The liaison officer, normally the commander’s executive officer, is
     responsible for program continuity in the absence of the wing historian and assists when
     needed.
     2.3. Designated branch reporters submit their inputs to the unit history representatives, who,
     in turn, submit to the wing historian according to the prescribed timetable. Representatives
     are responsible for content, style, editing, and compiling their respective unit histories
     according to program directives.
3. Format and Content.
     3.1. The heading includes unit designation with the reporting period noted. The history is
     dated, signed by the author (electronically), and endorsed or reviewed by the unit commander
     or chief of staff agency. The endorsement is considered a verification of facts.
     3.2. Unit histories and key activity feeder reports are chronological narrative summaries
     which provide a comprehensive, analytical, and accurate account of unit and section major
     activities and experiences. Each report should be double-spaced. Particular emphasis should
     be on accomplishments, problems encountered and lessons learned during the period
     covered. Include the five Ws as a guide: who, what, where, why, when, and how.
     3.3. Language which is readily understood should be used. Do not use technical jargon,
     abbreviations, acronyms, or office symbols. Spell out everything on first reference with
     acronym in parenthesis. If names are used, they must be full name with middle initial and
     with titles or ranks.
439AWI84-101 22 JULY 2011                                                                     3


  3.4. After publication, a copy of the wing history will be distributed to the installation and
  group commanders.




                                           ROBERT R. SWAIN, JR., Colonel, USAFR
                                           Commander
 4                                                            439AWI84-101 22 JULY 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 84-1, Historical Information, Property, And Art, 16 September 2005
AFI 84-101, Historical Products, Services, and Requirements, 30 July 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
