                     FORCE
                  PROTECTION
                   CONDITION




439 AWVA 10-206, 1 FEB 2008, OPR: 439 AW/ATO                 Certified Current 24 OCTOBER 2012
                                               FPCON DELTA
FPCON DELTA. Applies in the immediate area where a terrorist attack has occurred or when intelligence has been received that
terrorist action against a specific location or person is imminent. This FPCON is declared as a localized condition. FPCON DELTA
measures are not intended to be sustained for and extended duration.

DELTA 1 (AF Modified): Fully implement all measures of lower FPCON levels. As necessary, brief personnel on the updated
threat and associated procedures and update signs at installation gates, utilize mass communication systems to inform/remind
personnel of the FPCON level.
DELTA 2: Augment guards as necessary.
DELTA 3: Identify all vehicles within operational or mission support areas.
DELTA 4: Search all vehicles and their contents before allowing entrance to the installation. Selected pre-screened and
constantly secured vehicles used to transport escorted very important personnel may be exempted.
DELTA 5: Control facility access and implement positive identification of all personnel with no exceptions.
DELTA 6: Search all personally carried items (e.g., suitcases, briefcases, packages, backpacks) brought into the installation or
facility.
DELTA 7: Close all schools located on the installation.
DELTA 8: Make frequent checks of the exterior of buildings and of parking areas.
DELTA 9: Restrict all non-essential movement. NOTE: The following Transportation Protection Procedures are implemented
during this measure. Temporarily suspend all AA&E shipments in and out of the local area except those needed for critical
operational requirements; ship critical items by military air if feasible; and provide armed military escort for all AA&E shipments.
DELTA 10: (Airfield specific) Cease all flying except for specifically authorized operational sorties. Be prepared to deploy light
aircraft and/or helicopters for surveillance tasks or to move internal security forces. Implement, if necessary, appropriate flying
countermeasures.
DELTA 11: (Airfield specific) As appropriate, airfields should prepare to accept aircraft diverted from other stations.
DELTA 12: If permitted, close public and military roads and facilities. If applicable, close military roads allowing access to
the airfield.
DELTA 13: Begin continuous monitoring for chemical, biological, and radiological contamination.
DELTA 14 (AF Added): If not already accomplished and a credible threat exists, initiate collective protection operations, as
explained in AFMAN 10-2602, Nuclear, Biological,Chemical, and Conventional (NBCC) Defense Operations and Standards.




                                            WESTOVER LOCAL FPCON MEASURES

DELTA WESTOVER LOCAL 1 . Strictly control access to all areas under the jurisdiction of the United States and/or DoD.
DELTA WESTOVER LOCAL 2 . Minimize all administrative journeys off installation and visits to the installation.
DELTA WESTOVER LOCAL 3 If the threat is specifically against the installation, evacuate all dependents and non-essential
civilian and military personnel to enhance the effectiveness of security surveillance and response efforts and to minimize the risk
to those personnel. Cease all operations not related to countering the threat.




   439 AWVA 10-206, 1 FEB 2008, OPR: 439 AW/ATO                                    CERTIFIED CURRENT 24 OCTOBER 2012
