                     FORCE
                  PROTECTION
                   CONDITION




439 AWVA 10-207, 1 Feb 2008, OPR: 439 AW/ATO              Certified Current 24 OCTOBER 2012
                                           FPCON NORMAL
FPCON NORMAL. This condition applies when a general global threat of possible terrorist activity exists and warrants a routine
security posture. At a minimum, access control will be conducted at all DoD installations and facilities.

 NORMAL 1: Secure and randomly inspect buildings, rooms, and storage areas not in regular use.
 NORMAL 2 (AF Modified): Conduct random security checks of vehicles and persons entering facilities under the jurisdiction of the
United States.
          NORMAL 2.1 (AF Added): Conduct random vehicle inspections at installation entry points in addition to base entry
          point checks (BEPC) as directed by installation commanders. Implement 100% inspection of large commercial vehicles.
          Conduct random vehicle inspections at entrances to restricted areas beyond inspection requirements listed in AFI 31-101.
NORMAL 3: Limit access points for vehicles and personnel commensurate with a reasonable flow of traffic.
NORMAL 4 (AF Modified): Identify defense critical infrastructure and critical assets, facilities with BSAT and high occupancy
buildings.
NORMAL 5 (AF Added): Implement a daily RAM program involving the entire installation with emphasis on identifying
surveillance and disrupting the terrorist attack cycle. Installations will tailor their RAM program to meet the threat and mitigate
vulnerabilities.
NORMAL 6 (AF Added): Conduct 100% identification verification of all vehicle operators and pedestrians entering installations.
NORMAL 7 (AF Added): Where no permanent channeling measures are built into the gates, emplace barriers or obstacles on in-
bound and out-bound lanes at installation entry points to mitigate high-speed installation access through entry and exit lanes, in
accordance with UFC 4-022-01. Prevent base entry through exit lanes. Ensure sufficient number and types of barriers
remain for increased FPCON/RAMs.
NORMAL 8 (AF Added): Identify local vendors that are able to provide rapid stocks f emergency response equipment and supplies. (IAW
local response plans)


                                      WESTOVER LOCAL FPCON MEASURES
NORMAL WESTOVER LOCAL 1. Employ sufficient patrols to deter enemy action, disrupt terrorist planning, and respond
to incidents or attacks against the installation. These patrols should focus protection on critical operational assets, mission
support infrastructure and mass gathering places.
NORMAL WESTOVER LOCAL 2. Develop, maintain, and implement effective antiterrorism and force protection plans. In order
to ensure that “every Airman is a sensor,” develop and implement effective countersurveillance plans. Train all Airmen to recognize
and promptly report suspicious activity. Analyze the threat, plan courses of action to defeat those threats, and aggressively implement
those plans. Planning and execution must include all elements of the force protection team. Detailed planning against plausible
enemy courses of action will often point to vulnerabilities that can be mitigated through adjustments to TTPs in the near term and
further mitigated in the long term through innovation and programming. Development and implementation of effective friendly
courses of action (COAs) to counter known threats offers a reasonable deterrent effect and the opportunity for long-term success
against enemy TTPs.
NORMAL WESTOVER LOCAL 3 . Conduct “red team” exercises with plausible scenarios to assess effectiveness of measures
and force protection plans. Use data from these exercises to adjust COAs to counter the threat.
NORMAL WESTOVER LOCAL 4. Consider implementation of higher FPCON measures based on identified threats and
vulnerabilities. Commanders should consider placing barriers to increase standoff distances between potential approach areas and high
occupancy or mass gathering facilities, flightline entry points, and around high value resources/areas. See UFC 4-010-2, DoD
Minimum Antiterrorism Standoff Distances for Buildings, and AFPAM 10-219, Volume 7 - Expedient Construction Repairs
(DRAFT), for information standoff distances and mitigation strategies.




   439 AWVA 10-207, 1 FEB 2008, OPR: 439 AW/ATO                                    CERTIFIED CURRENT 24 OCTOBER 2012
