   EXERCISE EXERCISE EXERCISE
      FORCE PROTECTION CONDITION




      FORCE PROTECTION CONDITION
EXERCISE EXERCISE EXERCISE
439 AWVA 10-208, 1 FEB 2008, OPR: 439 AW/ATO                 Certified Current 24 OCTOBER 2012
                                               FPCON ALPHA
FPCON ALPHA. (AF Modified) This condition applies when there is an increased general threat of possible terrorist activity against personnel or
facilities, the nature and extent of which are unpredictable, and circumstances do not justify full implementation of FPCON BRAVO measures.
However, it may be necessary to implement certain measures from higher FPCONs measures resulting from intelligence received or as a deterrent.
The measures in this FPCON must be capable of being maintained indefinitely.

ALPHA 1: Fully implement all measures of lower FPCON levels.
ALPHA 2: At regular intervals, inform personnel and family members of the general situation. Ensure personnel arriving for duty are briefed on the
threat. Also, remind them to be alert for and to report suspicious activities, such as the presence of unfamiliar personnel and vehicles, suspicious
parcels, and possible surveillance attempts.
           ALPHA 2.1 (AF Added): Post signs at installation gates and utilize mass communication systems to inform/remind personnel of
           the FPCON in effect.
ALPHA 3: The duty officer or personnel with access to building plans as well as the plans for area evacuations must be available at all times. Plans
should be in place to execute access control procedures. Key personnel required to implement security plans should be on-call and readily available.
ALPHA 4 (AF Modified): Increase random security checks of vehicles and persons entering installations or facilities under the jurisdiction of the
United States.
ALPHA 5: Initiate food and water risk management procedures, brief personnel on food and water security procedures, and report any
unusual activities.
ALPHA 6 (AF Modified): Test mass notification system weekly.
ALPHA 7: Review all plans, identify resource requirements, and be prepared to implement measures of the next higher FPCON level.
      ALPHA 7.1 (AF added): Review plans (to include AT, Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan, Installation Security Plan,
      Medical Contingency Response Plan/Mass Casualty, Disease Containment Plan, etc.), most recent VA reports, and identify
        Resource requirements. Review dependent, civilian and military personnel evacuation plans and support agreements with local
        officials.
ALPHA 8 (AF Modified): Review and, if necessary, implement security measures for DoD identified high-risk personnel IAW DoDI
2000.17 (currently in draft).
ALPHA 9 (AF Modified): Consult local authorities on the threat and mutual AT measures. As appropriate, brief law enforcement agencies
who provide support to the installation and request assistance as necessary to ensure protection of resources and personnel.
ALPHA 10: Review intelligence, CI and operations dissemination procedures.
ALPHA 11: Review barrier plans.
ALPHA 12: (AF Added): Secure access to all bulk quantity storage areas containing hazardous and flammable material.
ALPHA 13: (AF Added): Review CBRN detection plan ensuring it uses available detectors (deployment and home station assets).
ALPHA 14: Review all higher FPCON measures.
ALPHA 15: Review and be prepared to implement plans for centralized mail handling.

                                          WESTOVER LOCAL FPCON MEASURES

ALPHA WESTOVER LOCAL 1. Increase frequency of RAMs to at least three a day. Use measures from FPCON Bravo through Delta, as well as
locally developed measures not associated with particular FPCON measures.
ALPHA WESTOVER LOCAL 2. Review, and if necessary, implement security measures for restricted areas, mission essential facilities
and critical infrastructure.
ALPHA WESTOVER LOCAL 3. Review plans and procedures and train facility managers, key personnel, and occupants on individual
protective actions (i.e., evacuation, shelter-in-place) for response to a CBRNE incident that occurs inside or outside of a facility.
ALPHA WESTOVER LOCAL 4. Review AT and contingency response related mutual aid and host-tenant support agreements, memorandums
of understanding, and host-nation memorandums of agreement to determine the level of contingency, terrorist and CBRNE incident support the
installation provides or receives from the local community or other military installations, and review support request and approval procedures.
Contact the supporting and supported agencies and review the agreements and plans with them. Update plans and checklists as needed.
ALPHA WESTOVER LOCAL 5. Take action to bring specialized disaster preparedness teams, hazardous material emergency response teams,
and the Disaster Control Group (primary and alternate positions) to 100 percent of their authorized strength. Posture or prepare team response
equipment to support an immediate response to a threat or incident. Ensure 100 percent of currently assigned team members have been trained on
local CBRNE attack response actions for.
ALPHA WESTOVER LOCAL 6. Secure all access to heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) mechanical rooms. Lock and control
the access to all interior and exterior doors that contain HVAC equipment.




439 AWVA 10-208, 1 FEB 2008, OPR: 439 AW/ATO                                                            Certified Current 24 OCTOBER 2012
