BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 439TH AIRLIFT WING
439TH AIRLIFT WING                                                       INSTRUCTION 36-2001

                                                                                22 MARCH 2010
                                                              Certified Current Date 18 May 2012
                                                                                        Personnel

                                                       RESERVE AIRMAN COMMISSIONING
                                                                           PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 439 MSS/DPMSC                                                      Certified by: 439 MSG/CC
Supersedes: 439 AWI 36-2001,                                             (Col Michael R. Mounts)
            10 September 2003                                                              Pages: 4


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-20, Accession of Air Force
Military Personnel. These procedures are to be used when filling valid officer vacancy positions
through the Airman Commissioning Program in the 439th Airlift Wing (439 AW) to ensure a
consistent, fair and objective process is used to select the best qualified candidate. It applies to
all commanders assigned or attached to Westover Air Reserve Base. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 to 439
MSS/DPMSC, 100 Starlifter Avenue, Box 65, Westover ARB MA 01022-1818.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision clarifies the type of commission (paragraph 1.1.), added the requirement for a
memorandum when considering overage officers (paragraph 2.1.), added another means of
announcing the vacancy (paragraph 2.5.), and notifying applicants in writing on why they are not
qualified (paragraph 2.6.2.1.). A margin bar (|) indicates newly revised material.
1. Overview.
   1.1. The Reserve Airman Commissioning Program is designed to select highly qualified
   enlisted members for leadership roles as line (non-rated) officers.
2                                                              439AWI36-2001 22 MARCH 2010


    1.2. Vacant positions in the grades of Second Lieutenant through Major may be filled by
    commissioning eligible enlisted members, who demonstrate outstanding leadership abilities.
    Selection is an honor reserved for the most qualified, motivated, and deserving individuals.
    1.3. Requests for eligibility waivers should only be made in rare and unusual circumstances
    and must be fully justified. Commanders selecting a member who requires a waiver must
    articulate why the member requiring the waiver is being selected above other equally, and
    fully qualified candidates.
    1.4. Prior to opening a position through the Reserve Airman Commissioning Program the
    unit commander is required to contact the Military Personnel Flight (MPF) Personnel
    Employment Office (DPMSA) to review and consider eligible commissioned officers from
    within the wing that are currently assigned as overages.
    1.5. This instruction provides a method whereby well-qualified and motivated individuals
    are afforded an opportunity to seek commissioning.
2. Process.
    2.1. Identify the vacancy as soon as possible. Notify DPMSA in the MPF to review the
    current list of commissioned officers assigned as overages. If it is not feasible, or in the unit’s
    best interest to select a commissioned officer then block the vacancy for airman
    commissioning and complete a memorandum to that effect. It is critical to have three months
    notice to allow the necessary time to “advertise” the position, allow potential candidates time
    to prepare their submission packages, and to conduct a proper evaluation and selection
    process.
    2.2. Review the qualifications and training required in filling the vacancy. Verify the basic
    Air Force Specialty Code requirements and the specific training requirements with DPMSA.
    Confirm with the MPF which specific Air Force Instruction applies to the qualification
    process.
    2.3. A position can be filled one of two ways. Base wide which usually takes the least
    amount of time to fill and yields the best results for overall base morale, since there is equal
    opportunity given to all. The second method is an external fill. This opens the vacant position
    to any Air Force member outside of Westover or any other branch of service and may yield a
    larger pool of candidates. If considering the external method of filling a vacancy, you also
    need to advertise the position base wide.
    2.4. Once the selection strategy is determined, establish a cutoff date for applications and
    choose board members.
       2.4.1. Allow two months for candidates to prepare the required application package.
       Note: Commanders should encourage all enlisted personnel interested in a commission to
       take the Air Force Officer Qualification Test (AFOQT) as soon as possible; awaiting
       AFOQT results may prevent an individual from being considered.
       2.4.2. Determine composition of the interview selection board consisting of a minimum
       of three field grade officers and a board president (when there is more than one
       candidate) and one representative from Career Enhancement (DPMSC) (non-voting) to
       act as the board recorder. Each board member should have pre-defined written questions
439AWI36-2001 22 MARCH 2010                                                                   3


     to ask and an objective method of scoring the results. Sample questions may be provided
     by DPMSC.
  2.5. Announce the vacancy, including cutoff date, qualifications, selection criteria, and
  detailed application instructions; provide base wide dissemination of this information;
  advertise by means of The Patriot, The Daily Bulletin, and Wing Commander-gram.
     2.5.1. If training is required, describe the training requirements. Mandatory training
     requirements to become fully qualified in the Air Force specialty at the applicable level
     are often a key determinant in whether applicants will apply or not.
     2.5.2. If a resume is required, allow sufficient time of at least one Unit Training
     Assembly (UTA) for the individuals to prepare and submit them.
     2.5.3. If additional or unique skills/knowledge is needed or desired, describe those as
     “required or desired qualifications.”
  2.6. Establish a tentative time to convene the board. Ensure board members will be
  available. Be sure to allow sufficient time in the process to accomplish the following:
     2.6.1. Gather and review the application packages. Have DPMSC review the packages
     on all applicants to ensure that they meet the minimum qualifications for the position
     prior to scheduling and convening the board.
     2.6.2. Develop a schedule to conduct the interviews or selection board. If feasible, allow
     all qualified candidates to meet the board to ensure fair and equal consideration. If there
     are simply too many applicants to interview, establish objective criteria to screen and
     reduce the list. The screening criteria must be logical, defensible, and easily explained.
     Allow sufficient time to evaluate each candidate to ensure fairness. Schedule candidates
     at 30-minute intervals.
         2.6.2.1. Notify all applicants as soon as possible who do not qualify or have been
         screened out that they will not be interviewed; provide the reasons why they are
         unqualified or not being considered. This must be done in writing.
         2.6.2.2. Notify all applicants to be interviewed of their scheduled time and the
         uniform requirements for meeting the board as soon as possible. Note: If a qualified
         applicant will not be available at the scheduled date/time, you should delay the final
         decision until they can be interviewed. Telephone interviews may be acceptable to
         avoid waiting until the next UTA.
  2.7. Convene the selection board.
     2.7.1. Provide board members a copy of each application package prior to the board to
     allow them time to become familiar with the contents. Awards, decorations, and enlisted
     performance reports may be included in the packages for consideration.
     2.7.2. The board must be consistent in evaluating all candidates. The same questions
     must be asked of each candidate and each interview must be conducted in the same
     manner.
     2.7.3. The board must quantify the results in order to objectively compare the applicants.
     A scoring method should be developed and explained to each board member prior to
4                                                           439AWI36-2001 22 MARCH 2010


       convening the board. DPMSC can provide sample scoring methods. Score the written
       package and interview independently on either a 6-10 or 1-10 scale.
           2.7.3.1. Each board member should score each applicant independently. Rate the
           response to each question, total the results, then divide by the number of questions to
           obtain an overall average. Combine the scores from each board member for each
           individual. Rank order the applicants based upon the total score.
       2.7.4. Each applicant’s responses should be scored immediately after they leave the room
       from the interview while their answers are still remembered. It may be helpful for the
       board members to discuss the applicant’s response to each question prior to scoring it, yet
       they should keep the scores private until the end of all interviews.
    2.8. Make recommendations to the selection authority.
       2.8.1. If the selection authority did not sit on the board as a board member he or she may
       choose to personally interview the recommended candidate.
    2.9. The selection authority should announce the selection as soon as possible. He or she
    should contact each applicant interviewed personally, and tell them who was selected; this
    may be done in writing. Also offer them an opportunity to obtain feedback on how they
    could improve their scores.
    2.10. Inform the candidate selected to contact DPMSC for further guidance on completing
    his/her commissioning package.
3. Adopted Form. AF form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                             ROBERT R. SWAIN, JR., Colonel, USAFR
                                             Commander
