BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  439 AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 36-3001
439TH AIRLIFT WING                                                                           22 APRIL 2008

                                                                                                   Personnel

                                                                                   CASUALTY SERVICES




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                        e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 439 MSS/DPMY                                                               Certified by: 439 MSG/CC
                                                                                  (Col Michael R. Mounts)
Supersedes 439 AWI 36-3001, 15 March 1995;                                                        Pages: 7
           439AWGM 36-01, 1 May 2007

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-30, Military Entitlements and Air
Force Instruction (AFI) 36-3002, Casualty Services. It establishes local procedures to ensure timely
reporting of Air Force military personnel who become casualties within the jurisdiction of this installa-
tion. It implements the Westover Air Reserve Base Casualty Services Program. It establishes certain gen-
eral responsibilities and applies to base personnel, including tenant and geographically separated units,
concerning casualty reporting, notifications and assistance of Air Force personnel. The information is
used to assist the Air Force in effecting expeditious reporting, dignified and humane notifications, and
efficient and thorough assistance to the next of kin (NOK) of all casualties as previously defined. This
instruction requires collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 autho-
rized by Title 10, United States Code (U.S.C.), Sections 1475 through 1489, 2771, and 8013; Title 37,
U.S.C., Sections 551 through 559. System of Records Notice F036 AF PC R, Casualty Files, applies.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 to 439 MSS/DPMY, 100
Starlifter Avenue, Westover ARB, MA, 01022-1818.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision also redefines casualty reporting procedures (paragraphs 2.1., 2.2., 2.2.1. thru 2.2.7.), multi-
ple casualty reporting procedures (paragraphs 3.3. and 3.4.), the Mortuary Officer, Chief, Morale, Welfare
& Recreation Service Director (paragraph 3.5.), casualty notification (paragraphs 5.1. and 5.2.), and elim-
inates the Invitational Travel Order Program which is replaced by Emergency Family Member Travel
order program (paragraph 6.). A margin bar ( | ) indicates newly revised material.
2                                                                     439AWI36-3001 22 APRIL 2008


1. Casualty Services Program.
    1.1. The Installation Commander, Westover ARB, is responsible for the Casualty Services Program
    on this installation.
    1.2. The Casualty Assistance Representative (CAR) is responsible for casualty reporting, notification
    and assistance.
    1.3. All actions concerning casualty matters are coordinated with the CAR, Westover ARB. The fol-
    lowing units/sections provide assistance/information as requested by the CAR.
       1.3.1. Communications Squadron (CS)
       1.3.2. Security Forces Squadron (SFS)
       1.3.3. Command Post (CP)
       1.3.4. Chaplain (when available during Unit Training Assemblies or Active Duty Tour periods)
       1.3.5. Mortuary Officer
       1.3.6. Public Affairs Office (PA)
       1.3.7. Transportation Officer
       1.3.8. Aerospace Medicine Squadron (AMDS)
       1.3.9. Safety Office (SE)
       1.3.10. Unit Commander (deceased person's unit of assignment)
       1.3.11. Emergency Management Office
       1.3.12. Military Personnel Flight (MPF)

2. Procedures.
    2.1. The 439 AW has determined it necessary to ensure critical information regarding casualty notifi-
    cation be moved expeditiously to key agencies. The key agency for casualty notification is the CP. The
    CP has a process in place to ensure other agencies and personnel receive time critical information in
    the event of a serious injury illness, or death. Should any wing member receive information that a
    reservist, DoD employee or AF augmentee at Westover has become seriously injured/ill, or is
    deceased regardless of duty status, regardless of when or where the event occurred, immediately con-
    tact the CP at 413-557-3571 or base extension 3571. In the event that the CP is closed the security
    police will answer and will in-turn utilize a recall list for CP personnel.
    2.2. The command post personnel will record all information received and relay it to the CAR or
    other casualty personnel as soon as possible. Information recorded by the command post personnel is
    relayed to the CAR or other Casualty Assistance personnel immediately, regardless of the time of day
    or night. The following information is recorded:
       2.2.1. Name and telephone number of informant.
       2.2.2. Name, grade and Social Security Number (SSN) of the casualty.
       2.2.3. Unit of assignment and duty station.
439AWI36-3001 22 APRIL 2008                                                                                 3


      2.2.4. Date, Time of Incident and Casualty Status (Deceased, Very Seriously Ill or Injured (VSI),
      Seriously Ill or Injured (SI), Incapacitating Illness or Injury (III))
      2.2.5. Status of Casualty (i.e., active duty, reserve, retired- General officers only, etc.).
      2.2.6. Name, address and phone number of the Next-of-Kin (NOK), if available.
      2.2.7. Name, location and phone number to the hospital, and the location of the remains, or any
      other information that pertains to the location of the casualty.
   2.3. A point of contact memorandum of casualty assistance personnel is furnished to the Command
   Post, 439th Security Forces Squadron and HQ AFPC/DPWCS, Casualty Operations, Randolph AFB,
   TX. If after a reasonable effort the casualty assistance personnel cannot be located, contact the MPF
   Commander or Superintendent.
   2.4. Immediately upon notification of an active duty casualty, the CAR records the time of notifica-
   tion and immediately reports to his/her duty station. Immediately telephone HQ AFPC/DPWCS upon
   learning of a casualty without waiting for confirmation of the report. The CAR makes every attempt
   to verify information received by the command post or other means of communication by contacting
   county, city, state police, or other local authorities. Upon verification of information, a casualty report
   is submitted to HQ AFPC/DPWCS by telephone, followed by an electronically transmitted message.
   2.5. The CAR will coordinate with the appropriate investigating law enforcement agencies, including
   SFS, regarding obtaining individual police reports (Motor Vehicle Accident Reports, Incident
   Reports, or Records) as needed to complete the CAR’s reporting requirements.
   2.6. The PA is responsible for the release of all information to the news media. Any calls requesting
   media information release will be referred to the PA. The PA will not release any information pertain-
   ing to a casualty outside of DoD channels until after 24 hours after notification is complete to Air-
   man’s NOK, reference Section 546 of Public Law 108-136, the National Defense Authorization Act
   for FY 2004
   2.7. The Mortuary Officer and/or Services Director is responsible for all activities related to recovery,
   identification, preparation, transportation and disposition of remains, memorial services, funeral
   arrangements, claims, escorts, military honors and other mortuary matters. The Mortuary Officer does
   not contact the NOK to provide mortuary assistance for any death until after death notification has
   been made and confirmed by the CAR. Any calls pertaining to mortuary matters are directed to the
   Director of Services.
   2.8. Air Force Chaplains are not normally available at Westover ARB; however, under some circum-
   stances Air Force Reserve Chaplains may be placed on duty and may be utilized to assist in casualty
   notifications.
   2.9. The Transportation Officer ensures that suitable transportation (sedan/station wagon) is available
   upon request for casualty notification or assistance on a 24 hour a day basis.

3. Multiple Casualty Reporting Procedures.
   3.1. Multiple casualty reporting procedures are implemented in situations where the number of casu-
   alties exceeds the reporting unit's normal operating capability. Under these conditions the responsibil-
   ity of various functions are as follows:
4                                                                         439AWI36-3001 22 APRIL 2008


    3.2. The MPF/CC will designate a Casualty Augmentation Support Team (CAST), in writing, which
    will consist of, as a minimum, the MPF Superintendent, CAR, and sufficient team members to per-
    form the reporting function.
    3.3. Any agency learning of a multiple casualty situation should immediately contact the CP who will
    in return notify the proper agencies on base which includes the MPF/CC, Superintendent and CAR.
    3.4. The Emergency Operations Command notifies the CAST Team Chief of the name, rank and SSN
    of any personnel involved who were transported to the medical facility/hospital for further treatment
    or admission, the medical status of the individual (VSI, SI, or III), the nature of the injury (i.e., broken
    back, etc.), the name of the facility/hospital to which they were taken, and the date and time trans-
    ported.
    3.5. The Mortuary Officer furnishes the CAR, CAST Team Chief or CAST members with the name,
    rank, SSN and other pertinent information on each member whose remains have been recovered and
    identified. The Mortuary Officer does not contact the NOK to provide mortuary assistance for any
    death until after death notification has been confirmed by the CAR. All calls pertaining to mortuary
    matters are directed to the Mortuary Officer/Services Director.
    3.6. The Installation Commander or On-Scene Commander will make the determination of Conclu-
    sive Evidence of Death or the determination of Duty Status-Whereabouts Unknown (DUSTWUN), on
    those persons whose remains have not been recovered and/or positively identified, based on "conclu-
    sive evidence of death." As soon as the determination is made, the CAR or CAST Team Chief is noti-
    fied.
    3.7. The CAR or CAST Team Chief will alert members and will then assume their duties in the Casu-
    alty Assistance Work Center. They will be responsible for tasking and briefing notification officers,
    for dispatching the Mass Abbreviated/Hasty Casualty Report and Initial (Full) Death Report to HQ
    AFPC/DPWCS and other addressees as required. The MPF/CC, Superintendent, CAR or CAST Team
    Chief will establish liaison with PA and advise that public release of names is not authorized until 24
    hours after NOK notification has been confirmed. The Casualty Assistance Office will be the focal
    point for all casualty notification and reporting activities, and under no circumstances will any agency,
    office or individual assume notification or reporting responsibilities without the specific assignment
    of such responsibility by the MPF/CC, Superintendent, CAR, CAST Team Chief.
    3.8. Upon being alerted of multiple casualty situations, team members report to the area designated
    by the CAST Team Chief and assumes duties as assigned.
    3.9. The Civilian Personnel Office will establish a CAST Team to serve in conjunction with the MPF
    CAST Team, which will be activated in incidents where DoD/DAF civilian employees are also casu-
    alties. A list of the names and telephone numbers of the team members is furnished to the MPF/CC,
    Superintendent, CAR, CAST Team Chief. These team members are subject to call 24 hours a day,
    seven days a week in the event of multiple civilian casualties.

4. Newsworthy Events Reporting. Incidents involving Air Force personnel or their dependents, which
occur on or near Westover ARB in which the news media is expected to show special interest, and whose
coverage might result in NOK or Air Force Officials calling and requesting information on Air Force
members is reported to HQ AFPC/DPWCS by the CAR. No information will be furnished to anyone out-
side the chain of command without the approval of the Public Affairs Officer.
439AWI36-3001 22 APRIL 2008                                                                                  5


5. Responsibilities for Notification.
   5.1. Active Duty, Air National Guard, and Air Force Reserve Officers are assigned the responsibility
   of personal notifications to the NOK of deceased, DUSTWUN, or missing active duty airman either
   directly by HQ AFPC/DPWCS or through an Air Force Installation Commander. This responsibility
   has priority over other duties, except in emergencies and is accomplished in service dress uniform.
   Officers in the grade of Major and above make notifications of death, missing DUSTWUN, unless
   otherwise directed by HQ AFPC/DPWCS. Notification to NOK involving VSI, SI, or III members
   should be referred to the Casualty Office for further guidance. Potential casualty notification officers
   will be given “just in-time training” in the event of being called upon for notification duty. It is
   encouraged that Majors and above and all commanders review the Casualty Notification Procedure
   Guide and Commanders Casualty Assistance Guide provided on the MPF website to familiarize them-
   selves with the guidance, expectations and to possibly reduce or eliminate anxiety prior to reporting to
   duty.
   5.2. Should any wing member receive information that a reservist, DoD employee or AF augmentee
   at Westover has become seriously injured/ill, or is deceased regardless of duty status and regardless of
   when or where the event occurred, immediately contact the Command Post at 413-557-3571 or base
   extension 3571. In return the CP will notify the CAR who will notify HQ AFPC/DPWCS at
   1800-433-0048 or DSN 665-3505 for further instructions locally or will assume responsibility for
   advising the sister service.
   5.3. The Director of Civilian Personnel will be responsible for effecting casualty notification and
   assistance to NOK of Air Force civilian employees.
   5.4. Decisions regarding notifications to NOK of non-DoD civilians who become casualties on an Air
   Force Installation or during an orientation flight or civic leader tour airlift, rests with the installation
   commander. If Air Force officials make notification, procedures should be consistent with those used
   for active duty military. If the civilian is a civil leader, an additional degree of sensitivity may be
   required. CAST personnel/CAR and PA should be notified promptly of such casualties and work
   closely with the installation commander to ensure appropriate notifications are made.

6. Emergency Family Member Travel (EFMT) Order. The Air Force provides round-trip transporta-
tion of NOK to the bedside of hospitalized VSI, SI and III members when their presence is considered
necessary by competent medical authority to aid in the physical recovery of the patient, and not for com-
passionate reasons. The program applies to the NOK of active duty Air Force and USAFR/ANG airmen
in a duty status. NOTE: HQ AFPC is the primary Office of Responsibility for administering the EFMT
program.
   6.1. The AMDS Commander or representative, upon receiving requests for EFMTs for airmen in a
   duty status, immediately contacts the Casualty Assistance personnel (see paragraph 2.1. for 24 hour
   casualty contact procedures). The AMDS/CC or MPF/CC (in the absence of the AMDS/CC) must
   concur/nonconcur with EFMT requests.
   6.2. Airman's unit commander is contacted by the CAR. The commander coordinates with the CAR
   to ensure NOK are promptly notified of airman's condition. Upon notification of EFMT approval,
   travel itinerary is established by airman’s unit/Commander Support Staff (CSS) and commander
   assigns a unit representative as a personal escort to assist NOK. CSS informs Casualty Office of the
   NOK's itinerary so travel arrangements can be identified in EFMT message.
6                                                                 439AWI36-3001 22 APRIL 2008


    6.3. The CAR or CAST Team Chief will contact HQ AFPC/DPWCS by telephone upon a request for
    EFMT and fax the EFMT worksheet properly filled out and signed by both, the airman’s attending
    physician and AMDS Commander or 439 MSS/DPM. Casualty Assistance Office/CAST will dispatch
    a EFMT or a VSI/SI/III message as EFMT confirmation. Upon approval, EFMTs are received from
    HQ AFPC/DPWCS electronically by email to the Casualty Assistance Office and forwarded to the
    appropriate unit commander and Commander Support Staff.

7. Reporting Impediment. If casualty reporting should become impossible because of disasters or other
circumstances, the reporting requirements become the responsibility of the next higher echelon in the
chain of command having jurisdiction over the base.

8. Coordination on Written Procedures. Agencies and tenant units of Westover ARB who prepare written
procedures pertaining to casualty matters, obtain the coordination of the CAR prior to publication to
ensure adequacy and conformance to acceptable standards.



                                             WALLACE W. FARRIS, JR., Brig Gen, USAFR
                                             Commander
439AWI36-3001 22 APRIL 2008                                                                     7


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Terms
Casualty—Any person declared dead, duty status/whereabouts unknown, missing, ill, or injured.
Casualty Status—Used for reporting purposes. Classifies casualties as Deceased, Duty Status/
Whereabouts Unknown (DUSTWUN), Missing, Very Seriously Ill or Injured, Incapacitating Illness or
Injury, or Not Seriously Injured.
