BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            439TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
439TH AIRLIFT WING                                                            21-105

                                                                             22 AUGUST 2013

                                                                                  Maintenance

                                                        CONSOLIDATED TOOL PROGRAM


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and Forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 439MXG/MXQ                                                     Certified by: 439 MXG/CC
                                                                          (Col Kerry L. Kohler)
                                                                                       Pages: 8
Supersedes:   439AWI21-105,
              16 September 2010


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space
Maintenance and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance
Management. It establishes procedures, objectives, responsibilities, control and marking
requirements for Consolidated Tool Kits (CTKs) and equipment. It applies to the 439th
Maintenance Group (439MXG) and all units assigned, 439th Operations Support Squadron (439
OSS), Life Support (439OSL) section and the 337th Airlift Squadron (337 AS). Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer any recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 to 439 MXG/MXQ, 350
Hangar Avenue, Box 21, Westover ARB, MA 01022-1771.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include updates to paragraphs 3.1.3, 3.1.4, 3.1.7, and 4.3. Attachment 1 has also been updated.
1. Definition. A Consolidated Tool Kit (CTK) is defined as tools or equipment stored in a
securable controlled area or container. Each tool or piece of equipment in the CTK shall have an
 2                                                            439AWI21-105 22 AUGUST 2013


assigned location identified by either an inlay cut in the shape of the tool or a shadowed layout.
The presence or absence of any tool or equipment can therefore be readily determined by
visually scanning the CTK. The work center supervisor will include the actual location of the
tool or equipment on the Master Inventory List (MIL).
2. Responsibilities. Supervisors at all levels must ensure personnel assigned to their sections
conform to the procedures established in this instruction and other applicable directives. The
squadron maintenance officer and/or section superintendents are responsible for management of
the CTK program and will appoint a CTK custodian for each flight/element. The CTK custodian
will provide requests for tools to the unit’s Government Purchase Card holder for procurement.
3. Procedures.
     3.1. CTK/Tool Identification.
        3.1.1. Each tool or separate piece of equipment shall be permanently marked with its
        CTK designator. As a general rule, smooth uninterrupted surfaces of .125” (1/8th inch) or
        greater may be legibly marked using standard engraving equipment. To help expedite
        tool sign out/in, workcenters may use a bar-code system to issue/turn-in tools and
        equipment in accordance with paragraph 3.1.7 of this instruction.
        3.1.2. Small tools or items that cannot be marked as described above (such as drill bits,
        allen wrench sets, apexes, etc.) will be stored as a set in a container marked with the CTK
        designator and the total number of items. The container is counted as one of the items.
        Work centers will provide a detailed inventory of these small items using one of the
        following options:
            3.1.2.1. The container will include a description of each item (size and quantity), and
            the MIL will list one set with total number of pieces (including container) OR
            3.1.2.2. The MIL will list the container and each item separately.            NOTE:
            Screwdriver handles will not be used to permanently store apexes but may be used
            temporarily when more than one apex is required for a specific task. Upon completion
            of the task, the apexes will be accounted for and returned to their container.
            Screwdrivers used in this manner must have their caps marked with the CTK
            designator. Supervisors may opt to permanently seal caps to the screwdrivers.
        3.1.3. CTK/Tool identification numbering will comply with the Tool Control System
        (TCMax) as outlined in AFI 21-101, Chapter 10, and will incorporate “W5” as the first
        two digits of the World Wide Identifier (WWID) for Westover. A list of Equipment
        Identification Designators (EID) for 439 MXG workcenters is available using the TCMax
        system. EIDs must not conflict with another work centers’ markings.
            3.1.3.1. 439th Aircraft Maintenance Squadron (439 AMXS). CTKs or equipment will
            be numbered as “W5O”. The next digit will be a letter indicating the specialty, e.g.,
            A=AFIN, C=CNAD, E=ELEN, F=Flightline, H=HYD, J=Jets, S=Support or
            T=Transient maintenance; the last five digits will be assigned by the tool control
            organization and will be alpha/numeric to identify the specific CTK or piece of
            equipment.
            3.1.3.2. 439 AMXS Mobility. CTKs will be numbered as follows: W5OM. The next
            digit will be a letter indicating the specialty, e.g., A=AFIN, C=CNAD, E=ELEN,
439AWI21-105 22 AUGUST 2013                                                                        3


        F=Flightline, H=HYD, J=Jets, S=Support; the last four digits will be assigned by the
        tool control organization and will be alpha/numeric to identify the specific CTK or
        piece of equipment.
        3.1.3.3. 439th Maintenance Squadron (439 MXS). CTKs or equipment will be
        numbered as “W5MX” with the next digit identifying the shop, e.g., A=AFIN,
        G=AGE, R=Aero Repair, C=CNAD, E=ELEN, F=Fuels, H=Hydraulics, D=ISO,
        P=Propulsion, S=SMCO, M=Metals Tech, N=NDI. The remaining digits will be
        assigned by the tool control organization and will be alpha/numeric to identify the
        specific CTK or piece of equipment. One minor variation to this format may be
        necessary to comply with TCMax requirements when marking items stored on
        shelves in cabinets. If needed, MXS markings may begin with “W5M”, with the next
        digit identifying the shop code to meet TCMax requirements.
        3.1.3.4. The Munitions workcenter will mark their tools/equipment “W5AMMO”,
        with the remaining digits assigned by the workcenter to identify the specific CTK or
        equipment.
        3.1.3.5. Tools issued to 439 MXG Quality Assurance inspectors will be marked with
        W5QA plus the individual's five digit employee number. MXQ also maintains two
        CTK kits: a Bird Aircraft Strike Hazard (BASH) remains recovery kit
        (W5QABASH1) and a digital camera kit (W5QA00CAM).
     3.1.4. Tools used on the aircraft or the flightline by the 439 OSS/OSL section or 337 AS
     will be included in a CTK and positively controlled. These tools will be etched using the
     9 digit format as directed by the TCMax. The first two digits will be "W5" indicating
     Westover ARB, the next two digits will be "AF" for Aircrew Flight Equipment and "AS"
     for the 337AS, and U for Survival. The remaining five digits will be alpha-numeric to
     identify the specific CTK that the tool or item is assigned to, example- W5AFE0005.
     3.1.5. Depot and Contract Field Team personnel are subject to CTK tool control
     procedures outlined in this instruction. Exception: Contractors and Most Efficient
     Organizations are not required to use TCMax until the contract is renewed and the
     requirement for using TCMax is added to the follow-on contract, or the contractor/MEO
     voluntarily elects to use TCMax at no additional expense to the government. Tool
     inventories will be accomplished at the beginning of each shift, prior to departing the job
     site, and at the end of each shift.
     3.1.6. Tools or components that are part of a mock-up or test-set will be marked with the
     associated equipment CTK designator. Work centers will maintain strict accountability,
     control, and issue of these types of tools and components.
     3.1.7. Work centers may affix non-metallic bar code labels on tools and equipment as a
     means of permanently marking the items as long as the use of the tool and its work
     environment does not interfere with the adhesion of the label or render the label
     unreadable. When bar code labels are not a suitable method of permanent marking (e.g.,
     tools too small in size to affix a label to or tools that bar-code labels will not adhere to), a
     listing of bar codes may be maintained in the tool room and used to issue or turn-in those
     items. Such items must be permanently marked with the EID by etching or other means.
     Note: Prior to using the Laser Etcher owned by AMXS, personnel will receive laser
 4                                                             439AWI21-105 22 AUGUST 2013


        safety training from Bioenvironmental Engineering in accordance with AFOSH Standard
        48-139, Laser Radiation Protection Program, and ANSI Z136.1, Safe Use Of Lasers.
        3.1.8. Issued Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) such as ear defenders,
        communication headsets, reflective belts, etc, will be marked with a TCMax approved
        CTK designator that begins with “W5” and ends with alpha-numeric characters that link
        the items to the responsible individual. Their initial issue is recorded in TCMax.
        Supervisors will ensure an annual inventory of all issued PPE is accomplished, document
        on the MIL and maintain a copy.
        3.1.9. Personal tools not controlled through CTK procedures are not authorized on the
        flightline or in any maintenance area. Personally purchased tools are not authorized.
        Personal electronic devices (e.g. cell phones, beepers, pagers, portable music/video
        players, electronic games, etc) are not permitted on the flightline or in munitions or other
        industrial work areas.
     3.2. Tool/Equipment Sign Out/In. Tools and equipment will be signed out through the
     central tool room for the assigned areas. MXG employees requesting tools will provide the
     tool room attendant with their G081 assigned employee number. Personnel assigned to the
     337 AS may sign out tools through the 439 AMXS CTK section and will use the number
     assigned to them in the TCMax system, i.e., 337##. The tool room attendant will ensure the
     number provided corresponds with the requestor prior to issuing the tools.
     3.3. Locally developed or modified tools/equipment requires approval by MXQ before being
     placed into service. Supervisors will obtain a Local Tool Manufacture Approval worksheet
     from the QA office          to coordinate requests for locally manufactured or modified
     tools/equipment. Locally manufactured or modified tools that carry loads or apply torque
     (i.e., items welded together or bent to create custom configurations for wrenches,
     screwdrivers, etc.) require non-destructive inspection (NDI) testing prior to being approved
     by MXQ. Supervisors will review locally developed or modified tools/equipment every 2
     years to ensure the tools are still necessary. Locally developed tools and equipment are
     controlled the same as all other CTK items.
4. Accountability and Control.
     4.1. Account for all CTKs, tools, and dispatchable equipment at the beginning and end of
     each shift. Separate shift inventories must be documented by both outgoing and incoming
     personnel. CTKs present during tool room shift inventories do not need to be opened for
     inventory. Beginning/end of shift inventories must be documented in TCMax.
     4.2. Tools and/or equipment will not be issued or turned in without a physical inventory and
     a general visual inspection of the condition to ensure each item is accounted for and
     serviceable. The tool-room attendant and the person signing out/in the tools or equipment are
     equally responsible for ensuring all items are accounted for. Each tool kit will include a copy
     of the MIL (TCMax generated product).
     4.3. Each CTK or piece of equipment must have a designated location for inventory and
     accountability. When TCMax is not available, accountability inventories will be documented
     at the beginning and end of each shift using AFRC Form 177, Consolidated Tool Kit
     Inventory and Control Log. Completed forms will be maintained for a minimum of 30 days
     after the last entry.
439AWI21-105 22 AUGUST 2013                                                                     5


  4.4. Work center supervisor will ensure an annual inventory of all tools and equipment is
  accomplished, document on the MIL and maintain a copy for each type of CTK.
  4.5. Perform a visual inventory of all applicable CTKs/TKs at the completion of jobs or
  tasks. Accomplish an inventory prior to operation of any aircraft or equipment when
  maintenance actions were performed (e.g., engine run, landing gear retraction, flight control
  operational checks).
  4.5.1. When mission needs dictate the transfer of tools/equipment at the job site, the losing
  and gaining individuals will be equally responsible for ensuring positive tool control and
  accountability. The losing and gaining individuals will each inventory the tools/equipment
  being transferred. The inventory and transfer will be documented on an AF Form 177,
  Consolidated Tool Kit Inventory and Control Log, or automated TCMax product. Both
  individuals will sign the form certifying that all tools/equipment are accounted for. The
  losing individual will turn in the form to the tool room attendant prior to the end of their
  shift. The tool room attendant will then reassign possession in TCMax to the gaining
  individual.
  4.6. When only one-person is assigned to a shift/workcenter, the individual will request a
  responsible person from a nearby workcenter to assist in the inventory and sign in/out of
  tools and equipment.
  4.7. When tool kits are signed out for use in TDY locations (TCMax not available), the
  individual responsible for the tools will accomplish a daily inventory. This inventory will be
  documented on AFRC Form 177, or approved equivalent form included in the kit. This
  requirement applies to tool kits issued to Mission Essential Personnel (MEP) and 337 AS
  flight crew members. If only one MEP is assigned to the mission, he or she will request a
  crew member to verify the contents of the kit and sign the form.
  4.8. Tools or equipment that are missing or removed will be documented in TCMax and on
  AF Form 175, Missing/Removed Tools and Equipment or TCMax equivalent form and will
  be maintained in the tool kit. Remove the EID from broken/removed tools with the
  exception of warranty tools where removal of the EID would void the tool warranty.
  4.9. Crash recovery equipment will be controlled using the same method as any other CTK.
  Tools/equipment will be identified to include the CTK designator per paragraph 3.1.1. of
  this instruction.
  4.10. Replacement tools (including expendable/consumable items such as apexes, drill bits,
  etc.) will be controlled by the work center supervisor and tracked in TCMax. Broken tools
  will be documented in TCMax and exchanged on a one-for-one basis by the supervisor or
  their designated representative. An inventory of all replacement stock will be accomplished
  and documented quarterly.
  4.11. Shop and aircraft rags will be positively controlled as a CTK issue/turn-in item. Work
  centers will determine quantity limits to be issued. (The quantity of rags turned-in shall equal
  the quantity signed-out).
  4.12. Broken/unserviceable tools covered by warranty will be controlled by the workcenter
  supervisor until replaced. Each broken/unserviceable tool will be annotated on an inventory
  control log which will be controlled by the workcenter supervisor.
 6                                                              439AWI21-105 22 AUGUST 2013


     4.13. Hazardous Materials (HAZMAT) will be procured in accordance with Westover ARB
     439 AWI 48-102, Hazard Communication Program, and all applicable directives. HAZMAT
     stored in the workcenter will be controlled by the workcenter supervisor. HAZMAT included
     in a CTK will be controlled by the user. The user will ensure HAZMAT is used in a manner
     consistent with applicable directives and in accordance with the Material Safety Data Sheet.
5. MIL. Supervisors will use TCMax to maintain master inventory lists for each tool kit
assigned. Each tool box will contain a copy of the MIL to aid in the inventory and accountability
of its contents. The MIL describes the characteristics, quantity and location for each item
assigned to the kit (e.g., Drawer 1; ¼” drive x ½” 6-point socket; QTY = 1). Consumables such
as safety wire, adhesives, wire bundle lacing, solder, etc., will be identified as consumables on
the MIL. The inventory list will indicate the location of items assigned to the kit that are sub-
located elsewhere.
6. Foreign Object Damage (FOD) Control. FOD bags will be attached to each dispatchable
toolboxes. Non-dispatchable containers/CTKs that remain in a shop environment, where
permanent FOD containers are available, do not require a FOD bag
7. Unserviceable Tools. Work center supervisors will ensure that all unserviceable tools are
repaired or replaced in a timely manner. Tool boxes with unserviceable tools may be dispatched
provided the unserviceable tools are removed and properly documented. Unserviceable, non-
repairable tools will be secured and accounted for until processed for disposal or turn-in. Tools
being disposed of or turned in will have the CTK designator and bar-coding identification
removed with the exception of warranty tools where removal of the EID would void the tool
warranty.
8. Security. The work center supervisor is responsible for storing and securing
CTKs/equipment. Kits and CTK storage areas will be kept locked when not in use or left
unattended.
9. Lost Tool/Object Documentation Procedures.
     9.1. Only individuals designated by 439 MXG/CC will clear the Red X entry when an item
     cannot be found. These individuals must be certified in GO81 course code, INSP 000145. If
     the missing item is found, a maintenance supervisor, certified in course code C5 00707 or
     00708 may clear the Red X. A copy of the Lost Tool Report will be forwarded to the 439
     MXG/QA.
     9.2. In the event that a tool/item is discovered missing after an aircraft has taxied, but before
     takeoff, the individual making the discovery will immediately notify their supervisor. The
     supervisor will immediately contact Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) and 439
     MXG/MXQ. MOC will in-turn contact Command Post (CP) and request that the aircraft
     return to parking so that a search for the lost tool/item may be conducted.
     9.3. If a tool/item is discovered missing after the aircraft has taken off, the individual making
     the discovery will immediately notify their supervisor. The supervisor, in coordination with
     the production supervisor, will attempt to make a determination of the severity of the
     situation based on the last known location of the tool. The supervisor will immediately pass
     along all known information to MOC and 439 MXG/MXQ. MOC will immediately pass all
     pertinent information to the CP and in-turn the Aircraft Commander (AC). If there is any
     potential for the item to cause safety of flight concerns, the MOC will relay the information
439AWI21-105 22 AUGUST 2013                                                                         7


  to the CP and request that the aircraft land immediately if it is in the local area. If the aircraft
  is out of the immediate area the AC will make the determination where to land and what
  procedures to follow.
  9.4. If a tool/item is discovered missing off station, the Mission Essential Personnel (MEP)
  or flight crew will enter a Red X in the aircraft forms and inform the AC of the situation. If at
  a C-5 support base, the aircrew will inform the local MOC and MXQ of the condition. The
  MEP or flight crew will immediately perform a lost tool/item inspection. If the tool/item is
  recovered, the MEP or flight crew will clear the Red X per T.O. 00-20-1. If the tool/item
  cannot be recovered the AC will coordinate with the 439 MXG/CC to determine the
  procedures to be followed.
  9.5. When any tool or item is determined or suspected to be missing on or near energized
  workbenches or machinery, the equipment will be locked out/tagged out. A Red-X
  discrepancy will be placed in the equipment forms describing the type of tool/item, and the
  probable area where the tool/item was lost. An AFRC Form 174, Lost Tool/Object Report, or
  TCMax generated form, will be initiated. The work center supervisor, Flight Chief,
  Maintenance Superintendent, and 439 MXG/MXQ will be notified as soon as possible. The
  workcenter supervisor will direct personnel to conduct a search for the missing tool/item. If
  the tool/item cannot be found, the flight chief will determine what further action is necessary.




                                              STEVEN D. VAUTRAIN, Colonel, USAFR
                                              Commander
 8                                                       439AWI21-105 22 AUGUST 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 February 2003
AFI 21-101_AFRCSUP_1, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 13 Jan 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
439 AWI 48-102, Hazard Communication Program, 12 Jul 2010
Technical Order 00-20-1
AFI 48-139, Laser and Optical Radiation Protection Program, 25 Jul 2012
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009AFRC Form 175,
Missing/Removed Tools and Equipment, 1 January 2007
AFRC Form 177, Consolidated Tool Kit Inventory and Control Log, 1 January 2007
AFRC Form 174, Lost Tool/Object Report, 1 January 2007
