BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             439TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
439TH AIRLIFT WING                                                             48-101

                                                                               21 AUGUST 2013

                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                           EXPOSURE CONTROL PLAN FOR
                                                              BLOODBORNE PATHOGENS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 439 MSG/SGPB                                                     Certified by: 439 MSG/CD
                                                                       (Lt Col Kenneth M. Lute)
                                                                                        Pages: 22
Supersedes:    439AWI48-101,
               20 February 2009


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 48-1, Aerospace Medical
Program and has been developed in conjunction with the 439th Aerospace Medicine Squadron
(439 AMDS) Military Flight Surgeon (FS), Aerospace Medicine Council (AMC) and
Occupational Health Working Group (OHWG) to eliminate or minimize employee exposure to
blood or other potentially infectious materials and is intended to comply with the requirements of
Occupational Safety and Health (OSHA) Standards delineated at 29 Code of Federal Regulations
(CFR) Section 1910.1030, Bloodborne Pathogens. It applies to all personnel assigned or attached
to Westover Air Reserve Base (WARB). It is important to note that preventive medicine
initiatives and response actions associated with Tuberculosis are covered under the 439 AMDS
Tuberculosis Exposure Control Plan which provides WARB guidance. In order to ensure
compliance with OSHA Standards at 29 CFR 1910.1030, this publication shall be reviewed and
updated annually. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 to 439 MSG/SGPB, 390
Walker Avenue, Box 58, Westover ARB, MA 01022-1532.                   This instruction directs the
collecting and maintaining of information that is subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized
by 10 U.S.C. 55, Medical and Dental Care; 10 U.S.C. 8013, Secretary of the Air Force; 29 CFR
 2                                                                                         439AWI48-101 21 AUGUST 2013


1960, Occupational Illness/Injury Reporting Guidelines for Federal Agencies; and E.O.
9397(SSN).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision adds the Aircrew Flight Equipment workcenter to Table 1, Exposure
Determination, with corresponding PPE. It also changes previous Services (SV/SVS)
designations to Force Support Squadron (FSS). The recommendation for AF Healthcare
Professions and Public/Occupational Health to utilize the Air Force Safety Automated System
(AFSAS) to evaluate injury/illness was also added. Post-incident follow-up notification was
further delineated to address both military and civilian reporting instructions. In paragraph
1.4.10., adds reference 29 CFR 1910.1030. In paragraph 1.5.2., Adds requirement of
investigation by AF Health Care Professionals and Public/Occupational Health Workers. In
paragraph 3.6., Add requirement for location of Sharps containers. In paragraph 3.7.2., Adds new
time requirement for contaminated laundry. In paragraph 4.1., Changes the word ―will‖ in the
requirement for evaluation of a medical doctor to ‖should.‖ In paragraph 4.2., Changes employee
list to those identified in table 1. In paragraph 5., Changes the notification of affected individuals
to contact 439 AMDS (military) and Bioenvironmental Engineering/Public Health (Civilians.) In
paragraph 5.1., Deletes the document CA-16 and adds document CA-1, Federal Notice of
Traumatic Injury and Claim for Continuation of Pay/Compensation, Also deletes the phrase
mentioning coverage of civilian employees under the provisions of Workman's Compensation. In
paragraph 5.8.2.4., Adds relevant medical record to include source individual's blood testing, if
available. In paragraph 8., Adds Privacy Act Statement due to collection of Social Security
Numbers of employees. In paragraphs 8.1., 8.2., 8.3., 8.4., 8.5., changes made to break down
Recordkeeping requirements. In paragraph 9.2.4., added to include CA-1, Federal Notice of
Traumatic Injury and Claim for Continuation of Pay/Compensation, References updated.


       1.      Methods of Compliance. ........................................................................................                 3
Table 1.       Exposure Determination. .......................................................................................                 5
       2.      PPE. .......................................................................................................................    6
Table 2.       Tasks with Recommended PPE. ............................................................................                        6
       3.      Housekeeping. ........................................................................................................          7
       4.      Hepatitis B Vaccination and Post-Exposure Evaluation and Follow-Up. ..............                                              8
       5.      Post-Exposure Evaluation and Follow-Up. ............................................................                            9
       6.      Labeling. ................................................................................................................     10
       7.      Training. .................................................................................................................    10
       8.      Recordkeeping. ......................................................................................................          11

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                13

Attachment 2—METHODS OF DECONTAMINATION TO BE USED                                                                                            15
439AWI48-101 21 AUGUST 2013                                                                    3


Attachment 3—OCCUPATIONAL EXPOSURE TO BLOODBORNE PATHOGENS
             POST-EXPOSURE EVALUATION AND FOLLOW-UP                                           19

Attachment 4—SAMPLE UNPROTECTED EXPOSURE FORM (SIDE 1 AND 2)                                  21


1. Methods of Compliance.
   1.1. The Exposure Control Plan shall be reviewed and updated at least annually and
   whenever necessary to reflect new or modified tasks and procedures which affect
   occupational exposure and to reflect new or revised employee positions with occupational
   exposure. The review and update of such plans shall also reflect changes in technology that
   eliminate or reduce exposure to bloodborne pathogens and annually document consideration
   and implementation of appropriate commercially available and effective safer medical
   devices designed to eliminate or minimize occupational exposure.
   1.2. An employer, who is required to establish an Exposure Control Plan, shall solicit input
   from non-managerial employees responsible for direct patient care. These individuals, who
   are potentially exposed to injuries from contaminated sharps, are responsible for the
   identification, evaluation, and selection of effective engineering and work practice controls
   and shall document the solicitation in the Exposure Control Plan.
   1.3. Standard Precautions. Standard precautions shall be observed to prevent contact with
   blood or other potentially infectious materials. According to the concept of standard
   precautions, all human blood and certain human body fluids are treated as if known to be
   infectious for Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV), Hepatitis B Virus (HBV), and other
   bloodborne pathogens. Under circumstances in which differentiation between body fluid
   types is difficult or impossible, all body fluids shall be considered potentially infectious
   materials. Supervisors of employees working in job classifications who encounter
   occupational exposure to blood or other potentially infectious materials are responsible for
   ensuring that employees observe standard precautions at all times.
   1.4. Engineering and Work Practice Controls. Controls (e.g., sharps disposal containers, self-
   sheathing needles, safer medical devices, such as sharps with engineered sharps injury
   protections and needleless systems) that isolate or remove the bloodborne pathogens hazard
   from the workplace.
      1.4.1. Employees must wash their hands and any other exposed skin with soap and
      water, or flush mucous membranes with water immediately or as soon as feasible
      following contact of such body areas with blood or other potentially infectious materials.
      1.4.2. Employees must wash their hands and any other exposed skin immediately, or as
      soon as possible, after removal of gloves or other Personal Protective Equipment (PPE).
      1.4.3. Employees are required to wash their hands and any other exposed skin with soap
      and water as soon as feasible after using an approved antiseptic. Hand cleaners or
      towelletes are acceptable only where hand-washing facilities are not feasible.
      1.4.4. Contaminated needles and other sharps shall not be bent, recapped, or removed
      unless no alternative is feasible or such action is required by a specific medical
      procedure. Such recapping or needle removal must be accomplished through the use of a
4                                                            439AWI48-101 21 AUGUST 2013


       mechanical device or a one-handed technique. Shearing or breaking of contaminated
       needles is prohibited.
       1.4.5. Eating, drinking, smoking, applying cosmetics or lip balm, and handling contact
       lenses are prohibited in work areas where there is a reasonable likelihood of occupational
       exposure.
       1.4.6. Food and drink shall not be kept in refrigerators, freezers, shelves, cabinets or on
       countertops or bench tops where blood or other potentially infectious materials are
       present.
       1.4.7. All procedures involving blood or other potentially infectious materials shall be
       performed in such a manner as to minimize splashing, spraying, splattering, and
       generation of droplets of these substances.
       1.4.8. Mouth pipetting/suctioning of blood or other potentially infectious materials is
       prohibited.
       1.4.9. Specimens of blood or other potentially infectious materials shall be placed in a
       container, which prevents leakage during collection, handling, processing, storage,
       transport, or shipping.
       1.4.10. Equipment that may become contaminated with blood or other potentially
       infectious materials shall be examined prior to servicing or shipping and decontaminated,
       as necessary. If decontamination is not feasible, a readily observable label must be
       attached to the equipment stating which portions remain contaminated. The Infection
       Control Officer within each unit is responsible for informing affected employees, the
       servicing representative, and/or the manufacturer prior to handling, servicing, or shipping
       so that appropriate precautions can be taken.
    1.5. Sharps Injury Log.
       1.5.1. Each unit shall establish and maintain a sharps injury log for the recording of
       percutaneous injuries from contaminated sharps. The information in the sharps injury log
       shall be recorded and maintained in such a manner as to protect the confidentiality of the
       injured employee. The sharps injury log shall contain, at a minimum:
           1.5.1.1. The type and brand of device involved in the incident, the department or
           work area where the exposure incident occurred, and an explanation of how the
           incident occurred.
       1.5.2. The sharps injury log shall be maintained for the period required by 29 CFR
       1904.8, in accordance with recording criteria for needle stick and sharps injuries. In
       addition, all sharps injuries shall be documented on the OSHA Form 300, Log of Work
       Related Injuries and Illnesses, consistent with 439th Airlift Wing Safety (439 AW/SE)
       reporting guidelines. Whenever possible, injury/illness investigations should be evaluated
       by Air Force Health Care professionals and Public/Occupational Health workers utilizing
       the Air Force Safety Automated System (AFSAS). Where the risk of occupational
       exposure remains after institution of engineering and work practice controls, appropriate
       PPE will be used. PPE will be considered "appropriate" only if it does not permit blood
       or other potentially infectious materials to pass through to reach employees work clothes,
       street clothes, undergarments, skin, eyes, mouth, or other mucous membranes under
439AWI48-101 21 AUGUST 2013                                                                      5


       normal conditions of use. Employers must provide appropriate gloves when exposure to
       blood or other potentially infectious materials (OPIM) exists. Alternatives shall be readily
       accessible to those employees who are allergic to latex (gloves for example). PPE is
       provided at no cost to the employee. Supervisors will be responsible for ensuring that
       employees wear appropriate PPE. It is recommended that a First Aid Kit be placed in
       each work area identified in Table1., Exposure Determination. This kit can be ordered
       through the base supply system, or you may use the Government Purchase Card (GPC) to
       purchase a comparable kit from any local medical equipment distributor. The following
       also applies to PPE.

Table 1. Exposure Determination.
NOTE: Exposure determination has been made without regard to the use of PPE. The
following are job classifications in which employees have potential exposure to bloodborne
pathogens.
UNIT                  WHO                       HBV           RATIONALE              Task
                                                                                    #
Fire Department       Fire Fighters             Offered       Emergency response, 2 &
(439 MSG/CEF)                                                 confined space rescue 4-14

Civil Engineering     Fire Fighters             Required      Emergency response     2&
Squadron (439                                                                        4-14
CES/CEF)
Aerospace Medicine All reservists (AFI 41-      Required      Reserve medical        1-13
Squadron (439      307 Attachment 12)
AMDS)
Aeromedical Staging All reservists              Required      Reserve medical        1-13
Squadron (439
ASTS)
Aeromedical         All reservists              Required      Reserve medical        1-13
Evacuation Squadron
(439 AES)

Security Forces    Security Police Officers Offered           Emergency response, 6, 13
Squadron (439 SFS) All Reservists           (civilians)       vehicle searches,
                                            Required          uncooperative
                                                              individual
Lodging (439          Housekeeping              Offered       Materials in billeting 13
FSS/SVML)                                                     rooms contaminated
                                                              with body fluids
 6                                                            439AWI48-101 21 AUGUST 2013


Fitness Center (439 Recreation Aids              Offered      Cleanup blood and       11,
FSS/SVMR)                                                     blood products          13
                                                              following injury
                                                              Lifeguards – CPR,       7,8,1
                                                              first aid               1,
                                                                                      12,13

Airfield                 Maintenance Airfield    Offered      CPR/First responder     7,8,1
Communications           Maintenance                          requirements due to     2
Technicians                                                   work on energized
                                                              equipment
439 CES/EOD              All Reservists          Required     First Responder/CPR 7,8,1
                                                              in blast or potential 2,15
                                                              blast site
439 FSS/SVS              All Reservists          Required     Cleanup blood and       11,
                                                              blood products          13
                                                              following injury –
                                                              CPR, first aid          7,8,1
                                                                                      1,
                                                                                      12,13
439 FSS/SVX              Search and Recovery     Offered      Search, identify and 15
(Volunteers)             Team                                 pick-up victim’s
                                                              bodies and body parts

2. PPE.
     2.1. PPE must be cleaned, laundered, repaired, and/or replaced as needed to maintain its
     effectiveness.
     2.2. If blood or other potentially infectious material penetrates a garment, this garment must
     be removed immediately or as soon as feasible.
     2.3. All PPE must be removed prior to leaving the work area.
     2.4. When PPE is removed, it must be placed in an appropriately designated covered
     container for storage, washing and decontamination, or disposal.

Table 2. Tasks with Recommended PPE.
#          TASK                     GLOVES             EYE                  MASKS           GOWN
                                                       PROTECTION
1          Drawing blood            Yes                No                   No              No
2          Starting IV              Yes                No                   No              No
439AWI48-101 21 AUGUST 2013                                                                        7


 3          Giving injection         Yes                No                   No            No
 4          Blood pressure           No                 No                   No            No
 5          Temperature              No                 No                   No            No
 6          Direct patient contact   Yes                No                   No            No
 7          Bleeding control with Yes                   No                   No            No
            minimal bleeding
 8          Bleeding control with Yes                   Yes                  Yes           Yes
            spurting blood
 9          Suctioning               Yes                No, unless           No, unless    Yes
                                                        splashing            splashing
 10         Childbirth               Yes                Yes                  Yes           Yes
 11         Disinfecting             Yes                Yes                  No            Yes
            Contaminated
            Equipment
 12         Administering CPR        Yes                No                   Mouth to     No
                                                                             mouth mask
                                                                             with one way
                                                                             valve

 13         Contact with             Yes                No                   No            No
            contaminated
            equipment
 14         Utilize AED              Yes                No                   No            No
            (Automatic External
            Defibrillator
 15         Picking up/contact with Yes                 Yes                  No            Yes -
            victim’s bodies and                                                            coverall
            body parts

3. Housekeeping. In keeping with the concept of standard precautions, supervisors will ensure
that the worksite is maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
      3.1. Equipment. All contaminated equipment and environmental work surfaces shall be
      cleaned and decontaminated with an appropriate disinfectant after contact with blood or other
      potentially infectious materials by shift personnel.
      3.2. Work Surfaces. Contaminated work surfaces shall be decontaminated with an
      appropriate disinfectant after completion of procedures or as soon as feasible when surfaces
      are obviously contaminated, after any spill of blood or other potentially infectious material,
      and at the end of the work shift.
 8                                                            439AWI48-101 21 AUGUST 2013


     3.3. Protective Coverings. Protective coverings such as plastic wrap, aluminum foil, or
     imperviously-backed absorbent paper used to cover equipment or environmental surfaces
     shall be removed and replaced as soon as feasible when they become obviously
     contaminated.
     3.4. Trash Cans. All bins, pails, cans, and similar receptacles which have a reasonable
     likelihood for becoming contaminated with blood or other potentially infectious materials
     will be inspected, cleaned, and decontaminated as soon as feasible upon visible
     contamination.
     3.5. Sharps. Contaminated sharps shall be discarded immediately or as soon as feasible in
     approved containers. Caution: Broken glassware that may be contaminated shall not be
     picked up directly with the hands. It must be cleaned up using mechanical means such as a
     brush and dustpan, tongs, or forceps. (Furthermore, any mechanical device, which is
     contaminated, must be decontaminated following use or as soon as feasible).
     3.6. Sharps Containers. Sharps containers will be inspected to ensure they do not become
     overfilled. Sharps containers must be closeable, puncture resistant, leak proof on sides and
     bottom, and labeled or color-coded. Additionally, sharps containers will be located as close
     as feasible to the immediate area where sharps are used.
     3.7. Laundry. Contaminated laundry must be bagged or containerized at the location where it
     was used in an approved bag or container (see labeling requirements). Contaminated laundry
     must not be sorted or rinsed in the location of use. Through the use of the GPC, contaminated
     laundry will be given to a laundry cleaning company, with instructions to ensure disinfection.
     Services may clean their own laundry as follows:
        3.7.1. Laundry/towels must be placed in a properly labeled Bio-hazard plastic
        bag/container.
        3.7.2. Contaminated laundry should be washed as soon as possible after the incident, or
        within 24 hours. When removing laundry from bag or container, disposable gloves shall
        be worn. Gloves shall be disposed of in general waste receptacle.
        3.7.3. Laundry shall be washed using any commercially available detergent and one cup
        of chlorine bleach per load of laundry.
     3.8. Disposal. All contaminated waste, properly bagged and labeled, will be given to the 439
     AMDS within 24 hours of being generated. The only organizations that would routinely
     generate "potentially infectious material" are the 439 AMDS, 439 MSG/CEF, 439 AES, 439
     ASTS, 439 MSG/SVML and 439 MSG/SVMR.
4. Hepatitis B Vaccination and Post-Exposure Evaluation and Follow-Up.
     4.1. The Hepatitis B vaccine and vaccination series shall be made available at no cost to all
     employees identified in Table 1. The remainder of the identified employees, upon exposure,
     should be evaluated by a medical doctor, within one hour, who will make the decision for
     treatment and follow-up at no cost to the employee. 439 AMDS will provide the HBV to all
     required reservists, and civilians with occupational exposure as identified in Tables 1 and 2.
     Identified individuals will receive the vaccine either from the 439 AMDS or from the
     assigned contract medical facility. At the employee’s request, the Hepatitis B titer will be
     made available to the employee upon completion of the vaccination series.
439AWI48-101 21 AUGUST 2013                                                                       9


   4.2. The employees identified in Table 1 are allowed the chance to receive the Hepatitis B
   vaccination after the employee has received the required training and within 10 working days
   of initial assignments. Employees who decline the Hepatitis B vaccination will be required to
   sign a 439AW Form 12, Informed Consent for Westover ARB Employees Hepatitis B
   Vaccine. (All reservists with potential exposure must receive the vaccine.) If a civilian
   employee initially declines the Hepatitis B vaccine but later decides to accept, 439 AMDS
   will make the Hepatitis B vaccine available at that time, assuming the employee still has the
   potential for an occupational exposure.
5. Post-Exposure Evaluation and Follow-Up. Due to the potentially severe consequences
resulting from exposure incidents, the circumstances regarding these incidents will be
investigated with the utmost priority. It is important to note that exposure to bloodborne
pathogens may occur in various settings either clinical, emergency response, and/or during
routine work operations. It is imperative that potentially affected individuals, supervisors, and/or
emergency response personnel notify the 439 AMDS (Military) and 439 MSG/SGPB,
Bioenvironmental Engineering/Public Health (Civilians), as soon as possible after the incident to
ensure compliance with regulatory guidance. In addition, the 439 AMDS/FS section must also be
notified if the exposed individual is a military member to initiate follow-up actions and reporting
requirements. As soon as possible after the incident the employee must notify their supervisor,
and complete a 439AW Form 5, Exposure Incident Statement. If not already done so, the
individual must be evaluated in an approved emergency medical center or contract facility. If it is
after normal duty hours, the supervisor will notify 439 MSG/SGPB, BE/PHS, the next duty day.
If an exposure incident has occurred, 439 AW/SEG will be informed for proper documentation
in the OSHA 300 log. The medical evaluation and follow-up will include the following elements
(within 24 hours):
   5.1. Evaluation and routes of exposure will be made by a medical physician; as well as the
   circumstances under which the exposure occurred. This should occur within one hour of
   exposure. A CA-1 should be completed by civilians as soon as possible after the incident. For
   exposed reservists, contact the 439 AMDS at (413) 557-3565 or DSN 589-3565 for
   completion of line of duty paperwork.
   5.2. Identification and documentation of the source individual, unless infeasible or
   prohibited by state or local law. If consent (where required) is obtained, the source
   individual's blood shall be tested and the results documented. If the source individual is
   known to be infected with HIV or HBV, this shall be documented without a repeat test.
   5.3. Results of the source individual's testing shall be made available to the exposed
   employee, and the employee shall be informed of applicable laws and regulations concerning
   disclosure of the identity and infectious status of the source individual.
   5.4. The exposed employee's blood shall be tested as soon as feasible after consent is
   obtained.
   5.5. If the employee consents to baseline blood collection but does not give consent at the
   time for HIV serologic testing, the sample shall be preserved for at least 90 days. If, within
   90 days of the exposure incident, the employee elects to have the baseline sample tested,
   such testing shall be done as soon as feasible.
 10                                                          439AWI48-101 21 AUGUST 2013


   5.6. When medically indicated, post-exposure prophylaxis will be provided, as
   recommended by the U.S. Public Health Service.
   5.7. Counseling will be made available to the employee upon request.
   5.8. Evaluation of reported illnesses.
       5.8.1. Within 15 days of completion of the evaluation, a copy of the evaluating
       healthcare professional's written opinion shall be obtained and provided to the employee.
       This written opinion will be limited to the following information:
           5.8.1.1. That the employee has been informed of the results of the evaluation.
           5.8.1.2. That the employee has been told about any medical conditions resulting from
           exposure to blood or other potentially infectious materials which require further
           evaluation or treatment (other findings or diagnoses shall remain confidential and not
           be included in the written report).
       5.8.2. 439 MSG/SGPB is responsible for providing the following information to the
       healthcare professional following an exposure incident:
           5.8.2.1. A copy of the 439 AW Exposure Control Plan.
           5.8.2.2. A description of the exposed employee's duties as they relate to the exposure
           incident.
           5.8.2.3. Documentation of the route(s) of exposure and circumstances under which
           exposure occurred.
           5.8.2.4. All medical records relevant to the appropriate treatment of the employee
           including vaccination status and source individual’s blood testing, if available.
6. Labeling.
   6.1. Warning labels shall be affixed to containers of regulated waste, refrigerators and
   freezers containing blood or other potentially infectious materials, and other containers used
   to store, transport, or ship blood or other potentially infectious materials. These labels shall
   include the following legend: "BIOHAZARD" (word and symbol).
   6.2. These labels shall be fluorescent orange or orange-red or predominantly so, with
   lettering or symbols in contrasting color. Alternately, red bags or containers may be
   substituted for labels.
7. Training. All employees with potential for occupational exposure will be expected to
participate in a training session that will be provided at the time of initial assignment to tasks
where potential occupational exposure takes place, every year thereafter, and whenever changes
such as modifications of tasks or procedures or institution of new tasks or procedures affect the
employee's exposure. 439 MSG/SGPB will either provide training to all units or train a trainer,
except medical and firefighters, who conduct their own. All training will be coordinated through
439 MSG/SGPB and be documented. All documentation will be maintained by the unit with a
copy sent to 439 MSG/SGPB for filing. Training will consist of the following:
   7.1. An explanation of the Bloodborne Pathogens: OSHA Standards (29 CFR 1910.1030)
   and a copy of this regulation will be accessible to employees at all times.
439AWI48-101 21 AUGUST 2013                                                                         11


   7.2. A general explanation of the epidemiology and symptoms of bloodborne diseases.
   7.3. An explanation of the modes of transmission of bloodborne pathogens.
   7.4. An explanation of the exposure control plan and the means by which employees can
   obtain a copy of the written plan.
   7.5. An explanation of the appropriate methods for recognizing tasks and other activities that
   may involve exposure to blood and other potentially infectious materials.
   7.6. An explanation of the use and limitations of methods that will prevent or reduce
   exposure, to include engineering controls, work practice, and PPE.
   7.7. Information on the types, proper use, location, removal, handling, decontamination, and
   disposal of PPE.
   7.8. An explanation of the basis for selection of PPE.
   7.9. Information on the Hepatitis B vaccine and a statement that the vaccine will be offered
   free of charge to those identified.
   7.10. Information on the appropriate actions to take and persons to contact in an emergency
   involving blood or other potentially infectious materials.
   7.11. An explanation of the procedures to follow if an exposure incident occurs, including
   the method of reporting the incident and the medical follow-up that will be made available.
   7.12. Information on the post-exposure evaluation and follow-up that the employer is
   required to provide for the employee following an exposure incident.
   7.13. An explanation of the signs and labels and/or color coding that is used in the facility.
   7.14. An opportunity for interactive questions and answers with the person conducting the
   training session.
   7.15. The organization will keep a record of the training on file and send a copy to 439
   MSG/SGPB concerning all training sessions. This documentation will include unit, trainer,
   trainer's qualifications, trainee, job title, SSN (last four), date of training, and information
   covered.
8. Recordkeeping. This instruction requires collecting and maintaining information protected
by the Privacy Act of 1974. Medical records must be kept for each employee with occupational
exposure to bloodborne pathogens. Civilian and reserve medical records will be maintained in
accordance with established procedures. These records will be kept in accordance with
applicable regulations, including the Privacy Act. For each employee with occupational exposure
to blood or other potentially infectious materials, the following information will be kept in their
record:
   8.1. The name and social security number of the employee.
   8.2. A copy of the employee's Hepatitis-B vaccination status maintained in Aeromedical
   Services Information Management Systems (ASIMS) (Occupational Health database and
   also in the individuals medical record).
   8.3. A copy of all results of examinations, medical testing, and follow-up procedures
   following an exposure incident (to be maintained in medical record).
12                                                       439AWI48-101 21 AUGUST 2013


  8.4. The employer's copy of the healthcare professional's written opinion regarding post-
  exposure evaluation and follow-up (to be maintained in medical record).
  8.5. Hepatitis B declination statement of civilian workers will be filed in medical records
  and tracked in the ASIMS database. Note: The above records will be kept confidential and
  not be disclosed or reported without the employee's expressed written consent to any person
  within or outside the workplace except as required by the bloodborne pathogens standard or
  by law. Additionally, these records will be maintained for at least the duration of
  employment plus thirty years, in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1020.




                                          STEVEN D. VAUTRAIN, Colonel, USAFR
                                          Commander
439AWI48-101 21 AUGUST 2013                                                                 13


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Program, 3 October 2005
29 (CFR) 1910.1030 OSHA Standards, Bloodborne Pathogens
29 CFR 1904.8, Recording criteria for needlestick and sharps injuries
29 CFR 1910.1020, Access to employee exposure and medical records, 1 July 2010, AFMAN
33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 29 January 2004
Prescribed Forms
439AW Form 5, Exposure Incident Statement, 1 September 2000
439AW Form 12, Informed Consent for Westover ARB Employees Hepatitis B Vaccine, 12
August 2003
Adopted Forms
OSHA Form 300, Log of Work Related Injuries and Illnesses
Massachusetts Department of Public Health (DPH) Unprotected Exposure Form (UEF) AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
CA-1, Federal Notice of Traumatic Injury and Claim for Continuation of Pay/Compensation,
Rev. Apr 1999

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ASIMS—Aerospace Information Management System
CDC—Center for Disease Control and Prevention
CPR—Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation
EPA—Environmental Protection Agency
HBV—Hepatitis ―B‖ Virus
HCV—Hepatitis ―C‖ Virus
HIV—Human Immunodeficiency Virus

Terms
Blood—Human blood, human blood components, and products made from human blood.
Bloodborne Pathogens (BBP)—Pathogenic microorganisms that are present in human blood
and can cause disease in humans. These include, but are not limited to, Hepatitis B Virus (HBV)
and Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV).
Contaminated—The presence or the reasonably anticipated presence of blood or other
potentially infectious materials on an item or surface.
 14                                                         439AWI48-101 21 AUGUST 2013


Engineering Controls—Controls (e.g., sharps disposal containers, self-sheathing needles) that
isolate or remove the BBP hazard from the workplace.
Exposure Incident—A specific eye, mouth, other mucous membrane, non-intact skin, or
parenteral contact with blood or other potentially infectious material that results from the
performance of an employee’s duties.
Occupational Exposure—Reasonably anticipated skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral
contact with blood or other potentially infectious materials that may result from the performance
of an employee’s duties.
Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)—Specialized clothing or equipment worn by an
employee for protection against a hazard. General work clothes (e.g., uniforms, pants, shirts or
blouses) not intended to function as protection against a hazard is not considered to be personal
protective equipment.
Sharps—A nonneedle sharp or a needle device used for withdrawing body fluids, accessing a
vein or artery, or administering medications or other fluids.
Titer—A measure of concentration. Titer testing employs serial dilution to obtain approximate
quantitative information from an analytical procedure that inherently only evaluates as positive
or negative.
439AWI48-101 21 AUGUST 2013                                                                    15


                                        Attachment 2
                  METHODS OF DECONTAMINATION TO BE USED

A2.1. STERILIZATION: Allows for no microbial life to exist.
   A2.1.1. Destroys: All forms of microbial life including high numbers of bacterial spores.
   A2.1.2. Methods: Steam under pressure (autoclave), dry heat or immersion in EPA-approved
   chemical sterilant‖ for prolonged period of time; e.g., 10 hours or according to
   manufacturers’ instructions. NOTE: Liquid chemical sterilants‖ should be used only on those
   instruments that are impossible to sterilize or disinfect with heat.
   A2.1.3. Use: For those instruments or devices that penetrate skin or contact normally sterile
   areas of the body; e.g., scalpels, needles, etc. Disposable invasive equipment eliminates the
   need to process these types.
A2.2. INTERMEDIATE LEVEL DISINFECTION:
   A2.2.1. Destroys: Mycobacterium tuberculosis, vegetative bacteria, most viruses, and most
   fungi, but does not kill bacterial spores.
   A2.2.2. Methods: EPA-registered ―hospital disinfectant‖ chemical germicides that have a
   label claim for tuberculocidal activity; commercially available hard surface. Germicides or
   solutions containing at least 500 ppm (parts per million) free available chlorine (a 1:100
   dilution of common household bleach - approximately 1/4 cup bleach per gallon of tap
   water).
   A2.2.3. Use: For those surfaces that come into contact only with intact skin, e.g.,
   stethoscopes, blood pressure cuffs, splints, etc. Clean visible material from surface before
   applying disinfectant.
A2.3. LOWER LEVEL DISINFECTION:
   A2.3.1. Destroys: Most bacteria, some viruses, some fungi, but not Mycobacterium
   tuberculosis or bacterial spores.
   A2.3.2. Methods: EPA-registered ―hospital disinfectants‖ (no label claim for tuberculodial
   activity).
   A2.3.3. Use: These agents are excellent cleaners and can be used for routine housekeeping
   or removal of soiling in the absence of visible blood contamination.
A2.4. ENVIRONMENTAL DISINFECTION:
   A2.4.1. Environmental surfaces which have become soiled should be cleaned and
   disinfected using any cleaner or disinfectant agent which is intended for environmental use.
   Such surfaces include floors, woodwork, ambulance seats, counter tops.
   A2.4.2. Important: To assure the effectiveness of any sterilization or disinfection process,
   equipment and instruments must first be thoroughly cleaned of all visible debris.
   A2.4.3. Minimizing Risk during CPR Training.
   A2.4.4. CPR Instructors shall follow the manufacturer's recommendations and provisions for
   cleaning and disinfecting the mannequin.
16                                                         439AWI48-101 21 AUGUST 2013


  A2.4.5. CPR Instructors and/or students shall not actively participate in hands-on training
  with the mannequins if:
     A2.4.5.1. They have open lesions on their hands in their mouth or on/around their lips.
     A2.4.5.2. They are known to be seropositive for hepatitis B surface antigens.
     A2.4.5.3. They have upper respiratory infections; if they have had a positive HIV test.
     A2.4.5.4. The student or instructor believes he or she has been exposed to or is in the
     active stage of any infectious process.
  A2.4.6. Students shall be told in advance that the training sessions will involve close
  physical contact with their fellow students.
  A2.4.7. If more than one CPR mannequin is available; students shall be assigned in pairs, so
  each pair has contact with only one mannequin. This approach would lessen the possible
  contamination of several mannequins by one individual and limit possible exposure to other
  class members.
  A2.4.8. All persons responsible for CPR training (see Table A2.1) shall be thoroughly
  familiar with hygiene concepts (e.g. thorough hand washing prior to mannequin contact and
  not eating during class to avoid contaminating mannequins with food particles) as well as the
  procedures for cleaning and maintaining mannequins and accessories (e.g., face shields).
  Mannequins shall be inspected routinely for signs of physical deterioration, such as cracks or
  tears in plastic surfaces, which makes thorough cleaning difficult, if not impossible.
  Mannequin clothes and hair shall be washed when visibly soiled.
  A2.4.9. During the two-rescuer CPR training and practical, there is no opportunity to
  disinfect the mannequin when the students switch positions. To limit potential for disease
  transmission, the student taking over ventilation shall simulate instead of blowing into the
  mannequin. This recommendation is consistent with current training recommendations of the
  American Red Cross and the American Heart Association.
  A2.4.10. Training for the obstructed airway procedure involves the student using their finger
  to sweep foreign matter out of the mannequins’ mouth. This action could contaminate the
  student’s finger with exhaled moisture and saliva from a previous student’s exhalation or
  contaminate the mannequin with material from the student's finger. When performing this
  procedure, the finger sweep should either be simulated or performed on a mannequin whose
  airway has been decontaminated before the procedure and will be decontaminated after the
  procedure.
  A2.4.11. Personnel decontaminating the mannequins shall wear gloves and wash their hands
  after finishing. At the end of each class, the following procedures shall be done as soon as
  possible to avoid fluids drying:
     A2.4.11.1. Disassemble the mannequin as directed by manufacturer.
     A2.4.11.2. Thoroughly wash all external and internal surfaces and reusable protective
     face shields with warm soapy water and brushes.
     A2.4.11.3. Rinse all surfaces with fresh water.
439AWI48-101 21 AUGUST 2013                                                                 17


     A2.4.11.4. Saturate all surfaces with a sodium hypochlorite solution (one-quarter cup of
     liquid household bleach per gallon of tap water) for 10 minutes. This solution must be
     made fresh at the start of each class and discarded at the end of class.
     A2.4.11.5. After 10 minutes, rinse with fresh water and dry all external and internal
     surfaces using a 4-inch x 4-inch gauze pad and alcohol to displace water and promote
     quicker drying. Quick drying minimizes the growth of bacterial or fungal pathogens.
  A2.4.12. Each time a different student uses the mannequin in a training class, the individual
  protective face shield, if used, should be changed. Between students or after the instructor
  demonstrates a procedure, such as cleaning an obstructed airway, the face and inside of the
  mouth of the mannequin should be wiped vigorously with clean, absorbent material (e.g., 4-
  inch x 4-inch gauze pad), wet with either the hypochlorite solution described above, or with
  70 percent alcohol (isopropanol or ethanol). The surfaces should remain wet for at least 30
  seconds before they are wiped dry with a second piece of clean, absorbent material. NOTE:
  Although highly bactericidal, alcohol is not considered to be a broad-spectrum disinfection
  agent, so the use of alcohol here is recommended primarily as an aid in mechanical cleaning
  and drying.
  A2.4.13. People responsible for the use and maintenance of CPR mannequins shall not rely
  totally on the mere presence of a disinfectant to protect them and their students from cross-
  contamination during training programs. Emphasis shall be placed on the necessity of
  thorough physical cleaning (scrubbing, wiping) as the first step in an effective
  decontamination protocol. Microbial contamination is easily removed from smooth,
  nonporous surfaces by using disposable cleaning cloths moistened with a detergent solution.
  There is no evidence that a soaking procedure alone with a liquid is as effective as the same
  procedure accompanied by vigorous scrubbing.
  A2.4.14. Policy for minimizing risk of transmission of infectious diseases during actual
  CPR: No transmission of HBV during mouth-to-mouth transmission has been documented.
  However, because of the theoretical risk of salivary transmission of HIV during mouth-to-
  mouth resuscitation, special attention should be given to the use of disposable airway
  equipment or resuscitation bags and the wearing of gloves when in contact with blood or
  other body fluids. Resuscitation equipment and devices known or suspected to be
  contaminated with blood or other body fluids should be used once and disposed of or be
  thoroughly cleaned and disinfected after each use. Clear plastic facemasks with one-way
  valves are available for use during mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. These masks provide
  diversion of the victim's exhaled gas away from the rescuer and may be used by these health-
  care providers and public safety personnel properly trained in their use during two-person
  rescue, in place of mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. The need for and effectiveness of this
  adjunct in preventing transmission of an infectious disease during mouth-to-mouth
  resuscitation are unknown. If this type of device is to be used as reassurance to the rescuer
  that a potential risk might be minimized, the rescuer must be adequately trained in its use,
  especially with respect to making an adequate seal on the face and maintaining a patent
  airway.
  A2.4.15. Such a device requires two hands to secure a proper face seal and to maintain an
  open airway. As an additional precaution, the rescuer may elect to wear latex or vinyl gloves
 18                                                       439AWI48-101 21 AUGUST 2013


   because saliva or blood on the victim's mouth or face may be transferred to the rescuer's
   hands.

Table A2.1. Required CPR Training.
NOTE: The following job classifications require training in CPR, however they are not required to
perform CPR in their job, therefore they are not required to fall under the requirements of this
instruction. The CEF will respond to all emergencies for these units when on Westover ARB.
―Awareness level‖ training is provided during CPR initial and refresher training.
UNIT                                                  WHO
439 CES                                               Reserve electricians ALL CES members
                                                      require CPR certification per AFI 10-210
439 AMXS/Electroenvironmental, Guidance Control       All Full-time and Reserve personnel,
and Communications & Navigation specialists           except Admin
439 MXS/Fuel Systems (Cell), Aerospace Ground      All Full-time and Reserve, except Admin
Equipment (AGE), Electro-environmental, Guidance
Control, Communications & Navigation personnel and
Fuel Systems (Cell) Augmentees
439 Communications Squadron/ATCALS                    All Full-time and Reserve personnel,
                                                      except Admin
439 ALCF com techs,                                   AGE spec
439AWI48-101 21 AUGUST 2013                                                                      19


                                          Attachment 3
 OCCUPATIONAL EXPOSURE TO BLOODBORNE PATHOGENS POST-EXPOSURE
                  EVALUATION AND FOLLOW-UP

A3.1. The following is an exposure incident resulting in a percutaneous injury from
contaminated sharps or other potential bloodborne pathogen exposure as described in Table 1. It
is important to note that exposure to bloodborne pathogens may occur in various settings either
clinical, emergency response, and/or during routine work operations. It is imperative that
potentially affected individuals, supervisors, and/or emergency response personnel notify the 439
MSG/SGPB (Bioenvironmental Engineering/Public Health) to ensure compliance with
regulatory guidance. In addition, the 439 AMDS/FS section must also be notified if the exposed
individual is a military member to initiate follow-up actions and reporting requirements. In the
event of occupational exposure to bloodborne pathogens, these procedures should be followed:
A3.2. If not already done so by emergency response personnel, immediately cleanse wound and
notify supervisor and/or your unit Infection Control Officer (Medical Reservists), who will
notify 439 MSG/SGPB at extension 2918 , and 439 the AMDS (military personnel) on the day of
incident. If after hours, report the incident the following morning.
A3.3. With supervisor, complete 439AW Form 5, Exposure Incident Statement, including
source individual’s name.
A3.4. Obtain consent from source individual for testing for HIV, HBV and HCV (consent form
attached). If source is already known to be positive, no further testing is indicated. Report to the
439 MSG/SGPB/439 AMDS as applicable with completed paperwork.
A3.5. Depending on the incident, the appropriate POC, Emergency Response personnel,
supervisor, 439 AMDS representative, and/or 439 MSG/SGPB personnel will direct individual to
proceed to an approved medical facility for evaluation and documentation of the incident by a
medical doctor. The medical evaluation and follow-up should be completed within 24 hours.
A3.6. If consent is obtained, the source individual’s blood shall be tested ASAP. Results of the
source individual’s testing shall be made available to you.
A3.7. The exposed individual’s blood shall also be tested as soon as feasible after consent is
obtained. If you do not wish to be tested for HIV, HBV and HCV, the sample will be preserved
for 90 days following the incident, in the event you change your mind.
A3.8. When medically indicated, post-exposure prophylaxis will be provided as recommended
by the US Public Health Service. Counseling will be made available to you upon request.
A3.9. Within 15 days of completion, a copy of the evaluating healthcare provider’s written
opinion will be provided to you and will include documentation that you have been notified,
information regarding any medical conditions which may result from the exposure which could
require further evaluation or treatment.
A3.10. 439 MSG/SGPB, in conjunction with the 439 AMDS (for military personnel), will
provide the healthcare professional following the exposure incident with a copy of the 439 AW
Exposure Control Plan and a copy of the 439 AW Form 5, Exposure Incident Statement, and
other pertinent medical record information, including vaccination status.
 20                                                   439AWI48-101 21 AUGUST 2013


A3.11. Contact the 439 AMDS at (413) 557-3565 or DSN 589-3565 for completion of line of
duty paperwork.
439AWI48-101 21 AUGUST 2013                                    21


                                   Attachment 4
           SAMPLE UNPROTECTED EXPOSURE FORM (SIDE 1 AND 2)

Figure A4.1. Sample Unprotected Exposure Form (SIDE 1 OF 2).
 22                                                   439AWI48-101 21 AUGUST 2013


Figure A4.2. Sample Unprotected Exposure Form (Side 2 of 2).
