BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             439TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
439TH AIRLIFT WING                                                             32-2001

                                                                                9 AUGUST 2011

                                                                                  Fire Protection

                                                     WESTOVER AIR RESERVE BASE FIRE
                                                               PROTECTION PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 439 MSG/CEF                                                      Certified by: 439 MSG/CD
                                                                      (Lt. Col. Kenneth M. Lute)
Supersedes:    439AWI32-2001;                                                           Pages: 22
               18 January 2008


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-20, Fire Emergency Services,
Air Force Instruction (AFI) 32-2001, Fire Emergency Services Program, AFOSH Standard
(STD) 91-66, General Industrial Operations, UFC 3-600-01, United Facilities Criteria, AFI 32-
9005, Real Property Accountability and Reporting, AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and
Environmental Safety, Fire Prevention and Health (AFOSH) Program, National Fire Protection
Association (NFPA) Handbook of Fire Protection, National Fire Codes. Hazardous conditions of
a peculiar nature for which no criteria has been developed or published will be corrected by local
action of the Base Fire Marshal, Base Fire Chief or Assistant Chief of Fire Prevention. This
instruction establishes procedures and defines responsibilities for an effective and sound fire
protection program on Westover Air Reserve Base. The objective of this instruction is to
eliminate the causes of fires and minimize loss if a fire does occur. It provides guidance on
motivating personnel to reduce unsafe practices, conditions, and fire hazards. It applies to all
military, DoD employees, their dependents, agencies, tenant organizations and contractors on
this installation. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s to 439 MSG/CEF, 100 Jenkins
Street, Box 55, Westover ARB, MA 01022-1841.
 2                                                                                     439AWI32-2001 9 AUGUST 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Emergency reporting information has been updated in Paragraph 2. In Paragraph 3.5.4.6., deletes
the requirement for AF Form 1135 and updated Fire Safety Deficiency Code information.
Deleted Paragraphs 23. and 27. Updated References in Attachment 1. In Attachment 2, deleted
items 3. and 4. and added item 5. An asterisk (*) indicates newly revised material.

       1.     General Information. ..............................................................................................        3
       2.     Fire Reporting Procedures. ....................................................................................            3
       3.     Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................    3
       4.     Contractors and Concessionaires. ..........................................................................                6
       5.     Housekeeping. ........................................................................................................     6
       6.     Buildings and Grounds. .........................................................................................           7
       7.     Electrical Installation and Equipment. ...................................................................                 8
       8.     Places of Public Assembly. ....................................................................................            9
       9.     Cooking Appliances and Heating Equipment. .......................................................                         10
       10.    Fire Apparatus Priority on Westover ARB. ...........................................................                      11
       11.    Motor Driven Equipment, Vehicle Operations and Parking. .................................                                 11
       12.    Special Events, Holiday and Seasonal Hazards. ....................................................                        12
       13.    Cutting and Welding. .............................................................................................        12
       14.    Pipe Soldering and Sweating Operations. ..............................................................                    13
       15.    Flammable Liquids, Chemicals and Gases. ...........................................................                       14
       16.    Aircraft Hangars and Docks. ..................................................................................            15
       17.    Open Fires, Open Flame, and Fireworks. ..............................................................                     16
       18.    Fire Evacuation Drills and Plans. ...........................................................................             16
       19.    Warehousing and Storage. .....................................................................................            16
       20.    Fire Extinguishers and Fire Detection/Suppression Systems. ...............................                                17
       21.    Fire Prevention Training. .......................................................................................         17
       22.    Storage and Handling of Explosives and Hazardous Chemicals. ..........................                                    17
       23.    Fire Crash Net Radio Discipline. ...........................................................................              18
       24.    Hazardous Materials Exposure Reports. ................................................................                    18
       25.    Tobacco Use Areas. ...............................................................................................        18

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                          20

Attachment 2—CLOSING INSPECTION CHECKLIST GUIDE                                                                                         22
439AWI32-2001 9 AUGUST 2011                                                                        3


1. General Information. All supervisors are responsible for the enforcement of this directive
as it pertains to their respective building, area, and Air Force property. Any fire hazard or
condition recognized by personnel that is not specifically covered by this instruction is brought
to the attention of Fire Prevention. Manual fire alarm (pull stations) mounted on walls and
adjacent to doors and exits are available for use in the majority of base facilities.
2. Fire Reporting Procedures. It is the responsibility of each person on Westover ARB to
immediately report all fires to the Fire Alarm Control Center (FACC), regardless of size or
extent of damage. This also includes all extinguished fires. All emergencies will be reported via
911 unless otherwise posted. Fire reporting telephone number stickers will be affixed to each
telephone instrument and are available from Fire Prevention.
   2.1. The following procedures will be used to report a fire.
       2.1.1. Personnel reporting fires by phone furnish the operator with the following
       information.
           2.1.1.1. Name of person reporting the fire.
           2.1.1.2. Location of the fire to include building number and street address, if known.
           2.1.1.3. Type of fire (building, grass, auto, aircraft, etc.).
       2.1.2. Immediately after notification to the FACC, the person discovering the fire:
           2.1.2.1. Takes necessary action to sound the alarm.
           2.1.2.2. Ensures the building is evacuated.
           2.1.2.3. Posts a person to direct fire fighters to the scene.
           2.1.2.4. Uses available fire extinguishers to combat and control the fire until arrival
           of the fire fighters.
3. Responsibilities.
   3.1. The Base Fire Marshal is responsible to the installation commander for all aspects of
   fire prevention, fire protection, and aircraft crash rescue activities.
   3.2. The Base Fire Chief is responsible for the management and operation of the Fire
   Protection Program and has full authority over all fire suppression and rescue operations. The
   Base Fire Chief or senior representative in charge may commandeer available military
   vehicles, equipment, materials and personnel considered necessary for the extinguishment
   and prompt control of fire and/or rescue personnel.
   3.3. Functional managers and supervisors at all levels will ensure that sound fire prevention
   procedures are established and practiced in each facility as follows.
       3.3.1. Advise Fire Prevention of fire hazards that cannot be corrected by unit personnel.
       3.3.2. Request Fire Prevention provides appropriate lectures and demonstrations to
       ensure personnel under their supervision are thoroughly trained and understand fire
       prevention responsibilities.
       3.3.3. Ensure the fire prevention orientation of assigned personnel, facility managers,
       and supervisors are given within 30 days after assignment.
4                                                             439AWI32-2001 9 AUGUST 2011


       3.3.4. Ensure fire prevention inspections of facilities, rooms or areas that are locked are
       conducted by the individual supervisor maintaining that secured area. Additionally, it is
       the responsibility of the functional manager to arrange access to these facilities for the
       Base Fire Department to perform scheduled fire prevention inspections.
       3.3.5. Initiate appropriate administrative or disciplinary action when there is willful
       misconduct or negligence involving fire prevention policies and fire loss to government
       property.
       3.3.6. Provide Fire Protection with a current listing (including phone number) of
       responsible personnel to be contacted for access to individual rooms in the event of an
       emergency.
    3.4. Facility managers will:
       3.4.1. Be briefed by Fire Protection inspectors on duties and responsibilities and
       accompany them during fire inspections.
       3.4.2. Conduct frequent briefings for facility occupants on this instruction and fire
       reporting and evacuation procedures. Further, ensure all personnel are knowledgeable in
       fire reporting, evacuation procedures and how to use or activate installed fire suppression
       and alarm system. Actual activation of suppression and alarm systems for familiarization
       purposes is under the direction of a fire protection inspector.
       3.4.3. Check all facility fire extinguishers monthly. Periodic inspection of fire
       extinguishers shall include a check of at least the following items:
           3.4.3.1. Location in designated place.
           3.4.3.2. No obstruction to access or visibility.
           3.4.3.3. Operating instructions on nameplate legible and facing outward.
           3.4.3.4. Safety seals and tamper indicators not broken or missing.
           3.4.3.5. Fullness determined by weighing or ―hefting.‖
           3.4.3.6. Examination for obvious physical damage, corrosion, leakage, or clogged
           nozzle.
           3.4.3.7. Pressure gauge reading or indicator in the operable range or position.
           3.4.3.8. Condition of tires, wheels, carriage, hose, and nozzle checked (for wheeled
           units).
       3.4.4. Ensure fire doors and exit doors are in proper working order at all times.
       Deficiencies in the operation of these doors will be reported to the base operating support
       (BOS) contractor.
       3.4.5. Report any unsafe fire condition, which is beyond immediate control to Fire
       Prevention for corrective action.
       3.4.6. Enforce the Air Force policy of no smoking allowed inside all WARB facilities.
       Also, provide an adequate number of approved ash receptacles in an approved Tobacco
       Use Area.
439AWI32-2001 9 AUGUST 2011                                                                    5


     3.4.7. Conduct fire evacuation drills as directed by the Fire Chief or designated
     representative.
     3.4.8. Direct building evacuation during a fire. Take charge and direct fire fighting
     operations until the arrival of the fire department equipment and personnel.
     3.4.9. Ensure a closing inspection at the end of each workday is accomplished using the
     sample checklist (attachment 2) as a guide so that the facility is left in a fire safe
     condition.
  3.5. Under the authority of the installation commander, qualified fire inspection personnel
  will thoroughly inspect each structure, process, activity, and areas determined by the Base
  Fire Chief, to ensure compliance with pertinent directives and to detect and eliminate fire
  hazards.
     3.5.1. At the time of inspection, ensure that the facility manager or an alternate makes
     immediate on-the-spot corrections of minor deficiencies.
     3.5.2. When a serious fire hazard or dangerous practice is observed during the
     inspection, the operation will be terminated and the Senior Fire Officer notified.
     Immediate action to correct the fire hazard will be taken by the organization where the
     fire hazard or dangerous practice is found.
     3.5.3. Thoroughly inspect all places of public assembly prior to major social events to
     ensure that decorations or arrangements are in compliance with established fire
     prevention standards.
     3.5.4. Complete AF Form 1487, Fire Hazard Visit Report, for signature and forward to
     the functional manager concerned for corrective action when:
         3.5.4.1. Correctable hazards are recurrent.
         3.5.4.2. An effective Fire Prevention Program has not been established.
         3.5.4.3. Custodians failed to enforce established fire prevention practices.
         3.5.4.4. Facility managers and supervisors failed to establish and enforce fire
         prevention responsibilities.
         3.5.4.5. Corrective action on noted hazards is not programmed for corrective action
         by the established suspense date.
         3.5.4.6. Fire hazards, which cannot be corrected by the inspected organization within
         30 days, will be assigned a Risk Assessment Code and entered into the Hazard
         Abatement Program. An AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, will be
         forwarded to the BOS contractor and all deficiencies will be assigned a Fire Safety
         Deficiency Code by Fire Protection personnel.
  3.6. Support activities responsibilities:
     3.6.1. The BOS contractor responds to all fire emergencies when notified, and will be
     equipped to immediately provide services (i.e., shut off electricity or flow of natural gas)
     when directed by the Fire Chief or Senior Fire Officer.
 6                                                              439AWI32-2001 9 AUGUST 2011


            3.6.1.1. The BOS contractor will be responsible for notifying the Base Fire Chief of
            any proposed water outage which affects fire protection systems and fire hydrants,
            repairs to streets or designated fire lanes, and electrical power outages.
            3.6.1.2. The BOS contractor supports any requirement for heavy equipment needs at
            the scene of a fire as deemed necessary by the Fire Chief or Senior Fire Officer.
            3.6.1.3. The Engineering Branch coordinates with the Base Fire Chief on all project
            specifications, drawings, work requests, and self-help work requests related to fire
            protection.
            3.6.1.4. The Real Property Section provides the Assistant Chief of Fire Prevention
            with a current listing of all facility managers and changes as they occur.
        3.6.2. Ambulance crews respond to all fires or aircraft emergencies when notified. Upon
        arrival at the scene, report to the Fire Chief or Senior Fire Officer for instructions.
        3.6.3. The Security Police Desk Sergeant, upon notification of a fire emergency,
        dispatches patrols to the fire scene to provide traffic, crowd control, and to assist in the
        preservation of lives and property. Post fire sight security involving buildings, equipment,
        or other areas remains with the owner/user assigned to the property. Security Forces will
        provide scene security during active fire fighting operations only. Criminal investigation
        of all suspicious fire scenes or fires originating in abandoned, unoccupied, controlled or
        restricted areas remains a law enforcement function, but will be investigation conjointly
        between the Security Forces, Fire Protection, and the Fire Marshalls office. Security
        Forces investigation is to determine criminal activities and sufficiency, Fire Protection
        will determine cause and effect security of government property.
        3.6.4. Contracting notifies the Assistant Chief of Fire Prevention prior to each pre-
        construction conference to permit fire department representative to attend and brief
        contractors on fire prevention responsibilities.
4. Contractors and Concessionaires. Contractors and concessionaires working on Westover
ARB will be required to receive a briefing on fire prevention by a representative of Fire
Protection prior to commencing work.
     4.1. Fire prevention criteria is made part of the contract specifications.
     4.2. In the absence of Air Force directives in fire prevention, the Occupational Safety and
     Health Act and the NFPA criteria will apply.
     4.3. Project sites will be periodically inspected by Fire Prevention to ensure that fire
     prevention practices are in accordance with this directive.
     4.4. Willful violation or failure to comply with fire safety procedures will be reported to the
     Base Civil Engineer Contract Monitor for appropriate corrective action.
     4.5. Contractors will obtain permission from the Base Fire Chief before using any fire
     hydrant.
5. Housekeeping. Housekeeping is management within a facility to achieve a clean, neat,
sanitary and hazard free environment. Effective year round, good housekeeping has a special
significance.
439AWI32-2001 9 AUGUST 2011                                                                      7


   5.1. Waste and trash containers will be Underwriters Laboratory (UL) listed and emptied as
   often as required. These containers are emptied at the close of the day or change of work shift
   where contract services are not provided.
   5.2. Recycling material will be removed from facilities as often as required and not allowed
   to impede the exit access of the facility. Recycle containers will not be located in exit egress
   routes or under stairwells.
   5.3. Rags may be stored in shipping bales provided the bale is not broken open. All other
   rags, clean and dirty, will be stored in a metal container with a metal lid. Containers will be
   marked as to their contents (clean rags or dirty rags), and are kept covered at all times.
   5.4. Debris and sawdust sweepings will be placed in a metal container with a metal lid
   marked Sweeping Compound. Contents of these containers will be emptied at the close of the
   workday or shift. Under no circumstances is sawdust or sweeping compound used as
   absorbent materials for fuels, oils, or other flammable liquids.
   5.5. Only approved sweeping compounds will be purchased and used for their specific
   purpose. Bags of sweeping compounds that have been opened for use will be stored in a
   metal container with a metal lid, marked as to its contents.
   5.6. Janitors’ closets will not be used as trash collection points. Closets will be kept clean
   and used for janitorial supplies only.
   5.7. Bulk storage of steel wool will be held to a minimum and loose portions will be stored
   in closed metal containers.
   5.8. Clothes dryers will be vented to the outside and lint is not allowed to accumulate at any
   time in or around clothes drying units. In areas that are not economically feasible or practical
   to vent to the outside, the dryer must have an approved lint catcher.
   5.9. Floors or carpets will not be cleaned with volatile or flammable liquids.
   5.10. Oily or dirty clothing, such as maintenance coveralls, will be hung in a well-ventilated
   metal locker when not in use.
6. Buildings and Grounds.
   6.1. When a using agency vacates a building, prompt notification will be given to Fire
   Prevention, who will conduct a building inspection to ensure all installed fire extinguishers
   are left in place and the building is free of fire hazards.
   6.2. No changes or alterations will be made to any building or structure without an approved
   AF Form 332 which has been coordinated through the Fire Department to ensure compliance
   with Fire Protection policies, instructions and codes.
   6.3. All damages or breakage in walls will be promptly repaired; the Facility Manager shall
   notify the BOS contractor of noted discrepancy for repair.
   6.4. Under no circumstances will boiler rooms, generator rooms, air conditioner rooms or
   mechanical rooms be used for any other purposes except that for which they were designed.
   These rooms will be kept locked at all times except for authorized entry.
   6.5. Dumpsters will not be placed without coordination with the Fire Prevention Section.
 8                                                               439AWI32-2001 9 AUGUST 2011


     6.6. In buildings where supplies are stored, fire aisles will be established and will not be
     blocked at any time.
     6.7. Fire escapes, stairways (including under stairway) and fire exits will not be blocked or
     used for storage purposes.
     6.8. Means of egress for buildings must comply with NFPA, Life Safety Code No. 101. The
     following precautions will be taken concerning fire exits.
        6.8.1. The fastening of any established exit door will not prevent or impede the egress of
        occupants. The obstruction of these doors is prohibited.
        6.8.2. Fire doors designated to normally be kept closed in a means of egress shall be of
        the self-closing type and will not be secured in the open position.
        6.8.3. Exit lighting will be kept in service at all times.
        6.8.4. In each room where chairs or tables are used, the room will be arranged to allow
        free and ready access by aisles to each exit. Aisles leading directly to an exit will not be
        less than 36 inches clear width and are never obstructed by chairs, tables or other objects.
     6.9. At the end of each work day or activity, all doors and windows in each facility will be
     closed as a precautionary measure against the spread of fire.
     6.10. The grass adjacent to buildings will be maintained by the building occupant. High
     hazard areas such as fuel storage areas, electrical generators, munitions storage areas, and
     aircraft parking will not have grass within 10 feet of any hazardous area. Excessive
     accumulation of vegetation shall be prohibited in these areas.
7. Electrical Installation and Equipment.
     7.1. Alteration, repair or extension of electrical wiring will only be made by qualified
     electricians or the BOS contractor working under the supervision of the Real Property
     Maintenance Manager.
     7.2. Temporary wiring will not be used in place of permanent wiring.
     7.3. All circuits will be protected by fuses, circuit breakers or other approved means to
     prevent overloading. Fuses are not bridged in any manner. Circuit breaker switches will not
     be tied or taped in the closed position.
     7.4. Overloading of electrical circuits beyond rated capacities will be strictly prohibited.
     7.5. All electrical switches in master switch panels will be correctly labeled to indicate the
     circuits controlled. Clear access to electrical circuit panels will be maintained at all times.
     7.6. Extension cords will be of the type and size approved for usage to which they are
     subjected. Electrical ranges, deep fat fryers, grills and high amperage equipment will not be
     operated with extension cords.
        7.6.1. Cords will be continuous in length and without splices or taped.
        7.6.2. Cords will not be stapled, tacked, nailed or taped to floors, walls or ceilings. Cords
        will not be run through walls, ceilings, doorways, windows, over pipes or under carpets.
        7.6.3. Deteriorated, frayed or worn cords will be replaced. Cords will not be used in
        place of permanent wiring.
439AWI32-2001 9 AUGUST 2011                                                                       9


   7.7. All defective appliances, lighting fixtures, switches and electrical equipment will be
   reported to the BOS contractor.
   7.8. Emergency lighting will be installed with permanent wiring.
   7.9. All panels, switches, receptacles and junction boxes will be covered with suitable cover
   plates at all times.
   7.10. Clearance between electrical light fixtures and stored materials will be 18 inches or
   more.
   7.11. The use of combustible paper or cloth shades on or over electric bulbs and the hanging
   of any article on light fixtures or electric wiring will be prohibited.
   7.12. Only explosion-proof fixtures and equipment will be used in areas subject to
   flammable or explosive vapors or severe dust laden atmospheres.
      7.12.1. All explosion-proof light fixtures will be maintained with bulb guards.
      7.12.2. All electrical equipment installed will conform to the requirements of UL or
      Factory Mutual Laboratories for the particular location involved and as defined by
      National Fire Codes for hazardous areas.
   7.13. Electrically operated machines will be grounded. Machines not approved for hazardous
   location will not be used or installed on aircraft hangar floors or other areas where the danger
   of explosive gases or vapors are present.
   7.14. Portable heaters are prohibited, except in those areas where there is absolutely no heat
   or the extension of heating ducts would not be feasible.
      7.14.1. In such cases the heater will be placed on a non-combustible surface and be
      equipped with a trip-proof mechanism to ensure shut off if knocked over. (Electrical type
      only.)
      7.14.2. Any use of supplemental heat must be coordinated with the BOS contractor.
      7.14.3. No open flame heaters or open electric element heaters will be permitted without
      permission of the Base Fire Chief.
   7.15. Lint and dust will not be allowed to accumulate on electrical motors or generators.
   7.16. No extensions or relocation of electrical outlets or fixtures will be made without prior
   approval of the Base Civil Engineer or the Civil Engineer's designated representative.
8. Places of Public Assembly.
   8.1. Managers of public assembly and recreational facilities will establish a sound fire
   prevention program. Managers of places of public assembly or assistants designated in
   writing will conduct closing inspections. This responsibility will not be delegated to janitorial
   personnel. After each daily closing inspection of public assembly facilities, the responsible
   management person will report the accomplishment of the closing inspection to the Fire
   Alarm Communications Center, within one hour after closing. The time and name of the
   person making the report will be entered on the closing sheet.
 10                                                          439AWI32-2001 9 AUGUST 2011


   8.2. The number of persons permitted in places of public assembly at any time will be
   limited to that number which can safely be evacuated in the event of an emergency. This
   requirement will be established by the Base Fire Chief, utilizing NFPA Life Safety Code.
   8.3. Exits in places of public assembly will conform to the NFPA Life Safety Code. All
   exits, corridors, aisles and stairs leading to exits will be kept free and clear of storage and
   will be unobstructed at all times.
      8.3.1. Exits will not be locked, chained or barred while the facility is open for business.
      8.3.2. All exits will be plainly marked. All corridors, stairs and aisles leading to exits
      will be well lighted during hours of operation.
      8.3.3. Exit lights will be lighted at all times. Burned out bulbs will be replaced
      immediately upon discovery.
      8.3.4. Wall covering, curtains, movable scenery, drapes, carpet and pads will be fire-
      resistant.
      8.3.5. Inspections by Base Fire Inspectors will be conducted prior to the start of any
      major social or unusual event to ensure that decorations and arrangements are in
      compliance with established fire prevention standards.
      8.3.6. The manager of public assembly facilities in which commercial or restaurant type
      cooking is performed will establish and enforce the following procedures:
          8.3.6.1. All installed grease filters and exposed surfaces of kitchen range hoods must
          be thoroughly cleaned by the operator daily or as often as necessary to prevent
          accumulation of grease. Spare filter sets may be required in kitchens, which are
          operated continuously. Cooking will not be permitted under a hood without filters.
          The facility manager will maintain a written log to ensure cleaning is performed on a
          daily basis.
          8.3.6.2. Kitchen range hoods and exhaust ducts servicing kitchen equipment must be
          thoroughly cleaned every six months or as necessary to prevent the accumulation of
          grease. This cleaning cycle includes grease accumulation on fans, roofs, louvers,
          exterior walls, etc., where the system exhausts to the outside.
          8.3.6.3. Provide a metal-clad cover for each deep fat fryer. Covers will be pre-
          positioned for immediate use in case of a grease fire. Deep fat fryers will be equipped
          with a primary thermostat to limit temperatures to 400° Fahrenheit (F). A second
          thermostat will be provided. It is non-adjustable, fusible or manual resetting with a
          maximum cut-off temperature of 475°F. Managers will ensure that thermostats are
          tested annually and the unit will be tagged with the date of the test.
          8.3.6.4. Exhaust systems must be operating at all times while cooking equipment is
          in operation. When exhaust fans are removed for repair or replacement, the use of
          kitchen cooking equipment served by that exhaust system will be discontinued until
          the fan has been restored to service.
9. Cooking Appliances and Heating Equipment.
439AWI32-2001 9 AUGUST 2011                                                                       11


   9.1. Coffee making units may be used provided that they are approved by a recognized
   testing agency, wiring meets required electrical standards and unit is placed on a non-
   combustible surface.
   9.2. Only authorized maintenance or service personnel will be permitted to adjust, repair or
   service pre-set thermostats, relief valves, dampers or other automatic controls installed in
   conjunction with heaters, furnaces or boilers and cooking equipment.
   9.3. Stoves, smoke pipes, hoods, grease ducts, and/or heating equipment will have sufficient
   clearance to prevent ignition of surrounding combustible materials.
   9.4. Kitchen ranges and electrical or open-flame kitchen equipment as well as portable space
   heaters will not be operated unattended.
   9.5. Fireplaces will be provided with hearth screens.
10. Fire Apparatus Priority on Westover ARB.
   10.1. Vehicle operators will keep clear of intersections upon hearing or seeing an emergency
   vehicle with flashing red lights and will yield the right of way by moving as close to the right
   side of the street as possible and coming to a full stop. Operators who fail to yield the right of
   way to fire apparatus responding to an emergency will be reported to the Security Police.
   10.2. Vehicle operators following fire apparatus will maintain a minimum clearance of 300
   feet behind fire apparatus.
   10.3. Vehicles other than ambulances, Security Police and those containing authorized
   personnel will not follow emergency responding fire apparatus to the scene of a fire or
   emergency.
   10.4. Vehicles will not be driven over fire hoses and stay clear of buildings and all other
   areas involved with fire fighting operations, unless authorized by the Senior Fire Officer.
11. Motor Driven Equipment, Vehicle Operations and Parking.
   11.1. Inside operation procedures:
      11.1.1. Motor vehicles will not be stored in hangars without written permission from the
      Base Fire Chief. Only operate vehicles in hangars when necessary to transport material or
      equipment.
      11.1.2. Equipment will not be refueled indoors.
   11.2. Powered lawn mowers and gas powered equipment may be stored inside buildings
   provided the room is well ventilated, drip pans are in place beneath the engines, and the fuel
   tanks have been drained, when seasonal use is completed.
   11.3. Vehicles will not be parked:
      11.3.1. In any manner that would preclude access by fire apparatus to the sides of
      buildings, in fire lanes, or within 15 feet of a fire hydrant.
      11.3.2. Within 15 feet of a building (unless in an authorized parking area).
      11.3.3. Motor vehicles (including motorized bicycles) will not be parked inside buildings
      not previously designated for such purposes.
 12                                                          439AWI32-2001 9 AUGUST 2011


       11.3.4. Gasoline, diesel, jet fuel trucks will be parked in facilities designated for that
       purpose and in no other facility.
       11.3.5. Petroleum vehicles will not be parked on the flight line in such a manner as to
       endanger adjacent aircraft, or within 100 feet of any building, structure, or stored
       material, or where the ground slopes toward any building.
       11.3.6. In warehouses or hangars overnight with the exception of electrically operated
       vehicles and those authorized by the Base Fire Chief.
       11.3.7. In areas approved for parking where exit travel is obstructed.
       11.3.8. In fire lanes or entranceways to buildings (the width of the door opening and
       three feet on either side is kept clear).
       11.3.9. In any manner that would block fire department sprinkler connections. A 12 foot
       clearance, six feet on each side, is required for outlets servicing fire protection system.
   11.4. Fuel trucks will be parked in single rows and will be capable of being driven out of
   parking areas in a single turn.
12. Special Events, Holiday and Seasonal Hazards.
   12.1. Combustible decorations will be prohibited in places of public assembly,
   administrative facilities or dormitories. Contact Fire Prevention for clarification on use of
   decorative materials.
   12.2. No decorative material, temporary or permanent, will be used unless such material is
   flame resistant. Hay, straw, and similar material will not be used inside or near buildings for
   any purpose.
   12.3. Curtains, draperies or other decorative material will not, in any way, block exits or
   other means of egress or exit signs.
   12.4. All decorations in facilities open to the public must be approved by the Base Fire Chief
   or a designated representative.
   12.5. Christmas trees or decorations will not be permitted in dormitory living quarters, but
   are permitted only in dayrooms, clubs, administrative offices and open messes.
   12.6. Any Christmas tree, lights or decorations will be removed immediately if declared a
   fire hazard by the Base Fire Chief or designated representative. All Christmas lights must be
   disconnected before leaving the immediate area or retiring for the night.
   12.7. Lights on artificial aluminum trees will be prohibited
   12.8. All seasonal or special decorations will be taken down immediately following the
   holiday or special occasion.
   12.9. Lighting decorations, equipment and extension cords will be UL approved and in safe
   working condition. Electrical decorations used outdoors will be of the type designed for
   outdoor use and UL approved.
13. Cutting and Welding. Whenever possible, welding or torch cutting will be performed in a
welding booth or room constructed for that purpose. When welding or cutting with a torch
439AWI32-2001 9 AUGUST 2011                                                                      13


outside a protective enclosure, supervisors in charge of the job will ensure that the following
precautions are taken before a torch is lit or welding is begun in the area.
   13.1. Flammable liquids will not be permitted to remain within 50 feet of the areas where
   sparks or slag might fall.
   13.2. Before welding the tanks or containers, which once contained flammable liquids, the
   tanks or containers will be thoroughly washed, steamed, and purged. A vent will be provided
   to permit the release of pressure.
   13.3. When practical, all combustibles will be relocated at least 50 feet from the work site.
   When relocation is not possible, combustibles will be protected by a suitable fire resistant
   cover or otherwise shielded with metal or curtains.
   13.4. Walls, floor openings, or cracks within 35 feet of the site will be tightly covered to
   prevent the passage of sparks to adjacent areas.
   13.5. Ducts and conveyer systems that might carry sparks to distant combustibles will be
   suitably protected or shut down.
   13.6. Cutting or welding on pipes or other metal in contact with combustible walls,
   partitions, ceilings or roofs will not be undertaken if the work is close enough to cause
   ignition by conduction.
   13.7. Cutting or welding will not be done on any drum, tank or cylinder when the previous
   contents are not known. Every precaution will be taken to ensure these containers have been
   purged.
   13.8. When welding or cutting in open areas, personnel will ensure that all combustible
   vegetation within 25 feet of the operation is removed. The means to extinguish a small fire
   must be immediately available such as water extinguishers, shovel, etc.
   13.9. Suitable fire extinguishers will be maintained near welding and cutting operations.
   13.10. Permission from the Base Fire Department will be required prior to any welding or
   cutting operation in any location other than an authorized welding shop. AF Form 592, USAF
   Welding, Cutting and Brazing Permit, must be obtained at the worksite from fire prevention
   personnel.
14. Pipe Soldering and Sweating Operations. Supervisors in charge of soldering or pipe
sweating jobs using portable gas devices will ensure that the following precautions are taken
before work begins in the area.
   14.1. When practical, all combustibles will be relocated from the immediate work area.
   Where relocation is impractical, combustibles will be covered or otherwise shielded with
   metal or fire retardant cover to prevent passage of flame and melting (running) solder.
   14.2. At no time will soldering or sweating operations be conducted near flammable liquids
   or gases.
   14.3. Walls, wall cracks, wall studs, electrical wiring and floor cracks within three feet of the
   open flame will be covered or shielded with a metal or fire retardant cover to prevent passage
   of flame or melting solder.
 14                                                         439AWI32-2001 9 AUGUST 2011


   14.4. Whenever soldering or sweating operations are conducted within 18 inches of pipe
   entering the wall an approved heat sink (refractory cement or wet insulating material) will be
   used to dissipate the heat.
   14.5. Suitable fire extinguishers must be available at the soldering or pipe sweating
   operation. Facility extinguishers will not be used for operations.
   14.6. The Base Fire Department will be contacted to inspect any soldering or sweating
   which may require special precautions to prevent fire. An AF Form 592 will be obtained
   from the Base Fire Department.
   14.7. The job supervisor or a representative will inspect the job site one hour after
   completion to check for hot spots.
15. Flammable Liquids, Chemicals and Gases. Flammable liquids will be stored in
designated buildings marked "FLAMMABLE KEEP AWAY" and "NO SMOKING" signs will
be prominently posted. Buildings so designated will be a minimum of 50 feet from any other
building.
   15.1. Where occupancy of the building requires the storage of small quantities of flammable
   liquids, such as office supplies or any type cleaner, ditto fluid and liquids required for
   laboratory work will be stored in a metal cabinet or ventilated metal locker when not in use.
   The approved cabinet or locker is labeled "FLAMMABLE". Desk or table containers will not
   exceed eight fluid ounces in volume. Total volume in cabinets or lockers will not exceed
   more than five days' working supply. Small quantities of lubricating oils will be permitted in
   shops and engine rooms for lubricating purposes.
   15.2. A working stock (normally one days' supply) of paints, oils, thinner and cleaning
   solvents may be stored in paint shops, hobby shops, maintenance shops and similar facilities.
   No individual container will exceed a five gallon capacity. Rags and other combustible
   materials will not be stored in cabinets or lockers used for storage of flammable liquids.
   15.3. All flammable liquids stored in drums will be identified by the appropriate name of the
   contents stenciled or marked on the outside of the containers in accordance with the
   Hazardous Communications Standard. Flammable liquids stored in metal drums and used for
   dispensing purposes will be installed on properly grounded metal stands or racks at least 25
   feet from any building or structure and such drums will be equipped with a spring action or
   automatic closing dispensing device.
   15.4. Containers used for dispensing of flammable liquids will be stored only in safety
   containers with self-closing lids on the pouring spout. Flammable liquids will not be
   dispensed, transported, or stored in glass or plastic containers or open containers. Each
   container will be stenciled with the contents and the word "FLAMMABLE" and all other
   required labeling. No individual safety container exceeds five gallons in capacity.
   15.5. The Base Service Station will not permit dispensing of gasoline in any containers other
   than approved safety containers bearing UL label or other authorized testing laboratories with
   appropriate warning labels.
   15.6. Flammable liquids are RCRA regulated wastes and will not be disposed in sewer or
   storm drainage systems. Accidental spills of liquids will be cleaned immediately. In any spill
439AWI32-2001 9 AUGUST 2011                                                                       15


   which is of a continuing nature, the organization follows the guidance of the Hazardous
   Materials Emergency Planning and Response Plan (HAZMAT).
   15.7. Fuel trucks and trailers will not be permitted to be parked in aircraft hangars or shops.
   Refueling vehicles will be parked 50 feet from aircraft hangars. Maintenance on refueling
   vehicles will be performed only in facilities designed for this type of maintenance.
   15.8. Flammable liquids will not be stored (including stock for sale) near exits, exit accesses,
   stairways or other areas normally used for emergency egress of personnel.
   15.9. Gasoline, naphtha, lacquer, paint thinner, alcohol, turpentine, and other Class I
   flammable liquids will not be used as cleaning solvents.
   15.10. The use of cleaning solvents with a flash point of 100°F or less is prohibited.
   (Exception: Technical Order directives.)
   15.11. Vats containing approved cleaning solvents will be of metal construction equipped
   with a hinged cover and counterbalanced by a chain with a fusible link to ensure closure in
   the event of fire.
   15.12. Spray painting inside buildings will not be permitted unless accomplished in an
   approved spray booth.
   15.13. Flammable liquids will not be stored with other combustible materials. Flammable
   liquid spills will be reported to Fire Protection Branch. Each spill will be managed in
   accordance with the HAZMAT.
   15.14. Location of flammable storage lockers in each facility will be identified by letter. The
   letter will include the location and contents of each locker. The letters will be updated at least
   annually by the facility manager. No more than three lockers will be allowed in any one work
   area.
16. Aircraft Hangars and Docks. It is the responsibility of the hangar chief or crew chief of
the aircraft concerned to have adequate fire extinguishers available before performing
maintenance.
   16.1. Refueling of aircraft in a hangar or nose dock will be prohibited.
   16.2. The use of flammable solvents to clean aircraft will be prohibited except when directed
   by technical order.
   16.3. All electrical fixtures and appliances will be of the type approved for locations.
   16.4. Fire lanes will be maintained around all aircraft, hangars, and nose docks to allow
   access of fire protection equipment.
   16.5. Fire doors connecting hangar floors with shops and offices will be kept closed and
   unobstructed at all times.
   16.6. Spray painting or paint removal will be prohibited in hangars and docks unless the
   facilities have been specifically designed for that purpose. Spot painting will be permitted
   when in compliance with pertinent directives.
   16.7. Gasoline powered air compressors will not be positioned in aircraft hangars at any
   time.
 16                                                            439AWI32-2001 9 AUGUST 2011


   16.8. Aircraft inside hangars will be effectively grounded when connected to hangar
   electrical power source, snatch blocks/harness or tow bars will be available to effect removal
   of aircraft in the event of an emergency.
   16.9. The parking of any type vehicle, inside hangars including ground power units, support
   equipment or component parts will be prohibited, with the exception of vehicles loading and
   unloading materials or supplies.
17. Open Fires, Open Flame, and Fireworks.
   17.1. Open fires, the burning of rubbish, and similar material will be allowed only at times
   and places approved by the Base Fire Chief.
   17.2. Blow torches or flame units will not be used to remove paint from any surface or to
   burn wood for decorative purposes unless specifically authorized by the Base Fire Chief.
   17.3. The exploding of any fireworks on Westover ARB will be prohibited without
   permission from the Installation Commander. (Request is submitted in duplicate not less than
   seven workdays prior to date of intended display.)
   17.4. The use of candles or other open flame devices on Westover ARB is strictly prohibited
   unless approved by the Installation Commander with input from the Fire Chief.
   17.5. The burning of incense in any facility other than the Base Chapel will be prohibited.
   17.6. Portable cooking appliances will not be operated within 10 feet of any building and
   will not be used within 10 feet on either side of a fire exit and 20 feet in front of a fire exit.
   At no time will the LP-gas cylinders be stored inside a building.
18. Fire Evacuation Drills and Plans.
   18.1. Fire evacuation plans will not be required in structures provided with adequate "EXIT"
   lights or signs. In large buildings where there would be a chance of becoming trapped or the
   avenue of egress is not clearly marked, evacuation plans will be posted.
   18.2. Unannounced fire evacuation drills will be conducted in each facility listed at specified
   frequencies and by specified personnel.
       18.2.1. Places of public assembly - at least quarterly by the manager.
       18.2.2. Industrial facilities - at least quarterly by functional and facility managers.
       18.2.3. Dormitories - at least annually by functional managers, First Sergeants or
       representatives.
   18.3. All fire evacuation drills requiring the activation of an installed alarm system will be
   conducted in coordination with the Senior Fire Officer on duty. Each evacuation drill will be
   documented by the facility manager.
19. Warehousing and Storage. Personnel will be instructed on proper storage plans for interior
and exterior storage. The following specifications will be observed in buildings, warehouses, and
open storage areas.
   19.1. Attics and above false ceilings will not be used for storage and are kept free of trash.
   19.2. Supply materials will be stacked to minimize the spread of fire and permit convenient
   access for firefighting, salvage or removal of material, which may constitute a hazard.
439AWI32-2001 9 AUGUST 2011                                                                     17


      19.2.1. Packing materials such as excelsior, straw, shredded paper and similar packing
      materials will be kept in original bales until ready for use. Once bales are broken open,
      contents will be stored in metal self-closing containers for storage of combustible packing
      materials.
      19.2.2. Exterior storage within 25 feet of any building will be prohibited. Outside storage
      materials will not block access roads or fire lanes to or between buildings.
      19.2.3. Storage of materials or supplies within 18 inches of an electrical fixture or
      sprinkler head will be prohibited. A minimum of 36 inches will be maintained between
      materials and ceilings.
      19.2.4. Supply materials will not be stored within 24 inches of interior combustible type
      of substandard fire walls.
   19.3. Prior to blocking or locking doors, approval will be obtained from the Base Fire Chief.
   The doors will be marked on the exterior side with a sign stating "THIS DOOR
   BLOCKED/LOCKED". Fire doors will not be blocked at any time.
20. Fire Extinguishers and Fire Detection/Suppression Systems.
   20.1. The Real Property custodian is responsible for the procurement, maintenance and
   inspection of fire extinguishers in facilities under their jurisdiction.
   20.2. When the location of a fire extinguisher is not readily visible, the location may be
   suitably marked with a sign or arrow showing the extinguishers locations.
   20.3. Facility managers will be responsible for notifying the fire department of changing
   conditions within buildings, structures and/or areas that may require changes in a location or
   type of extinguisher.
   20.4. Fire detection and sprinkler system accessories will not be painted except as authorized
   by the National Fire Code and approved by the Base Fire Chief.
   20.5. A three foot clearance will be maintained around standpipe hose stations and sprinkler
   risers.
   20.6. Outside post indicator valves will not be tampered with or access blocked.
21. Fire Prevention Training.
   21.1. Fire prevention and fire safety training will be conducted annually or as required.
   21.2. Fire Prevention Section of the Base Fire Protection Branch will be available upon
   written request to any organization, social group, club, activity or function for the purpose of
   conducting lectures, demonstration and/or courtesy inspections. Scheduling will be requested
   at least seven days prior to the date requested. Request for this type of training should be
   forwarded to Fire Protection.
22. Storage and Handling of Explosives and Hazardous Chemicals.
   22.1. All organizations storing ammunition will notify the Base Fire Department Dispatcher
   when a change is made, giving types, class and storage locations.
   22.2. Fire symbols will be conspicuously posted on all buildings, rooms, containers, areas,
   etc., where ammunition is stored. When practical, munitions will be separated and stored
 18                                                          439AWI32-2001 9 AUGUST 2011


   according to fire hazard symbols. When mixed storage is necessary, the symbol applying to
   the most hazardous material will be displayed.
23. Fire Crash Net Radio Discipline.
   23.1. Transceivers on the fire crash frequency will be limited to fire station, fire fighting
   vehicles, control tower, security forces, mobile command post, and the base civil engineer.
   Ambulances will be authorized single or duel channel transceiver on this net.
   23.2. Agencies with transceivers on the fire crash net will only transmit official
   transmissions. No agencies will use the fire crash net during actual fire emergency or
   simulated training exercises, unless transmission is in support of the emergency or exercise.
   23.3. Support agencies responding to actual fire alarm emergencies or simulated training
   exercises will contact Westover Fire Control Center for appropriate instructions.
24. Hazardous Materials Exposure Reports.
   24.1. Whenever an unusual incident occurs that involves hazardous materials not normally
   encountered during the workday (normally encountered materials include petroleum, oil and
   lubricants (POL) products) 439 AW Form 17, Westover ARB HAZMAT Exposure Record,
   will be accomplished by the HAZMAT Incident Safety Officer of the incident. This form
   will be accomplished for documentation even if no obvious contamination or exposure to the
   chemical has occurred.
   24.2. All items on the form will be filled in as applicable. The Incident Commander and the
   HAZMAT Incident Safety Officer will sign the form to certify that the information is correct
   and as complete as possible.
   24.3. If no contamination was noted, 439 AW Form 17 will be filed in the employee's
   HAZMAT folder in the fire station.
   24.4. If contamination is suspected or did occur, the original will be filed at the 439 Medical
   Squadron and a copy kept in the employee's station HAZMAT folder. Appropriate medical
   follow-up will be accomplished.
   24.5. These forms are kept for a minimum of the employee's time of employment with
   Westover ARB, plus at least 30 years.
25. Tobacco Use Areas. Facility managers shall establish designated tobacco use areas for each
facility. Before an area can be designated a ―Tobacco Use Area‖ coordination with the Fire
Prevention Office, Safety Office and Bioenvironmental must be accomplished. Each facility
manager shall submit an AF Form 332 with a brief description and sketch for a suggested
smoking area at their facility. Once the AF Form 332 has been approved, Designated Tobacco
Use Area signs shall be installed by the BOS contractor and smoking disposal receptacles shall
be installed by the facility manager.
   25.1. Approved receptacles with a tapered lid to an opening of not more than three inches
   shall be provided in all areas in which smoking is permitted. These receptacles shall not be
   used for disposal of other waste materials. Supervisors shall ensure that the containers are
   properly emptied as needed and the materials are properly disposed of.
   25.2. Smoking, striking of matches, operation of mechanical lighters and any other flame
   producing devices shall be prohibited within 50 feet of aircraft, aircraft maintenance areas,
439AWI32-2001 9 AUGUST 2011                                                                  19


  hangars, servicing locations, aircraft ramps and parking areas or within 100 feet of munitions
  storage areas, all POL handling, storage and servicing areas.




                                           ROBERT R. SWAIN, JR., Colonel, USAFR
                                           Commander
 20                                                       439AWI32-2001 9 AUGUST 2011


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 40-102, Tobacco Use in the Air Force, 3 June 2002
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational Safety, Fire Prevention, and Health Program, 1 June 1996
AFOSH STD 91 -501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard, 7 July 2004
NFPA 10, Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers, 2010 edition
NFPA, Life Safety Code No. 101, 2009 edition
Prescribed Forms
439 AW 17, Westover ARB HAZMAT Exposure Record.
439 AW Form 17, Westover ARB HAZMAT Exposure Record
Adopted Forms
AF Form 1487, Fire Hazard Visit Report
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF Form 592, USAF Welding, Cutting and Brazing Permit,

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
BCE—Base Civil Engineering
DOD—Department of Defense FACC—Fair Alarm Communication Center
HAZMAT—Hazardous Material
NFPA—National Fire Protection Association (A national organization that publishes national
consensus standards known as National Fire Codes)
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Act
POL—Petroleum, Oil, and Lubricant
RCRA—Resource Conservation Recovery Act
TO—Technical Order
UFC 3—600-01 – United Facilities Criteria
UL—Underwriters Laboratory
VOQ—Visiting Officers Quarters
439AWI32-2001 9 AUGUST 2011                                                                 21


Terms
Base Fire Marshal—The Base Civil Engineer is the Base Fire Marshal and supervises the Fire
Protection Flight.
Building Facility Manager—Person who serves in an administrative and advisory capacity with
the following responsibilities: building care, facilities utilization requirements, facility
maintenance, utilities management, fire protection and building security.
Class 1 Flammable—Any liquid that has a closed-cup flash point below 100°F and a Reid vapor
pressure not exceeding 40 PSIA at 100°F.
Functional Manager—The senior operating official at all levels, exercising managerial control
of a facility, activity or operation.
Incident Commander—A person responsible for all decisions relating to the management of an
emergency condition or incident.
Hazard Abatement Program—A systematic priority program to manager, assess, and monitor
abatement actions.
Hazardous Communications Standards—Standards written to establish the right for an
employee to know about the hazardous properties associated with a hazardous material and the
health effects it may cause.
Hazardous Material—Material presenting dangers beyond the fire problems relating to flash
point and boiling point. These materials when released are capable of creating harm to people,
the environment, and property.
Hazardous Materials Incident Safety Officer—Person assigned to ensure that recognized safe
practices are followed during a hazardous materials incident.
Public Assembly Facilities—Occupancies used for gatherings of persons for such purposes as
deliberations, working, entertainment, dining, amusement, or waiting for transportation.
Risk Assessment Code—An expression of the degree of risk associated with an occupational
hazard or difficulty that combines hazard severity and mishap probability into a single numeric
identifier.
Resource Conservation Recovery Act—Federal laws governing hazardous waste disposal.
Senior Fire Officer—Any member of the fire service with supervisory responsibilities at
company officer level and above at the scene of an incident.
 22                                                         439AWI32-2001 9 AUGUST 2011


                                         Attachment 2
                      CLOSING INSPECTION CHECKLIST GUIDE

A2.1. Is trash being allowed to accumulate inside buildings?
A2.2. Has trash been properly disposed of as required to maintain a fire safe environment?
A2.3. Have all electrical appliances except clocks, necessary energized office equipment, and
appliances used for the preservation of food been turned off at the end of the work day?
A2.4. Have all flammable or combustible liquids used during the work day been removed from
the building or stored in an approved flammable liquid locker?
A2.5. Have the tobacco use areas been inspected, receptacles emptied routinely and contents
disposed of properly.
