BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                              439TH AIRLIFT WING
439TH AIRLIFT WING                                                      INSTRUCTION 90-901

                                                                            26 OCTOBER 2010

                                                                               Command Policy

                                                      OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 439 AES/SGO                                                      Certified by: 439 AW/CC
Supersedes: 439 AWI 90-901,                                           (Col Robert R. Swain, Jr.)
            21 July 2005                                                                Pages: 4


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-9, Operational Risk
Management. It provides strategic instruction for the implementation and sustainment of
Operational Risk Management (ORM) in the 439th Airlift Wing (439 AW). It applies to all
personnel assigned or attached to the 439 AW. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847 to 439 MXG, 350 Hangar Avenue, Suite 209, Westover ARB, MA 01022-1771.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision updates financial requirements (paragraph 1.3.); and updates advisor level training
(paragraph 3.1.2.).
1. Executive Summary.
   1.1. General. ORM initiatives include training, tools and information, application to mission
   activity, integration, and oversight. These initiatives will be refined, enhanced, and updated
   as ORM integration matures, experience is gained, and mission needs change the sustainment
   focus.
   1.2. Resources. The unit will provide all resources required to implement and sustain ORM
   for organizations within the 439 AW.
 2                                                        439AWI 90-901 26 OCTOBER 2010


     1.3. Financial Requirements. Current operations and maintenance funding is expected to be
     sufficient to support implementation and integration of ORM into 439 AW activities. The
     only significant future expense is funding to train replacement ORM advisors in the event of
     reassignments. This expense is limited to travel and per diem for one week to a Flight
     Safety/ORM course, given at various bases throughout the CONUS.
     1.4. Manpower Requirements. Each group within the wing will appoint an ORM program
     manager to oversee the implementation and sustainment of ORM for all sections within the
     respective group. Additional duty personnel will support the wing and group ORM programs
     as functional area specific ORM advisors. Supervisors will ensure assigned personnel employ
     ORM to all mission-related activities.
2. Introduction.
     2.1. Purpose. The purpose of this instruction is to implement requirements identified in
     AFPD 90-9, paragraph 5.5.2.
     2.2. Vision. Ensure an organization in which all personnel manage risk so that operations are
     successfully completed in the most mission effective manner possible.
     2.3. Mission. Enhance mission effectiveness while minimizing risk.
     2.4. Goals. The hierarchy of goals (see Figure 1, Operational Risk Management Hierarchy)
     is the crucial framework for defining ORM.

Figure 1. Operational Risk Management Hierarchy.
3. Objectives. The following objectives provide an overview of how this instruction will be
implemented in support of Air Force requirements.
     3.1. Objective 1. Train our people to apply, implement, and integrate ORM. Training and
     education initiatives within the wing in support of ORM are categorized as basic level and
     advisor level. The basic level includes locally performed training for all wing members. The
     advisor level includes completion of all basic level training and completion of Air Force-
     level training (Applications and Integration course).
        3.1.1. Basic level training. The Introduction to ORM training course is required for all
        personnel and can be accomplished either as computer-based training (CBT) or in a
        classroom setting. In addition, all personnel will receive initial workplace-specific ORM
        training, periodic ORM-related briefings as determined by the commander, on-the-job
        training, and participate in the application of ORM to mission activities.
            3.1.1.1. Introduction to ORM Training. Supervisors are responsible to ensure all
            personnel receive this training and that the training is documented. Initial ORM
            training will be conducted as part of each unit’s newcomer’s training when a member
            is assigned to the 439 AW. Use initial ORM training date completed during basic
            military training for enlisted or officer.
439AWI 90-901 26 OCTOBER 2010                                                                  3


        3.1.1.2. Initial workplace-specific ORM Training. Supervisors are responsible to
        ensure all personnel receive this training and that the training is documented.
        Document ORM workplace specific hazard job training in section 23 on the AF Form
        55, Employee Safety and Health Record, or unit career field six part folder. Initial
        workplace training will consist of involving the new member in a shop level ORM
        process as soon as possible.
        3.1.1.3. ORM-Related Activities.
            3.1.1.3.1. ORM down days. HQ AFRC may schedule ORM down days on a
            periodic basis. These days will be fully supported by all personnel.
            3.1.1.3.2. ORM-related briefings may be provided to unit personnel as a part of
            Commander’s calls.
            3.1.1.3.3. On-the-Job Training. Personnel at every level will work with their
            supervisors and the group/organization ORM advisor in the application of ORM
            to tasked activities.
     3.1.2. Advisor level training. Advisor level training includes participation in all basic
     level activities and completion of the Air Force ORM Applications and Integration
     Course via ORM University CBTs at: https://rmis.kirtland.af.mil/default.asp. Advisors
     will provide ORM tools and information to members of their organizations.
        3.1.2.1. ORM tools and information. Tools and information required for ORM
        implementation will be provided in two ways: web-based products and personal
        contact.
            3.1.2.1.1. Web-based products. Group ORM advisors will develop procedures for
            providing this material to sections within their respective groups. ORM related
            material can be downloaded from the HQ AFRC ORM web site at:
            https://wwwmil.afrc.af.mil/orm.
            3.1.2.1.2. Personal Contact. Despite the best of training and web-based products,
            personal contact remains a staple of doing business. All wing members will be
            encouraged to discuss any ORM related topic with the group/organization ORM
            advisor or safety representatives.
  3.2. Objective 2. Integrate ORM into all mission-related activity. Employing ORM in the
  conduct of mission-related activity is the key focus of ORM policy and guidance.
     3.2.1. Planning. Organizations will routinely integrate ORM to their planning activities.
     All identified hazards and control measures will be identified and integrated into the plan.
     Risks that cannot be reduced to an acceptable level will be identified to commanders to
     enable them to make an informed decision.
     3.2.2. Execution. Throughout the execution of any project or procedure, organizations
     will implement all control measures identified in planning and observe their
     effectiveness. Inadequate control measures will be cause for delaying operations until
     adequate control measures can be employed or the appropriate commander makes an
     informed decision.
4                                                        439AWI 90-901 26 OCTOBER 2010


       3.2.3. Post Mission Activity. Once after action reports are published, organizations will
       assemble any ORM lessons learned and provide them to the group/organization ORM
       advisor in order to update the ORM application process.
    3.3. Objective 3. Continuous improvement. Continuously improve ORM processes,
    products, and procedures.
       3.3.1. ORM Processes. All organizations will note any difficulty or inadequacy in any
       ORM process and identify their observations and recommended fixes to the ORM advisor
       by any practical means.
       3.3.2. ORM Products. All wing personnel will note any difficulty or inadequacy in any
       ORM product and identify their observations and recommended fixes to the
       group/organization ORM advisor by any practical means.
       3.3.3. ORM Procedures. All wing personnel will note any difficulty or inadequacy in any
       ORM procedure and identify their observations and recommended fixes to the
       group/organization ORM advisor by any practical means.
    3.4. Objective 4. Encourage off-duty application of ORM. Application of ORM by Air Force
    personnel to off-duty activities is identified at Air Force level as an essential part of any
    organization ORM program. During all safety or ORM down-day activities, application of
    ORM to off-duty activities will be included as a part of the day’s activities.
    3.5. Objective 5. Provide Oversight. Commander ownership of ORM activities is essential to
    ensure ORM is employed and becomes an integrated part of all mission activity.




                                            ROBERT R. SWAIN, JR., Colonel, USAFR
                                            Commander
