BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         439TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 91-
439TH AIRLIFT WING                                                              207

                                                                                  29 JULY 2010

                                                                                          Safety

                                                          MOTORCYCLE TRAFFIC SAFETY
                                                                          PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 439 AW/SEG                                                       Certified by: 439 AW/CC
Supersedes: 439AWI91-207, 26 April                                    (Col Robert R. Swain, Jr.)
            2005                                                                        Pages: 3


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 91-2, Safety Programs. It
establishes procedures to prevent or reduce the frequency and severity of motorcycle mishaps
involving Air Force personnel. It applies to all Department of Defense (DoD) personnel and
Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) civilian personnel operating a motorcycle, motor scooter or moped
on this installation. This instruction does not apply to tenant units, which are required to fund
their own motorcycle safety-training program. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847 to 439 AW/CC, 100 Lloyd Street, Box 63, Westover ARB, MA 01022-1825.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Paragraph 3.3. has been changed to read: or moped on this installation are encouraged to. Deletes
the requirement for motorcycle proof of ownership, paragraph 4.1.2. In paragraph 4.2.,
documents has been changed to document. Adds statement to paragraph 4.5. regarding providing
proof of course completion within 30 days or by 30 September of the year taken to meet fiscal
year requirement. Paragraph 5.3., Provide Wing Safety with motorcycle(s) make, model, and
engine size for tracking purposes, has been added. Paragraphs 5.4. and 5.5. have been re-
numbered. An asterisk () indicates newly revised material.
 2                                                                439AWI91-207 29 JULY 2010




1. General.
     1.1. The term “motorcycle” used in this instruction includes all motorized two wheeled
     vehicles to include motor scooters, mopeds and motorbikes. These vehicles will have all
     equipment mandated by the State Department of Motor Vehicles in the state of registration.
     1.2. Motorcycle Safety Classes. The classes required for registration are as follows:
        1.2.1. Course IVA. Motorcycle Rider Course, Riding Street Skills (MRC: RSS),
        produced by the Motorcycle Safety Foundation (MSF). The course provides instruction in
        defensive riding techniques, use of personal protective equipment, and related subjects
        essential for safely operating a motorcycle. Additionally, the course provides hands-on
        training and evaluation. Course IVA has a minimum of seven hours classroom instruction
        and eight hours of hands-on training and evaluation and is designed for the novice rider.
        1.2.2. Course IVB, Experienced Rider Course. Course IVB has a minimum of four hours
        of classroom and four hours of hands-on training. The course is designed for riders with
        at least 5,000 miles of riding experience.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. The 439th Airlift Wing (439 AW) Ground Safety Manager (GSM) establishes the local
     traffic safety education program. The GSM implements programs to ensure all mandated
     motorcycle safety training is accomplished before operating motorcycles, motor scooters, or
     mopeds on this installation.
     2.2. Wing Safety personnel will assist in locating sources of mandated training to include
     course content and certification of instructors.
3. Motorcycle Safety Program.
     3.1. All Air Force military personnel who operate a motorcycle (on-off duty, on a
     Department of Defense (DOD) installation, and regardless of the member’s decision to
     register their vehicle on a DOD installation) are required to attend or to have attended an
     approved motorcycle rider’s safety course.
     3.2. All DoD and NAF civilian personnel wishing to register a motorcycle, motor scooter, or
     moped on this installation must complete a MSF approved Beginning Rider or Intermediate
     Rider Course. This course must be completed before the member will be allowed to operate
     their vehicle on base. This course will be offered at no cost to the individual.
     3.3. Retired personnel, dependents, and contracting personnel wishing to operate a
     motorcycle, motor scooter, or moped on this installation are encouraged to complete an
     approved MSF course at their own expense prior to registration and operation on base.
4. Procedures for Registration.
     4.1. Any authorized person wishing to attend a MSF course at the expense of the
     government must furnish to Wing Safety the following information prior to making any
     commitment:
        4.1.1. Motor vehicle operators permit indicating a motorcycle endorsement, if applicable.
439AWI91-207 29 JULY 2010                                                                         3


   4.2. Once the above document has been approved by Wing Safety, personnel will be given
   information to attend an approved MSF school.
   4.3. Wing Safety will provide:
      4.3.1. School name and location.
      4.3.2. Course fees. (The government will not expend additional funds for use of school
      motorcycles when the use of the personnel’s motorcycle is an option of the school.)
      4.3.3. Class schedule.
      4.3.4. School accreditation.
   4.4. Personnel should ensure completion of the course is done by the end of July each year.
   4.5. It is the responsibility of personnel to provide Wing Safety a copy of the receipt and
   course completion card as proof of course completion within 30 days or by 30 September of
   the year taken to meet fiscal year requirement.
5. Procedures for Reimbursement.
   5.1. Personnel provide Wing Safety a copy of the course completion card.
   5.2. Have a copy of the receipt.
   5.3. Provide Wing Safety with motorcycle(s) make, model, and engine size for tracking
   purposes.
   5.4. Upon presentation of the above items, Wing Safety will issue the Standard Form 1164,
   Claim for Reimbursements for Expenditures on Official Business, to the individual for
   reimbursement.
   5.5. The government will pay for only one course for each personnel. If personnel should
   fail their first attempt to complete the course, it is the responsibility of personnel to pay for
   any additional course requirements necessary for course completion.




                                             ROBERT R. SWAIN, JR., Colonel, USAFR
                                             Commander
