BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               439TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
439TH AIRLIFT WING                                                               36-815

                                                                                   15 APRIL 2014

                                                                                         Personnel

                                                  CIVILIAN PHYSICAL FITNESS PROGRAM
                                                                                (PFP)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 439 MSG/DPCE                                                       Certified by: 439 MSG/CC
                                                                            (Col Kenneth M. Lute)
                                                                                          Pages: 12
Supersedes:    439AWI36-815,
               18 August 2010


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-8, Employee Benefits and
Entitlements and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-815, Absence and Leave. The instruction
outlines policy and procedures for the Physical Fitness Program (PFP) for the 439th Airlift Wing
(439 AW). It applies to full time 439 AW federal civilian employees with an appointment of one
year or more. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 to 439 MSG/DPCE, 100 Lloyd
St, Box 51, Westover ARB, MA 01022-1843.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision clarifies that the fitness log or a record of fitness activity or OPM Form 71, Request
for Leave or Approved Absence, may be used for PFP. It requires that PFP must be annotated on
the AFRC Form 270, AFRC Timecard Worksheet and in ATAAPS. It establishes specific
procedures for recertification after providing the initial medical clearance certification. This
publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
 2                                                               439AWI36-815 15 APRIL 2014


1. Overview. The Air Force encourages active participation in fitness activities and anticipates
enhanced productivity and improved morale among participants. Employee participation in
physical fitness activities supported by the Air Force is strictly voluntary.
     1.1. Decisions regarding matters covered by this instruction will be made without regard to
     race, sex, religion, color, national origin, age, or disability.
2. Participation in Physical Fitness Activities. Full time federal civilian employees with an
appointment of one year or more are authorized to participate in physical fitness activities during
duty hours without charge to leave or loss of pay. Temporary employees serving appointments of
1 year or less, or employees on an intermittent work schedule, are not eligible.
     2.1. Employees may be excused for up to 3 hours per week for physical fitness activities.
     Only one block of time per day is authorized under this program. A block of time may be 15,
     30, 45, 60, 75 or 90 minutes. This time will not be accumulated and carried over to another
     work week. This time includes any travel time, changing clothes and showering. The
     physical fitness periods cannot be combined with authorized breaks, but may be used in
     conjunction with the lunch period. Employees must be in a duty status prior to or after the
     physical fitness period. Employees must report to work at the beginning of the duty day or
     contact their supervisor to check on workload. The supervisor must ensure that mission
     requirements are met before excusing an employee to participate in the program regardless of
     advance scheduling of the time. Employees participating in the program during the last 15-90
     minutes of the workday may be required to report back to work prior to the end of their duty
     day.
     2.2. Use of duty time (excused absence) is appropriate only if approved by 1st or 2nd level
     supervisors. Mission impact is the key element in making this decision. Except when the
     requirement for credit time, overtime or compensatory time is not known in advance of the
     PFP time, credit hours, overtime or compensatory time will not be approved nor earned on
     days when use of duty time is approved under this program.
     2.3. Approved physical fitness activities are those which address cardiovascular/aerobic
     endurance, muscular strength and endurance, or flexibility and body composition. Physical
     fitness activities may only be performed on base or in base facilities under the control of the
     wing commander. Activities authorized under the PFP include: running, jogging, brisk
     walking, weight training, aerobics, rope jumping, bicycling, rowing, swimming, water
     aerobics, calisthenics, and other types of cardiovascular exercises. Other activities, such as
     golfing, bowling, softball, racquetball, tennis, team sports, sauna, steam room, etc., are not
     authorized under this program.
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. Managers and supervisors are responsible for approving or disapproving employees’
     requests to participate in the PFP and monitoring their employees’ use of excused absence for
     PFP activities. In addition, managers and supervisors have the following responsibilities:
        3.1.1. Ensure the program is not compromised or abused.
            3.1.1.1. Managers and supervisors are authorized to revoke participation privileges if
            any abuse is identified and/or take appropriate disciplinary action.
439AWI36-815 15 APRIL 2014                                                                     3


         3.1.1.2. Managers and supervisors may require an employee to change or suspend
         participation in the PFP because of travel, training, or work exigencies. Employees
         who are scheduled to perform work for overtime/compensatory time (OT/CT) or
         credit hours will be suspended from participating in the PFP due to the necessity of
         their services and to reduce CT/OT expenditures.
         3.1.1.3. Managers and supervisors should not excuse employees for PFP who work
         the entire shift with paid lunch, and/or receive pre/post shift overtime. These
         employees have been identified as being needed continuously on the job for the full
         tour of duty. Excusing these employees for PFP defeats the purpose of a paid lunch
         and/or pre/post shift overtime.
     3.1.2. Ensure employee participating in the program provides medical clearance from a
     doctor certifying physical fitness activities are permitted and identifying any limiting
     conditions prior to beginning the program (Attachment 2).
     3.1.3. Ensure employee provides a completed and signed Request for Approval of
     Excused Absence and Memorandum of Understanding for Physical Fitness Activities
     (Attachment 3).
     3.1.4. Ensure employee maintains a fitness log (Attachment 4) or record of his/her
     fitness activities and/or submits OPM Form 71, Request for Leave or Approved Absence.
     All excused absence for PFP must be properly annotated on AFRC Form 270, AFRC
     Timecard Worksheet.
     3.1.5. Maintain the original request for physical fitness time, whether approved or
     disapproved, as well as doctor’s statement, in a confidential manner in a separate folder
     with the supervisor’s employee work folder in a secure file.
     3.1.6. Ensure excused absence for physical fitness activities is properly coded and has
     the mandatory information recorded in the “remarks” section on the AFRC timecard
     worksheet. The appropriate code is “LNF.” The mandatory information includes:
     “Physical fitness/(Activity type)/(Activity location).” Ensure the code LN with
     environmental code PF is entered into the Automated Time and Attendance and
     Production System (ATAAPS).
     3.1.7. Ensure employee provide a recertification every three (3) years that their
     medical/physical condition has or has not changed. Recertification may be requested
     sooner if there is reason to believe that the employee’s medical/physical condition has
     changed. If there are no changes, employee may self recertify (Attachment 5). If there
     has been a change in the employee’s medical/physical condition, employee must provide
     medical clearance from a doctor (Attachment 2). No further PFP activities will be
     approved until medical clearance from a doctor is provided.
  3.2. Employee Responsibilities. An employee participating in the program must:
     3.2.1. Ensure the supervisor is provided with a completed and signed Request for
     Approval of Excused Absence and Memorandum of Understanding for Physical Fitness
     Activities (Attachment 3).
     3.2.2. Provide the supervisor with medical clearance from a doctor certifying physical
     fitness activities are permitted and identifying any limiting conditions. Doctor’s statement
4                                                               439AWI36-815 15 APRIL 2014


       should include language such as, [Employee’s name] is physically able to participate in
       [type of exercise activities] without limitation, or with the following limitations...”
       (Attachment 2).
          3.2.2.1. For Air Reserve Technicians (ARTs) and federal civilian employees who are
          traditional reservists, the doctor's statement certifying that physical fitness activities
          are permitted and identifying any limiting conditions can be signed by either the
          employee's primary health care provider or the unit Reserve physician. Additionally,
          the individual must sign a certification statement that all medical information, to
          include medications, is documented in the military medical record (Attachment 2).
          3.2.2.2. The Reserve physician is authorized to require any additional medical
          documentation they determine necessary before certifying that physical fitness
          activities are permitted. The responsibility for providing the information is the
          employee’s and all costs associated with providing the information will be borne by
          the employee.
       3.2.3. Engage in PFP activities only to the extent approved and documented in their
       doctor’s statement and PFP application.
       3.2.4. Promptly report to their manager or supervisor any injuries sustained while
       engaging in PFP activities.
       3.2.5. Notify their manager or supervisors before leaving the workplace to participate in
       the PFP activities.
       3.2.6. Maintain a fitness log or record of physical fitness activities and/or submit OPM
       Form 71 as determined by supervisor. Ensure AFRC Form 270 is annotated with excused
       absence code LNF and in remarks column with “Physical Fitness” and include the
       activity type and activity location.” Input the code LN with environmental code PF into
       ATAAPS.
       3.2.7. Provide a recertification every three (3) years that their medical/physical condition
       has or has not changed. If the medical/physical condition has changed prior to three
       years, employee must provide medical clearance from a doctor. If there are no changes,
       employee may self recertify (Attachment 5). If there has been a change in the
       employee’s medical/physical condition, employee must provide medical clearance from a
       doctor (Attachment 2). No further PFP activities will be performed until medical
       clearance from a doctor is provided to the supervisor.
    3.3. Timekeepers and supervisors are responsible for ensuring that employees’ excused
    absence for PFP is accurately reflected in ATAAPS and Defense Civilian Pay system
    (DCPS).




                                             STEVEN D. VAUTRAIN, Brig Gen, USAFR
                                             Commander
439AWI36-815 15 APRIL 2014                                                                      5


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-8, Employee Benefits and Entitlements and Work/Life Programs, 10 February 2009
AFI 36-815, Absence and Leave, 5 September 2002
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
OPM Form 71, Request for Leave or Approved Absence
AFRC Form 270, AFRC Timecard Worksheet

Terms
Physical Fitness Program (PFP)—An optional program available to all full time 439 AW
federal civilian employees with an appointment of one year or more to promote physical fitness.
Medical Clearance—Signed statement from employee’s primary care provider/physician
certifying that physical fitness activities are permitted and identifying any limiting conditions.
6                              439AWI36-815 15 APRIL 2014


                Attachment 2
    SAMPLE MEDICAL CLEARANCE FOR (PFP)
439AWI36-815 15 APRIL 2014   7
 8                                                               439AWI36-815 15 APRIL 2014


                                          Attachment 3
     REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OF EXCUSED ABSENCE AND MEMORANDUM OF
         UNDERSTANDING (MOU) FOR PHYSICAL FITNESS ACTIVITIES

EMPLOYEE
I,                               , have read the 439 AW Physical Fitness Program Instruction
and understand that participation in the program is voluntary for eligible 439 AW employees.
I request approval of excuse absences, not to exceed three (3) hours per week, for the sole
purpose of participating in physical fitness activities.
I understand (employee must initial each line):
        My three hours per week will not be accumulated and carried over, and that the time will
include all travel time, changing of clothes and showering.
       This request must be accompanied by medical documentation (a doctor’s statement), at
my own expense, stating that physical fitness activities are permitted with or without limiting
conditions.
       Time granted to engage in the PFP is a privilege, not a right, and that use of this time
must be balanced with my obligation to accomplish my workload.
        My participation is subject to supervisory scheduling and approval. My supervisor is
authorized to allow me up to three hours of excused absence per week, during which I may
participate in fitness activities that have been approved for the PFP and for which I have medical
documentation on file.
         If my request is not approved or I cannot be released from work for physical fitness
activities due to mission requirements, I may not challenge the decision unless the decision is
arbitrary or capricious.
       I must coordinate each absence with my supervisor for recording the appropriate amount
of excused absence on my timecard worksheet.
       I must record each absence on my timecard worksheet with the appropriate code for
excused absence (LNF) along with the remark “Physical Fitness.”
       I may only participate in physical fitness activities on base during any period of excused
absence for such activities. It is my responsibility to advise my supervisor of when I wish to
engage in PFP activities.
        The fitness activities that have been approved for the PFP are running, jogging, brisk
walking, weight lifting, aerobics, rope jumping, bicycling, rowing, swimming, water aerobics,
calisthenics, and other types of cardiovascular exercises.
        Time spent in the PFP is to pursue activities which will help me reach a higher level of
fitness by developing muscle tone, cardiovascular endurance, strength, and flexibility.
      Should my ability to participate in physical fitness activities become limited in any
manner; I will notify my supervisor immediately.
439AWI36-815 15 APRIL 2014                                                                   9


       Failure to adhere to this MOU and the policy on physical fitness may result in
termination of approval to participate in this program and/or lead to disciplinary action.
The activity(ies) I intend to pursue is (are):




The facility(ies) where I intend to pursue this (these) activity(ies) is (are):




Employee’s Signature                                              Date




Print Name                                                       Duty Position




FIRST LEVEL SUPERVISOR:
       Requestor is a full time employee on an appointment of one year or more.
       Enhancement of mission accomplishment considered.
       Excused absence approved/disapproved.
 10                         439AWI36-815 15 APRIL 2014



Supervisor’s Signature   Date
439AWI36-815 15 APRIL 2014                        11


                                 Attachment 4
                             SAMPLE FITNESS LOG
 12                                                                                     439AWI36-815 15 APRIL 2014


                                                         Attachment 5
                                SAMPLE RECERTIFICATION STATEMENT
EMPLOYEE’S FULL NAME: GLADYS R. STONE




I certify that my medical/physical condition has changed/has not changed (circle one) within the last three (3) years.




Gladys R. Stone                                                                      14 June 2014
Signature                                                                            Date




Gladys R. Stone                                                                      14 June 201X
Signature                                                                            Date




Gladys R. Stone                                                                      14 June 201X
Signature                                                                            Date




Gladys R. Stone                                                                       14 June 201X
Signature                                                                             Date
