BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               439TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
439TH AIRLIFT WING                                                               32-1001

                                                                                      9 MAY 2013

                                                                                 Civil Engineering

                                                  REVIEW OF CONSTRUCTION PLANS AND
                                                                    SPECIFICATIONS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 439 MSG/CECD                                                       Certified by: 439 MSG/CC
                                                                         (Lt Col Kenneth M. Lute)
                                                                                           Pages: 3
Supersedes:    439AWI32-1001, 13 June 2008


This instruction implements AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities. It establishes procedures
for per- forming the review of construction plans and specifications by installation agencies to
ensure that design errors or omissions are identified and corrected before contract bids are
obtained. It applies to all organi- zations assigned or attached to Westover ARB. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes pre- scribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847 to 439 MSG/CECD, 250 Patriot Avenue, Box 35, Westover
ARB, MA 01022-1670.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision includes the requirement for reviewing agencies and approvers to sign only the
cover sheet of all final drawing sets instead of signing every individual sheet. It also directs the
utilization of a separate certification form/process for both SABER and some Design-Plan/Build
projects due to the smaller scale and informal nature of those plans and specifications.
1. Responsibilities. The following agencies will be responsible for performing the review of all
Military Construction (MILCON) projects, Facility Sustainment, Restoration & Modernization
(FSRM) projects and Simplified Acquisitions of Base Engineer (SABER) projects.
 2                                                                 439AWI32-1001 9 MAY 2013


     1.1. Using Agency.
     1.2. Safety.
     1.3. Fire Protection.
     1.4. Security Forces.
     1.5. Antiterrorism/Force Protection.
     1.6. Communications.
     1.7. Bioenvironmental Engineering.
     1.8. Base Civil Engineering (BCE).
     1.9. Other agencies affected by a particular project will also be required to perform the
     design review and will be notified as described below.
     1.10. The using agency will verify functional adequacy with specific emphasis on
     incorporating all future or incomplete requirements. All agencies will verify that the design
     provides for, and does not violate, requirements established by regulations pertaining to their
     functions. Review by BCE func- tions will eliminate conflict between in-house and contract
     work and improve maintainability and standardization of equipment, controls and real
     property installed equipment.
2. Procedures.
     2.1. Design reviews will normally be performed at the 10, 35, 65, 90 and 100 percent design
     levels for all Architect-Engineer designed projects. Design review for SABER projects will
     be performed, as a minimum, at the 100% design level.
     2.2. All agencies will be notified by an e-mail that project plans and specifications are
     available for review in the Engineering Flight of BCE. Addressees will be allowed ten
     calendar days from the date of the notification to perform their review.
     2.3. Each agency will provide written comments separately for each project to the BCE.
     Comments shall be forwarded by e-mail. The reviewing agency and the author of the review
     comments must be identified. If after the review there are no comments to be made, written
     responses to that effect are also required to be electronically submitted. A formal design
     review meeting will be conducted at each level of Architect-Engineer designed projects to
     discuss the review comments, overall design development, critical details and phasing
     requirements during execution of the work. The project designer will be notified to
     incorporate all comments at the next design stage or before design documents are sent to
     Contracting, as applicable. Comments not intended to be included in the design will be
     answered in writing to the agency by the engineering staff.
     2.4. The title block of all drawing sheets will include a review coordination block with a
     space for sig- nature for each reviewing agency to denote that it has been given the
     opportunity to review the plans and specifications. Before the final drawings and
     specifications are reproduced for release to Contracting, a representative of each of the
     reviewing agencies will sign the review coordination block on the cover sheet of the original
     drawings set. At this time, all previous comments made by the reviewer should have been
     incorporated into the final design documents. A separate certification form will be used for
439AWI32-1001 9 MAY 2013                                                                 3


  SABER and some Design-Plan/Build projects due to the smaller scale and informal nature of
  the plans and specifications of these projects.




                                         STEVEN D. VAUTRAIN, Colonel, USAFR
                                         Commander
