BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            439TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
439TH AIRLIFT WING                                                            36-2803

                                                                              8 AUGUST 2012

                                                                                    Personnel

                                                          COIN RECOGNITION PROGRAM


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS INSTRUCTION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 439 AW/CCE                                                      Certified by: 439 AW/CV
                                                                           (Col John P. Healy)
                                                                                       Pages: 4


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-28, Awards and Decorations
Program; and is a derivative of Headquarters Air Force Reserve Command (HQ AFRC) FY
2006, Planning and Policy Guidance. This instruction applies to all 439th Airlift Wing (AW)
personnel and provides for personal recognition and appreciation by representatives associated
with the 439 AW through use of a token coin. This coin is also referred to as a unit or
commander’s coin. The coin will be presented by Commanders to military and civilian
personnel, who, by their dedicated individual effort, have facilitated the successful
accomplishment of a particular program, function, or mission. The purpose of this coin is to
provide leadership with an informal means to show special recognition of and appreciation for a
job well done. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gess-af61a/afrims/afrims. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF IMT 847 to 439 SFS/SFOS, 300 Patriot Avenue, Box 53 Westover ARB, MA 01022-1722.


1. Purpose. The purpose of the 439 AW Coin Recognition Program is to provide senior
leadership with an informal means to show special recognition and appreciation for a superior
performance or personal effort to military members and appropriated fund civilians assigned to
the 439 AW. The coins are an avenue to distinguish merit for deserving wing personnel, but
focused on enlisted personnel who represent high standards of conduct, performance, and
military image. This program is established to recognize superior performance and recognitions
coins cannot, under any circumstances, be used as mementos.
 2                                                             439AWI36-2803 8 AUGUST 2012


2. Program Responsibilities.
     2.1. The Wing Commander is responsible for the Coin Program.
     2.2. The Protocol Office (CCP) is responsible for managing the supply of coins distributed
     by the Commander and Command Chief as well as the Wing Excellent coins distributed to
     Commander’s for presentation.
     2.3. Group and Unit Commanders may establish a unit level commander’s coin recognition
     program under the provisions identified in this instruction. Commander’s who establish a
     coin recognition program will:
        2.3.1. Approve all individuals to receive the unit-level recognition coin.
        2.3.2. Designate in writing, the unit’s program administrator who is responsible for
        maintaining control, logging and inventory of the supply of recognition coins distributed
        by their associated unit.
     2.4. Coin procurement, inventory and distribution will be coordinated through the Protocol
     Office, 439 AW/FM, 439 AW/JA and all actions must approved by the Wing Commander.
3. Procurement.
     3.1. Coins may be purchased using the Government Purchase Card in accordance with AFI
     65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures and IAW paragraph 2.4 above. The
     amount of coins purchased must be based on an average number of coins presented during
     the previous fiscal year. Units are not authorized to bulk purchase or stock pile coins. The
     funding or purchase of coins should only be considered after all operational requirements
     have been met.
     3.2. Organizational coins purchased by appropriated funds shall NOT be personalized. Do
     not personalize coins by stamping the presenter’s name after the coin has been cast. This
     privilege exists for the Secretary of the Air Force, Chief of Staff of the Air Force, Chief
     Master Sergeant of the Air Force, four (4) star general officers and four (4) star civilian
     equivalents. The coins are to be presented as cast from the die without further embellishment.
4. Inventory.
     4.1. Unit’s who have procured coins using appropriated funds, will maintain an inventory, or
     log of coin issuance. At minimum, the logs shall contain the following information: Coin
     Recipient, Purpose of Award, and Date of Presentation. The Protocol Office is responsible
     for maintaining inventories for the Wing Commander’s coin, the Command Chief’s coin, and
     the Wing Excellence coins.
     4.2. Periodic inspections may be conducted by the Wing Executive Officer to ensure
     compliance to this instruction.
5. Distribution.
     5.1. Coins are intended to be “near real time,” informal and in the vicinity of the recipient’s
     work center and/or peers.
     5.2. Airman or appropriated fund civilian personnel who have been identified by a unit
     commander, or their designate, may have their efforts or outstanding accomplishment in a
     particular program, function or mission acknowledged with a Wing Excellence coin.
439AWI36-2803 8 AUGUST 2012                                                                    3


       5.2.1. Commander’s wishing to present a Wing Excellence coin to a deserving individual
       who meets the criteria in paragraph 1, should submit the name, rank and specific
       accomplishment via email to 439AW.CCP@us.af.mil. Nominations must be routed
       through the appropriate chain-of-command and approved by the respective commander
       prior to submission to Protocol.
   5.3. Appropriated Fund Coins may not be given to non-appropriated fund employees or used
   as tokens of appreciation for government officials, foreign officials or non-Federal personnel
   in recognition of general support or improved community relations. However, a non-
   appropriated fund instrumentality (NAFI) may purchase such unit coins with NAFI funds so
   they may be used as recognition for their employees subject to paragraph 2.4 above. Official
   Representation Funds, if available and approved, may be used to purchase tokens of
   appreciation IAW AFI 65-603, Official Representation Funds and its applicable AFRC
   supplement.
   5.4. Appropriated Fund Coins will not be issued as mementos and should not be presented
   merely for an individual’s normal performance of regularly assigned duties.
6. Privately Funded Coins. Coins purchased with personal or private funds do not fall under
the limitations of this instruction.




                                            STEVEN D. VAUTRAIN, Colonel, USAFR
                                            Commander
 4                                                     439AWI36-2803 8 AUGUST 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, 1 August 1997
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 36-2803, The Air Force Awards and Decorations, 15 June 2001
HQ AFRC FY 2006, Planning and Policy Guidance, 9 October 2001
Adopted Forms
AF 847, Recommendation to Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AW—Airlift Wing
CC—Commander
CCE—Executive Officer
CCM—Command Chief
CCP—Protocol Officer
FY—Fiscal Year
HQ AFRC—Headquarters Air Force Reserve Command
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
