BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            439TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
439TH AIRLIFT WING                                                            40-201

                                                                            18 JANUARY 2012

                                                                            Medical Command

                                                    CONTROL OF IONIZING RADIATION,
                                                   RADIO FREQUENCY RADIATION, AND
                                                                           LASERS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 439 MSG/SGPB                                                    Certified by: 439 MSG/CC
                                                                      (Colonel Bruce E. Finley)
Supersedes:   439AWI40-201,                                                             Pages: 9
              17 November 2008


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 40-2, Radioactive Materials
(Non-Nuclear Weapons). It establishes local procedures for the maintenance of a viable
radioactive material and directed energy safety and control program. The major areas of concern
associated with industrial and public health shall focus on ionizing radiation, radio frequency
radiation (RFR) and light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation (LASER) sources,
equipment and/or emitters. Bioenvironmental Engineering Services (BE/PHS) personnel, under
the direction of the 439 AW Installation Radiation Safety Officer (IRSOIRSO), ensure that
safety procedures and preventive measures are observed in environments where potential
ionizing radiation, RFR and laser hazards exist and that exposures are as low as reasonably
achievable (ALARA). When discussing ionizing radiation, non-ionizing radiation (RFR) and
laser hazards in general terms, electromagnetic radiation (EMR) hazards will be used to
streamline this instruction, and it applies to all units assigned or attached to Westover Air
Reserve Base (WARB). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 to 439 MSG/SGPB,
751 Airlift Drive, Box 58, Westover ARB, MA 01022-1532.
 2                                                          439AWI40-201 18 JANUARY 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The acronym for electromagnetic radiation (EMR) hazards will be used to refer to ionizing
radiation, non-ionizing radiation (RFR), and lasers in general terms to stream line this AWI.
Changes Bioenvironmental Engineering Services to Bioenvironmental Engineering/Public
Health Services (BE/PHS). Re-defines, unit radiation as the appointment designation with
respect to specific, non-ionizing radiation (RFR) and laser supervisor and individual
responsibilities with respect to EMR hazards. Changes Base Radiation Safety Officer (BSRO) to
Installation Radiation Safety Officer (IRSO) Section 7, Contractor use of RAM was updated to
reflect current work practices. Section 8 Storage areas of RAM was updated to reflect current
work practices. Section 9.3 was updated to reflect AEC Communications current work practices.
Section 9.4 was deleted. Section 11 Record Keeping was updated to include electronic
documentation in our current IH/OH database management system DOEHRS-IH Attachment 1
was updated to reflect most current regulatory guidance.
1. ALARA. Current Air Force policy dictates that all ionizing radiation, RFR and laser
exposures be prevented or kept to an absolute minimum. The following paragraphs outline the
procedures used to ensure ionizing radiation, RFR and laser producing sources, devices and/or
equipment are obtained, operated, utilized, stored and disposed of, as applicable, in a manner that
will minimize exposure. While ALARA principles are generally associated with ionizing
radiation, RFR emitters and laser producing devices are also areas of concern for WARB
personnel. Therefore, the most stringent safety and health guidelines shall be utilized to prevent
or limit exposures to WARB personnel and the general public. Each workcenter identified in this
instruction shall assign a unit radiation safety officer (RSO) as directed by the IRSO. The unit
RSO shall act as the focal point for ionizing radiation, RFR and/or lasers within their unit.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. IRSOIRSO. The IRSOIRSO is responsible for ensuring the completion or verification of
     all surveys, inventories, training and education mentioned in this instruction. The IRSO or
     designee will perform the surveys and maintain the data in a format consistent with AFI 48-
     145, Occupational Health Program. The IRSO shall verify that a unit RSO has been
     appointed by the unit commander or supervisor as applicable for all workcenters that store,
     maintain, use or deploy ionizing radiation sources or equipment, RFR emitters and laser
     producing devices. The IRSO briefs supervisors and employees on reproductive hazards and
     evaluates workplace hazards for pregnant employees. BE/PHS personnel update the WARB
     Electromagnetic Radiation inventory annually.
     2.2. Unit RSO. Ensures all safety, operational and security procedures, notification,
     reporting and training requirements are adhered to. Notifies the IRSO in the event of any
     additions, deletions or changes associated EMR hazard sources, devices and/or equipment
     assigned to a workcenter. The Unit RSO is also responsible for notifying the IRSO prior to
     shipment and/or transfer of radioactive material sources. The Unit RSO also initiates the
     investigation process for known or potential exposures (incidents) to workers or in the event
     a device or item is lost, stolen or missing. The Unit RSO shall receive WARB Unit RSO
     training as identified in this instruction.
     2.3. Supervisors. Supervisors shall ensure newly assigned activities that involve EMR
     hazards are reported to the IRSO prior to obtaining said equipment, material and/or devices
439AWI40-201 18 JANUARY 2012                                                                   3


   in accordance with applicable regulatory guidance. Coordinate with Bioenvironmental
   Engineering/Public Health Services regarding pregnant females who work with ionizing
   radiation, RFR and/or lasers. Ensure that a unit RSO has been appointed for those areas
   identified by the IRSO that store, maintain, use or deploy EMR sources, devices and/or
   equipment. Immediately contact their supervisor and the IRSO for known or potential
   exposures (incidents) to workers or in the event a device or item is lost, stolen or missing.
   2.4. WARB Personnel. WARB employees shall adhere to all security measures, safety
   controls and audiovisual warning aids designed and/or implemented to prevent access to
   areas while EMR hazards are being used. In addition, it is everyone’s responsibility to report
   the presence of unauthorized personnel in identified restricted areas and workcenters that
   store, maintain, use or EMR producing sources, devices and/or equipment.
3. Radioactive Material Storage Area Procedures. Radioactive material storage areas fall
into two categories: restricted and unrestricted.
   3.1. Unrestricted Areas. BE/PHS personnel perform surveys of unrestricted areas to verify
   organizational sources have been accounted for and to verify radiation levels are within
   acceptable limits. The goal for radiation levels in unrestricted areas is normal background
   radiation levels, 0.010 - 0.024 mR/hr.
   3.2. Notification. The IRSO shall be notified immediately if an incident involving a
   radioactive material mishap to include but not limited to: damage, release, unauthorized use
   or lost, stolen or missing item has occurred.
4. Incoming/Outgoing Radioactive Material Surveys.
   4.1. Receipt Survey. All incoming packages containing radioactive materials will be
   inspected by a qualified individual per Technical Order (T.O.) 00-110N-3, Requisition,
   Handling, Storage and Identification of Radioactive Material. Items destined for WARB
   arrive at Base Supply. Base Supply will notify BE/PHS, who will perform a radiological
   survey.
   4.2. Procedures. Upon notification by the 439th Logistics Readiness Squadron (439 LRS)
   Base Operating Support (BOS) Contractor that a package containing radioactive material
   (RAM) has arrived or is packaged to depart WARB, the following steps must be made to
   ensure that the RAM is handled properly:
      4.2.1. Shipping of non-permitted RAM. The Unit RSO shall notify the IRSO and shipper
      prior to the shipment of any non-permitted RAM. In addition, the IRSO or designee will
      be dispatched to survey the package upon notification from Traffic Management Office.
      The individual performing the survey will note the contents of the package and the
      maximum emission rate after surveying all sides of the package. The measurements will
      be taken directly from the surface of the sealed package by the appropriate radiation
      meter. If applicable, a swipe sample will also be taken and then read with the appropriate
      radiation meter. If the maximum emission rate or removable surface contamination levels
      are exceeded, the package will either be repackaged by the shipper until the levels are not
      exceeded or the RAM can be shipped under the special procedures outlined in 49 CFR
      173, Transportation. The IRSO in conjunction with the Unit RSO shall obtain written
      verification that the RAM was received by receiving organization (telephone verification
 4                                                          439AWI40-201 18 JANUARY 2012


        is in accordance with AFI 40-201, Managing Radioactive Material in the US Air Force is
        acceptable if written verification cannot be obtained).
        4.2.2. Receipt of non-permitted RAM. The IRSO or designee will be dispatched to
        survey the package upon notification from Base Supply that the RAM has been received.
        Base Supply must notify the IRSO or designee within three hours of receipt of the RAM
        in order to meet the time constraints of 10 CFR 20, Standards for Protection Against
        Radiation. The survey of the RAM will be conducted similar to the shipping of the RAM
        listed above. Appropriate action will be taken if it appears the package was improperly
        shipped in accordance with 49 CFR 173.
        4.2.3. Shipping and receipt of permitted RAM. Personnel owning a RAM permit must
        follow the permit’s requirement and contact the IRSO prior to shipping or within three
        hours of receiving the permitted RAM.
     4.3. Prior to ordering any radioactive material in any quantity, approval must be received
     from the IRSO. This includes permitted and non-permitted materials.
     4.4. Shipment, transfer, disposal or any other movement of RAM on WARB must be
     accomplished to ensure compliance with Air Force, Federal and the State of Massachusetts
     guidelines. Contact the IRSO at extension 2918 prior to taking any RAM off of the
     installation.
5. Swipe Samples.
     5.1. All sources which require swipe testing as a part of a RAM/generally licensed device
     (GLD) permit will be swiped semiannually (or as directed by manufacturer’s guidelines) by
     the IRSO or designee. On behalf of the owning organization, the IRSO obtains and mails
     swipe samples to (AFIOH/SDRR) per the applicable end item T.O. Upon receipt of abnormal
     results, the IRSO will notify the organizational permittee and provide recommendations for
     corrective actions.
     5.2. The IRSO or designee will review the swipe results and provide recommendations for
     all results not within acceptable limits as identified previously.
6. Medical, Security and Industrial X-Rays.
     6.1. BE/PHS surveillance of the Non-Destructive Inspection (NDI) Shop will be scheduled
     to coincide with routine and/or compliance surveillance whenever possible. All NDI shielded
     and unshielded sites shall be reviewed annually or sooner if process changes or locations
     change. Measurements of the shielded facility shall be accomplished within three years of the
     previous survey unless condition and/or process changes occur. Every effort shall be made by
     BE/PHS to evaluate new unshielded NDI processes when they occur. NDI personnel
     perform area monitoring for all unshielded x-ray operations and provide a summary of their
     exposure monitoring to BE/PHS. BE/PHS personnel review the NDI shop ionizing radiation
     training program annually and provide advice and updates with regards to regulatory
     guidance and ALARA principles. Based on potential for exposure, NDI personnel are
     required to participate in the USAF Thermoluminescent Dosimetry (TLD) program. The
     action investigation level for TLD participants is 35 mREM per quarter.
     6.2. Dental x-ray facilities are operated by 439th Aerospace Medicine Squadron (439
     AMDS) personnel in accordance with AFI 47-101, Dental Program and AFI 48-148,
439AWI40-201 18 JANUARY 2012                                                                  5


   Ionizing Radiation Protection. Measurements of the Dental x-ray facility shall be
   accomplished within four years of the previous survey unless condition and/or process
   changes occur. BE/PHS personnel provide annual ionizing radiation training to dental
   personnel. Based on their potential for exposure dental personnel are not required to
   participate in the TLD program.
   6.3. An annual radiation review of the 439th Civil Engineering Squadron (439 CES)/CED
   Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) X-ray devices will be scheduled to coincide with the
   routine or compliance industrial hygiene survey whenever possible. The primary location,
   associated with worst case exposure, is building 2452 where semi-annual checks are
   performed. However, depending on the mission, X-ray devices can be used anywhere on the
   installation as directed by the installation commander. EOD personnel along with the IRSO
   will advise the installation commanders on areas to evacuate prior to the use of the device.
   EOD personnel receive annual ionizing radiation safety training as determined by the IRSO.
   6.4. GLDs stored, maintained or used by various WARB work-centers are identified in the
   BE/PHS EMR Inventory. BE/PHS personnel under the direction of the IRSO perform swipe
   testing of all GLD’s every six months or IAW Manufacturers guidelines. The samples are
   swiped in accordance with manufacturer’s guidelines and sent to AFIOH/SDRR for analysis.
   Upon receipt of abnormal results, the IRSO shall forward a copy of the results, perform an
   investigation and provide health and safety recommendations to prevent future occurrences.
   All copies of the swipe sample results must be
   6.5. The 42nd Aerial Port Squadron (42 APS) uses an x-ray scanner for luggage and
   packages of personnel approved to fly military air. The Supply BOS contractor uses an x-ray
   scanner for packages delivered through the mail or approved carrier system. BE/PHS
   personnel provide training to 42 APS, 58th Aerial Port Squadron (58 APS) passenger
   terminal personnel and perform an annual scatter survey of their x-ray scanner located in
   Hangar 3. The BOS scanner located in base supply is maintained through contract, including
   annual scatter radiation surveys and individuals receive training from the x-ray scanner
   maintenance sub-contractor.
7. Contractor Use of Radioactive Material.
   7.1. The 439 Airlift Wing Commander (439 AW/CC) has designated the IRSO or alternate
   as the approval authority for bringing radioactive material onto WARB.
   7.2. Contractor use of radioactive material must be approved by the Installation or alternate
   IRSO prior to bringing the equipment on base IAW AFI 40-201. These requirements are
   relayed to contractors via statements of work (SOW) and during the pre-construction
   conference established by Contracting (439 CONF/LGC). To help ensure all regulatory
   requirements are met, BE/PHS personnel provide education and training during ESOHC and
   Wing Staff meetings periodically.
   7.3. When a contractor brings radioactive material onto WARB, the site, source, license and
   individual proof of training shall be provided to the IRSO at least 30 days prior to bringing
   radioactive material on base. All radioactive material events are documented by BE/PHS
   personnel.
8. Storage Areas For Unrestricted Radioactive Material (RAM).
 6                                                          439AWI40-201 18 JANUARY 2012


     8.1. Building 2416 - Emergency Management (439 MSG/CEX): 2 - APD 2000, ADM-300 E
     Kit.
     8.2. Building 7084 - Fire Department (439 MSG/CEF): 2- APD 2000
     8.3. Building 1520 - SFS (439 SFS): General Licensed RAM. SABER 2000 and Lensatic
     Compasses.
     8.4. Building 2452 – EOD (439 CES/CED): General Licensed RAM SABER 2000
     8.5. Building 7087 - Aircrew Flight Equipment, 337 Airlift Squadron/DOL. Storage of
     lensatic compasses allowed only (Tritium (H3)). The compasses are non-permitted RAM.
     8.6. Building 2450 - 439 CES: Storage of lensatic compasses allowed only (Tritium (H3)).
     The compasses are non-permitted RAM.
     8.7. Building 1301 - HAZMAT Pharmacy- Temporary storage of radioactive material such
     as lensatic compasses, radioactive LOX gauges, spark gaps etc. that are awaiting disposal/
     recycling disposition.
     8.8. Building 2235- BE/PHS personnel store check sources for the SAM-935 and one (1)
     ADM-300 E kit.
     8.9. Building 7072, NDI: NDI maintains, stores and utilizes six SM-400, RADIAC meters;
     each meter contains a Thorium 232 check source.
9. Radiofrequency Radiation. BE/PHS personnel evaluate all RFR emitters to determine the
hazards and recommend controls in accordance with AFOSH Standard 48-9, Radiofrequency
Radiation Safety Program. All RFR emitters are identified on the BE/PHS EMR inventory;
however, only those work-centers with RFR emitters that have the potential to exceed the
Permissible Exposure Limits outlined in AFOSH Standard 48-9 are addressed in this instruction.
Detailed theoretical and measurement data is available for review in each work-center case file.
The following is a summary of workcenters, emitters, and special considerations:
     9.1. 439 MXS/MXMVC and 439 AMXS/MXAA. (C-5A/B communication and navigation).
     Communications/Navigation personnel maintain, operate and repair 8-various C-5B RFR
     emitters. RFR emitters are maintained in controlled environments, the flight line or building
     2426, utilizing adequate safety and security controls to prevent exposures to workers and
     ambient personnel. 439 MXS/MXMVC supervision develop and implement BE/PHS
     approved training to all 439 MXS and 439 AMXS communication/navigation personnel
     every 12 months. The 439 MXS/MXMVC has an assigned unit RSO who acts as the focal
     point for all matters regarding RFR safety and incident notification. BE/PHS performs initial
     measurements and quarterly RFR checks for all 439 MXS/MXMVC emitters.
     9.2. 439th Communications Squadron Ground Communication Maintenance (439 CS/SCM).
     439 CS/SCM personnel are responsible for maintaining and repairing Air Traffic Control,
     landing systems, communications and weather equipment. They are also responsible for the
     control of land mobile radios which, with the exception of base stations, are exempt. There
     are eight RFR emitters that are checked quarterly by BE/PHS personnel; these emitters are in
     controlled areas and are not accessible to the general public. BE/PHS personnel provide RFR
     training to 439 CS/SCM every 12 months in conjunction with routine or compliance
     surveillance. The 439 CS/SCM has an assigned unit RSO who acts as the focal point for all
     matters regarding RFR safety and incident notification.
439AWI40-201 18 JANUARY 2012                                                                     7


   9.3. 439 AES. The 439 AES Communication Section assets have been transferred to
   Andrews AFB and therefore have no RFR hazards at Westover at this time. It is important to
   note, AES Communications will receive training communication (RFR) equipment
   periodically for 90-120 days. As a result, 439 AES Communications supervision shall notify
   the IRSO prior to receipt of training communication assets so an evaluation can be performed
   and a temporary change to the EMR inventory will be documented. 439 AES
   Communication supervisors provide RFR training to unit personnel every 12 months. The
   439 AES has an assigned unit RSO who acts as the focal point for all matters regarding RFR
   safety and incident notification.
10. Lasers. BE/PHS personnel evaluate all industrial class 3A, B, and 4lasers utilized by
WARB employees in accordance with AFOSH 48-139, Laser Radiation Protection Program.
Westover has three Class 4 lasers; however, these lasers are embedded and/or interlocked and do
not pose a health threat under normal operation conditions. As a result, they are treated similar
to 3a and below laser classifications.. All lasers are identified on the WARB EMR Inventory
maintained by BE/PHS. The following is a list of industrial work centers that store, utilize, or
maintain lasers of concern at Westover:
   10.1. 439 SFS/SFTC. Combat Arms Training Manager (CATM) personnel periodically train
   personnel on small arms using the SETS laser system which is a class 3A system. CATM
   personnel also use and train personnel on the safety procedures for the PAC 4 and laser grip
   aiming system which are a class 3B lasers. CATM personnel operate both systems in
   accordance with all applicable Air Force and manufacture guidelines. BE/PHS personnel
   provide initial Class II Laser Safety training to newly assigned CATM personnel. The CATM
   Air Guard Reserve Technicians provide annual refresher training to receive Level 2 Laser
   Safety Awareness Training. A unit RSO has been assigned to act as a focal point for all
   known or suspected incidents.
   10.2. 439 MSG/CEX (Emergency Management). The 439 MSG/CEX workcenter maintains
   an AHURA, First Defender, unknown chemical identification device. The First Defender is
   a Class 3b laser and full-time civilian as well as 439 CES/CEX reservists receive initial and
   annual training. A unit RSO has been assigned to act as a focal point for all known or
   suspected incidents.
   10.3. Class 4 Embedded or Interlocked Lasers. There are three units assigned to Westover
   who utilize and maintain Class 4 embedded and/or interlocked lasers; 439 AMXS/Support,
   439 MXS/ELEN, and the 439 MSG/SV FAMCAMP. These lasers are inherently safe when
   operated properly, therefore, they are treated similar to 3a and below laser classifications.
   However, BE/PHS personnel provide initial training to all personnel assigned to utilize the
   above respective lasers.
11. Record Keeping.
   11.1. Training documents for each respective workcenter are maintained as directed by the
   most stringent regulation. These records will be kept electronically in DOEHRS-IH or Tab F
   of the applicable industrial hygiene case file until such time as all records are transferred to
   an electronic IH/OH database system.
 8                                                           439AWI40-201 18 JANUARY 2012


     11.2. TLD records will be maintained in accordance with AFMAN 48-125, Personnel
     Ionizing Radiation Dosimetry. The TLD forms, AF Form 1523, The Personnel Dosimetry
     Listing, are maintained in BE/PHS, building 2235, file plan.
     11.3. Records involving the investigation of radiation incidents/accidents will be maintained
     electronically in DOEHRS-IH or Tab F of the applicable industrial hygiene case file until
     such time as all records are transferred to an electronic IH/OH database system.
12. Emergency Procedures.
     12.1. When personnel feel that they have been potentially exposed to an EMR hazard,
     intentional or unintentional, they are to contact their supervisor and unit RSO, if applicable,
     immediately . The supervisor and/or unit RSO in turn will contact the IRSO at extension 557-
     2918 or 557-2447. Coordination for medical evaluation will be accomplished immediately
     and in accordance with WARB medical emergency procedures.
     12.2. The IRSO will interview all personnel involved in the incident and reconstruct the
     scenario with the assistance of shop personnel, supervision and the unit RSO, if applicable.
     The reconstruction will help to determine the intensity and duration of the exposure. The
     survey will be conducted by the IRSO or EMR specialist from AFIOH/SDRR, Wright-
     Patterson AFB, OH depending on the scenario. Higher Headquarter reporting will be
     accomplished through the 439 AW/Command Post and all applicable incident reports will be
     filed with the appropriate agencies.




                                              STEVEN D. VAUTRAIN, Col, USAFR
                                              Commander
439AWI40-201 18 JANUARY 2012                                                                     9


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 40-2, Radioactive Materials (Non-Nuclear Weapons), 15 March 2007
AFI 40-201, Managing Radioactive Materials in the US Air Force, 16 March 2011
AFI 44-102, Community Health Management, 1 May 2006
AFI 47-101, Managing Air Force Dental Services, 1 June 2009
AFMAN 48-125, Personnel Ionizing Radiation Dosimetry, 4 October 2011
AFI 48-148, Ionizing Radiation Protection, 21 September 2011
AFOSH Standard 48-9, Radiofrequency Radiation Safety Program, 1 August 1997
AFOSH Standard 48-139, Laser Radiation Protection Program, 10 December 1999
Title 10, Code of Federal Regulations, (10 CFR), Standard for Protection Against Radiation, 21
May 1991
USAFOEHL Report 85-144RI111HXA, Ionizing Radiation Guide Book for Bioenvironmental
Engineers
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation For Change Of Publication
AF 1523, The Personnel Dosimetry Listing
