BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             439TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
439TH AIRLIFT WING                                                             65-101

                                                                         12 SEPTEMBER 2011

                                                                        Financial Management

                                                 TRAVEL ENTITLEMENTS, CORPORATE
                                                  LIMITS, COMMUTING DISTANCE AND
                                                GOVERNMENT TRAVEL CARD PROGRAM
                                                              OF WESTOVER ARB MA

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 439 AW/FMF                                                       Certified by: 439 AW/FM
                                                                       (Richard P. Hebert, CIV)
Supersedes:   439AWI65-101, 1 May 2003                                                  Pages: 7


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 65-1, Management of Financial
Services. It establishes procedures and duties governing allowances payable to all reservists who
perform active or inactive duty for training assigned or attached to Westover Air Reserve Base
(ARB.) This instruction applies to all members assigned to Westover ARB. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s to 439 AW/FMF, 800 Ellipse
Drive, Box 17, Westover ARB, Chicopee, MA 01022-1770.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Changes commuting distance time from 60 minutes to 50 minutes throughout this publication.
Updates information regarding transportation allowances. Changes Judicial Decision 95015 to
Joint Federal Travel Regulations (JFTR) Volume 1, Chapter 1, paragraph U1045 and updated
non-availability requirements. Deletes the use of 439 AW Form 21, Nonavailability Statement of
Government Quarters/Mess, and adds CitiBank Card Program requirements. This change also
has included Attachment 1, References.
 2                                                        439AWI65-101 12 SEPTEMBER 2011


1. Corporate Limits. Westover ARB has been determined to be within corporate limits of
Chicopee (includes Aldenville, Chicopee, Chicopee Falls, Fairview and Willimansett), Ludlow,
and Granby MA. A member of the reserve components traveling from any of the above localities
are not entitled to per diem or transportation expenses.
2. Commuting Distance. Commuting distance from any area outside the corporate limits of
this installation is determined as the greatest distance a member could be expected to travel daily
between home of record and permanent duty station (PDS), and the nature of duty involved does
not prevent an individual from so commuting. The installation commander has determined that
cities and towns located within a one way driving time of 50 minutes or less are considered to be
within the commuting area of Westover ARB.
     2.1. Per JFTR Volume I, Change 145 (effective 1 January 1999), the use of the Defense
     Table of Official Distances (DTOD) became mandatory for computing official travel
     payments. The determination of whether or not a particular city or town lies within the
     commuting area will be made using DTOD as the official source for driving time and
     mileage determinations (utilizing the practical routing method). Although actual driving
     times may vary, the driving time calculated by DTOD will be used in the official
     determination of commuting status which is 50 minutes or less.
     2.2. When the nature of duty involves remaining over night on the installation and
     government quarters or meals are not available, reservists who commute daily receive a
     statement from their commander prior to duty and are entitled to actual expense allowances
     as outlined in JFTR Volume I, paragraph U7150 (Travel of Members of Reserve
     Components), and computed in paragraph U4510 (Reimbursement for Occasional Meals and
     Quarters).
3. Mileage. Members entitled to mileage will be reimbursed for privately owned conveyance
mileage allowances for the first and last days of active duty tours at the rates prescribed in JFTR
Volume I, Appendix A.
4. Per Diem. Members of the reserve component called to active duty for less than 20 weeks,
living outside corporate limits and commuting distance of this installation, are entitled to per
diem at the same rates and subject to the same provisions and deductions as provided for
temporary duty in JFTR Volume I, Chapter 4, Temporary Duty Travel.
5. Annual Active Duty for Training. All reserve personnel, with the exception of those
reservists living within the corporate limits, performing annual tour status at this duty station are
entitled to mileage allowances on the first and last days of the tour when both government
quarters and mess are available. Members in a “will not commute status” or members occupying
government quarters due to the nature of duty may claim and be reimbursed for lodging costs.
6. Annual Tour Status. A member of the reserve component, while on an annual tour status
with a further temporary duty (TDY) assignment, is not entitled to per diem or residual per diem
allowance for the period of TDY when both government quarters and mess are available.
However, members may claim and be reimbursed for lodging costs incurred.
7. Inactive Duty for Training. A reserve member, while on inactive duty status, is not entitled
to transportation allowances for training at the training duty station, drill site, city/town where
the assigned unit is located, or in the local area of assigned unit or home. If a member is directed
439AWI65-101 12 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                   3


to travel from home of record/assigned unit to a TDY station, the member is entitled to TDY
allowances as prescribed in JFTR Volume I, Chapter 4.
   7.1. The Secretary concerned may authorize reimbursement to an eligible member of the
   Selected Reserve of the Ready Reserve for travel and transportation-related expenses for
   travel to an inactive duty training location (assigned unit – designated post of duty) to
   perform inactive duty training when the member is required to commute outside the local
   commuting distance. For paragraph U7160, “outside the local commuting distance” is
   defined as the local travel area as prescribed under paragraph U3500, but not less than 150
   miles one-way by DTOD based on zip code.
   7.2. Eligible Member. A member of the Selected Reserve of the Ready Reserve (and not
   just any Reserve Component member) must be: 1. Qualified in a skill designated as critically
   short by the Secretary Concerned; 2. Assigned to a unit of the Selected Reserve with a
   critical staffing shortage, or in a pay grade in the member’s Reserve Component with a
   critical staffing shortage; or 3. Assigned to a unit or position that is disestablished or
   relocated as a result of Defense Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) or other force
   structure reallocation.
   7.3. Reimbursement: The following travel and transportation expenses for travel to and
   from an inactive duty training location to perform inactive duty training may be reimbursed,
   not to exceed a total of $300 for each round trip limited by 12 round trips per Fiscal Year.
       7.3.1. Transportation. When commercial transportation is used, reimbursement is
       authorized for the actual cost of the transportation used to include the transportation cost
       between home and the terminal and between the terminal and the training location. When
       point of contact (POC) is used, reimbursement is authorized for the actual expense
       incurred (gas, oil, highway, bridge, and tunnel tolls; parking fees; and other necessary
       expenses incurred incident to such travel). NOTE: Payment may not be on a commuted
       basis, such as a mileage allowance for transportation costs.
       7.3.2. Lodging and Meals. The actual cost of the member’s lodging (including taxes
       (see NOTE), tips, and service charges) and actual cost of meals (including taxes and tips,
       but not including alcoholic beverages) may be reimbursed up to the per diem rate for the
       area concerned. NOTE: The maximum amount allowed for Continental United States
       (CONUS) or non-foreign Overseas CONUS (OCONUS) area lodging does not include an
       amount for lodging tax. Tax on a CONUS or no-foreign OCONUS area lodging is a
       separately reimbursable miscellaneous travel expense except when MALT PLUS
       (monetary allowance in lieu of travel plus per diem) only used once for POC travel is
       paid.
8. Non-Availability Statement of Government Quarters/Mess. As prescribed in JFTR Vol.
1, Chapter 1, paragraph U1045, per USD (Under Secretary of Defense) memorandum dated 29
August 1995, a DOD traveler is not required to obtain paper non-availability statements to justify
reimbursement for commercial lodging and per diem.
   8.1. Government Quarters. A military member on official travel will use adequate available
   government quarters. Government quarters are defined as on base billets or government
   contracted off base quarters.
 4                                                        439AWI65-101 12 SEPTEMBER 2011


        8.1.1. Government quarters are considered not available under the following
        circumstances:
            8.1.1.1. TDY or temporary additional duty or delay to other than an U.S. installation.
            8.1.1.2. The authorizing official determines use of government quarters would
            adversely affect mission performance.
        8.1.2. A civilian employee may not be required to use government quarters.
     8.2. Government Mess. Government mess will be used to the maximum extent practical. The
     billeting reservationist and front desk personnel are also required to provide the traveler with
     information concerning availability of meals at dining facilities. It is not practical to direct
     the use of government mess when:
        8.2.1. Government lodging on the installation is not available.
        8.2.2. When the orders authorizing official determines it is impractical to use
        government messing due to:
            8.2.2.1. The use of the mess adversely affecting mission performance.
            8.2.2.2. Excessive distance between the mess and place of duty, or the mess and
            place of lodging.
            8.2.2.3. Non-availability of transportation between the mess and place of duty, or the
            mess and place of lodging.
            8.2.2.4. Incompatibility of duty hours and mess operating hours. NOTE: Travel
            orders shall note if mess use is directed or not available, when known.
        8.2.3. If mess use is directed, but during the trip it is not available, the member will be
        reimbursed the full Meal and Incidental Expense (M & IE) rate for meals not available.
        The orders authorizing official approves the missed meals using AF Form 2282,
        Statement of Adverse Effect - Use of Government Facilities.
9. TDY. Personnel who perform TDY away from their PDS, except when on annual tour status
and government quarters and messing facilities are available, are allowed per diem and
transportation allowances as outlined in JTR Volume I, Chapter 4.
10. Approving Officials. Approving officials are responsible for determining entitlements prior
to the issuance of travel orders. They specify the allowances payable as applicable within the
prescribed limitations.
11. Statements. Applicable statements are included in block 26 of AF Form 938, Request and
Authorization for Active Duty Training/Active Duty Tour, or statements may be printed on the
reverse of AF Form 938 and referenced to block 26 on the front of the form.
12. Payment. All reservists who are allowed an entitlement will prepare DD Form 1351-2,
Travel Voucher or Sub-voucher. If a member is within commuting distance, the member may fill
in the appropriate blank and sign in block 26 of AF Form 938. These forms must be submitted to
the Travel Section for payment within five days after completion of travel.
13. CitiBank Card Program.
439AWI65-101 12 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                  5


  13.1. The intent of this policy is to ensure management insistence of personal accountability
  of 439 AW military member’s use of the government travel card and guidance for
  commanders/supervisors when travel card abuses occur.
  13.2. Military commanders/supervisors must have proper internal control measures to
  prevent or minimize abuse and provide necessary oversight of the government travel card
  program. Commanders’ travel card control measures include the written appointment of the
  appropriate number of unit Agency Program Coordinators (APC), ensuring that APC and
  cardholders complete annual and refresher training requirements, and that all military
  members utilize the mandatory split disbursement on all travel vouchers.
  13.3. In circumstances where military members abuse their government travel card,
  commanders/supervisors are required to consider taking administrative/disciplinary action
  consistent with this policy. The following is the recommended commander/supervisor
  directed progressive discipline policy for delinquent military cardholder members.
     13.3.1. a. 30 Days: verbal discussion with understanding of actions 60/90/120 days
     delinquencies
     13.3.2. b. 60 Days: Letter of Counseling
     13.3.3. c. 90 Days: Letter of Reprimand
     13.3.4. d. 120 Days: 2nd Letter of Reprimand and United States Code of Military Justice
     (UCMJ) discharge actions.
  13.4. In accordance with Department of Defense instructions (DoDi’s), if a cardholder does
  not pay their Individually Billed Account (IBA) bill in full within 61 days of the due date, the
  contactor bank will automatically suspend the card and the card cannot be used until the
  delinquent balance is paid. When the account is 75 days past due, a $29 late fee will be
  applied to the card, and an additional $29 fee applied each cycle thereafter until the
  delinquent balance is paid. Late fees are the responsibility of the individual unless the
  government is at fault for the delayed payment. In those cases, late fees may be claimed as
  reimbursable expenses. Per DoD, it is the cardholder’s responsibility to verify the status of
  receipt of their travel entitlement and to ensure their IBA is paid on time. Actions on past due
  IBAs will be taken as follows:
     13.4.1. a. 30 Days – No action taken
     13.4.2. b. 61 Days – IBA suspended
     13.4.3. c. 75 Days – Late Fees incurred ($29 initially and $29 each billing cycle as long
     as delinquent).
     13.4.4. d. 90 Days – Due Process Notice from contractor bank
     13.4.5. e. 121 Days – Credit revoked (charge card is cancelled) and account sent to
     Salary Offset (charged to the account is an $80 processing fee consisting of a $55 bank
     fee/$25 DFAS fee).
     13.4.6. f. 210 Days – IBA Charged-off (per public law) if not in salary offset. The
     cardholder will be included in the delinquency statistics until his/her account is paid in
     full, charged off, or placed in Salary Offset and three consecutive payments have been
     applied to the account.
6           439AWI65-101 12 SEPTEMBER 2011




    ROBERT R. SWAIN, JR., Col, USAFR
    Commander
439AWI65-101 12 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                              7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 65-1, Management of Financial Services, 1 July 1996
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Joint Federal Travel Regulations (JFTR) Volume I, Change 145 (effective 1 January 1999)
Under Secretary of State memorandum, dated 29 August 1995 to Joint Federal Travel
Regulations (JFTR) Volume 1, Chapter 1, paragraph U1045
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 27 March 2006
AF Form 2282, Statement of Adverse Effect - Use of Government Facilities, 1 June 1976
AF Form 938, Request and Authorization for Active Duty Training/Active Tour, 24 July 2008
DD Form 1351-2, Travel Voucher or Sub-voucher, 1 March 2008
