BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              440TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
AIRLIFT WING                                                                    21-101

                                                                          25 FEBRUARY 2011

                                                                                  Maintenance

                                                           CONSOLIDATED TOOL CONTROL
                                                                            PROGRAM

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANADATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 440 MXG/MXQ                                                    Certified by: 440 MXG/CC
Supersedes: 440AWI21-101,                                             (Col Kathryn J. Johnson)
            11 August 2010                                                             Pages: 9


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space
Maintenance and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 21-101, AFI 21-101 AFRC Sup 1, Aircraft and
Equipment Maintenance Management, Chapter 10, AFI 11-2C-130, Volume 3, C-130
Operations Procedures, Technical Order (T.O.) 32-1-101, Painting and Preserving
Communications-Electronics Equipment, and AFI 11-301 V1, Aircrew Life Support (ALS)
Program. It establishes objectives, responsibilities, control and marking requirements for
Consolidated Tool Kits (CTK) and equipment. It applies to the 440th Maintenance Group
(MXG) and all units assigned, 440th Operations Support Squadron (OSS), Aircrew Flight
Equipment (AFE) section and the 2nd Airlift Squadron (AS) and 95th AS. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer any recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, directly to the 440 MXG/MXQ, Pope
Army Air Field NC 28308.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction is significantly revised and must be reviewed.
1. Definition. A CTK is defined as tools or equipment stored in a securable controlled area or
container. Each tool or piece of equipment in the CTK shall have an assigned location identified
by either an inlay cut in the shape of the tool or a shadowed layout. The presence or absence of
 2                                                        440AWI21-101 25 FEBRUARY 2011


any tool or equipment can therefore be readily determined by visually scanning the CTK. The
work center supervisor will include the actual location of the tool or equipment on the Master
Inventory List (MIL).
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. Supervisors at all levels must ensure personnel assigned to their sections conform to the
     procedures established in this instruction and other applicable directives. Squadron
     supervision is responsible for management of the CTK program and will appoint a CTK
     custodian for each flight/element. The CTK custodian will provide requests for tools to the
     unit’s Government Purchase Card (GPC) holder for procurement.
     2.2. 2 AS & 95 AS Aircrew will implement a tool control program for their sections IAW
     AFI11-2C-130 Vol 3, 440 AW Sup 1.
     2.3. AFE section will control their tools IAW AFI 11-301, V1.
     2.4. All sections will account for individually issued equipment and Personal Protective
     Equipment (PPE) using appropriate control measures IAW section 3 of this Airlift Wing
     Instruction (AWI) and chapter 10 of AFI 21-101.
3. Procedures.
     3.1. CTK/Tool Identification.
        3.1.1. Each tool or separate piece of equipment shall be permanently marked with its
        CTK designator. As a general rule, smooth uninterrupted surfaces of .125” (1/8th inch)
        or greater may be legibly marked using standard engraving equipment. To help expedite
        tool sign out/in, work centers may use a bar-code system to issue/turn-in tools and
        equipment in accordance with paragraph 3.1.7 of this instruction.
        3.1.2. Small tools or items that cannot be marked as described above (such as drill bits,
        allen wrench sets, apexes, etc) will be stored as a set in a container marked with the CTK
        designator and the total number of items. The container is counted as one of the items.
        Work centers will provide a detailed inventory of these small items using one of the
        following options:
            3.1.2.1. The container will include a description of each item (size and quantity), and
            the MIL will list one set with total number of pieces (including container) OR
            3.1.2.2. The MIL will list the container and each item separately.         NOTE:
            Screwdriver handles will not be used to permanently store apexes but may be used
            temporarily when more than one apex is required for a specific task. Upon
            completion of the task, the apexes will be accounted for and returned to their
            container. Screwdrivers used in this manner must have their caps marked with the
            CTK designator. Supervisors may opt to permanently seal caps to the screwdrivers.
        3.1.3. CTK/Tool identification numbering will comply with the Tool Control/Asset
        Management (TcMAX) as outlined in AFI 21-101, chapter 10, and will incorporate “V1”
        as the first two digits of the World Wide Identifier for Pope Army Air Field. A list of
        Equipment Identification Designators (EID) for 440 MXG work centers is available using
        the TcMAX system. EIDs must not conflict with another work centers’ markings.
440AWI21-101 25 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                      3


        3.1.3.1. 440th Aircraft Maintenance Squadron (AMXS) CTKs or equipment will be
        numbered as “V1FL”. The last five digits will be assigned by the tool control
        organization and will be alpha/numeric to identify the specific CTK or piece of
        equipment.
        3.1.3.2. 440th Maintenance Squadron (MXS) CTKs or equipment will be numbered
        as “V1” with the next digit’s identifying the shop, e.g., GC=Guidance & Control,
        AG=AGE, AR=Aero Repair, CN=ComNav, EE=ELEN, FS=Fuels, PN=Hydraulics,
        PM=ISO, PR=Propulsion, SC=SMCO, MXEW=ECM, MT=Metals Tech, and
        ND=NDI. The remaining digits will be assigned by the tool control organization and
        will be alpha/numeric to identify the specific CTK or piece of equipment. One minor
        variation to this format may be necessary to comply with TcMAX requirements when
        marking items stored on shelves in cabinets. If needed, MXS markings may begin
        with “V1M”, with the next digit identifying the shop code.
        3.1.3.3. The Munitions work center will mark their tools/equipment “V1MU”, with
        the remaining digits assigned by the work center to identify the specific CTK or
        equipment.
        3.1.3.4. Tools issued to 440 MXG Quality Assurance (QA) inspectors will be
        permanently marked with V1QA, plus the individual's five digit employee number.
        QA also maintains two CTK kits: digital camera kits (V1QAIND01 & V1QAIND02).
     3.1.4. AFE shops will develop local tracking procedures to track quantity of
     serviceable/unserviceable oxygen connectors if dispatched to and from the flight line.
     3.1.5. Depot and Contract Field Team personnel are subject to CTK tool control
     procedures outlined in this instruction. Exception: Contractors and Most Efficient
     Organizations (MEO) are not required to use TcMAX until the contract is renewed and
     the requirement for using TcMAX is added to the follow-on contract, or the
     contractor/MEO voluntarily elects to use TcMAX at no additional expense to the
     government. Tool inventories will be accomplished at the beginning of each shift, prior
     to departing the job site, and at the end of each shift.
     3.1.6. Tools or components that are part of a mock-up or test-set will be marked with the
     associated equipment CTK designator. Work centers will maintain strict accountability,
     control and issue of these types of tools and components.
     3.1.7. Work centers may affix non-metallic bar code labels on tools and equipment as a
     means of permanently marking the items as long as the use of the tool and its work
     environment does not interfere with the adhesion of the label or render the label
     unreadable. When bar code labels are not a suitable method of permanent marking (e.g.,
     tools too small in size to affix a label to or tools that bar-code labels will not adhere to), a
     listing of bar codes may be maintained in the tool room and used to issue or turn-in those
     items. Such items must be permanently marked with the EID by etching or other means.
     NOTE: Prior to using any Laser Etcher, personnel will receive laser safety training from
     Bioenvironmental Engineering in accordance with AFOSH Standard 48-139, Laser
     Radiation Protection Program, and ANSI Z136.1, Safe Use of Lasers.
     3.1.8. Issued personal equipment such as ear defenders, communication headsets,
     reflective belts, etc, will be marked with a TcMAX approved CTK designator that begins
 4                                                           440AWI21-101 25 FEBRUARY 2011


        with “V1”, shop identifier and ends with alpha-numeric characters that link the items to
        the responsible individual. Their initial issue is recorded in TcMAX.
     3.2. Tool/Equipment Sign Out/In. Tools and equipment will be signed out through the
     central tool room for the assigned work center. MXG employees requesting tools will
     provide the tool room attendant with their G081 assigned employee number. The tool room
     attendant will ensure the number provided corresponds with the requestor prior to issuing the
     tools.
     3.3. Locally developed tools and equipment are controlled the same as all other CTK items.
4. Accountability and Control.
     4.1. Shop supervisors will account for all CTKs, tools and dispatchable equipment at the
     beginning and end of each shift. Separate shift inventories must be documented by both
     outgoing and incoming personnel. CTKs present during tool room shift inventories do not
     need to be opened for inventory. Beginning/end of shift inventories must be documented in
     TcMAX.
     4.2. Tools and/or equipment will not be issued or turned in without a physical inventory of
     the kit to ensure each item is accounted for. The tool room attendant and the person signing
     out/in the tools or equipment are equally responsible for ensuring all items are accounted for.
     Each tool kit will include a copy of the MIL (TcMAX generated product).
     4.3. Each CTK or piece of equipment must have a designated location for inventory and
     accountability. When TcMAX is not available, accountability inventories will be
     documented at the beginning and end of each shift using AFRC Form 177, Consolidated
     Tool Kit Inventory and Control Log. Completed forms will be maintained for a minimum of
     30 days after the last entry. Work center supervisors will ensure a semi-annual inventory of
     all tools and equipment is accomplished and documented.
     4.4. Tool kit accountability inventories must be accomplished prior to sign-out; prior to
     securing a panel over an area in which a tool was used; prior to operating aircraft or
     equipment when maintenance actions were performed (e.g., engine run, landing gear
     retraction, flight control operation); at the end of a task (at the job site); and during sign-in.
     4.5. When mission needs dictate the transfer of tools/equipment at the job site, the losing and
     gaining individuals will be equally responsible for ensuring positive tool control and
     accountability. The losing and gaining individuals will each inventory the tools/equipment
     being transferred. The inventory and transfer will be documented on an AF Form 1297,
     Temporary Issue Receipt, or automated TcMAX product. Both individuals will sign the form
     certifying that all tools/equipment are accounted for. The losing individual will turn in the
     form to the tool room attendant prior to the end of their shift. The tool room attendant will
     then reassign possession in TcMAX to the gaining individual.
     4.6. When only one person is assigned to a shift/work center, the individual will request a
     responsible person from a nearby work center to assist in the inventory and sign in/out of
     tools and equipment.
     4.7. When tool kits are signed out for use in TDY locations (TcMAX not available), the
     individual responsible for the tools will accomplish a daily inventory. This inventory will be
     documented on AFRC Form 177 or approved equivalent form included in the kit. This
440AWI21-101 25 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                  5


   requirement applies to tool kits issued to Mission Essential Personnel (MEP). If only one
   MEP is assigned to the mission, he or she will request a crew member to verify the contents
   of the kit and sign the form.
   4.8. The TcMAX database will be backed up at least once every 30 days. TcMAX
   transaction and inspection history will be maintained for 2 years. Manual documentation will
   be maintained for 30 days unless otherwise specified.
   4.9. Tools or equipment that are missing or removed will be documented in TcMAX and on
   all copies of the MIL. AFRC Form 175, Missing/Removed Tools and Equipment, or
   TcMAX equivalent form will be placed in the tool kit for use in areas where TcMAX is not
   available. Remove the EID from broken/removed tools with the exception of warranty tools
   where removal of the EID would void the tool warranty.
   4.10. Crash Damaged or Disabled Aircraft Recovery (CDDAR) CTK will be controlled
   IAW this instruction.
   4.11. Replacement tools (including expendable/consumable items such as apexes, drill bits,
   etc.) will be controlled by the work center supervisor. Broken tools will be documented in
   TcMAX and exchanged on a one-for-one basis by the supervisor or their designated
   representative. Work centers may not stock more than a 30-day supply of replacement items.
   An inventory of all replacement stock will be accomplished and documented quarterly.
   4.12. Wiping rags will be positively controlled as a CTK issue/turn-in item. Work centers
   will determine quantity limits to be issued. (The quantity of rags turned-in shall equal the
   quantity signed-out.)
   4.13. Broken/unserviceable tools covered by warranty will be controlled by the work center
   supervisor until replaced. Each broken/unserviceable tool will be annotated on an inventory
   control log which will be controlled by the work center supervisor. The supplier and/or
   manufacturer will exchange broken/unserviceable tools under warranty on a one-for-one
   basis.
   4.14. Hazardous Materials (HAZMAT) will be procured in accordance with local
   instructions. HAZMAT stored in the work center will be controlled by the work center
   supervisor. HAZMAT included in a CTK will be controlled by the user. The user will
   ensure HAZMAT is used in a manner consistent with applicable directives and in accordance
   with the Material Safety Data Sheet.
5. Inventory List (MIL). Supervisors will use TcMAX to maintain master inventory lists for
each tool kit assigned. The flight/section chief will maintain a signed copy of the MIL for each
type of CTK. The MIL describes the characteristics, quantity and location for each item
assigned to the kit (e.g., Drawer 1; ¼” drive x ½” 6-point socket; QTY = 1). Consumables such
as safety wire, adhesives, wire bundle lacing, solder, etc., will be identified as consumables on
the MIL. The inventory list will indicate the location of items assigned to the kit that are sub-
located elsewhere.
6. Foreign Object Damage (FOD) Control. FOD bags will be attached to each dispatchable
CTK. Prior to turning in dispatchable CTKs, ensure FOD bags are emptied. Non-dispatchable
containers/CTKs that remain in a shop environment, where permanent FOD containers are
available, do not require a FOD bag.
 6                                                          440AWI21-101 25 FEBRUARY 2011


7. Unserviceable Tools. Work center supervisors will ensure that all unserviceable tools are
repaired or replaced in a timely manner. Tool boxes with unserviceable tools may be dispatched
provided the unserviceable tools are removed and properly documented. Unserviceable, non-
repairable tools will be secured and accounted for until processed for disposal or turn-in. Tools
being disposed of or turned in will have the CTK designator and bar-coding identification
removed with the exception of warranty tools where removal of the EID would void the tool
warranty.
8. Security. The work center supervisor is responsible for storing and securing
CTKs/equipment. Kits and CTK storage areas will be kept locked when not in use or left
unattended.
9. Lost Tool/Object Procedures.
     9.1. The lost tool procedures outlined in AFI 21-101 AFRC Sup 1, Chapter 10, are
     supplemented as follows: Only individuals designated by 440 MXG/CC can clear the Red X.
     These individuals must be certified in GO81 course code, INSP 000145. If the missing item
     is found, a maintenance supervisor, certified in course code INSP 000707 may clear the Red
     X. A copy of the Lost Tool Report will be forwarded to the 440 MXG/QA.
     9.2. In the event that a tool/item is discovered missing after an aircraft has taxied, but before
     takeoff, the individual making the discovery will immediately notify the production
     superintendent. The Production Superintendent will immediately contact Maintenance
     Operations Center (MOC) and 440 MXG/QA. MOC will in-turn contact Command Post
     (CP) and request that the aircraft return to parking so that a search for the lost tool/item may
     be conducted.
     9.3. If a tool/item is discovered missing after the aircraft has taken off, the individual making
     the discovery will immediately notify the production superintendent. The production
     superintendent will assess the situation based on the last known location of the tool. The Pro
     Superintendent will immediately pass along all known information to MOC and 440
     MXG/QA. MOC will immediately pass all pertinent information to the CP and in-turn the
     Aircraft Commander (AC). If there is any potential for the item to cause safety of flight
     concerns, the MOC will relay the information to the CP and request that the aircraft land
     immediately if it is in the local area. If the aircraft is out of the immediate area the AC will
     make the determination where to land.
     9.4. If a tool/item is discovered missing, off station, the MEP or flight crew will enter a Red
     X in the aircraft forms and inform the AC of the situation. If at a C-130 support base, the
     aircrew will inform the local MOC and QA of the condition. The MEP or flight crew will
     immediately perform a lost tool/item inspection. If the tool/item is recovered, the MEP or
     flight crew will clear the Red X in accordance with TO 00-20-1. If the tool/item cannot be
     recovered the AC will coordinate, through the Duty Officer (DO), with the 440 MXG/CC to
     determine the procedures to be followed.
     9.5. When any tool or item is determined or suspected to be missing on or near energized
     workbenches or machinery, the equipment will be locked out/tagged out. A Red-X
     discrepancy will be placed in the equipment forms describing the type of tool/item, and the
     probable area where the tool/item was lost. An AFRC Form 174, Lost Tool/Object Report, or
     TcMAX generated form, will be initiated. The work center supervisor, Flight Chief,
440AWI21-101 25 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                    7


   Maintenance Superintendent and 440 MXG/QA will be notified as soon as possible. The
   work center supervisor will direct personnel to conduct a search for the missing tool/item. If
   the tool/item cannot be found, the flight chief will determine what further action is necessary.

10. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt
AFRC Form 174, Lost Tool/Object Report
AFRC Form 175, Missing/Removed Tools and Equipment
AFRC Form 177, Consolidated Tool Kit Inventory and Control Log




                                             MERLE D. HART, Col, USAFR
                                             Commander
 8                                                     440AWI21-101 25 FEBRUARY 2011


                                        Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORT INFORMATION

References
AFI 11-2C-130 V3, C-130 Operations Procedures, 8 Dec 2009
AFI 11-301 V1, Aircrew Flight Equipment (AFE) Program, 25 Feb 2009
AFI 21-101 AFRC Sup 1, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 13 Jan 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
ANSI Z136.1, Safe Use of Lasers, 2007
AFOSH Standard 48-139, Laser Radiation Protection Program, 10 Dec 1999
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 Feb 2003
Tech Order 32-1-101, Painting and Preserving Communications-Electronics Equipment, 20 Aug
2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAF— Army Air Field
AC— Aircraft Commander
AFE— Aircrew Flight Equipment
AFI— Air Force Instruction
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AFOSH— Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC— Air Force Reserve Command
ALS— Aircrew Life Support
AMXS— Aircraft Maintenance Squadron
ANSI— American National Standards Institute
AS— Airlift Squadron
AWI— Airlift Wing Instruction
CC— Commander
CDDAR— Crash Damaged or Disabled Aircraft Recovery
CP— Command Post
CTK— Consolidated Tool Kits
DO— Duty Officer
EID— Equipment Identification Designators
440AWI21-101 25 FEBRUARY 2011           9


FOD— Foreign Object Damage
HAZMAT— Hazardous Materials
IAW— In Accordance With
MEO— Most Efficient Organizations
MEP— Mission Essential Personnel
MIL— Master Inventory List
MOC— Maintenance Operations Center
MXG— Maintenance Group
MXS— Maintenance Squadron
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
OSS— Operations Support Squadron
PPE— Personal Protective Equipment
QA— Quality Assurance
RDS— Records Disposition Schedule
TcMAX— Tool Control/Asset Management
T.O.— Technical Order
