BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             440TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
440 AIRLIFT WING                                                               91-201

                                                                              7 JANUARY 2011

                                                                                           Safety

                                                                HANGAR DOOR OPERATION

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 440 MXG/QA                                                       Certified by: 440 MXG/CC
                                                                       (Col Willie W. Cooper II)
                                                                                         Pages: 3


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 91-2, Safety Program, and AFI
21-101, AFRC Sup 1, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management. It provides safety
guidelines and designates responsibility for training, qualification, and documentation for hangar
door operation. It applies to all personnel on Pope AFB who operate hangar doors or perform
duties around operable doors. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, directly to 440 MXG/CC, 2541
Surveyor Street, Room 101, Pope AFB NC 28308-2409.

1. Responsibilities. Supervisors will ensure only properly trained and qualified personnel
operate hangar doors.
2. Procedures. The following items must be thoroughly understood and accomplished by
personnel authorized to operate hangar doors.
   2.1. Operating checklists will be posted at each hangar door control panel. Checklists will
   require coordination through the Maintenance Group Quality Assurance or the Base Safety
   Office prior to posting.
   2.2. Prior to door movement the operator will check both inside and outside of doors for
   obstructions or equipment. The door operator will warn all nearby personnel. The operator
   will ensure that vehicles and equipment are not moved through the doorway when the door is
   in motion.
 2                                                           440AWI91-201 7 JANUARY 2011


     2.3. Doors will be operated only after the operator ascertains that it is safe to do so. The
     operator will ensure that the door-warning signal is working properly. NOTE: Warning
     devices will sound for a minimum of five seconds before door begins to move. Doors will
     remain fully closed or opened to a minimum of ten feet.
     2.4. The operator will immediately stop the procedure whenever improper door operation or
     any unsafe condition is observed or suspected. Unsafe or improper door operation must be
     immediately reported to your supervisor, squadron safety officer/noncommissioned officer or
     the facility manager.
     2.5. Hangar doors will remain closed during adverse weather.
3. Roll-Up and Overhead Doors. (Applies to doors used for vehicle and/or pedestrian traffic).
     3.1. These doors will remain closed or opened to a minimum height of ten feet.
     3.2. When equipment is being moved through these doors a minimum clearance of at least
     one foot will be maintained above and on both sides of the vehicles or equipment. Spotter(s)
     will be used if the one-foot minimum clearance cannot be maintained for any reason.
     3.3. The doorways will be marked with a highly visible stripe identifying the minimum
     opening (ten feet or greater depending on the largest vehicle or equipment normally moved
     through that doorway).
     3.4. Doors equipped with automatic openers will have a placard indicating, “AUTOMATIC
     DOOR OPENER – DO NOT BLOCK DOORWAY”.
4. Training. Hangar door operators will be trained and certified prior to operating hangar
doors. Supervisors will document training and forward certification to the appropriate training
activity for input to the unit tracking system. As a minimum, the training will include hangar
door hazards, emergency procedures and normal door operation. Building custodians will
develop course outlines used to train personnel to operate the specific type(s) of doors installed.
Trainers will use the course outline to ensure personnel are adequately trained. Personnel who
do not operate doors but have duties requiring them to routinely work in hangar facilities with
operable doors must receive annual awareness training; regardless of Air Force Specialty Code
or duties.
     4.1. Documentation/certification of training for maintenance group personnel will be tracked
     in the GO81 system using locally developed course codes.
     4.2. Documentation/certification of training for personnel outside the Maintenance Group
     will be recorded on the Air Force Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record.
5. Signage and Markings. In addition to the minimum signage and marking requirements
outlined in AFI 21-101, AFRC Sup 1, the hangar floors will be marked with a six-inch wide by
three-foot long red stripe located ten feet from the door’s closed position. The stripe will have
the words “MINIMUM DOOR OPENING” painted in two-inch high white lettering.
6. Civil Engineer (CE) Requirements.
     6.1. CE will be responsible for the installation and repair of signage, floor safety markings
     and repair of hangar doors including electrical, mechanical and all warning devices.
440AWI91-201 7 JANUARY 2011                                                               3


  6.2. The CE Facility Maintenance Section will conduct annual inspections to ensure all
  signage, markings and warning devices meet prescribed directives.
  6.3. For door maintenance issues, building custodians will call CE Work-Order Desk at 394-
  2821.




                                         MERLE D. HART, Colonel, USAFR
                                         Commander
