BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            440TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
440 AIRLIFT WING                                                              90-201

                                                                            4 OCTOBER 2012

                                                                          Special Management

                                                            SELF-ASSESSMENT PROGRAM


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 440AW/CCO                                                        Certified by: 440AW/CV
                                                                      (Col Karl A. Schmitkons)
Supersedes:   440AWI90-201,                                                            Pages: 9
              30 October 1998


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-2, Inspector General-The
Inspection Program, AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities as well as the Air Force Reserve
Command Supplement. The purpose of this Airlift Wing Instruction (AWI) is to provide
guidance in the implementation and maintenance of the Self-Assessment Program for the
Executive Self-Assessment Team, Commanders and Self-Assessment Monitors throughout the
440 AW. Conducting an annual Self-Assessment of all squadrons/functional areas serves as an
effective tool in identifying, tracking, and resolving anticipated and/or actual problems. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the Air force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gess-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Additional resources
listed in the SIM Quick Reference are located on the local shared drive. The Management
Internal Control Toolset (MICT) is currently populated with Combined Unit Inspection (CUI)
checklists.
1. Background.
 2                                                         440AWI90-201 4 OCTOBER 2012


     1.1. Management Internal Control Toolset (MICT) is the Air Force’s standard program for
     Self-Assessment. MICT will support all Self-Assessments and tracking responses for all
     inspections to include Compliance Inspection (CI), Health Services Inspection (HSI),
     Logistics Compliance Assessment Program (LCAP), and Aircrew Standardization and
     Evaluation (ASEV). To the fullest extent possible, MICT will also capture discrepancies and
     responses for Operational Readiness Inspection (ORI).
     1.2. The      MICT         program,       found        through      the   AF     Portal,
     https://www.my.af.mil/reservenetprod/mic/mict/mymictview.aspx is required for all 440
     AW groups and squadrons to perform Self-Assessment (SA) processes online. MICT enables
     commanders, supervisors, higher headquarters, and other external agencies the capability
     through various access levels (permissions) to view all Self-Assessments.
     1.3. MICT is an automated tool that is replacing hard copy processes and automated
     inspection programs and is a stand-alone program. Units must move forward to the
     automated MICT process and utilize Electronic Records Management (ERM) in order to
     properly document discrepancies and inspection results.
        1.3.1. In order to be an efficient process, units are encouraged to use ERM. Maintaining
        a manual, paper or stand alone office program based process, is discouraged unless it is
        clearly marked “For Reference Only”.
        1.3.2. Additionally, units should readily review Crossfeed/Crosstell at AMC and AFRC
        IG Inspection websites and Joint Lessons Learned Information System (JLLIS) website at
        https://www.jllis.mil.usaf for updates and information sharing command-wide.
     1.4. Unit SA monitors and Wing Program Owners will input discrepancies into the MICT
     program online in MICT and update their status on a periodic basis or as needed.
     1.5. Assessable 440 AW units include 2 Airlift Squadron, and 43 Aeromedical Evacuation
     Squadron.
        1.5.1. Pope Field units that fall under inspection purview of 440 AW will use MICT for
        Staff Assistance Visits (SAVs) on programs as defined by appropriate CONOPS,
        Memorandum of Agreements (MOAs), and Memorandum of Understanding (MOUs).
        1.5.2. 440 AW Program Owners are responsible for ensuring the appropriate checklists
        are identified to all units under their inspection purview. Program Owners are listed in
        4.4.1.
2. Objectives and Responsibilities.
     2.1. The 440 AW supports SA as the critical process for readiness and compliance for all
     missions. Each unit member and appropriate Program Owners must take responsibility to
     assess accurately for compliance and improve his or her Self-Assessment programs,
     according to the applicable AFRC Functional Area Manager (FAM) checklist or unit
     checklist. The Air Force has chosen MICT as the IG Self-Assessment tool for accomplishing
     and reporting Self-Assessments. Managing the MICT application will require continuous
     updates to ensure readiness and compliance.
     2.2. Each FAM checklist has an associated frequency for Self-Assessment, which the
     commander may increase.
440AWI90-201 4 OCTOBER 2012                                                                  3


   2.3. Commanders and senior members of each organization/unit/work center will
   automatically serve as primary Self-Assessment Monitors (SAM) and receive unit admin
   permissions, unless otherwise authorized. Commanders, supervisors and designated SIMs are
   responsible for the overall management of the SA program.
   2.4. Commanders must appoint in writing a primary and alternate SA program manager.
   Send a copy of the appointed primary and alternate SA program manger to the Group SAM
   (if applicable), and to the wing SA program manager. (See Attachment 2). The primary and
   alternate SA responsibilities include developing procedures, overseeing compliance with the
   wing SA program and managing the MICT application.
3. Procedures.
   3.1. Each unit and Program Managers will perform Self-Assessments twice each year in
   November (semi-annual) and by 1 May (per AFI 90-201_AFRCSUP_1, para 5.7.2) or as
   directed.
      3.1.1. The MICT database will be the primary source for holding, identifying, and
      reporting for all discrepancies. Most, if not all, MAJCOM FAM applicable checklists are
      loaded in MICT by A Staff or functional designation. Non AFRC Checklists may be
      used to support unit and Program Owners assessment programs after coordination with
      AFRC FAMs.
      3.1.2. Each group, squadron, flight or work-center appointed SA monitor is required to
      have a Self-Assessment program, using MICT. The Self-Assessment binder should be
      accessible for review by the group monitor and available in the event that the network
      enterprise (Internet, AF Portal or Local Area Network (LAN), ERM) is unavailable, such
      as during a communications outage. An alternate plan should be in place for possible
      LAN outages and alternate mediums, such as hard copies, with CDs/DVDs of Self-
      Assessments in place for viewing in a continuity binder. The Self Assessment binder
      should be clearly marked “For Reference Only”.
   3.2. MICT does provide MICT guest permissions for viewing Self-Assessments, provided
   and given access by the SA monitor.
   3.3. As the SAM completes the Self-Assessment in MICT, all discrepancies must be
   identified and tracked for review and completion.
   3.4. When entering a discrepancy into MICT, provide details as possible to indicate what the
   root cause is, such as thorough comments and documentation, a get-well date, and a
   corrective action plan.
      3.4.1. All “Significant” and “Critical” discrepancies will require the creation and Air
      Force “8 Step” problem solving document to document the corrective action plan (CAP).
      The 8 Step is the Air Force’s standard problem solving format as mandated in AFI 90-
      201. 440 AW/CCO will provide 8 Step training when such discrepancies are discovered.
      3.4.2. Open discrepancies should be reviewed and updated periodically to note any
      progress made toward completion/closure.
      3.4.3. All discrepancies tracked in MICT require leadership oversight to ensure all open
      discrepancies meet the annotated completion time and to reduce stagnation. Open
 4                                                          440AWI90-201 4 OCTOBER 2012


        discrepancies should be reviewed by the Commander/Section Chief/Unit SA Monitor at
        least quarterly and should be an agenda item at Unit Executive/Senior Staff Meetings.
     3.5. In MICT, *discrepancies will be closed by a member assigned with MICT Supervisor
     permission—this requires careful consideration by the unit commander for appointment.
     Prior to closure, comments need to be added in the discrepancy field and or documentation
     needs to be uploaded in the support section by the OPR stating how the discrepancy was
     remedied and what process is in place to prevent the discrepancy from repeating. (*A Root
     Cause Analysis in the form of an Air Force 8 Step, may be required and included as
     Crossfeed/Crosstell in JLLIS. Ratings received as Unsatisfactory, must support all responses
     with documentation and root cause analysis. The SAM will ensure the latest information is in
     MICT before completing the update.)
     3.6. Findings found during inspections will be entered into MICT. The SAM should inspect
     and account for all FAM checklists tracked in MICT. Prior to SA closure, make sure that
     comments are completed in the discrepancy field and documentation required.
        3.6.1. All discrepancies must be documented for remedy.
        3.6.2. All discrepancies must have an identified root cause and corrective actions to take
        place to prevent the discrepancy from repeating. Once the discrepancy is ready for review
        by the clearing/closing agency, inform the Wing Self-Assessment Program Manager.
     3.7. The Wing Self-Assessment Program Manager (440 AW/CCO) will track all findings,
     observations, and discrepancies identified during the Formal Inspections/SAVs to ensure
     timely closure and approval by HQ if required.
     3.8. The Wing SA Program Manager (440 AW/CCO) will conduct SA Working Group
     Meetings, SA Executive Steering Group Meetings, and MICT training periodically and on an
     as needed basis.
        3.8.1. SA Working Group meetings will occur quarterly and include unit inspection
        monitors and Wing Program Owners (see 4.4.1 for Program Owner listing).
        3.8.2. SA Executive Steering Group Meetings are designed to inform Senior Leaders on
        SA program progress. It is chaired by the Vice Wing Commander and includes Group
        Commanders and their designated representatives. This meeting is scalable and may
        include working group representatives in advance of external agencies inspecting the 440
        AW.
4. Requirements.
     4.1. The wing Self-Assessment program manager (440 AW/CCO) will:
        4.1.1. Maintain a copy of all current SA appointment letters within the wing.
        4.1.2. Ensure the SA program meets directives and communicate changes or unique
        inspection elements.
        4.1.3. Coordinate permissions (administrative rights) for use of the MICT program for all
        authorized monitors based on appointment letters.
440AWI90-201 4 OCTOBER 2012                                                                5


     4.1.4. As required, appoint an OPR for each Special Interest Item (SII) to accomplish,
     research and report findings/results back to the wing SI program manager. Additionally,
     monitor the status of all SIIs and report to higher headquarters as directed.
     4.1.5. Ensure each group establishes an effective process for tracking and closure of
     discrepancies identified for unit developed checklists for SAVs, ORIs, LCAP, UCIs and
     SIIs.
     4.1.6. Routinely review pertinent external CI reports, Crossfeed/Crosstell and JLLIS to
     determine how such discrepancies would affect the wing. Electronically distribute to
     group level for dissemination.
     4.1.7. Communicate to commanders and group monitors through e-mail or other
     electronic media, changes or unique program elements found on the HQ AFRC/IG web
     pages.
     4.1.8. Monitor all group discrepancies using the MICT database.
     4.1.9. Review the results of Self-Assessments and ensure GP/CC has vetted. Certify
     group inspections are complete and use MICT as the source of record for documenting
     completion.
     4.1.10. The wing SA manager will then report Self-Assessment results to the wing
     commander.
     4.1.11. Provide training and assistance as requested by group, squadron, flight or work-
     center monitors.
  4.2. The Group SAM will:
     4.2.1. Reinforce to squadron managers the use of the MICT program and other unit
     compliance inspection processes as appropriate. Monitor discrepancies and suspense
     dates using MICT.
     4.2.2. Notify their group commander of discrepancies identified by subordinate
     organizations in MICT, which require assistance.
     4.2.3. Review IG Crossfeed/Crosstell material periodically. Communicate pertinent
     material benchmarking information to all squadron and work-center SA monitors.
     Periodically remind SA monitors to check the HQ AFRC/IG website for updates to their
     programs.
     4.2.4. Ensure appointment letters are on file for all group, squadron, flight or work-
     center SAM.
     4.2.5. Ensure Self-Assessments are in compliance as directed according to guidance.
     Confirms completion results for all inspections in MICT and briefs group commander
     and other senior leadership as required.
     4.2.6. Provide training and assistance as requested by squadron, flight or work-center
     monitors. 4.2.7. Participate in the scheduled SA Working Group Meetings to capture and
     use information as provided by the Program Owners in order to support administration
     and operations of unit level programs.
  4.3. Squadron, flight or staff agency SAM will:
6                                                       440AWI90-201 4 OCTOBER 2012


       4.3.1. Review pertinent inspection documents provided online at AFRC and AMC IG
       Inspections websites, as well as other external compliance reports as appropriate.
       Determine how discrepancies affect the functional area.
       4.3.2. Input discrepancies into the MICT database. Review open discrepancies monthly
       to include changing the follow-up or estimated completion date, if required.
       4.3.3. Ensure Self-Assessments comply with guidance as directed. Uses MICT to
       capture completion data and briefs unit commander and appropriate senior leaders on
       inspection status.
       4.3.4. Inform Commanders and unit managers of results and recommendations for
       corrective action.
       4.3.5. Participate in the scheduled SA Working Group Meetings to capture and use
       information as provided by the Program Owners in order to support administration and
       operations of unit level programs.
    4.4. The Wing Program Owners will:
       4.4.1. Conduct SAVs internal to 440 AW on Air Force programs for which they are
       responsible. Wing level Program Owners include but are not limited to: A1, FSS; A2,
       Intel; A3, Command Post and Operations Group; A4, LRS and Maintenance Group;
       A5/8, Performance Planner; A6, Communications Flight; A7, Anti-Terrorism/Force
       Protection and Information Protection; Medical Squadron, Chaplain, Judge Advocate,
       Equal Opportunity, Sexual Assault Response Program, Finance, Historian, Anti
       Terrorism/Force Protection, Information/Installation Protection, Public Affairs, Wing
       Fitness, and Bio Environmental.
       4.4.2. Wing Level Program Owners will publish annual SAV schedule reflecting a June
       to May twelve month inspection cycle in order to support the annual Statement of
       Assurance due to FM by EOM May each FY.
       4.4.3. Program Owners will produce appropriate metrics, provide program updates,
       inspection information, Crossfeed/Crosstell information, at the scheduled SA Working
       Group Meetings.




                                          NORMAN R. HAM JR, Brig Gen, USAFR
                                          Commander
440AWI90-201 4 OCTOBER 2012                                                    7


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 90-2, Inspector General—The Inspection System, 26 April 2006
AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities, 17 June 2009
AFI 90-201_AFRCSUP_1, Inspector General Activities Air Force Reserve Command
Supplement, 10 March 2007
AFI 90-1601, Air Force Lessons Learned Program, 22 September 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
ARCNET—Net Centric Reservist Management Application
ASEV—Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Visit
AWI—Airlift Wing Instruction
CAP—Corrective Action Plan
COB—Close of Business
CUI—Combined Unit Inspection
FAM—Functional Area Manager
HSI—Health Services Inspection
HQ—Headquarters
JLLIS—Joint Lessons Learned Information System
LCAP—Logistics Compliance Assessment Program
MICT—Management Internal Control Toolset
MSEP—Maintenance Standardization Evaluation Program
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SA—Self-Assessment
SAM—Self-Assessment Monitor
 8                                                           440AWI90-201 4 OCTOBER 2012


SAV—Staff Assistance Visit

Terms
Adopted Form— a form used (required) in a publication other than the prescribing publication.
Approval Authority— senior leader responsible for contributing to and implementing policies
and guidance/procedures pertaining to their functional area(s) (e.g., heads of functional two-letter
offices).
Authentication— required element to verify approval of the publication; the approval official
applies their signature block to authenticate the publication. The signature block includes the
official’s name, rank and title (not signature).
Certifying Official— a minimum of one organizational level above the OPR, this individual
certifies the need for the publication, to include currency of information, applicability to the Air
Force and propriety of content.
Directive Publication— publication that is necessary to meet the requirements of law, safety,
security or other areas where common direction and standardization benefit the Air Force. Air
Force personnel must comply with these publications. All publications in this category carry the
following statement: “COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY”.
Distribution— defines the type of accessibility for each publication; to whom the publication
may be released.
e- Publishing -—central website for accessing, viewing, downloading and printing electronic
products; physical products may be ordered from the e-Publishing website. Information on
product development and links to other agency publications are also provided on the e-
Publishing website www.e-publishing.af.mil.
Form— a tool used for the collection , recording and/or extraction of information whereby a
predetermined set of data fields have been established and defined to meet a definitive Air Force
purpose or objective.
Mandatory Coordination— required review by selected offices prior to publication.
Mandatory coordinators review draft publications for specific functional and/or legal purposes.
Office of Primary Responsibility— the originating office for a publication; the author of the
publication is an individual within the OPR. OPRs are solely responsible for the accuracy,
currency and integrity of their publications and forms.
Publication— an officially produced, published and distributed document issued for
compliance, implementation and or information. Includes Policy and Guidance Memorandums.
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)— the official schedule that authorizes/governs the
disposition of Air Force records, which contains National Archives and Records Administration
(NARA) approval authority.
Technical/Functional Coordination— review of draft publications by technical/functional
experts prior to publication. The list of technical/function coordinators changes with each
publication, based on the contents and applicability of the publication.
440AWI90-201 4 OCTOBER 2012                                                                9


                                       Attachment 2
                           SAMPLE APPOINTMENT LETTER

Day Month Year
MEMORANDUM FOR 440 AW/CCO
FROM: OFFICE SYMBOL
SUBJECT: Appointment of Self-Assessment Monitors
1. The following personnel have been appointed as Self-Assessment Monitors for the 328th
Airlift Squadron IAW AWI 90-201.
Primary        2Lt John Doe
Alternate      MSgt Mary Smith
2. All previous editions of this letter are obsolete.
WALTER P. JONES, Lt Colonel, USAFR
Commander
