BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              440th AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 48-101
440TH AIRLIFT WING                                                                    24 February 1999

                                                                                   Aerospace Medicine

                                                         RESPIRATORY PROTECTION PROGRAM




                COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the HQ AFRC WWW site at: http://www.afrc.af.mil
and the AFRCEPL (CD-ROM) published monthly.


OPR: 440 SPTG/PB (Marlene Zellmer)                     Certified by: 440 SPTG/CC (David Rundquist)
Supersedes 440 AWI 48-101, 31 August 1997                                                  Pages: 3
                                                                                    Distribution: F

This instruction implements and extends the guidance of AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program, 29
CFR 1910.134, Respiratory Protection, and AFOSH Standard 48-137. It establishes guidelines to comply
with OSHA requirements. This instruction applies to all personnel who wear respirators for protection
against inhalation or harmful atmospheres or for emergency escape or rescue at General Mitchell IAP
ARS WI.
SUMMARY OF REVISION
AFOSH Std 48-1 has been changed to AFOSH Std 48-137, acronym for BEE/MPH changed to SPTG/PB,
para 4.1. added, and para 5.1. 45 changed to 90.



1. Responsibilities. These responsibilities are directed for all base-level personnel stationed at
GMIAP-ARS, WI. Additional responsibilities are listed in AFOSH Standard 48-137, Respiratory Protec-
tion Program.
   1.1. Bioenvironmental Engineering (SPTG/PB) is the office of primary responsibility for the base
   respiratory protection program. SPTG/PB is the only base authority for determining if respiratory pro-
   tection is required. SPTG/PB will administer the base respiratory protection program and will be
   responsible for all requirements as stated in AFOSH Standard 48-137.
   1.2. Unit commanders will ensure personnel using or supervising others who use respiratory protec-
   tion devices are provided training as outlined in this instruction.
   1.3. Where respiratory devices are used, workplace supervisors shall:
       1.3.1. Call SPTG/PB as needed for information and guidance regarding respiratory protection
       matters. In addition, workplace supervisors must maintain this instruction, a copy of AFOSH
       Standard 48-137, and a workplace operating instruction which must be approved by BEE/MPH.
2                                                                       440AWI48-101 24 February 1999

       1.3.2. Ensure all other requirements stated in paragraph 2.5.2. through 2.5.2.9. of AFOSH Stan-
       dard 48-137 are met.
    1.4. Base Supply will:
       1.4.1. Ensure that SPTG/PB has approved respiratory protection requests before issuing respira-
       tors or respirator parts.
       1.4.2. Ensure a suitable substitute for a particular respirator or respirator part is not issued.
    1.5. The Fire Department chief will provide training on the use and maintenance of self-contained
    breathing apparatuses (SCBA). The chief will ensure that required maintenance for regulating or
    admission valves, regulators, and alarms for SCBA’s is performed by the respirator manufacturer or
    appointed individual(s) trained and certified by the manufacturer to conduct such maintenance.

2. Selection, Use, and Limitations. SPTG/PB will make all determinations of tasks requiring the use of
respirators, depending on task requirement or exposure potential.

3. Training:
    3.1. SPTG/PB will provide training to workplace supervisors and shop workers where respiratory
    protection is used. This training will be done on an annual basis during annual/baseline industrial
    hygiene surveys. Documentation of training will be annotated on AF Form 55, Employee Safety and
    Health Record, and on AF Form 2767, Occupational Health Training and Protective Equipment
    Fit-testing Record.
       3.1.1. Training will include, as a minimum, all aspects of AFOSH Standard 48-137, Chapter 7.

4. Fit-testing:
    4.1. Annual fit-testing and training will be scheduled and accomplished by SPTG/PB. Fit-testing will
    be accomplished using qualitative or quantitative procedures IAW applicable Federal Standards.
    4.2. Workplace supervisors will contact SPTG/PB at least two weeks prior to scheduling initial
    fit-testing for new employees. For reservists, supervisors must contact SPTG/PB at least one UTA
    prior to scheduling fit-test.

5. Care, Inspection, and Maintenance of Respirators. All respirators used on GMIAP-ARS will be
cared for IAW all manufacturer’s instructions. These instructions must be incorporated into workplace
respiratory protection operating instructions. These procedures will be inspected annually by SPTG/PB.
    5.1. Breathing air sampling is required every 90 days. The GMIAP-ARS Fire Department, Structural
    Maintenance, Aerospace Ground Equipment, and Fuel Distribution Systems shops must provide for
    quality control of respirator breathing air according to Technical Order 42B-122 (Quality Control of
    Compressed and Liquid Breathing Air), and furnish a copy of sampling results to SPTG/PB no later
    than two weeks after the results are received.

6. Medical Surveillance:
    6.1. The Aeromedical Council (ACM) will establish a medical evaluation protocol for respirator
    users. This protocol will include initial, annual, and termination examinations deemed necessary.
440AWI48-101 24 February 1999                                                                          3

   6.2. SPTG/PB will ensure all respirator users have been correctly coded to receive any baseline and
   annual medical evaluations.
   6.3. The full-time technician assigned to the Physical Examinations Section of Aeromedical Services
   or Occupational Medicine Services will arrange for and conduct initial (for reservists) and routine
   medical surveillance of respirator users required by AFOSH Standard 48-137, and applicable OSHA
   standards. The Chief, Aeromedical Services will ensure a physician makes the determination that a
   worker is physically able to wear a respirator.
   6.4. The Civilian Personnel Office (DPC) will review their copy of AF Form 2766, Clinical Occupa-
   tional Health Examination Requirements (shop specific), for any respiratory protection program
   requirements prior to sending potential employees for baseline occupational physical examinations.
   DPC will contact SPTG/PB for baseline exam requirements for newly-established positions after the
   date of the current AF Form 2766.

7. Administrative Procedures:
   7.1. Any purchase of respiratory protection equipment in parts via the local purchase route must be
   pre-approved by SPTG/PB. All respiratory protection items will be coded with an Issue Exception
   Code (IEX) of "Y". This indicates approval by SPTG/PB must be obtained before ordering/issuing.

8. Procedures for Program Evaluation:
   8.1. The SPTG/PB respiratory protection program administrator will conduct a program evaluation
   on an annual basis. This evaluation will include all items stated in paragraphs 9.5 through 9.5.6.2.4.
   of AFOSH Standard 48-137.
   8.2. The program administrator will report findings of the evaluation to the Aeromedical Council and
   the Combined Occupational Safety and Health Council on an annual basis.



                                        PAUL R. COOPER, Brig Gen, USAFR
                                        Commander
