BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                           440th AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 31-401
440TH AIRLIFT WING
                                                                                                                           19 JUNE 2012

                                                                                                                 Information Security

                                                                       INFORMATION PROTECTION PROGRAM
                                                                                          MANAGEMENT


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 440 AW/IP                                                                                              Certified by: 440 AW/IP
                                                                                                                   (Mr Ernest Davis)
                                                                                                                            Pages: 19




This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 31-4, AFI 31-401, Information
Security, AFI 31-501, Personnel Security, AFI 31-601, Industrial Security, Department of
Defense Manual 5200.01 Vol 1-4, Air Force Guidance Memorandum (AFGM) 1, DoD
Information Security Program, Department of Defense Regulation 5200.2-R, Personnel Security
Regulation, Department of Defense Regulation 5220.22-R, Industrial Security Regulation and
the Air Force Information Protection CONOPs dtd 1 July 2008. It establishes policies and
procedures for Information Protection within the 440 Airlift Wing (AW) and all Air Force tenant
units on Ft Bragg. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records     Disposition    Schedule    (RDS)      located     at   https://www.my.af.mil/gess-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, directly to 440 AW/IP, 374 Maynard Street, Bldg 306 Room 105, Ft Bragg, NC
28308-2409.




       1.     Information Security Policy and Program Management. .......................................                                  2
       2.     Marking. .................................................................................................................   4
       3.     Safeguarding. .........................................................................................................      4
 2                                                                                                440AWI31-401 19 JUNE 2012


        4.      Storage of Classified Materials (Reference DoDM 5200. .....................................                                    6
        5.      Transmitting/Transporting/Destruction of Classified Information. .......................                                       7
        6.      Training. .................................................................................................................    8
        7.      Security Incidents. .................................................................................................          8
        8.      Personnel Security. ................................................................................................          11
        9.      Security Clearance. ................................................................................................          11
        10.     Requesting Personnel Security Investigations. ......................................................                          12
        11.     Air Reserve Technicians. .......................................................................................              13
        12.     The Joint Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS). ................................................                              13
        13.     Security Information Files (SIFs). .........................................................................                  13
        14.     Security Clearance Reinstatement. ........................................................................                    13
        15.     Industrial Security. .................................................................................................        13

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                15


1. Information Security Policy and Program Management.
     1.1. The Chief of Information Protection (CIP) and the Information Protection Office (IPO)
     has oversight for the 440 AW Information Protection (IP) program. The CIP implements the
     IP program on behalf of 440 AW/CC. The CIP is the Air Force Security Program Manager
     for all Air Force units on Ft Bragg who participate in the 440 AW/IP Information Security
     Program and is the single point of contact for all USAF information, personnel, and industrial
     security issues on Ft Bragg. The CIP is the designated authority to perform industrial
     security program oversight for Air Force contractor operations. Letters accepting or
     declining participation in the AFRC Information Security Program will be maintained in
     appropriate unit activity folders/binders. The IPO will provide the following services:
        1.1.1. Conduct semi-annual security manager meetings. The CIP will sign meeting
        minutes and post them to the 440 AW/IP Information Protection SharePoint Site at:
        https://eim.amc.af.mil/org/440aw/440_WSA/Information%20Protection/default.asp
        x
        1.1.2. Conduct training for newly appointed Unit Security Managers (USM). Initial
        USM training is conducted quarterly by IPO or as required, one-on-one USM training can
        be accomplished. Upon completion of training, security managers receive a Certificate of
        Training.
        1.1.3. Assist USMs in developing unit security operating instructions.
        1.1.4. Process and monitor inquiries and investigations.
        1.1.5. Provide oversight for Visitor Group Security Agreements (VGSA) for all Air
        Force tenant units on Ft Bragg in accordance with AFI 31-601, Industrial Security
        Program Management. Security reviews may be conducted more often than once every
        12 months for VGSA contractors who possess classified material.
440AWI31-401 19 JUNE 2012                                                                   3


     1.1.6. Conduct a Wing Security Advisory Group (WSAG) semi-annually or more
     frequently as required and provide meeting minutes to all group members. Meeting
     minutes will also be posted to the 440 AW/IP Information Protection SharePoint Site.
     1.1.7. The 440 AW/IP will conduct Local Information Protection Management
     Evaluations (LIPMEs), formally known as program reviews (PRs), on an annual basis.
     EXCEPTION: An extension to 18 months may be granted by the CIP for units that have
     demonstrated highly effective; discrepancy free programs during the previous PR.
     LIPMEs/SAVs may be conducted every two years for activities or units that do not store
     classified information.
     1.1.8. All participating agencies will receive a LIPME. These evaluations will
     incorporate information, personnel, and industrial (if applicable) security programs and
     will either be conducted annually or semi-annually. The CIP will provide the commander
     or equivalent (hereafter referred to as unit commanders) the PR results in writing.
     1.1.9. Air Force contractor visitor groups will be integrated into the 440 AW’s
     Information Security Program unless the mission, operational requirements, autonomous
     nature or other factors require them to establish and maintain their own security program
     as a cleared facility under the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual
     (NISPOM).
  1.2. Commander Responsibilities:
     1.2.1. Commanders are responsible for implementation of the Information Security
     Program within their area of responsibility.
     1.2.2. To ensure program success and continuity, Commanders are recommended to
     appoint full-time USMs as primary and alternates with at least one-year retainability.
     The primary USM will be a full-time employee/member of the unit. Appointment of
     security monitors is encouraged to assist USMs.          Commanders forward USM
     appointment letters to 440 AW/IP within 15 days of appointment.
     1.2.3. Ensure the USM receives training within 90 days of appointment. This training
     will be conducted by 440 AW/IP.
     1.2.4. Security self-inspections: Unit commanders and staff agency chiefs involved with
     processing or holding classified information ensure personnel conduct semi-annual
     security self-inspections to evaluate information security program effectiveness.
        1.2.4.1. Unit commanders and staff agency chiefs will appoint an individual, in
        writing, other than the unit security manager to conduct a semi-annual security
        inspection. These two self-inspections will be conducted 1) between 1 January and
        30 July, and 2) between 1 August and 31 December utilizing the Management
        Internal Control Toolset (MICT) if available to the unit. The unit inspector must have
        access to MICT if it is to be used. Self-inspections should be completed by a person
        knowledgeable of the Information Security Program (other than the SM). USMs
        should monitor the inspection, review the observations (if any) and follow up to
        ensure discrepancies are corrected. The security manager will forward the semi-
        annual self-inspection report to 440 AW/IP upon completion if not using MICT. The
 4                                                                440AWI31-401 19 JUNE 2012


            CIP may count the annual LIPME as one of the unit semi-annual self-inspections if
            the last self-inspection program review was conducted within the last six months.
     1.3. Security Manager Responsibilities:
        1.3.1. The USM manages the Information Security Program for the unit and maintains a
        security manager’s continuity book. The USM continuity book will be tabbed as follows:
            1.3.1.1. TAB 1: Current Security Managers appointment letter (copy to IP), Security
            container location/custodians (copy to IP), Classified Account Custodian (copy to IP),
            Semi-annual inspector appointment letter, Top Secret Control Officer letter (if
            applicable) (copy to IP), Security Managers Training Certificates.
            1.3.1.2. TAB 2: Unit operating instructions.
            1.3.1.3. TAB 3: Semi-annual inspections (last two reports).
            1.3.1.4. TAB 4: Local Information Protection Management Evaluation (LIPME)
            (last two reports).
            1.3.1.5. TAB 5: Inspection Checklist (MICT).
            1.3.1.6. TAB 6: Unit INFOSEC Training Plan.
            1.3.1.7. TAB 7: Vault/Secure Room certifications/SIPRnet surveys.
            1.3.1.8. TAB 8:    Industrial Security Program (If Applicable).
            1.3.1.9. TAB 9: Misc.
        1.3.2. Mandatory attendance is required by primary or alternate security manager at the
        semi-annual hosted security manager meetings.
        1.3.3. Security Container Listing: Develop a master security container listing and
        provide a copy to 440 AW/IP. This list should contain the following: manufacturer of the
        container, unique ID number, lock type (X-08/09), physical location of the container,
        custodian information and date of last initial inspection or Preventive Maintenance
        Inspection conducted by the 440 AW/IP. If there is a secure room or vault in the unit,
        enter the location, type of lock and custodian information.
        1.3.4. Ensure a visual aid identifying the USM and alternate is posted conspicuously
        throughout the Unit to ensure assigned personnel are aware of USM appointments.
2. Marking.
     2.1. Classified holders must notify originator of improperly marked documents in writing.
     2.2. All binders that contain classified information will be marked top and bottom, front and
     back with the highest level of classified stored therein. Exceptions would be binders that are
     too small to have an adequate spine.
3. Safeguarding.
     3.1. Access.
        3.1.1. Joint Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS) will be utilized to verify an
        individual’s access level.
440AWI31-401 19 JUNE 2012                                                                            5


      3.1.2. Nondisclosure Agreement (NdA). Provide a copy of the completed SF 312 to the
      individual upon request. Once you enter the data into JPAS send SF 312 to the
      appropriate agency, addresses are located in AFI 31-401 para 5.3.
      3.1.3. Refusal to sign. When a person refuses to sign an NdA, the commander or staff
      agency chief:
      3.1.4. Initiates security incident report, in JPAS, that the person refused to sign the NdA.
      3.1.5. Denies the individual access to classified information.
      3.1.6. Initiate actions to establish a Security Information File (SIF) according to AFI 31-
      501.
      3.1.7. In absence of verification of a signed SF 312, Nondisclosure Agreement (NDA),
      complete a new form and forward to 440 AW/IP.
      3.1.8. 440 AW/IP may forward visit requests in the absence of security managers.
  3.2. Use AF Form 614, Charge Out Record, or similar form, when a document is removed
  from a security container.
  3.3. The unit operating instruction (OI) must address procedures for the protection, removal
  or destruction of classified material in case of natural disaster, fire, civil disturbance, terrorist
  activities or enemy action. (DoDM 5200.01,Vol 3, Enclosure 2, para 10). An OI template is
  located on the 440 AW Information Protection EIM page.
  3.4. In units and staff agencies in which classified material is stored or handled and the
  facility is manned on a 24-hour, 7-day-a-week basis by cleared personnel may have the
  option to use SF 701, Activity Security Checklist on security containers, vaults or secure
  storage rooms. This action is at the discretion of the owner. At no time will classified
  material be left unattended when opened. Include on your SF 701 (if applicable): Check all
  classified computers to ensure that the hard drive has been removed and locked in a GSA
  approved container. Check all Global Command and Control System (GCCS)/SIPRNET
  connections to ensure they have been properly secured IAW local guidance.
  3.5. The Pope Combined Command Post is designated as the overnight classified repository
  for AFRC and AMC transient aircraft on Pope Field. Storage space is very limited, however
  the Command Post may assist other AF units requiring classified storage in
  locating/procuring storage on Ft. Bragg as appropriate.
  3.6. Classified Meetings and Conferences.
      3.6.1. The 440 AW/CC delegates the authority to certify classified conference areas to
      440 AW/IP. Notify the IP office of any classified meetings and schedule a site survey
      one week prior to the meeting. The following procedures must also be accomplished
      when hosting classified meetings:
          3.6.1.1. Verify security clearances on attendees prior to any classified briefings or
          discussions.
          3.6.1.2. Ensure the door to the discussion area is closed and someone is posted
          outside the door if sound attenuation and unauthorized entry is not adequate and
          cannot be controlled.
 6                                                                440AWI31-401 19 JUNE 2012


            3.6.1.3. Ensure the briefing is kept to need-to-know for those in attendance.
            3.6.1.4. Ensure classified is kept under constant surveillance. Use of classified cover
            sheets is required when material is removed from secure storage.
            3.6.1.5. Return all classified material/information to secure storage when not under
            personal observation and control.
            3.6.1.6. Note taking or electronic recording during classified sessions shall be
            permitted only when it is determined by the host that such action is necessary to
            fulfill the U.S. Government purpose for the meeting.
            3.6.1.7. Classified waste must be destroyed using approved methods (burning,
            melting, pulping, pulverizing and cross-cut shredding).
            3.6.1.8. Ensure that classified documents, recordings, audiovisual material, notes and
            other materials created, distributed or used during the meeting are controlled,
            safeguarded and transported as required by this instruction and DoDM 5200.01 Vol
            1-4, Information Security Program.
            3.6.1.9. Cellular phones, two-way radios, two-way beepers, and other electronic
            equipment that can receive and transmit a signal are prohibited in all offices and areas
            where classified and sensitive information may be discussed. 440 AW/CF will
            determine which work areas are affected and implement this requirement accordingly.
            Owners of designated areas should make every effort to inform personnel of the
            prohibited (unless otherwise approved) use of electronic equipment, to include but not
            limited to posting signs and visual aids and including the information in
            briefings/training, etc.
     3.7. Post visual aids at all machines (to include fax machines) approved for classified
     reproduction. At a minimum, post visual aids at all copy machines not authorized for
     classified reproduction.
4. Storage of Classified Materials (Reference DoDM 5200. 01 Vol 3, Enclosure 3).
     4.1. Secure storage rooms containing open stored classified material, equipment or hardware
     built after 1 October 1995 must have two levels of detection alarm operating when
     appropriately cleared attendants are not present. 440 AW/IP will determine whether open or
     unattended storage areas provide adequate protection for classified material.
        4.1.1. 440 AW/IP must send requests to waive any provisions of DoDM 5200.01 Vol 1-4
        and AFI 31-401 to HQ AFRC/IP for concurrence. Post the storage facility approval
        notices/letters inside the approved area.
     4.2. Prior to storing classified information in a vault or secure room, 440 AW/IP will
     coordinate a survey of the facility with the Fort Bragg, Directorate of Emergency Services
     (DES) (Physical Security), Directorate of Public Works (DPW) or Army Corps of Engineers
     (engineer support), and 440th Communications Flight to determine if the vault or secure
     room meets the construction and communication requirements outlined in DoDM 5200.01
     Vol 3, Appendix to Enclosure 3 and all other requirements of DoDM 5200.01 Vol 3 and AFI
     31-401 for the storage of classified information. If the facility meets requirements, 440
     AW/IP, may approve the facility for storage of classified information. If the facility does not
     meet requirements, consider alternate or compensatory security controls in accordance with
440AWI31-401 19 JUNE 2012                                                                  7


   DoDM 5200.01 Vol 3 and Mil Handbook 1013/1A. Re-evaluate all secure storage rooms
   and vaults every 5 years and accomplish new approval letter and/or waiver requests. Once
   440 AW/IP certifies the room meets DoDM 5200.01 Vol 3 requirements the owning
   commander or Staff Agency Chief must approve it for open storage of classified.
   4.3. Equipment Designations and Combinations. Personnel having the combination will be
   recorded on SF 700, Security Container Information. An additional SF 700 may be necessary
   for containers with more than five users.
   4.4. Retention of Classified Records. Annual cleanout day will be accomplished in the
   month of January.
   4.5. Methods and Standards.
      4.5.1. For a listing of National Security Agency (NSA) evaluated and approved
      destruction devices see Annex B to NTISSI No.4004.
      4.5.2. Post visual aids at shredders approved and not approved for destruction of
      classified.
5. Transmitting/Transporting/Destruction of Classified Information.
   5.1. Personnel who are sending/receiving classified materials through a contract carrier
   (example: FEDEX, UPS etc) mail are cautioned that these carriers deliver directly to the
   addressee. Sender must ensure the material is delivered to personnel with the appropriate
   clearance and who have the ability to protect the material.
   5.2. The USM will ensure procedures are established in their unit operating instruction on
   how to properly process and secure accountable first class mail received through 440th
   Communication Flight (CF).
   5.3. The USM must ensure a courier briefing and acknowledgement statement are
   accomplished prior to issuing DD 2501, Courier Card, or letters. A copy of the courier
   briefing must be maintained in the Security Manager’s Book, Tab 9. A copy of the briefing
   can be obtained from the 440 AW/IP EIM site.
      5.3.1. DD 2501 can be obtained from the 440 AW/IP. The USM will annotate the card
      number and expiration date “Not to exceed (1) one year” in paragraph 4 of the Courier
      Briefing and Acknowledgement Statement. DD Form 2501 is accountable and must be
      maintained by the USM when individuals are not hand carrying classified information.
      When expired or no longer required, the USM will destroy the Card and email IPO with
      the date the card was destroyed.
      5.3.2. Supervisor verbal authorization is required prior to hand carrying classified
      information to and from activities on Ft. Bragg. A DD Form 2501 or courier
      authorization designation memorandum is not required.
          5.3.2.1. When classified material is hand carried on Ft Bragg (outside the unit or
          activity), a briefcase may serve as the outer wrapper. The inner envelope will be
          marked with the classification of the information, to include the unit address.
          5.3.2.2. When hand carrying classified materials while traveling aboard commercial
          aircraft, use the procedures as outlined DoDM 5200.01 Vol 3.
 8                                                                    440AWI31-401 19 JUNE 2012


             5.3.2.3. Incorporate into the internal operating instruction to ensure only properly
             cleared individuals sign for incoming FedEx, UPS etc (or any contract carrier),
             registered mail, first class mail with caveat “Return Service Requested”, and Postal
             Service Express mail shipments. An AF Form 12, Accountable Container Receipt or
             AF Form 310, Document Receipt and Destruction Certificate, must be completed
             anytime the material is transferred to a recipient not shown on the material’s
             distribution. In addition, when using FedEx (or other contract carrier), registered
             mail, first class mail with caveat “Postmaster Do Not Forward,” and Postal Service
             Express mail to send outgoing mail, personnel must verbally indicate whether the
             mail piece contains classified material to allow the Official Mail Center (OMC) to
             verify delivery. (Reference AFI 24-201, 7.8.1).
             5.3.2.4. Bulk classified material destruction. Ft Bragg facilities for the destruction of
             classified and controlled sensitive information are at Bldg C-1629 on Ardennes
             Street. Hours of operation are Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday by appointment
             only. Call 910-432-2488 and leave a message. Your call will be returned with a date
             and time to meet the classified destruction request.
             5.3.2.5. In case of fire, natural disaster or civil disturbance (if time permits before
             evacuation of an area). Secure classified material in a vault or security container
             within the immediate area. Personnel will not risk injury or loss of life to secure
             classified material. If classified material cannot be properly stored, personnel will
             evacuate the area to the limits established by emergency response forces.
             Immediately after the emergency, personnel will return to their area and check for
             unsecure classified material. If material is missing, inadvertent access or compromise
             is suspected, the custodian will comply with AFI 31-401 Chapter nine.
     5.4. Annual classified “Clean-out” for Air Force tenant units serviced by the 440 AW/IP
     office will be in the month of January of each year.
6. Training.
     6.1. As a minimum, training documentation must include the trainee’s name and grade, type
     of training (initial, refresher, or specialized), date of training, and a specific list of completed
     training subjects and tasks.
     6.2. 440 AW/IP ensures primary and alternate security managers are trained within 90 days
     of appointment. Security Managers receive documentation of training. Security Managers
     are responsible for providing information security program training to their units.
     6.3. Continuing and Refresher Training. USMs ensure this training is accomplished and
     documented.
7. Security Incidents.
     7.1. Preliminary Inquiry. An informal inquiry to determine if classified information has been
     lost or compromised so that a damage assessment can be completed and the appropriate
     corrective action can be taken. The commander or staff agency chief of the activity
     responsible for the security incident will appoint an inquiry official to conduct a preliminary
     inquiry.
440AWI31-401 19 JUNE 2012                                                                      9


     7.1.1. The preliminary inquiry official will be appointed within three working days of the
     incident’s discovery and report to 440 AW/IP with a copy of the appointment
     memorandum.
     7.1.2. When security incidents occur because of unauthorized transmission of classified
     material, the sending activity appoints the inquiry official and conducts the inquiry.
     7.1.3. Inquiry officials will coordinate their actions with 440 AW/IP and the servicing
     staff judge advocate’s office.
     7.1.4. The preliminary inquiry will determine if classified material was compromised,
     the extent of the compromise, and the circumstances surrounding the compromise.
     7.1.5. The report from the preliminary inquiry will be sufficient to resolve the security
     incident if:
        7.1.5.1. The inquiry determines loss or compromise of classified information has not
        occurred.
        7.1.5.2. The inquiry determines that loss or compromise of classified information has
        occurred, but there is no indication of significant security weakness.
        7.1.5.3. The appointing official determines that no additional information will be
        obtained by conducting a formal investigation.
     7.1.6. If the report from the preliminary inquiry is not sufficient to resolve the security
     incident, the appointing authority initiates a formal investigation. The preliminary inquiry
     report will become part of any formal investigation. If the inquiry is closed out as a
     compromise or potential compromise the appointing authority notifies the OCA to
     perform a damage assessment.
     7.1.7. If the inquiry reveals suspected unauthorized disclosure to the public notify HQ
     AFRC/IP through CIP channels. Classify security incident notices, memorandums, and
     reports according to the classified source from which they are derived. Refer to DoDM
     5200.01 Vol 3, Enclosure 6. Specifically address:
        7.1.7.1. When, where, and how the incident occurred.
        7.1.7.2. Was classified information compromised?
        7.1.7.3. If compromise occurred, what specific classified information and/or material
        was involved?
        7.1.7.4. If classified information is alleged to have been lost, what steps were taken
        to locate the material?
        7.1.7.5. In what specific media article or program did the classified information
        appear?
        7.1.7.6. To what extent was the compromised information disseminated?
        7.1.7.7. Was the information properly classified?
        7.1.7.8. Was the information officially released?
        7.1.7.9. Are there any leads to be investigated that might lead to the identification of
        the person responsible for the compromise?
10                                                              440AWI31-401 19 JUNE 2012


        7.1.7.10. Will further inquiry increase the damage caused by the compromise?
     7.1.8. Damage Assessment.
        7.1.8.1. A damage assessment is an analysis to determine the effect of a compromise
        of classified information on the national security. It will be initiated by the OCA upon
        notification of a potential or actual compromise to verify and reevaluate the
        information involved. Damage assessment reports will be classified and marked
        according to the classification guidance provided on the information being addressed
        in the reports.
        7.1.8.2. The OCA must:
            7.1.8.2.1. Verify the classification and duration of classification initially assigned
            to the information. If the OCA determines the information should be declassified,
            the reporting activity will be notified.
            7.1.8.2.2. Set-up damage assessment controls and procedures.
            7.1.8.2.3. Provide a copy of the damage assessment to the inquiry or investigating
            official.
     7.1.9. Formal Investigation.
        7.1.9.1. A formal investigation is a detailed examination of evidence to determine the
        extent and seriousness of the compromise of classified information. The formal
        investigation will fix responsibility for any disregard (deliberate or inadvertent) of
        governing directives which led to the security incident.
        7.1.9.2. The commander or staff agency chief of the activity responsible for the
        security incident, will appoint an investigative official to conduct an investigation.
            7.1.9.2.1. The appointment letter provides authority to conduct an investigation,
            swear witnesses, and examine/copy documents, files and other data relevant to the
            inquiry.
            7.1.9.2.2. The investigative official is the personal representative of the
            Appointing Authority and/or the Commander. The investigative official must be
            impartial, unbiased, objective, thorough, and available.
            7.1.9.2.3. The investigative official must be a commissioned officer, senior NCO
            (E-7 and above), or a civil service employee equivalent (GS-9 and above)
            processing the appropriate security clearance.
            7.1.9.2.4. Appointing Authorities will not appoint an investigative official who is
            retiring, separating, or being reassigned within 120 days.
            7.1.9.2.5. The formal investigation will include the preliminary inquiry if one has
            been conducted.
     7.1.10. Management and Oversight.
        7.1.10.1. The inquiry/investigative official will route the completed report through
        440 AW/IP for review before forwarding it to the appointing authority.
        7.1.10.2. The appointing authority will:
440AWI31-401 19 JUNE 2012                                                                   11


             7.1.10.2.1. Close the inquiry/investigation        unless   MAJCOM/FOA/DRU
             directives indicate otherwise.
             7.1.10.2.2. Determine if administrative or disciplinary action is appropriate. See
             AFI 31-501, Chapter 8 and applicable military and civilian personnel
             publications.
             7.1.10.2.3. Debrief anyone who has had unauthorized access, using AF Form
             2587.
             7.1.10.2.4. Forward a copy of the completed report to the IPO identifying
             corrective actions taken.
             7.1.10.2.5. Dispose of the report according to the instructions in WebRims
             Records Disposition Schedule.
      7.1.11. The 440 AW/IP will:
          7.1.11.1. Provide technical guidance and review of preliminary inquiry and formal
          investigation reports.
          7.1.11.2. Monitor the status of security incidents.
      7.1.12. Inquiry/investigative officials must complete inquiry/investigations within 30
      duty days from appointment. 440 AW/IP will retain a copy of the investigation.
8. Personnel Security.
   8.1. Types and Scope of Personnel Security Investigations. The scope of each type of
   personnel security investigation is listed in AFI 31-501.
      8.1.1. National Agency Check plus Inquiries (NACI). NACIs are required on all civilian
      employees entering government employment and assigned to nonsensitive positions.
      NACIs are also conducted on contractors requiring access to the Air Force Unclassified
      but Sensitive Internet Protocol (IP) Router Network (NiPRNET).
      8.1.2. National Agency Check, Local Agency Checks and Credit Check (NACLC).
      NACLCs are required for military access to Secret information.
      8.1.3. Access National Agency Check with Written Inquiries and Credit Check
      (ANACI). ANACIs are required for civilian employees’ initial secret security clearances
      or assignment to non-critical sensitive positions.
      8.1.4. Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI). SSBIs are required for access to
      TOP SECRET, Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI), special sensitive positions
      and for critical sensitive positions. This investigation is for civilians and service
      members.
      8.1.5. Periodic Reinvestigation (PR). PRs are investigations conducted for the purpose
      of updating a previously completed background investigation. A PR for a SSBI is
      considered a SBPR and is required every 5 years from the date of the last investigation.
      A PR for a NACLC is considered a PRS and is required every 10 years from the date of
      the last investigation. There is no PR requirement for NACIs.
9. Security Clearance.
 12                                                              440AWI31-401 19 JUNE 2012


   9.1. Interim Security Clearance. Commanders may grant interim security clearance for
   access to Top Secret and Secret information IAW AFI 31-501.
   9.2. Interim Top Secret security clearances:
      9.2.1. Favorable NACI, NACLC or ANACI completed.
      9.2.2. Consult the Joint Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS) to determine the
      existence of a favorable NACI, NACLC or ANACI. The investigation is acceptable if
      there is no break in service over two years.
      9.2.3. Favorable review of personnel security questionnaire.
      9.2.4. Favorable review of local personnel records, installation and/or military police
      records, medical records, and other security records, as appropriate.
      9.2.5. SSBI package has been submitted to OPM for scheduling by an authorized
      requestor.
   9.3. Interim Secret security clearances:
      9.3.1. Favorable review of personnel security questionnaire.
      9.3.2. Favorable review of local personnel records, installation and/or military police
      records, medical records, and other security records, as appropriate.
      9.3.3. NACLC or ANACI has been submitted to OPM for scheduling by an authorized
      requestor.
   9.4. Interim access for individuals requiring NACIs. Since there is no clearance granted off
   the NACI investigation, there is no interim granted for this investigation. However, JPAS
   will reflect IT-III access after the following:
      9.4.1. Favorable review of personnel security questionnaire.
      9.4.2. Favorable review of local personnel records, installation and/or military police
      records, medical records and other security records, as appropriate.
      9.4.3. NACI has been submitted to OPM for scheduling by an authorized requestor.
10. Requesting Personnel Security Investigations.
   10.1. The AF Form 2583, Requester for Personnel Security Action will be the only form
   required in requesting a Personnel Security investigation.
      10.1.1. Once the local files check is completed, the USM will deliver the request to the
      440 AW/IP.
      10.1.2. The Personnel Security Specialist will create an application in the Electronic
      Questionnaire for Investigations Processing (e-Qip) and email the instructions to the
      service member and the USM.
      10.1.3. Once the subject completes the application and sends it back to the 440 AW/IP, it
      will be validated. If there are corrections to be made, it will be set back to the subject to
      make the required adjustments.
      10.1.4. Once all corrections are made, signature pages will be forwarded to 440 AW/IP
      at which time the completed package will be sent electronically to OPM for scheduling.
440AWI31-401 19 JUNE 2012                                                                        13


   10.2. For ANACIs, subjects must also turn in a copy of their resume and an OF 306. At that
   time, their fingerprints will be electronically taken and also sent to OPM to marry up with
   their investigative package.
   10.3. For NACIs, subjects must also turn in a copy of their resume and an OF 306. At that
   time, their fingerprints will be electronically taken and also sent to OPM to marry up with
   their investigative package.
   10.4. There are no additional requirements for SBPRs or PRs.
11. Air Reserve Technicians. Personnel designated as Air Reserve Technicians (ARTs) are
required to maintain an ANACI.
12. The Joint Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS). JPAS is the Department of Defense
(DoD) personnel security clearance and access database. It facilitates personnel security
management for the DoD Central Adjudication Facilities (CAF), Air Force Central Adjudication
Facilities (AFCAF), security managers and offers both non-SCI and SCI functions. JPAS is the
primary source for determining investigative data/status of investigations on individuals in the
DoD.
13. Security Information Files (SIFs). A SIF is a collection of documents generated as a result
of the discovery or development of unfavorable information, which brings into questions a
person’s continuing eligibility for a security clearance or access to SCI. It may be established by
a commander, civilian equivalent, or by AFCAF.
   13.1. If the Commander is generating the SIF, it will normally happen within 20 days of
   receipt of unfavorable information. However, if the commander has sufficient reason to
   doubt the validity of unfavorable information, the decision to establish a SIF and notification
   to the AFCAF may be extended up to 45 days. A SIF will be established immediately if SCI
   access is involved.
   13.2. The commander must notify the individual with the establishment of the SIF
   annotating whether the access to classified information has been suspended. See template
   letter located on the 440 AW/IP EIM site.
   13.3. If the SIF is an AFCAF generated SIF, the commander will be notified of such action
   and subject will have 60 days to reply to the SIF.
14. Security Clearance Reinstatement. An individual’s commander may request
reinstatement of their security clearance 12 months after the effective date of revocation or denial
or decision of the PSAB, whichever is later. Requests should be sent to the AFCAF with the
commander’s recommendation for approval. The commander recommends reinstatement and
includes an explanation on how the individual’s behavior has improved and the appropriate
documentation corresponding to the reason(s) for the denial or revocation. The documentation
required depends on the reason(s) involved, such as, evaluation for mental health issues,
evaluation for drug or alcohol abuse; or current financial statement(s).
15. Industrial Security.
   15.1. The 440 AW/IP is designated to perform industrial security oversight for contractor
   operations.
14                                                             440AWI31-401 19 JUNE 2012


  15.2. 440 AW/IP conduct security reviews for cleared facilities and visitor groups at least
  once every 12 months or as determined by the CIP providing frequency is not less than
  stipulated in DOD 5220.22-M or 5220.22-R.
  15.3. Contractor home office facilities will appoint a contractor security representative(s) in
  writing and a copy is kept in the USM handbook for all contracts involving classified.
  15.4. DD Form 254, Block 13, Security Guidance, include and show coordination of the
  system program director or project manager.
  15.5. Integrated and National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (NISPOM)
  Visitor Group personnel attend initial, refresher and annual training provided by contractor
  security representative(s). Contractor security representative(s) will document contractor
  visitor group personnel who have completed training.
  15.6. Contractor management officials for NISPOM Visitor Groups are responsible for
  ensuring contract personnel satisfy NISPOM training requirements.
  15.7. 440 AW/IP will determine the designation of Air Force contract visitors.
  15.8. For Air Force tenant units on Ft Bragg, the program manager, project manager, Air
  Force Activity, or unit security manager will notify the 440 AW/IP in writing upon contract
  completion or termination.
  15.9. A signed copy of the Visitor Group Security Agreement (VGSA) will be maintained
  by the 440 AW/IP.
  15.10. NISPOM Visitor Groups will conduct self-inspections of their security programs
  IAW Air Force Activity checklist and document the self-inspection.




                                           NORMAN R. HAM, JR., Brig Gen, USAFR
                                           Commander
440AWI31-401 19 JUNE 2012                                                           15


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 November 2005
AFI 31-401, Personnel Security, 28 March 2006
AFI 31-601, Industrial Security, 8 August 2003
AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use, 3 February 2005
AFI 33-322, Records Management Program, 7 October 2003
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 29 January 2004
AFI 33-364, Records Disposition—Procedures and Responsibilities, 22 December 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
T.O. 00-20F-2, Air Force Technical Order System, 15 October 2006
DOD 5200.01, Air Force Guidance Memorandum (AFMG), DOD Information Security Program
Volumes 1-4
DOD 5200.2-R, Personnel Security Program, 1998
DOD 5200.22-R, Industrial Security, January 1995

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
CIP—Chief Information Protection
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DoDM—Department of Defense Manual
FOIA—Freedom of Information Act
FOUO—For Official Use Only
HQ USAF or HAF—Headquarters Air Force, includes the Secretariat and the Air Staff
IA—Information Assurance
IP—Information Protection
 16                                                             440AWI31-401 19 JUNE 2012


LIPME—Local Information Protection Management Evaluation
MAJCOM—Major Command
MICT—Management Internal Control Toolset
NISPOM—National Industrial Program Operating Manual
OI—Operating Instruction
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
SAV—Staff Assistance Visits
USAF—United States Air Force
USM—Unit Security Manager
VGSA—Visitor Group Support Agreement

Terms
Access—the ability or opportunity to gain knowledge of classified information.
Agency—any “Executive agency,” as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105; any “Military department” as
defined in 5 U.S.C. 102; and any other entity within the executive branch that comes into the
possession of classified information.
Automated Information System (AIS)—any telecommunications and/or computer- related
equipment or interconnected system or subsystems of equipment used in the acquisition, storage,
manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or
reception of voice, and/or data, including software, firmware, and hardware. The entire
infrastructure, organization, and components that collect, process, store, transmit, display,
disseminate, and act on information. (JP 1-02).
Automatic Declassification—the declassification of information based solely upon (1) the
occurrence of a specific date or event as determined by the OCA; or (2) the expiration of a
maximum time frame for duration of classification established under EO 12958, as amended.
Classification—the determination that official information requires, in the interests of national
security, a specific degree of protection against unauthorized disclosure, coupled with a
designation signifying that such a determination has been made.
Classification/Declassification Guide—a documentary form of classification/declassification
guidance issued by an OCA that identifies the elements of information regarding a specific
subject that must be classified and establishes the level and duration of classification for each
such element.
Classification Guidance—any instruction or source that prescribes the classification of specific
information.
Classified National Security Information or Classified Information—official information
that has been determined to require protection against unauthorized disclosure and is marked to
indicate its classified status when in documentary form.
Confidential Source—any individual or organization that has provided, or that may reasonably
be expected to provide, information to the United States on matters pertaining to the national
440AWI31-401 19 JUNE 2012                                                                      17


security with the expectation that the information or relationship, or both, are to be held in
confidence.
Damage to The National Security—harm to the national defense or foreign relations of the
United States from the unauthorized disclosure of information, taking into consideration such
aspects of the information as the sensitivity, value, utility, and provenance of that information.
Declassification—the determination that, in the interests of national security, classified
information no longer requires any degree of protection against unauthorized disclosure, coupled
with removal or cancellation of the classification designation.
Declassification Authority—the official who authorized the original classification, if that
official is still serving in the same position; the originator's current successor in function; a
Derivative Classification—the incorporating, paraphrasing, restating, or generating in new form
information that is already classified, and marking the newly developed material consistent with
the classification markings that apply to the source information. Derivative classification
includes the classification of information based on classification guidance. The duplication or
reproduction of existing classified information is not derivative classification.
Direct Reporting Unit (DRU)—a DRU has a specialized and restricted mission, and is directly
subordinate to the Chief of Staff, United States Air Force or to his representative at HAF.
Document—any recorded information, regardless of the nature of the medium or the method or
circumstances of recording.
Downgrading—a determination by a declassification authority that information classified and
safeguarded at a specified level shall be classified and safeguarded at a lower level.
Field Operating Agency (FOA)—a subdivision of the Air Force, directly subordinate to a HQ
USAF functional manager. FOAs perform field activities beyond the scope of any of the major
commands. Their activities are specialized or associated with an Air Force wide mission.
File Series—file units or documents arranged according to a filing system or kept together
because they relate to a particular subject or function, result from the same activity, document a
specific kind of transaction, take a particular physical form, or have some other relationship
arising out of their creation, receipt, or use, such as restrictions on access or use.
Foreign Government Information (FGI)—(1) information provided to the United States
Government by a foreign government or governments, an international organization of
governments, or any element thereof, with the expectation that the information, the source of the
information, or both, are to be held in confidence; (2) information produced by the United States
Government pursuant to or as a result of a joint arrangement with a foreign government or
governments, or an international organization of governments, or any element thereof, requiring
that the information, the arrangement, or both, are to be held in confidence; or (3) information
received and treated as―foreign government information‖ under the terms of a predecessor
order.
Formerly Restricted Data (FRD)—defined by the Atomic Energy Act as classified information
which has been removed from the RD category after DoE and the DOD have jointly determined
that it relates primarily to the military utilization of atomic weapons, and can be adequately
safeguarded as national security information.
 18                                                              440AWI31-401 19 JUNE 2012


Information—any knowledge that can be communicated or documentary material, regardless of
its physical form or characteristics, which is owned by, produced by or for, or is under the
control of the United States Government. Control‖ means the authority of the agency that
originates information, or its successor in function, to regulate access to the information.
Information System (IS)—1. Any telecommunications and/or computer-related equipment or
interconnected system or subsystems of equipment used in the acquisition, storage, manipulation,
management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of
voice, and/or data, including software, firmware, and hardware. (NOTE: This includes
automated information systems). 2. (DOD) The entire infrastructure, organization, and
components that collect, process, store, transmit, display, disseminate, and act on information.
(JP 1-02).
Infraction—any knowing, willful, or negligent action contrary to the requirements of this order
or its implementing directives that does not constitute a violation, as defined below.
Integrity—the state that exists when information is unchanged from its source and has not been
accidentally or intentionally modified, altered, or destroyed.
Mandatory Declassification Review (MDR)—the review for declassification of classified
information in response to a request for declassification.
Multiple Sources—two or more source documents, classification guides, or a combination of
both.
National Security—the national defense or foreign relations of the United States.
Need-To-Know—a determination made by an authorized holder of classified information that a
prospective recipient requires access to specific classified information in order to perform or
assist in a lawful and authorized governmental function.
Network—a system of two or more computers that can exchange data or information.
Original Classification—an initial determination that information requires, in the interest of the
national security, protection against unauthorized disclosure.
Original Classification Authority (OCA)—an individual authorized in writing, either by the
President, the Vice President in the performance of executive duties, or by agency heads or other
officials designated by the President, to classify information in the first instance.
Records—the records of an agency and Presidential papers or Presidential records, as those
terms are defined in title 44, United States Code, including those created or maintained by a
government contractor, licensee, certificate holder, or grantee that are subject to the sponsoring
agency's control under the terms of the contract, license, certificate, or grant.
Records Having Permanent Historical Value—Presidential papers or Presidential records and
the records of an agency that the Archivist has determined should be maintained permanently
IAW Title 44, United States Code.
Records Management—the planning, controlling, directing, organizing, training, promoting,
and other managerial activities involved with respect to records creation, records maintenance
and use, and records disposition in order to achieve adequate and proper documentation of the
policies and transactions of the Federal Government and effective and economical management
of agency operations.
440AWI31-401 19 JUNE 2012                                                                       19


Restricted Data (RD)—defined by the Atomic Energy Act as all data concerning design,
manufacture, or utilization of atomic weapons, production of special nuclear material, and use of
Special Nuclear Material in the production of energy.
Safeguarding—measures and controls that are prescribed to protect classified information.
Self-Inspection—the internal review and evaluation of individual agency activities and the
agency as a whole with respect to the implementation of the program established under this order
and its implementing directives.
Sensitive But Unclassified (SBU) Information—information originated within the Department
of State that warrants a degree of protection and administrative control and meets the criteria for
exemption from mandatory public disclosure under FOIA.
Source Document—an existing document that contains classified information that is
incorporated, paraphrased, restated, or generated in new form into a new document.
Special Access Program (SAP)—a program established for a specific class of classified
information that imposes safeguarding and access requirements that exceed those normally
required for information at the same classification level.
Staff Agency Chief—for the purpose of this instruction, staff agency chiefs are those individuals
serving in 2-digit positions reporting to the commander or vice commander above the Wing
level, and 2 and 3 digit positions at HAF.
Systematic Declassification Review—the review for declassification of classified information
contained in records that have been determined by the Archivist to have permanent historical
value IAW title 44, United States Code.
Telecommunications—the preparation, transmission, or communication of information by
electronic means.
Unauthorized Disclosure—a communication or physical transfer of classified information to an
unauthorized recipient.
Violation—(1) any knowing, willful, or negligent action that could reasonably be expected to
result in an unauthorized disclosure of classified information; (2) any knowing, willful, or
negligent action to classify or continue the classification of information contrary to the
requirements of this order or its implementing directives; or (3) any knowing, willful, or
negligent action to create or continue a SAP contrary to the requirements of this order.
