BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            442D FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION 36-8001
442D FIGHTER WING                                                                 15 NOVEMBER 2005
                                                                      Certified Current, 12 January 2008



                                                    EDUCATION AND TRAINING MANAGEMENT


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:        Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                      www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 442 MSF/DPMT                                                           Certified by: 442 MSF/DPM
                                                                                 (Capt Joseph B. Walter)
Supersedes 442FWI36-8001, 26 July 2002                                                         Pages: 5

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-80, Reserve Training and Education.
It defines responsibilities and establishes uniform procedures for administering, controlling and docu-
menting training, and applies to all personnel assigned to the 442 Fighter Wing. Commanders, supervi-
sors, certifiers, trainers and trainees are responsible for ensuring compliance with this instruction.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision identifies
updates to functional area responsibilities, and updates procedures to make use of newer technologies
available.


1. Formal School Management.
   1.1. Unit commanders will make every effort to ensure that all mandatory formal training courses are
   requested by the unit training manager (UTM) within three months, but not later than six months, after
   a member is assigned to a new position and the Control Air Force Specialty Code (CAFSC) changes.
   UTMs will request formal schools no later than 60 days prior to the first requested class date. Mem-
   bers will select three specific class dates; a first, second and third choice. EXCEPTION: Can be less
   than 60 days with member’s group commander concurrence. Signature of the member’s group com-
   mander on the Air Force (AF) Information Management Tool (IMT) 101, Reserve Requirements for
   School Tours of Active Duty for Training, will serve as concurrence.
   1.2. UTMs must ensure all individuals meet all prerequisites listed in Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
   36-2108, Enlisted Classification; AFMAN 36-2105, Officer Classification; and be within fitness and/
   or weight standards in effect at the time of submission of AF IMT 101. Prerequisites requiring certifi-
   cation (e.g., pole climbing) will be certified in writing and forwarded with the AF IMT 101.
2                                                               442FWI36-8001 15 NOVEMBER 2005


    1.3. The UTM will submit a completed AF IMT 101 along with a Training and Education Application
    Management System (TEAMS), print out of school dates to 442d Mission Support Flight Wing Edu-
    cation and Training (442 MSF/DPMT). Ensure all blocks are completed including: course number,
    course title, duration of course, and the individual information under the ‘Training Requested For’
    block, which includes grade, name, social security number (SSN), Duty Air Force Specialty Code
    (DAFSC), Personnel Accounting System (PAS) Code, security clearance, and course announcement
    location. Also, the preparer must obtain the signatures of the individual, UTM and unit commander.
    The 442 MSF/DPMT will secure the signature of the wing financial manager (or a designated repre-
    sentative). Incompleted AF IMTs 101 will be returned to the UTM with discrepancies identified for
    corrective action. A voice or electronic message will be sent to UTMs notifying them of a returned
    packet requiring corrective action.
    1.4. Cancellation of a formal school tour quota within requested dates will require a memorandum
    from the member. The memorandum will state: 1) why he/she cannot attend; 2) when he/she will be
    able to attend; 3) acknowledgment that he/she will attend the next selected technical school date; and
    4) acknowledgment that upon failure to attend the next selected technical school he/she will be
    returned to a previously held AFSC, when applicable, or be reassigned to the Inactive Reserve. The
    member’s memorandum will be signed by the unit commander. The memorandum will be attached to
    the school tour printout and returned to 442 MSF/DPMT before the suspense date on the quota alloca-
    tion notice. Units unable to return the memorandum by the suspense date should contact 442 MSF/
    DPMT for an extension. The wing commander is the approval authority in cases when a member must
    request the cancellation of a second school date.
    1.5. Retrainees with previous or compatible experience in the career field for which they are retrain-
    ing may submit a formal technical school waiver. The decision to request waiver of the technical
    school or submit an AF IMT 101 should be made within four months of assignment to a new position
    and the CAFSC changes. An electronic version of the waiver package should be submitted to 442
    MSF/DPMT within five primary unit training assemblies (UTA) after the duty effective date, for
    review for submission to 10th Air Force Training office (10AF/DPT) within the required six-month
    time frame. The waiver package request will include hard copies of the letters with original signatures,
    all certificates of training mentioned in the biographical sketch, the member's AF Form 623, Individ-
    ual Training Record Folder, with all tasks identified as technical school requirements certified and a
    copy of an annotated waiver checklist. Formal school waiver requests arriving after the six-month
    point must contain significant justification endorsed by the unit commander. Requests that do not
    include justification from the unit commander will be returned.

2. Career Development Course (CDC) Management.
    2.1. The UTM will ensure trainees are enrolled in and receive required CDC materials within 45 days
    of in-processing. EXCEPTIONS: Members transferring from the newcomers training flight have 45
    days from the time they meet with their UTMs during newcomers training. The newcomers training
    schedule incorporates a regular period for UTMs to meet with their new members to initiate this pro-
    cess. (Reference AFI 36-2201, Vol 3, paragraph 9.2.8, Air Force Training Program On-the-Job Train-
    ing Administration).
    2.2. CDC waiver packages for two-time failures must be submitted within six primary UTAs from the
    date the end of course examination was failed. The member's AF Form 623 and a copy of an annotated
442FWI36-8001 15 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                               3


   waiver checklist will be sent along with the waiver package to 442 MSF/DPMT for review and recom-
   mendation before the wing commander’s final approval. (Reference AFI 36-2201, Vol 3, Table 9-1).
   2.3. End of course testing (paper-based and computer) will be conducted every Saturday and Sunday
   during the primary UTA at 1230 and every Tuesday at 1300. Scheduling tests has become necessary
   due to limited seating and special set up. Unit training managers are responsible for scheduling indi-
   viduals using the scheduling procedures implemented by 442 MSF/DPMT. Individuals must be sched-
   uled no later than two hours prior to testing. Alternate test dates will be scheduled only with valid
   justification and unit commander approval.

3. Training Program Administration.
   3.1. UTMs (3S2X1 and additional duty) are required by AFI 36-2201, Vol 3, paragraph 5.2.11, to
   attend the wing education and training meetings. Attendance is recorded and unit commanders noti-
   fied of absences. Meeting minutes are sent to UTMs, commanders and the major command (MAJ-
   COM) training office per AFI 36-2201, Vol 3.
   3.2. UTMs will process their respective Personnel Concept III (PCIII) on-the-job training (OJT) ros-
   ter, monthly and make any necessary annotations to update the training status of all individuals in
   training. A corrected copy with the date of review, signatures of the unit commander and the UTM
   will be forwarded to 442 MSF/DPMT no later than Monday afternoon, following the primary UTA.
   3.3. The UTM must, at the first opportunity, inform 442 MSF/DPMT of any change in duty status that
   will affect a trainee’s upgrade training progress.
   3.4. The UTM will ensure that a current training qualification report (TQR) is included in the AF
   Form 623 of each unit member in grades E-1 through E-6 and those in retraining status for E-7 to E-9.
   The UTM will ensure that each TQR is reviewed periodically for accuracy. The UTM will request a
   TQR through PCIII when a trainee’s status changes include a change in training status code or a
   change in primary, DAFSC or CAFSC.

4. Reserve Tuition Assistance Program.
   4.1. All wing members must submit their completed tuition assistance application packages at least
   10 business days, but not more than 60 days, prior to a class start date. Application packages not meet-
   ing these requirements will be denied. EXCEPTION: In situations where the member is not responsi-
   ble for the delay, the member will prepare written justification explaining the circumstances and
   obtain unit commander endorsement for the request. The request will be forwarded to 442 MSF/
   DPMT with the application package for approval/disapproval from Headquarters Air Force Reserve
   Command.
      4.1.1. Tuition assistance application packages will consist of:
          4.1.1.1. A tuition assistance application package checklist, officer or enlisted, as applicable.
          4.1.1.2. A Defense Activity for Non-Traditional Education Support (DANTES) Form 1562/
          31, DANTES Distance Learning Enrollment Form for Service Members, (one per class).
          This form must be typed, not handwritten.
          4.1.1.3. A student statement of understanding.
4                                                               442FWI36-8001 15 NOVEMBER 2005


           4.1.1.4. A degree plan (applicable for first time submissions or when there is a change in
           degree plan).
           4.1.1.5. A reserve service commitment contract (applicable to officers only).
    4.2. The student statement of understanding and the reserve service commitment contract (if applica-
    ble) are required each time an individual submits a DANTES Form 1562/31; in addition to the appli-
    cable checklist must be included each time an individual submits a DANTES Form 1562/31. The
    student statement of understanding requires the student’s signature, as well as the supervisor’s or com-
    mander’s signature. The purpose of the supervisor/commander signature is to verify that the member
    is a satisfactory participant.
    4.3. To secure reimbursement of course fees, students must submit proof of cost at the time of appli-
    cation or when submitting final grade.

5. Adopted or Prescribed IMTs
    5.1. Adopted IMTs. AF IMT 101 Reserve Requirements for School Tours of Active Duty for
    Training; AF Form 623, Individual Training Record Folder; DANTES Form 1562/31, DANTES
    Distance Learning Enrollment Form for Service Members.
    5.2. Prescribed IMTs. No IMTs are prescribed by this instruction.



                                                PATRICK A. CORD, Colonel, USAFR
                                                Commander
442FWI36-8001 15 NOVEMBER 2005                                                      5


                                          Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-2201, Vol 3, Air Force Training Program On-the-Job Training Administration
AFMAN 36-2105, Officer Classification
AFMAN 36-2108, Enlisted Classification
AFPD 36-80, Reserve Training and Education

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
CAFSC—Control Air Force Specialty Code
CDC—Career Development Course
DAFSC—Duty Air Force Specialty Code
DANTES—Defense Activity for Non-Traditional Education Support
IMT—Information Management Tool
MAJCOM—Major Command
OJT—On-The-Job Training
PAS—Personnel Accounting Symbol Code
PCIII—Personnel Concept III
SSN—Social Security Number
TEAMS—Training and Education Application Management System
TQR—Training Qualification Report
UTA—Unit Training Assembly
UTM—Unit Training Manager
