BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               442D FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION
442D FIGHTER WING                                                               91-206

                                                                                    13 JUNE 2013

                                                                                            Safety

                                                     BLANK AMMUNITION HANDLING AND
                                                                             ISSUE

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 442 FW/SEW                                                           Certified by: 442 FW/SE
                                                                          (Lt Col Patrick Murphy)
                                                                                          Pages: 14
Supersedes:    442FWI91-206,
               15 February 2006


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 91-2, Safety Program. It
provides guidance and promotes safety during the handling, issue and storage of blank
ammunition. This instruction applies to all personnel assigned to the wing that are required to use
blank ammunition. Unit Commanders will ensure ammunition custodians and exercise directors
follow ammunition handling and issue procedures established in this instruction during exercises,
training or competitive events for which blank ammunition is requested and issued. Information
in this instruction complies with 442d Fighter Wing Instruction (FWI) 21-202, Transportation of
Munitions in Metro Type Vehicles, 442FWI 21-201, Munitions Customer Procedures, 442FWI
91-203, Use of Pyrotechnics and Air Force Manual (AFM) 91-201, Explosive Safety Standards.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. Requests for
waivers must be submitted through chain of command to the OPR listed above for consideration
and approval. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been revised in its entirety to update references and revise format.
 2                                                                  442FWI91-206 13 JUNE 2013


1. Responsibilities. Responsibilities for implementing, monitoring and enforcing this
instruction are assigned as follows:
2. Unit Commanders:
     2.1. Ensure all blank ammunition is stored at the MSA or at an authorized licensed location.
     2.2. Ensure this instruction is complied with fully within the unit.
     2.3. Appoint in writing a unit Exercise Director responsible for controlling the inventory,
     issue and control of all blank ammunition requested for the exercise or training.
     2.4. Provide 442 FW/SEW with a detailed exercise plan for the use of blank ammunition 30
     days prior to the start of the exercise for approval.
3. Weapons Safety:
     3.1. Be the single point of contact for training and use of blank ammunition within the 442
     Fighter Wing (FW).
     3.2. Assist unit commanders and supervisors in facilitating implementation of this
     instruction.
     3.3. Review and coordinate use of blank ammunition with host base Weapons Safety Office
     (SEW).
     3.4. Provide periodic surveillance during exercises when blank ammunition is used.
4. Munitions Storage Area (MSA):
     4.1. Receive munitions/explosive residue from user upon completion of exercise or training.
     4.2. Ensure blank ammunition is issued to authorized personnel identified on AF IMT 68,
     Munitions Authorization Record. If the user is other than Security Forces personnel a
     combat arms supervisor, munitions custodian or other individual trained and qualified an in
     accordance with (IAW) AFM 91-201, 2.2, must be present to complete the issue.
5. Exercise Director:
     5.1. Working with munitions personnel, positively ensure ammunition set aside for training
     includes only ammunition identified IAW 442 FWI 91-203, Use of Pyrotechnics.
     5.2. Ensure all certified ammunition is placed in sealed ammo cans. The seal number will be
     recorded for verification purposes prior to issue.
     5.3. Ensure the senior controller is armed with a M9 (9mm) and live ammunition for
     weapons courier duties in the field. If manning doesn’t allow for controllers, the M9 live
     ammunition will be secured in the exercise area by placing the weapon/holster in red ammo
     can and sealed inside the field command post. No live round shall be chambered unless
     hostilities are expected and the armed person must be able to return fire with minimal delay.
     5.4. Ensure safety briefing is conducted with IAW 442 FWI 91-203, (Attachment #3)
5.5. Provide a disinterested observer to witness all loading and certify that all magazines and
ammo belts are indeed blanks. Initialing magazines and/or ammo belt containers will complete
certification.
442FWI91-206 13 JUNE 2013                                                                       3


6. All Affected Personnel:
   6.1. All personnel have the responsibility to make safety paramount in field training
   exercises.
   6.2. Any person observing an unsafe act or an unexpected condition involving blank
   ammunition will immediately declare a STOP-X via the fastest means available. The
   “STOP-X” will remain in effect until the unsafe act or discrepancy can be explained or
   corrected.
7. Procedures:
   7.1. Utilize the Field Training Exercise (FTX) Planning Sheet to develop an exercise plan
   and throughout the implementation as a coordination checklist, (Attachment 2).
   7.2. Prepare a written plan for the use of blank ammunition and submit to the 442 FW/SEW
   30 days prior to the start of the exercise for approval. The exercise director will be included
   in the submitted plan.
   7.3. To the maximum extent possible, 9mm, 5.56mm, and 7.62 blank ammunition will be
   loaded in magazines prior to the start of the exercise in a controlled environment under the
   observation of a disinterested third party familiar with blank and live ammunition. The third
   party will initial all loaded ammunition to certify that only blanks were loaded. 5.56/7.62
   linked blanked ammunition will be certified by initialing the belt container.
      7.3.1. Blank ammunition not loaded prior to the start of the exercise will be inspected
      and certified by initialing the ammo can that the blank ammunition will be stored in. A
      seal will be placed on the can and recorded for verification purposes prior to issuing in
      the field.
   7.3.2. For M9 loading procedures, a round shall not be chambered nor should the selector
   lever be moved to the “semi”, “burst” or “auto” position until arriving at assigned exercise
   location where the armed person must be able to fire with minimal delay. Prior to leaving the
   assigned exercise location, all rounds shall be safely removed from the chamber.
   7.3.3. For M9 loading procedures, the clip will not be inserted until after the slide is
   released. No round shall be chambered and the weapon shall remain on safe unless the armed
   person has the intent to fire the weapon during the exercise. Prior to leaving the assigned
   exercise location, all rounds shall be safely removed from the chamber.
   7.4. Weapons Couriers will be identified as the senior controller and will be the only person
   with live ammunition in the exercise area. In the event controllers are not utilized, weapons
   courier ammunition and weapon will be secured in a RED ammo can and sealed. This can
   and will be placed in the field command post unless required to prevent the immediate theft
   of weapons deployed in the field.
   7.5. A complete documented inventory of all blank and live ammunition will be conducted
   upon receipt of ammo, after loading, during field issue, shift/personnel change and upon
   completion of the exercise, (Attachment #4). At any time a variance is discovered a “STOP-
   X” will be declared via the fastest means possible. The “STOP-X” will remain in effect until
   the variance can be explained or corrected.
 4                                                                 442FWI91-206 13 JUNE 2013


     7.6. Prior to issuing any blank ammunition, all personnel will have their rucksacks, bags,
     ammo pouches and gear inspected by their supervisor for ammunition of any type.
     7.7. The exercise director for all participants will conduct a safety briefing. At a minimum,
     the following information will be kept on file for 90 days from the date of the briefing:
        7.7.1. Participants Name and rank.
        7.7.2. Date briefing was conducted.
        7.7.3. Copy or location of material briefed.
        7.7.4. Name and rank of person conducting briefing.
     7.8. Only magazines/blank ammunition issued by the using unit will be utilized. Absolutely
     no other will be introduced into the exercise area.
     7.9. Blank adapters will be installed on all weapons prior to blank ammunition being issued
     to participants.
7.10. Upon completion of the exercise, the exercise director will have sweeps conducted to the
maximum extent possible to collect expended blank ammunition.

        7.10.1. All expended brass will be collected at a single point in the exercise area.
        7.10.2. All blank ammunition that was not expended will be collected at a single point
        not collocated with expended collection.
        7.10.3. Reconciliation will be conducted of both expended and non-expended blanks
        prior to turn-in. All turn-ins will be conducted IAW 442 FWI 21-202 to munitions
        personnel.
     7.11. All individual rucksacks, ammo pouches, gear and equipment will be inspected for
     ammunition before departing the exercise area.
8. Safe Firing Distances:
     8.1. To meet the requirements in AF Technical Order (T.O). 11W3-5-5-42, Unit and Direct
     Support Maintenance Manual (M16, 5.56MM), no M16 shall be fired at an individual within
     25 feet. The M60 shall not be fired at individual closer than 60 feet.




                                              ERIC S. OVERTURF, Brigadier General, USAFR
                                              Commander
442FWI91-206 13 JUNE 2013                                                    5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
442 FWI 21-201, Customer Procedures.
442 FWI 21-202, Transportation of Munitions in Metro Type Vehicles.
442 FWI 91-203, Use of Pyrotechnics.
AFPD 91-2, Safety Program.
AFTO 11W3-5-5-42, Unit and Direct Support Maintenance Manual, M16, 5.56MM.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF IMT 68, Munitions Authorization Record

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AD—Active Duty
ATC—Air Traffic Control
COMSEC—Communications Security
CP—Command Post
CSC—Central Security Control
EOD—Explosive Ordinance Disposal
FD—Fire Department
GBS—Ground Burst Simulators (pyrotechnics)
GROE's—Ground Rules of Engagement
ID—Identification
LED—Law Enforcement Desk
MSA—Munitions Storage Area
OPFOR—Opposing Forces
OPORD—Operations Order
OPSEC—Operations Security
SFT—Security Forces Training
TEEO—Training Exercise Evaluation Outline

Terms
START-X—Initiation of exercise activities or exercise inputs.
 6                                                               442FWI91-206 13 JUNE 2013


STOP-X—Temporary cease in all exercise activities for an unforeseen circumstance.
MILES— Multiple Integrated Laser Engagement System. System consists of a weapons
mounted laser activated by overpressure created at the muzzle by firing blank ammunition. The
laser is projected at a torso/helmet harness worn by exercise participants. A "kill" is registered
by a continuous tone from the harness.
442FWI91-206 13 JUNE 2013                                                                       7


                                           Attachment 2
                            FTX EXERCISE PLANNING SHEET

A2.1. Establish trainings needs and objectives.
A2.2. Creative TEEOS/scenarios (have coordinated & approved by CC).
A2.3. Test scenarios against objectives.
A2.4. Are the following emphasized?
   A2.4.1. Immediate isolation & sealing off of affected area.
   A2.4.2. Sustain initial shock of violent attack.
   A2.4.3. Command and control at every level.
   A2.4.4. Radio discipline to include OPSEC/COMSEC.
   A2.4.5. Adjusting fields of fire.
   A2.4.6. Formation of blocking forces.
   A2.4.7. Fire and maneuver tactics.
   A2.4.8. Small unit leadership skills.
   A2.4.9. Employment of weaponry.
   A2.4.10. Utilize the ORM Process for hazard identification.
A2.5. Coordination
   A2.5.1. Identify controllers for OPFOR, site, friendly teams, and munitions.
   A2.5.2. Verify process for loading, issuing and equipping participants with munitions.
   A2.5.3. Verify availability of miles gear and process for issuing/testing miles gear.
   A2.5.4. Schedule classrooms and training areas (Cobra Site scheduled through 509 SFT, et
   #5806).
   A2.5.5. Armory NCOIC on needed blank adapters.
   A2.5.6. Provide training dates to operations and vehicle support.
   A2.5.7. Identify individuals performing controller/evaluator duty and ensure EOD training.
   A2.5.8. Coordinate planning package throughout wing if required (Safety, FD, Group and
   Wing CC, AD).
   A2.5.9. Schedule and brief OPFOR.
   A2.5.10. Coordinate pick-up of MILES Gear from FT Leonard Wood (if applicable).
   A2.5.11. Identify MILES POC for issue, sighting, testing usage and turn-in.
A2.6. Pre-exercise coordination/actions
   A2.6.1. Brief/coordinate with key agencies (ATC Tower, CP, LED, CSC, and FD).
   A2.6.2. Verify Medical and Fire Dept. support and response.
 8                                                                   442FWI91-206 13 JUNE 2013


     A2.6.3. Verify armory/vehicle support.
     A2.6.4. Verify controller inspection of pouches and issuance of ammunition.
     A2.6.5. Verify controller issuance and testing of miles gear.
     A2.6.6. Ensure controller verify no live ammo in possession of participants.
     A2.6.7. Accomplish weapons/equipment/vehicle issue (participants/controllers/OPFOR).
     A2.6.8. Accomplish safety briefing to all.
     A2.6.9. Brief the OPORD/GROE’s to all.
     A2.6.10. Separately brief OPFOR, Controllers on scenario.
     A2.6.11. Ensure controllers have “ID”, god guns and keys.
     A2.6.12. Controllers have GBS/smoke.
     A2.6.13. Controllers have input cards, water, and first aid kits.
     A2.6.14. Verify posting and all pre-exercise actions are completed.
     A2.6.15. Initiate exercise via input #1.
A2.7. Post exercise actions
     A2.7.1. Conduct on-site critique to participants.
     A2.7.2. Conduct thorough sweeps through exercise area for spent brass and lost equipment.
     A2.7.3. Verify accountability of all items with armory, supply, and vehicle section.
     A2.7.4. File original copy of after-action report with unit training section and provide copies
     as directed.
442FWI91-206 13 JUNE 2013                                                                           9


                                           Attachment 3
                                EXERCISE SAFETY BRIEFING

A3.1. The exercise Director will ensure this safety briefing is fully briefed to all exercise
participants prior to initiation of the exercise. He/she will make efforts to have Wing Safety
personnel available at safety briefings and provide additional input. The purpose of this briefing
is to make exercise participants clearly aware of all safety hazards, precautions, considerations
and procedures involved with all aspects of ground, vehicle, weapons and exercise safety.
A3.2. All participants (to include controllers) must understand that safety is absolutely
paramount and is second to nothing. The briefer will ensure each area is completely covered and
field questions when clarification is needed in any area.
A3.3. General Safety Considerations: As in all we do, safety is absolutely paramount. If we
can’t do it safely, we don’t do it. Each and every exercise has the potential for injury, loss of life
and/or damage to equipment or property. Everyone has the responsibility to immediately
identify and stop any activity deemed as unsafe.
   A3.3.1. The Exercise Director along with munitions personnel will positively ensure
   ammunition set aside for training only includes blank ammo; all ammo will be inspected by
   munitions personnel prior to issue as a fail-safe per AFI 21-201, Chapter 2 and TO 11A-1-10.
   All magazines will be loaded in a controlled environment; if loaded ahead of time, the
   magazines will be stored in an ammo can and sealed with the Exercise Director viewing to
   record the seal number. To comply with resource protection concerns, the senior controller
   will be armed; with this exception, NO live ammunition will be in the weapon. Prior to
   issuing blank ammo, all magazine pouches, ruck sacks and applicable bags will be emptied
   and inspected by the individual owner(s) and supervisor(s). All magazines will be checked
   using a locally developed GO/NO-GO Gage prior to issue.
   A3.3.2. All magazines loaded will be initialed by the inspector to certify that only blank
   ammo has been loaded. An inventory of all munitions in the field will be conducted at the
   start of the FTX, at any personnel changes and upon completion of the FTX. At any time a
   variance is discovered in the inventory, a STOP-X will be declared and the variance will be
   investigated. A disinterested party will certify that only blank ammo has been issued to the
   using party.
   A3.3.3. The Exercise Director will conduct coordination prior to START-X with appropriate
   control centers and agencies; this includes as a minimum CSC, LED, CP, ATC Tower and
   Base Operations. He/she will attempt to have Wing Safety, Medical and fire crews present
   during scenarios.
A3.4. Vehicle Safety: Properly trained and certified GOV Operators will drive Vehicles. All
speed limits will be strictly adhered to and strict compliance concerning usage of seatbelts.
Vehicles will not be operated on runways/taxiways without direct contact and approval from the
ATC Tower. Note: Taxiways and active runways are “no-play areas”. Personnel must pay
particular attention when deploying from vehicles; many accidents have occurred due to persons’
eagerness to show hustle during the “firefight”. Participants must ensure vehicles are at
complete stops prior to deployment and safely dismount vehicles. Vehicle Operators will at all
 10                                                             442FWI91-206 13 JUNE 2013


times maintain absolute and safe control of their vehicle ensuring proper clearance from all
objects.
A3.5. Ground Safety: Participants must be briefed to ensure their individual equipment is
properly secured and fastened; helmet chin straps, flak vest, canteen, etc. On top of being a
safety issue, this significantly improves accountability of equipment. There are many ditches,
holes, ravines and depressions in the exercise area; some are apparent while others cannot be
seen. All participants must be aware to constantly assess their movements and ensure footing.
Do not dive headlong into a brush pile or foliage you can'’ see the bottom of, you could be
diving onto an old contractor’s metal rebar and impale yourself. Everyone must be aware of
safety considerations involving heat stress, heat stroke and dehydration; anyone aware of
someone exhibiting symptoms will immediately notify controllers who will in-turn notify
Medical Personnel. Controllers will determine if an END-X is warranted. All personnel will
have two (2) canteens full on their person prior to exercise initiation.
A3.6. Weapons Safety: The Exercise Director and controllers will ensure all weapons have
adapters installed. Any weapons without an adapter will be turned back into the Armory.
   A3.6.1. Participants are authorized to remove ammo from friendly or OPFOR players that
   have been terminated; weapons will remain in the possession of the individual. The only
   exception will be the M60 machine gun; the M60 may be taken as long as the person is
   certified on the weapon. No weapon of any type will be fired from a vehicle unless the
   vehicle is designed to accommodate the weapon system being employed. Any person(s)
   violating this directive will be immediately removed from the scenario.
   A3.6.2. Knives will not be drawn during any tactical exercise scenario (while in direct play).
   Participants will not engage in hand-to-hand tactics.
   A3.6.3. To meet requirements in AF T.O. 11W3-5-5-42, no M16 shall be fired within 25
   feet or M60 fired within 60 feet of an individual. Evaluators will remain in positions to
   enforce this safety measure. Participants will be briefed to be especially cognizant of the
   dangers posed by weapons barrels/sights during individual movement; move safely and
   purposely remembering one of the basic rules of tactical movement, “positively know where
   you’re going and what is there before you go”.
A3.7. PYROTECHNICS SAFETY: The exercise Director and controllers will ensure only
personnel certified by letter (EOD Trained) will have access to explosive munitions. Any
individual found violating this directive would be removed from the exercise area. All munitions
will be transported IAW AFMAN 91-201, 2.70.2.74.
   A3.7.1. Exercise Smoke: Only controllers and/or fire team leaders and above will be in
   possession of smoke. Controllers will activate smoke upon request or at the direction of the
   scenario. Different color smoke may be utilized, the colors are not meant to symbolize
   anything specific unless dictated in the OPORD. Emphasize to all participants the purpose of
   smoke is to mask movement, as a diversionary tactic and confuse the enemy. Special caution
   will be briefed to participants concerning the use of smokes; smoke can be toxic in large
   quantities and poses dangers in identifying stable/safe footing during movement. Personnel
   should avoid standing or lying in large clouds of smoke. Controllers will ensure water
   extinguishers are obtained from the fire department in the event of grass fires.
442FWI91-206 13 JUNE 2013                                                                        11


   A3.7.2. Ground Burst Simulators (GBS): These will be issued only to controllers by
   permission of the Exercise Director. The use of GBSs is limited to simulate explosions
   and/or stand-off weapon systems; GBSs are not and will not be used to simulate the use of
   hand grenades or similar devices. All personnel will be briefed of the inherent dangers of the
   GBS; it is the same as ¼ stick of dynamite, can and will send fragments at high rates of speed
   in all directions. Controllers will positively ensure GBS are not thrown within 200 feet of a
   facility, 125 feet of vehicles/personnel or within 10 feet of combustible material. These
   devices will be thrown in open areas free of debris or gravel, if possible IAW the scenario
   sandbag pits will be constructed to serve as a “GBS Pit”. The Exercise Director will reiterate
   to controller’s measures to be taken in the event of a dud; note the time, mark the device,
   EOD notification and remain at the scene at a safe distance until arrival of EOD. Controllers
   will ensure personnel remain at least 125 feet from the device at all times. All controllers
   will be notified of any munitions dud and location.
A3.8. OPFOR: OPFOR will take directions from the exercise controllers; at no time will
OPFOR stray from the scenario and “free hand” their actions.
A3.9. OBSERVATION: Any participants observing an unsafe act or condition that endangers
personnel and/or equipment deemed serious enough to halt the exercise and receive immediate
attention will declare either on the exercise freq. or yelled to others in the vicinity STOP-X.
Anyone hearing this will immediately relay by any means available to Controllers, Exercise
Director or CSC. Controllers will immediately respond to the location of the hazard/incident and
make a determination whether the exercise can continue or a STOP-X is warranted; this decision
will be made with the approval of the Exercise Director. If required, the Exercise Director will
immediately request medical/FD support through CSC.
A3.10. The Exercise Director will in coordination with participants oversee removal of all spent
casings and brass; ensure a sweep is conducted of the entire exercise area.
A3.11. All participants will conduct equipment accountability upon termination and attend a
post-critique prior to departing the exercise area; Director/controllers will identify observations,
areas for needed improvement, etc. Safety observations and issues will addressed at this time.
A3.12. Upon return to Bldg. 711 all weapons will be cleaned and inspected prior to turn-in; if
time doesn’t permit do to UTA status, the weapons will be cleaned the following UTA.
12                                                            442FWI91-206 13 JUNE 2013


                                       Attachment 4
                          30 ROUND MAGAZINE GO/NO-GO

A4.1. PROPOSED 30 RD MAGAZINE GO/NO-GO GAGE FOR BLANK AMMO

Figure A4.1. 30 ROUND MAGAZINE GO/NO-GO.




  A4.1.1. The gage would be used to slide down the front of the magazine loaded with blank
  ammo without restriction. A scribe line or stop could be used to display that the gage is at
  the bottom of the magazine, this would indicate a GO.
  A4.1.2. As demonstrated on the above right, if a live round was mixed in the load the gage
  would not seat to the prescribed mark and thus indicate a NO-GO load requiring inspection.
  A4.1.3. The measurement of a blank round is approximately 1 ¾”. A live round is
  approximately 2 ¼”. This would allow a gage to be machined out of aluminum or similar
  material approximately ½” x ½”.
  A4.1.4. This would allow all loaded magazines to be inspected prior to the execution of any
  ground exercise where blank ammo is being used.
442FWI91-206 13 JUNE 2013                                      13


                                   Attachment 5
                        AMMUNITION INVENTORY LOG

Figure A5.1. Ammunition Inventory Log.

NOMEN              REQUES RECEI LOAD BALAN INSPECTOR   INITI   DATE
                   TED    VED   ED   CE    SIGNATURE   ALS

5.56MM BLANK




5.56MM LINKED

BLANK




7.62MM LINKED

BLANK




EWD DEVICES




SMOKES

GREEN

YELLOW

VIOLET




GBS
14              442FWI91-206 13 JUNE 2013




TRIP FLARE




9MM BALL LIVE
