BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                442D FIGHTER WING
442D FIGHTER WING                                                        INSTRUCTION 21-133

                                                                                  12 JUNE 2012

                                                                                    Maintenance

                                                                     AIRCRAFT HOT BRAKES


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 442 AMXS/MXA                                                     Certified by: 442 MXG/CC
                                                                      (Lt Col Gregory D. Halen)
                                                                                         Pages: 4
Supersedes:    442FWI 21-133, 1 July 2002


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space
Maintenance. It establishes procedures to follow in the event of hot brake of a 442d Fighter
Wing (442 FW) owned aircraft. These procedures apply to all maintenance personnel assigned
to the 442 FW. Superintendents, flight chiefs, and supervisors are responsible for ensuring
compliance with this instruction. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include changing Dispatch Debrief Section (DDS) to Maintenance Operation Center (MOC).
1. Responsibilities. During flying of assigned A-10C aircraft, it is the responsibility of all 442
FW maintenance or munitions personnel that discover a hot brake condition to respond and
determine the necessary action. A “hot brake” is when the pilot reports the condition and/or
when the wheel fuse plug melts and the tire deflates. No ground personnel will enter an
 2                                                                  442FWI21-133 12 JUNE 2012


aircraft’s danger zone when “hot brakes” are declared until cleared by the Incident Commander
which will be the Senior Fire Officer.
     1.1. Pilot: Following a brake application, which could cause overheated brakes, declare a
     ground emergency for hot brakes.
        1.1.1. Contact the control tower and Supervisor of Flying (SOF) declare a ground
        emergency, and request fire department coverage and maintenance support for hot
        brakes. Give the location and appropriate status if known at that time. The SOF will
        notify the Command Post who will notify MOC and the fire department of the
        appropriate status when they arrive on the scene.
        1.1.2. If the condition occurs during landing roll or following an aborted take-off do not
        taxi further than necessary to assure safe clearance from runway.
        1.1.3. Every effort should be made to get the aircraft to the “hot brakes” parking area
        with the fire department standing by until the brakes have cooled for at least 20 minutes.
        The “hot brakes” parking area is located at the south or north hammerhead. Personnel
        safety is paramount. Under no circumstance will safety be compromised to park the
        aircraft at the “hot brakes” parking area. If possible, stop the aircraft facing into the
        wind.
        1.1.4. If a fire is observed, leave the aircraft and stay clear of responding emergency
        vehicles.
        1.1.5. If notified of “hot brakes” while taxing, taxi only as far as necessary to clear taxi
        routes and stop the aircraft. If “hot brakes” are found after aircraft is parked, the aircraft
        will be left in position. If in a congested area, consideration must be given to the
        evacuation of nearby aircraft and personnel in the event of fire or tire failure.
        1.1.6. Since debris from an exploding tire will normally travel outboard in relation to the
        aircraft, the flight crew will attempt to align the aircraft so that danger to ground
        personnel and nearby aircraft is reduced. In no case will the aircraft be moved to a
        congested area.
     1.2. MOC: When informed of a “hot brakes” condition. The MOC will initiate Emergency
     Action Check sheet, Aircraft Hot Brakes, obtain and document the following information:
     aircraft, serial number, location, aircraft configuration, date and time notified. Coordinate
     equipment for the aircraft, as required. Note: When notifying the SOF, MOC will request
     other landing aircraft be moved away from the hot brake aircraft to the de-arm area at the
     other end of the runway, if necessary.
     1.3. 442d Aircraft Maintenance Squadron (442 AMXS): Upon notification of a hot brake
     condition, AMXS personnel will respond to aircraft with chocks, ground cord, headset, fire
     bottle and await instructions from the On Scene Commander.
     1.4. Upon arrival, the Senior Fire Official (Incident Commander) assumes command of the
     situation whenever a ground emergency is declared. The senior maintenance person on site
     will coordinate with the Senior Fire Official (Incident Commander), as required.
442FWI21-133 12 JUNE 2012                                                                      3


2. Procedures:
   2.1. Procedures for suspected hot brakes found by maintenance at parking ramp: Suspend
   maintenance and evacuate all unnecessary personnel 300 feet of suspected hot brake aircraft.
   Chock aircraft nose gear, direct pilot to shut down engines if needed. Notify MOC,
   providing aircraft location, munitions and fuel on board. MOC will contact Base Operations
   and initiate a ground emergency. Direct other aircraft out of the area. The landing gear
   safety pins will not be installed and munitions/armament will not be de-armed. Monitor
   wheel and tire for 20 minutes. This allows time for the heat to build up to its maximum
   temperature. Wheel fuse plugs melt at a temperature of 390 degrees Fahrenheit.
      2.1.1. If the fuse plugs do not melt after 20 minutes, the brakes assembly is not
      considered hot. Resume normal maintenance on any affected aircraft. If aircraft parking
      spot is on the end of a parking row, ensure vehicle traffic is routed away until the danger
      has passed.
      2.1.2. If tire deflates do the following: After the tire has deflated the majority of the
      danger is over. Remain clear of aircraft and adjacent aircraft until the fire department
      terminates emergency. Note: Insure that minimum personnel are exposed to the
      explosive area of an aircraft with a hot brake condition. Do not approach landing gear
      from either side; approach only from the front or rear. Do not use fire extinguishers on
      hot brakes. Do not move aircraft for at least 20 minutes after brakes have been cooled.




                                           ERIC S. OVERTURF, Brig Gen, USAFR
                                           Commander
 4                                                       442FWI21-133 12 JUNE 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 February 2003
Prescribed Forms
No forms prescribed
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
442 AMXS—442d Aircraft Maintenance Squadron
442 FW—442d Fighter Wing
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
DDS—Dispatch Debrief Section
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SOF—Supervisor of Flying
