BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                             445TH AIRLIFT WING
445TH AIRLIFT WING                                                     INSTRUCTION 33-301

                                                                               30 APRIL 2010

                                                            Communications and Information

                                                      SMALL COMPUTER MANAGEMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 445 CF/SCBN                                                    Certified by: 445 AW/CC
Supersedes: 445 AWI 33-101,                                      (Colonel Mary S. Henderhan)
            11 May 2001                                                               Pages: 7


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-2, Information Assurance
Program, public law and national policy. This instruction extends the guidance of Air Force
Instruction (AFI) 33-210, Air Force Certification And Accreditation (C&A) Program (AFCAP).
It establishes the guidance for management and governs the use of all 445th Airlift Wing (445
AW) Automatic Data Processing Equipment (ADPE) assets and applies to all personnel utilizing
445 AW ADPE. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office
of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force Information Management Tool (AF IMT)
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMTs 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363 Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records      Disposition    Schedule    (RDS)     located   at    https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
1. RESPONSIBILITIES.
   1.1. Users are responsible for identifying current and future hardware and software needs to
   the network management office (445 CF/SCBN), performing and maintaining computer
   backups, preventive care of equipment (hardware and software), safeguarding and controlling
   access to ADPE. The user will complete Information Assurance (IA) training annually,
   operate computers and associated equipment in the prescribed manner, obtain and maintain
2                                                               445AWI33-101 30 APRIL 2010


    basic computer skills and maintain familiarity with operating instructions and guidance. The
    user is responsible for ensuring that commercial or proprietary software (e.g., any software
    that belongs to others) is used only in accordance with the respective licensing agreements,
    and will ensure that only Designated Approval Authority (DAA) approved software is used.
    Users must accomplish the DD Form 2875 annually per AFI 33-115V2 and WPAFBI33-201,
    submitting the completed electronic document to the 445 CF/SCBN organizational mailbox.
    1.2. Supervisors will determine, justify, and request all computer/software requirements, and
    provide training time for users to stay current on policies and procedures. The supervisor is
    the first point of contact for resolving computer problems. Supervisors will also request
    access for personnel in their respective areas and will ensure proper utilization of equipment
    and that security measures are maintained. Supervisors are responsible for counseling
    subordinates on the proper utilization of government equipment and services.
    1.3. Client Support Technicians (CSTs) (formerly “Workgroup Manager” or “Client Support
    Administrator”) will request approval for and control installation of any software on all
    computers in their areas of responsibility; this coordination is with the wing’s System
    Administrator (SA), 445 CF/SCBN. The CST will remove all unauthorized software found
    on client systems, will clean and report viruses and spyware/malware, and will be the focal
    point for reporting deficiencies and abuse to the SA. The CST will coordinate with the
    user/supervisor during trouble-shooting of client-computer problems. They will attend
    required training and attend the Computer Working Group (CWG) meetings (formerly
    “Workgroup Manager Meetings”). The CST will disseminate information from various
    sources and maintain a current log of all authorized users. CSTs will track annual
    Information Assurance refresher training for users in their respective areas and will disable
    accounts of those who are overdue for this training.
    1.4. Functional Administrator(s) (FA) are appointed in writing by their commanders with
    approval of the SA. FAs will notify and work with the SA regarding the installation of
    specific applications, file services and any increased resource requirements. FAs will
    determine and control the access to that specific application or file service and provide any
    necessary training. FAs will maintain a list of users authorized to access their application(s)
    and forward that list to all CSTs. The FAs will install, direct installation of, troubleshoot,
    and resolve all problems that may exist or occur with their specific applications, file services
    or equipment and will notify the SA of any impact on network resources. FAs will be
    responsible for any and all specialized equipment or ADPE. The FAs will be the single point
    of contact for all data loaded into the applications under their jurisdiction.
    1.5. The System Administrator (SA) will chair the 445 AW CWG meetings and will control
    network and computer assets as described in this instruction. Group commanders are
    represented by their CSTs at the CWG. The SA works in close coordination with the 445
    AW Equipment Control Officer (ECO). 445 CF/SCBN is the office of primary responsibility
    for all processes dealing with ADPE.
    1.6. Wing, group and squadron commanders will ensure compliance with this instruction.
    1.7. Equipment Custodian duties are covered in AFI 33-112, Information Technology
    Hardware Asset Management.
445AWI33-101 30 APRIL 2010                                                                     3


2. PROCEDURES.
  2.1. Network User Accounts.
     2.1.1. The supervisor will request accounts for subordinates by completing a DD Form
     2875 and AF Form 4394. These two forms must be completed electronically, signed
     digitally by the requestor and requestor’s supervisor, e-mailed to the unit or wing security
     manager for their digital signature, and e-mailed to the 445 CF/SCBN organizational
     mailbox.
     2.1.2. The network management office will validate the submitted forms and build the
     network user account and respond via e-mail to the supervisor of the requestor once the
     account is ready for use.
     2.1.3. Once the requestor has the ability to login, that person must complete Information
     Assurance training within three business days and e-mail confirmation of completion to
     the 445 CF/SCBN organizational mailbox.
  2.2. Equipment/Software Purchase.
     2.2.1. The supervisor will determine their requirements for computers, peripherals,
     software and printers and submit changes/requests on AF Form 3215, IT/NSS
     Requirements Document, to the SA through their CST.
     2.2.2. The SA will determine if funding is available and approve/disapprove the
     purchase. If funding is available the SA will purchase the required equipment/software.
     Otherwise, the AF IMT 3215 will be submitted as an unfunded request (UFR) either
     locally or to 4 AF during the UFR cycle. Computer resources must be purchased from
     the Air Force small computer contract unless the contract will not satisfy the requirement.
     2.2.3. Only the ECO may seek and procure computer equipment from the Defense
     Reutilization Marketing Office (DRMO). This practice is prohibited for other personnel.
     If equipment located at DRMO is desired notify the ECO for further instruction.
  2.3. Appointment Letters.
     2.3.1. The SA will request appointment letters from squadron commanders for
     appointment of FAs. Whenever possible, the primary appointee will be a civilian or Air
     Reserve Technician (ART) and the alternate will be a traditional reservist.
     2.3.2. The wing/group commander issues letters of appointment for the CST and
     alternate for each functional area within their command.
  2.4. Software Installation on personal computers (PCs) or Network.
     2.4.1. The CST or FA will notify the SA in writing of unique software installation
     requirements. Based on resource availability, the SA will determine if the installation of
     the software is acceptable and will provide written approval for its installation.
  2.5. System or Equipment Abuse.
     2.5.1. First Offense: The supervisor, CST, FA or SA will notify the user in writing of
     the noted abuse. An information copy will be forwarded to the SA. Equipment abuse is
     damage caused by willful action or negligence. Examples of system abuse include
4                                                               445AWI33-101 30 APRIL 2010


       accessing non-official or inappropriate websites, sending or forwarding non-official or
       inappropriate e-mail, or subscribing to unofficial newsgroups/distribution lists.
       2.5.2. Second Offense: The reporting official will notify the user in writing of noted
       offense and access to wing systems/equipment will be rescinded. Copies of notification
       will be forwarded to the individual’s supervisor, squadron commander, FA, CST and SA
       as applicable.
       2.5.3. Subsequent Offenses are subject to disciplinary action by the individual’s chain of
       command.
    2.6. Movement/Transfer of Equipment.
       2.6.1. If it is necessary to move or transfer ADPE the Equipment Custodian (EC) will
       contact the ECO for specific instructions.
    2.7. Network Connectivity.
       2.7.1. Without exception, no equipment will be attached to the network without express
       direction from the SA. If network connectivity is required, the CST will notify the SA of
       the requirement.
       2.7.2. The SA will, as applicable, coordinate with Wright-Patterson’s Network
       Management Center (NMC) to ensure the equipment to be connected is compatible with
       the network. The SA will forward specific instructions to the requesting CST.
       2.7.3. The CST will ensure compliance during the connection of the networked
       equipment.
    2.8. Reporting Computer/Software Problems.
       2.8.1. The user will notify their supervisor of existing or potential problems.
       2.8.2. The supervisor will make corrections if it is possible for them to do so. The
       supervisor will coordinate with the CST to resolve the problem.
       2.8.3. The CST will coordinate with the responsible Equipment Custodian (EC) to verify
       the equipment is not under warranty before initiating repairs that would result in charges
       to the government. The CST will coordinate with the SA for repair of system or
       equipment and monitor the result. When repairs are complete the CST will notify the
       supervisor and the SA.
    2.9. Reporting Viruses.
       2.9.1. All workstations, PCs, personal digital assistants (PDAs) and laptops require Air-
       Force approved antivirus software.
       2.9.2. When users encounter a virus or malware they will notify their supervisors and
       disconnect the infected machine from the Wright-Patterson network. Users will then
       report the virus incident to their CST per AFI 33-138, who in turn will notify the SA.
       2.9.3. The CST will take steps to identify and remove the reported virus. The system
       with the reported virus WILL NOT be used for processing until authorized by the CST,
       SA or their representative.
       2.9.4. The CST will complete the original virus incident report and forward it to the SA.
445AWI33-101 30 APRIL 2010                                                            5


      2.9.5. The SA will forward the virus incident report to the base Command, Control,
      Communications and Computers Association (C4) and/or higher headquarters as
      required.

2.10. Adopted Forms:

AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 2875, System Authorization Access Request (SAAR)
AF IMT 4394, Network User Agreement
AF IMT 3215, IT/NSS Requirements Document




                                        STEPHEN D. GOEMAN, Colonel, USAFR
                                        Commander
 6                                                         445AWI33-101 30 APRIL 2010


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-112, Information Technology Hardware Asset Management, 07 APR 2006
AFI 33-114, Software Management, 13 MAY 2004
AFI 33-115V2, Licensing Network Users and Certifying Network Professionals, 14 APR 2004
AFI 33-115V3, Air Force Network Operating Instructions, 15 APR 2004
AFI 33-138, Enterprise Network Operations Notification and Tracking, 28 NOV 2005
AFI 33-210, Air Force Certification And Accreditation (C&A) Program (AFCAP), 23 DEC 2008
AFPD 33-1, Command Control, Communications and Computer (C4) Systems, 27 JUN 2006
WPAFBI33-201, Communications and Information, 5 JUN 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADPE— Automatic Data Processing Equipment
ART— Air Reserve Technician
C4— Command, Control, Communications and Computers Association
CST— Client Support Technician (formerly Workgroup Manager or Client Support
Administrator)
CWG— Computer Working Group
EC— Equipment Custodian
ECO— Equipment Control Officer
FA— Functional Administrator
IT— Information Technology
NMC— Network Management Center
PC— Personal Computer
PDA— Personal Digital Assistant
SA— System Administrator

Terms
ABUSE— Any action that causes the current and perceived capability, intention, or attack
directed to cause denial of service of any 445 AW assets.
APPLICATION OR FILE MANAGER— Any person given the responsibility for
management of any software package, vampire system, network file service or hardware that is
physically attached to or uses 445 AW assets.
445AWI33-101 30 APRIL 2010                                                                      7


COMPUTER MANAGEMENT BOARD (CMB)— A group consisting of each group
commander or their representative and a representative from the wing headquarters (normally the
SA). They will have authority to make decisions concerning assets for their group, validate
requirements and set priorities for purchase and/or reallocation of software and equipment. Each
representative has voting rights to approve the expenditure of funds provided to the board.
CLIENT— A term used by the IT industry with a dual connotation. Clients are customers or
users, but the term also refers to a user’s computer in a client-server network configuration. The
term was deliberately chosen for use with terms like Client Support.
CLIENT SUPPORT TECHNICIAN (CST)— A duty supporting a functional community (e.g.
work centers, flights, squadrons, or organizations) and is the customer’s first line of help for
resolving problems.
COMPUTER WORKING GROUP (CWG)— A group consisting of each CST that serves as a
clearinghouse for all future equipment requirements and information as it may apply to all 445
AW personnel and as a resource to identify common problems/trends in network/computer issues
and as a way to disseminate information and upcoming changes to the end-users.
EQUIPMENT CUSTODIAN (EC)— An individual who acts as an assistant to the ECO and
performs inventories and other duties as required by the ECO. (445 CF/SCBN)
EQUIPMENT CONTROL OFFICER (ECO)— An individual appointed by the wing
commander to provide ADPE control and accountability.
FUNCTIONAL ADMINISTRATOR (FA)— An individual appointed in writing by their
commander to be authorized administrative level permissions on specific systems for the purpose
of administering mission essential software/programs.
SUPERVISOR— First person in the user’s chain of command that has administrative
responsibility for the user.
SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR (SA)— The individual assigned overall responsibility for 445
AW ADPE and network assets. (445 CF/SCBN)
USER— Any person using 445 AW assets, which include stand-alone computers, network
equipment, or any other equipment that can be regarded as ADPE.
