BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                            445TH AIRLIFT WING
445TH AIRLIFT WING                                                    INSTRUCTION 10-701

                                                                          14 OCTOBER 2010

                                                                                    Operations

                                                       REPROGRAMMING ALR-47/ARR-47

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 445 OSS/OSK                                                    Certified by: 445 AW/CC
                                                                    (Col Stephen D. Goeman)
                                                                                      Pages: 6


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-7, Command And Control
Warfare. This instruction extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 10-701,
Operations Security (OPSEC). It assigns responsibilities for implementing a timely, secure and
survivable means of reprogramming ALE-47/AAR-47 systems on assigned aircraft. It applies to
all units under the 445th Airlift Wing (445 AW). Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force
Information Management Tool (AF IMT) 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route AF IMTs 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims.

1. Responsibilities:
   1.1. The wing commander is responsible for the implementation of this program.
   1.2. The 445th Operations Support Squadron (445 OSS) Weapons and Tactics Officer
   (WTO) is responsible to coordinate Electronic Warfare Integrated Reprogramming (EWIR)
   activities. The WTO will set up an EWIR action team consisting of operations, maintenance,
   intelligence, and communications personnel to:
       1.2.1. Develop procedures for receiving, sending and distributing reprogramming
       messages.
2                                                         445AWI10-701 14 OCTOBER 2010


       1.2.2. Ensure access to applicable Reprogramming Centers (RCs) Bulletin Board System
       (BBS).
       1.2.3. Establish a Defense Message System (DMS) functional account (classified and
       unclassified, as required) for the wing.
       1.2.4. Participate in reprogramming exercises as directed.
       1.2.5. Report reprogramming exercise results in accordance with AFI 10-703, Electronic
       Warfare Integrated Reprogramming.
       1.2.6. Direct the EWIR action team.
       1.2.7. Review findings of anomalies from 445 OSS Intelligence (IN) and prepares an
       Operational Change Requests (OCR) when discrepancies are found.
       1.2.8. Ensures aircrews are informed of current Electronic Warfare (EW) equipment
       capabilities by using all available sources, including: Test plans and result, PACER
       WARE (PW) messages, System handbooks or Electronic Combat (EC) mission guides,
       Air Force Tactics Techniques and Procedures (AFTTP)
       1.2.9. Responsible for instituting a process that will notify the EWIR action team when
       EWIR PACER WARE Messages have been received.
       1.2.10. Is the owner of the PW DMS account.
       1.2.11. Works with the Operations Group (OG) to prioritize EW equipment software or
       hardware changes.
       1.2.12. Sends all required EWIR reports and messages to higher headquarters and
       subordinate organizations, as appropriate.
       1.2.13. Maintains a current listing of operational and training software for each of the
       EW systems.
    1.3. The 445th Maintenance Squadron Weapons Task Qualification Manager (WTQM) will:
       1.3.1. Ensure required EW reprogramming equipment is available and operational (such
       as Secure Telephone Unit (STU-III)/ Secure Telephone Equipment (STE), Digital
       Computer System (DCS), Program Load Verifier (PLV), Memory Load Verifier (MLV),
       Common Aircraft Portable Reprogramming Equipment (CAPRE) to support
       reprogramming. If not, notify the WTO.
       1.3.2. Ensure adequate personnel have access to the appropriate RC’s BBS to conduct
       actual and exercise reprogramming actions at home station.
       1.3.3. Implement changes only after WTO approval.
       1.3.4. Keep the WTO informed of changes and provide timing data, as required.
       1.3.5. Participate in the EWIR action team.
    1.4. The 445 OSS/IN will:
       1.4.1. Provides the WTO with threat changes that may impact EW systems and includes
       this information, along with PW messages, in aircrew mission briefings.
445AWI10-701 14 OCTOBER 2010                                                                3


      1.4.2. Reviews aircrew debriefings and mission reports (MISREPs) for EW equipment
      anomalies, which may indicate threat parameter changes and reports these findings to the
      WTO for action. Help the WTO prepare OCRs.
      1.4.3. Participate in the EWIR action team.
   1.5. 445th Communications Flight (445 CF) will:
      1.5.1. Ensure DMS offices, base communications centers, and network control centers
      comply with information processing instructions and develop OIs to provide instructions
      for handling EW messages and data.
      1.5.2. Participate in the EWIR action team.
      1.5.3. Quickly identifies communications deficiencies affecting EWIR capability to
      WTO.
2. Procedures:
   2.1. The 445 OSS Commander (CC) will assign a primary and alternate EW Point of Contact
   (POC). EW POC will be the WTO. The WTO will coordinate EWIR activities and perform
   duties in accordance with paragraph 1.2.
   2.2. The 445th Maintenance Group (MXG)/CC will assign a primary and alternate WTQM.
   The WTQM will be the MXG POC for EWIR. The WTQM will perform duties in
   accordance with paragraph 1.3. The Electronic Countermeasure Section will:
      2.2.1. When notified by WTO of reprogramming requirements, will acquire software and
      load software on aircraft systems in accordance with applicable technical orders.
      2.2.2. Reprogramming of electronic countermeasure equipment will be administered as a
      commodity TCTO for configuration management purposes. Maintenance Operations
      Flight (MOF) Plans and Scheduling (P&S) will coordinate with the WTO before
      implementing software changes.
   2.3. The 445 OSS/CC will assign a primary and alternate Intelligence POC. They will
   perform duties in accordance with paragraph 1.4.
   2.4. The 445 CF/CC will assign a primary and alternate to participate in the EWIR team.
   The EWIR communication member will perform duties in accordance with paragraph 1.5.

2.5. Adopted Forms:

AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Changes of Publication




                                          STEPHEN D. GOEMAN, Col, USAFR
                                          Commander
 4                                                   445AWI10-701 14 OCTOBER 2010


                                     Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-7, Command and Control Warfare, 06 SEP 2006
AFI 10-703, Electronic Warfare Integrated Reprogramming (EWIR), 30 NOV 2007
AFI 21-101(SUP), Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management, 29 JUN 2006

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFTTP—–Air Force Tactics Techniques and Procedures
CAPRE—Common Aircraft Portable Reprogramming Equipment
DCS—Digital Computer System
DMS—Defense Message System
EC—Electronic Combat
EWIR—Electronic Warfare Integrated Reprogramming
MIREP—–Mission Report
MLV—Memory Loader Verifier
OCR—Operational Change Request
PLV—Program Loader Verifier
PW—–PACER WARE
RC—Reprogramming Center (53 WG ((ACC)) ((53 EWG)), ECSF ((AFSOC)), and WR-ALC
for some FMS supported systems)
STU—Secure Telephone Unit
TCTO—Time Compliance Technical Order
WTO—–Weapons and Tactics Officer
WTQM—–Weapons Task Qualification Manager
445AWI10-701 14 OCTOBER 2010                                                                   5




Terms
Automatic Digital Network (AUTODIN)—AUTODIN is a switched network of the Defense
Information System which functions as a single, integrated, worldwide, high-speed, computer-
controlled, general-purpose communications network.
Bulletin Board System (BBS)—The BBS is a means of transmitting digital data and EWIR
message traffic to operational locations. Normally, data and messages are available on the BBS
almost simultaneously with their transmission over AUTODIN. The BBS uses the STU-III/DCSs
to transmit digital data, via commercial or Defense Switch Network (DSN) voice lines, or
SIPRNET, from reprogramming centers directly to operational locations which possess STU-
III/DCSs and appropriate communications software. Since the BBS is a "pull" system, units must
be notified by message or telephone that new MD software has been loaded on the BBS. With
the implementation of the Defense Message System, the BBS will continue to be a source for the
transmission of reprogramming data and EWIR message traffic.
Defense Message System (DMS)—DMS is a flexible, secure, commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS)
based system providing multi-media messaging and directory services taking advantage of the
underlying Defense Information Infrastructure network and services. DMS is a new way of doing
electronic organizational messaging. DMS is eliminating the need for the Automatic DMS is a
integrated suite of applications designed to run on the Defense Information System Network
(DISN). DMS is NOT a network and is the system of record for "ORGANIZATIONAL"
messaging and services.
Electronic Warfare Integrated Reprogramming (EWIR)—The process that fully integrates
operations, intelligence, communications, logistics, and other support functions to provide
changes to reprogrammable electronic warfare equipment hardware and software, tactics, and
equipment settings. EWIR gives the Air Force a clear and comprehensive picture of tasks, data,
staffing, and the interrelationships between the agencies that reprogram EW equipment. This
process forms the basis for developing Air Force procedures, organizations, facilities, and
expertise to ensure responsive EW reprogramming during peacetime, wartime, and
contingencies.
Operational Change Request (OCR)—A formal request to the appropriate major command
and support command facilities that identifies the inability of an electronic warfare system to
meet operational requirements. In emergencies, an OCR identifies the inability to discriminate or
respond to a threat and then requests mission data or operational flight program (OFP) changes
to correct the problem.
PACER WARE—The term for actual electronic warfare system changes issued during
peacetime, contingencies, or wartime operations. PACER WARE actions can be at the routine,
urgent, or emergency level as required.
Operational Change Request (OCR)—A formal request to the appropriate major command
and support command facilities that identifies the inability of an electronic warfare system to
meet operational requirements. In emergencies, an OCR identifies the inability to discriminate or
respond to a threat and then requests mission data or operational flight program (OFP) changes
to correct the problem.
 6                                                       445AWI10-701 14 OCTOBER 2010


Reprogramming Center (RC)—Its primary function is planning, designing, testing, and
fielding of EW system OFP updates.
Reprogramming Centers EW Systems
53EWG, Eglin AFB FL Bomber, fighter, reconnaissance and FMS systems
Electronic Combat Support Flight (ECSF) Special Operations, airlift, and helicopter systems
WR—ALC/LNE All U.S. systems
WR—ALC/LNI FMS systems
