BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              445TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 36-2802
445TH AIRLIFT WING                                                                           15 JULY 2004

                                                                                                  Personnel

                                                                     JUNIOR OFFICER OF THE YEAR




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 445 AW/CCE (Major E. Kelly)                                                 Certified by: 445 AW/CC
                                                                             (Brig Gen Robert E. Duignan)
                                                                                                   Pages: 4
                                                                                            Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-28, Awards and Decorations Pro-
grams. It establishes procedures and assigns responsibilities for selection of the Junior Officer of the Year
for the 445th Airlift Wing. This program provides individual recognition on a calendar year basis for
exceptional performance and/or achievements by lieutenants and captains assigned to the 445th Airlift
Wing.


1. Responsibilities. The wing commander appoints three (3) members for each selection board. The
board will consist of one Colonel, one Lieutenant Colonel, and one Major. The selection board interviews
nominees and selects the Junior Officer of the Year based on the interview results and nomination pack-
ages.
   1.1. The wing executive officer provides administrative support for this program.
   1.2. The Public Affairs Office (PA) publishes the name(s) of the selectee(s) in the Buckeye Flyer and
   provides a Home Town News Releases to the selectee(s)’ local newspapers.
   1.3. Unit Commanders may submit only one nomination per unit.

2. Eligibility. Unit members in the pay grade of O-1 through O-3 are eligible for the Junior Officer of the
Year Award. Promotion after nomination will not affect eligibility.

3. Frequency of Award and Period Covered. Annually, 1 January to 31 December.

4. Nominations. The nomination package must be submitted by the unit commander and indorsed by the
appropriate group commander. Nomination packages submitted by the Medical Squadron and ASTS will
be indorsed by the wing commander. Packages submitted by the group or wing commanders do not need
2                                                                       445AWI36-2802 15 JULY 2004


an endorsement. Nominations are due no later than COB on Sunday of the second UTA in January. Nom-
inations received after the deadline will not be considered.
    4.1. Nomination packages should include a cover letter and a one-page fact sheet.
       4.1.1. The cover letter should include the following information: name, rank, unit of assignment,
       home address and phone number, and daytime phone number. Endorsement by the appropriate
       group commander (as applicable). (Attachment 1)
       4.1.2. The fact sheet should be in the form of bullet statements, and include the following infor-
       mation: name, rank, date of rank, duty title, DAFSC/PAFSC, facts and specific achievements,
       leadership and management skills, significant self improvement, education, awards, and other
       comments. (Attachment 2)
           4.1.2.1. The nominee will sign and date the bottom of the fact sheet. This signature will serve
           as notification to the nominee that they have been recommended, and provide an opportunity
           for them to verify the data.

5. Selection Board. The selection board, consisting of three field grade officers, will convene on Sunday,
of the Scarlet UTA in February. The Colonel will serve as the President of the board, and will ensure the
integrity of this instruction is upheld.
    5.1. Board members may wear the uniform of the day of their respective unit, however, service dress
    is strongly recommended.
    5.2. Nominees must appear before the board at their scheduled time in order to retain eligibility for
    the award. Uniform of the day of their respective unit is acceptable attire.

6. Selection Criteria. Consideration is based on total performance for the preceding calendar year, using
the following criteria:
    6.1. Specific accomplishments in their functional area
    6.2. Procedures or ideas that resulted in benefits to reservists, the wing, or AFRC
    6.3. Attendance record, personal performance, and attitude.
    6.4. Educational achievements (mission oriented) and other self-improvement efforts.
    6.5. Leadership, professionalism, cultural, and social activities that reflect favorably on the unit,
    wing, or AFRC.

7. Announcement. Nominees will receive written notice of the board’s selection for Junior Officer of the
Year. Public announcement will be made at an appropriate function, i.e. Wing Commander’s Call or
Annual Dining Out.



                                                     ROBERT E. DUIGNAN, Brig Gen, USAFR
                                                     Commander
445AWI36-2802 15 JULY 2004                                                                          3


                                           Attachment 1

                                NOMINATION COVER LETTER


MEMORANDUM FOR (Your Group Commander) Date


FROM: (Your Unit)
(Address)


SUBJECT: Nomination for the 445th Airlift Wing’s Junior Officer of the Year


The attached nomination on (Nominee Name and Rank) is submitted for the 445th Airlift Wing Junior
Officer of the Year.

       Name:
       Rank:
       Unit of Assignment:
       Home address:
       Home phone:
       Daytime phone number.




                                                          NAME, Rank, USAFR
                                                          Commander
4                                                                      445AWI36-2802 15 JULY 2004


                                             Attachment 2

                                      NOMINEE FACT SHEET


Name / Rank:


Date of Rank / Duty Title / DAFSC and PAFSC:


Facts and Specific Achievements:     (within the consideration year)


Leadership and Management Skills: (within the consideration year)


Significant Self Improvement:        (within the consideration year)


Education:     (can include dates/degrees outside the consideration year)


Awards:        (can include dates/degrees outside the consideration year)


Other Comments:




Nominee’s Signature / Date
