BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             445TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
445TH AIRLIFT WING                                                             21-104

                                                                           8 NOVEMBER 2012

                                                                                   Maintenance

                                                          CONSOLIDATED TOOL KIT (CTK)
                                                                           PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 445 MXG/CC                                                      Certified by: 445 MXG/CC
                                                                            (Major Dennis Park)
Supersedes:   445AWI21-104,                                                            Pages: 12
              10 September 2009


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space
Maintenance. It establishes positive procedures for tool control and assigns responsibility for
maintaining an effective consolidated tool program. This directive is applicable to 445th Airlift
Wing (445 AW) personnel subject to performing tasks on the flight line and all Maintenance
Group (445 MXG) maintenance shops. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force Form (AF Form)
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form’s 847 from the field through
the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
1. General. This instruction provides positive tool controls and accountability procedures and is
an integral part of the Foreign Object Damage (FOD) prevention program. Adhering to this
instruction aids in reducing/deterring FOD to aircraft, engines, aircrew training devices, and
support equipment; it furthermore helps in maintaining safe and reliable tools for employee use.
2. Responsibilities.
   2.1. The Squadron Operations Officer/Maintenance Superintendent is responsible for the
   overall management of the Consolidated Tool Kit (CTK) program within their squadron.
 2                                                          445AWI21-104 8 NOVEMBER 2012


     Individual shop supervisors are responsible for the management of the CTK program within
     their functional areas. Each user of a CTK is responsible for the care, cleanliness, proper use,
     and security of CTKs in their possession. Flight Chiefs are responsible for designating in
     writing primary and alternate CTK Custodians. These procedures will also apply to life
     support, operations, and crash recovery personnel that may be dispatched to the flight line
     with tools.
     2.2. Commanders will designate personnel authorized to procure/purchase tools.
3. Procedures.
     3.1. Each tool in a CTK will have an assigned location, a ―show‖ (e.g., a shadow of the tool)
     and ―know‖ (knowledge of tool or kit location) concept will be utilized for inventory control.
     3.2. FOD Control. FOD bags will be attached to each dispatchable CTK. Non-dispatchable
     CTKs that remain in a shop environment, where permanent FOD containers are available, do
     not require a FOD bag. If not permanently attached, the FOD bag will be listed on the
     Master Inventory List (MIL).
     3.3. Personal Equipment (e.g., headsets, hard hats, ear defenders, reflective belts and
     respirators) will, at a minimum, be marked with a TCMax number (and their initial issue
     recorded in TCMax); personal equipment items may be kept in personal lockers.
     3.4. Personally-purchased tools are not authorized. Personal tools, (e.g., mini-mag
     flashlights, multi-tools, buck knives, etc.) not controlled through CTK procedures are NOT
     authorized on the flightline or in any maintenance area.
4. Marking/Security.
     4.1. CTK/Tool identification numbering will comply with the TCMax directives as outlined
     in AFI 21-101, Chapter 10 and this instruction.
     4.2. Tool room equipment, stock items and CTKs will be permanently marked/etched with
     identification designators listed in Attachment 2.
     4.3. As a general rule, smooth uninterrupted surfaces of .125‖ (1/8th inch) or greater may be
     legibly marked using standard engraving equipment. Items without an uninterrupted surface
     of this size may be physically impossible to legibly etch. Small tools or items such as APEX
     bits, drill bits, etc., need not be etched if placed in a container that is shadowed. The
     container is counted as one of the items (e.g. 9 allen wrenches + container for a total of 10).
     Screwdriver handles/apex drivers (sockets) will not be used to permanently store apexes.
     4.4. Workcenters must place the 9-digit EID on all CTKs, tools not assigned to a box, and
     dispatch-able equipment that is of sufficient size. Custodians may affix non-metallic bar
     code labels on tools to prevent re-etching as long as the use of the tool and its work
     environment does not normally result in excessive damage to the label making it unreadable.
     4.5. CTKs may be etched in an abbreviated format. All CTKs will be numbered with a
     unique numeric identifier, within a given tool room, beginning with number one, through the
     number of CTKs assigned. This unique numeric identifier cannot be duplicated within a
     given tool room. See Figure 1.
445AWI21-104 8 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                    3


Figure 1. Abbreviated Etching Examples.

                 CTK ID                                 CTK Etching Required

              W9AFCTK01                                        W9AF01

             W9AFTOW21                                         W9AF21

 NOTE: All nine digits, if elected to do so, can always be etched on all items within a
                                         CTK.

   4.6. A secure area will be designated to store CTKs when not in use. This area will be
   capable of being locked and provide protective measures, such as monitoring or controlled
   key access, to prevent unauthorized removal of tools or CTKs. Locks are not required on
   individually-issued tools and equipment located within tool rooms or work centers.
   Combination locks are not to be used on CTKs. For adequate security, if possible, CTKs will
   be lockable containers and the keys will be controlled, to include a beginning and end of shift
   inventory. If not lockable, CTKs will be kept in an area that is lockable. Dispatched CTKs
   will be locked and secured to an immobile object when left unattended. The only exception
   to this requirement is CTKs locked and located within the restricted area access on the
   aircraft-parking ramp.
5. TCMax Tool Control Software.
   5.1. Required personnel will have access to the TCMax system. TCMax data will be loaded
   and maintained using the TCMax User Manual as reference. This information may be
   printed out in lieu of a computer backup. All transaction and inspection histories will be
   maintained for a minimum of two years. The database will be backed up to a removable
   media at least once every month. Tool rooms will develop a TCMax Disaster Plan, approved
   by the shop supervisor, for tool control in the event of the TCMax system becoming
   inoperative. Tool rooms will maintain a supply of required forms, designated in the
   approved TCMax Disaster Plan, in the event of a power failure or computer malfunction.
   5.2. All Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratory (PMEL) items to be dispatched, will
   be loaded and the associated Test Measurement and Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE)
   inspection interval tracked and documented in TCMax. The inspection interval will be
   derived from the TMDE tag (e.g. Air Force Technical Order (AFTO) Form 398, Limited
   TMDE Certification, AFTO Form 99, Limited/Special TMDE Certification, etc).
   5.3. Each work-center will load its complete operational Technical Order (TO) library. The
   associated annual inspection shall be tracked and documented In Accordance With (IAW)
   TO 00-5-1 AF Technical Order System.
   5.4. Aircraft TO libraries will not be loaded in TCMax.
   5.5. CTK annual inspections will be tracked and documented in TCMax.
   5.6. Any other inspection criteria, directed by AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment
   Maintenance Management, Chapter 10 or this instruction, (daily shift inventory, annual
   comprehensive inventory), will be tracked and documented in TCMax.
 4                                                         445AWI21-104 8 NOVEMBER 2012


6. Tool Accountability and Control.
     6.1. CTKs, mini-kits, and special tools will be issued by means of TCMax. A separate Air
     Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Form 177, Consolidated Tool Kit Inventory and Control
     Log, is maintained for each CTK. NOTE: For CTKs that do not leave the tool room or work
     center, a separate AFRC Form 177 is not required. Chit systems are not authorized.
     6.2. A visual inventory, looking for missing/broken tools will be accomplished for each
     CTK/mini-kit whenever responsibility for that item changes (e.g., shift change, turn-in, or at
     time of issue). An additional visual inventory for missing tools will be conducted upon job
     completion at the worksite. For aircraft/vehicle/trailer-mounted CTKs, the AF Form 177 will
     be annotated by the person that performed the tool inventory before leaving one job site for
     another. Upon turning in the CTK, it will be inventoried by someone other than the person
     who signed it out.
     6.3. One-person shops/shifts must, as a minimum, have a second party or on-duty supervisor
     perform the turn-in inspection of all tools. The same individual that signs out a CTK cannot
     sign it back in.
     6.4. Spare tools and consumable items in CTKs may be kept on hand, but will be stored in a
     secure area. CTK identified consumables procured through bench stock must be sub-located
     to the secure area. Supervisors or the CTK Custodian will control the issue and replacement
     of items on a one-for-one basis. Replacement tools are not issued without receipt of the
     unserviceable tool or documentation indicating the tool is lost and reported according to the
     lost tool procedures outlined in this instruction (Para 4).
     6.5. Tool rooms/work centers may elect to distribute CTKs or peculiar support/test
     equipment to decentralized locations. The owning tool room will maintain ownership,
     insuring accountability and control. Upon arrival at the decentralized location a complete
     inventory of the CTK/test equipment will be performed.
     6.6. Tools that are damaged, worn or broken will be reported to the shop supervisor or CTK
     Custodian and removed from the CTK. The removal will be documented on an AFRC Form
     175, Missing/Removed Tools and Equipment, and in TCMax. Tools and equipment in CTKs
     that are removed for PMEL will also be documented on the AFRC Form 175 and in TCMax.
     An AFRC Form 175 will be maintained in each dispatchable CTK.
     6.7. Each CTK will have a MIL of contents signed by the shop chief or flight chief. The
     MIL resides in TCMax, but a hard copy of the MIL must reside with each dispatchable CTK.
     6.8. Rag control applies to all organizations and personnel performing aircraft, munitions,
     and equipment maintenance. Products used in a FOD potential environment must be
     controlled. The rags will be placed in a suitable container or pouch, which will be assigned
     an item number and the number of rags contained. Rags will be signed in/out. Lost or
     missing rags will be treated as a lost tool and documented on AFRC Form 175. Rags taken
     cross-country will be signed out by quantity and signed in when aircraft returns to home
     station. All rags utilized for aircraft, on-equipment, and off-equipment maintenance, will be
     approved by the Environmental Program Manager and disposed of in accordance with the
     88th Air Base Wing Hazardous Waste Management Plan.
445AWI21-104 8 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                    5


   6.9. Absorbent (diaper) material will be controlled through tool room procedures when used
   during maintenance processes in a FOD potential environment, using the same guidelines as
   rags described in Paragraph 6.8. Each squadron will ensure processes are in place for control
   of these products within their maintained areas.
   6.10. Hazardous Material (HAZMAT) Spill Kits will contain an inventory. Inventoried kits,
   awaiting spill response, will be sealed with a tamper seal. When the seal is broken, during
   spill response, the kit will be re-inventoried and replenished, as required, and subsequently
   resealed. Superintendents will ensure the management and control of HAZMAT Spill Kits.
   6.11. An annual comprehensive inventory will be performed of all tools and equipment to
   ensure proper content and serviceability according to TO 32-1-101, Maintenance and Care of
   Hand Tools. Personnel performing the inventory will document the completion in TCMax.
   6.12. Contract Field Teams (CFT) and Depot Teams. CFT and Depot Teams will ensure a
   process is in place for tool inventory and control at the beginning and end of each shift. If a
   tool is discovered missing on or near an aircraft, a Red X will be placed in the aircraft forms
   with a discrepancy. The team chief will immediately notify the Maintenance Operations
   Center (MOC) and Quality Assurance (QA). Upon notification MOC will initiate the Lost
   Tool Checklist. The team chief will direct efforts to find the missing tool.
   6.13. Flashlights, lanterns, and portable lighting devices identified in TO 35F5-1-2,
   Operation and Maintenance Instruction - Explosion-Proof Lanterns and Extension Light
   Assembly, will be inspected annually.             The Maintenance Squadron (MXS)
   Electro/Environmental Shop is designated as the qualified inspection agency. The inspection
   will be documented/tracked in TCMax.
   6.14. Expendable hand tools such as blades, apexes, files, and file cleaners may be kept on
   hand, but will be stored in a secure area. CTK identified expendables procured through bench
   stock must be sub-located to the secure area. Supervisors or the CTK custodian will control
   the issue and replacement of items on a one-for-one basis. Replacement tools are not issued
   without receipt of the unserviceable tool or documentation indicating the tool is lost and
   reported according to the lost tool procedures stated in Paragraph 11 of this instruction.
   6.15. Electronic Tools (E-Tools) will be controlled and accounted for IAW 33 series AFI’s.
   The Technical Order Distribution Officer (TODO) will maintain the Automated Data
   Processing Equipment (ADPE) account for E-tools issued for viewing technical data. E-Tool
   computers will be issued to maintenance tool custodians using AF Form 1297. Tool room
   custodians will control and issue E-tool systems using the same procedures used for other
   support equipment. The Maintenance Group TODO and TODA’s shall work with the Group
   Computer Systems Administrator (CSA) to ensure E-Tools are configured with current
   software to support TO and maintenance documentation.
7. Operation.
   7.1. Tool rooms, cages, and shops that store tools and equipment must complete inventories
   at the beginning and end of each shift. This inventory will be entered in TCMax or
   documented on AFRC Form 177 when TCMax is not available.
   7.2. Individuals will sign out tools and CTKs utilizing TCMax or an AFRC Form 177 when
   TCMax is not available.
 6                                                         445AWI21-104 8 NOVEMBER 2012


     7.3. Procedures for transfer of tools/CTKs at the job site (on-site transfers). CTKs are not
     normally passed from one individual to another at the job site; however, mission needs
     occasionally require this action to occur (this shall be ―by exception only‖ and not become
     common practice). To ensure tool accountability and control is maintained, an AFRC Form
     177 will be maintained in each CTK (including aircraft/vehicle/trailer-mounted CTKs) and is
     used to record CTK/tool transactions at the job site. The person signing out/assuming
     responsibility for the CTK/equipment/tool annotates the ―out‖ time/signature block. The ―in‖
     block is annotated when the user returns the CTK/equipment. The person annotating the
     "out" block is not the same person annotating the "in" block. The tool room will be notified
     and reassign possession (shift change transfer) to the gaining individual in TCMax.
     7.4. All items that are not turned in at the end of a given shift must be in a Long Term Issue
     (LTI) status.
8. Locally Manufactured Tools & Equipment.
     8.1. Locally manufactured tools will be tracked IAW AFI 21-101.
     8.2. All work-center tool monitors will contact the QA Office for review and approval by
     engineering as required on all locally designed tools and equipment. 445 Maintenance Group
     Commander (MXG/CC) must sign the approval for the use of all locally designed tools or
     equipment that carry loads, change torque, or present a potential to damage government
     resources.
     8.3. A Modified Tools Log with pictures and descriptions of the tools or equipment will be
     maintained in the QA office with duplicate copies kept by the work-center tool room
     monitors and the Master CTK listing. Items and requirements will be reviewed biennially for
     applicability and current configuration.
     8.4. Acquisition of a new modified tool or equipment, upon approval, will be reported and
     documented by QA and the affected work-center in their respective logs.
9. Damaged Tools.
     9.1. Work center supervisors will ensure all damaged tools are, if under warranty, exchanged
     on a one-for-one basis through the manufacturer or supplier. Account for damaged or broken
     warranted tools until replaced by the contractor, if not under warranty turn in to Defense
     Reutilization Marketing Office (DRMO). Identification numbers will be removed when it is
     determined that the tool is unserviceable. The supervisor or CTK Custodian will assure that
     damaged tools are stored in a secured area until processed for disposal.
10. Aircrew and Life Support Tool Control.
     10.1. Aircrew will use the manual CTK identification numbers identified in Attachment 3.
     Control will be documented using the AFRC Form 177.
     10.2. Life Support will use the manual CTK identification numbers identified in Attachment
     3. Control will be documented using the AFRC Form 177.
11. Lost Item/Tool Procedures.
     11.1. In-shop, report missing tools to supervisor and the CTK Custodian as soon as loss is
     known. The supervisor will determine if other work centers or staff agencies should be
     notified and will direct efforts to find tools.
445AWI21-104 8 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                       7


  11.2. On-aircraft, report missing tools to the appropriate supervisor, MOC, and QA as soon
  as the loss is known. MOC will then accomplish the Lost Tool Check Sheet 3-8. The
  supervisor will direct efforts to find the missing tool.
     11.2.1. When an item/tool is reported missing on or near an aircraft, the individual
     discovering the missing item/tool will place a Red X in the aircraft forms with a
     discrepancy giving the type of tool, CTK number, and if possible, the general area of the
     aircraft where the tool was lost. This individual will ensure that the lost tool is
     documented on AFRC Form 175, if applicable. Individual’s supervisor will also ensure
     an AFRC Form 174, Lost Tool/Object Report, is initiated and completed. The CTK
     Custodian maintains it on file for one year or until the missing tool is found. QA will get
     a copy of the completed AFRC Form 174 for input into the Quality Assurance Tracking
     and Trend Analysis System (QANTTAS) database. The CTK Custodian will notify QA
     of any lost tool found after a completed AFRC Form 174 has been turned in.
     11.2.2. Loose equipment items on aircraft, or such items discovered missing upon the
     return to home station of a cross country aircraft, will be treated as a lost item. The
     individual discovering the missing item will place a Red X in the aircraft forms, stating
     the nomenclature of the item. An AFRC Form 174 will be initiated and completed.
     When it is unknown where the item was used, a general search of the aircraft will be
     accomplished prior to clearing the Red X entry per paragraph 11.2.1. QA will get a copy
     of the completed AFRC Form 174 for input into the QANTTAS database. QA will be
     notified if an item is found after the completed AFRC Form 174 has been turned in.
     11.2.3. When it is suspected that the tool has fallen into an inaccessible or unobservable
     aircraft location the suspect area will be x-rayed to locate the lost tool. If the tool is in an
     inaccessible area that poses no FOD threat, can only be retrieved by major disassembly
     and higher headquarters assistance is required. QA confers with the responsible Air
     Logistics Center (ALC) on appropriate action. If action is to leave the tool in place, the
     x-ray, with identification of the exact tool location and copies of all messages concerning
     the lost tool, is maintained in the aircraft historical file until the tool is recovered. If the
     aircraft Mission Design Series (MDS) is one that has programmed depot maintenance or
     is scheduled for depot modification, the lost tool and location is listed in the AFTO Form
     345, Aerospace Vehicle Transfer Inspection Checklist and Certification, and the AFTO
     Form 103, Aircraft/Missile Condition Data, for removal by the depot.
     11.2.4. When, after a thorough search, the tool cannot be found, the Red X discrepancy
     may be cleared. Authorization to clear Red Xs when a tool/item cannot be located will
     be limited to no lower than Operations Officer/Maintenance Superintendent.
     Additionally, individuals will be identified on the Special Certification Roster (SCR)
     using the appropriate G081 course code.
  11.3. Post taxi/take-off. If a tool is discovered lost after taxiing or take-off of aircraft,
  supervision will notify MOC, who in-turn will notify the Command Post and QA. Upon
  notification to MOC, supervisor will also provide information (e.g. tool lost, where, etc.) for
  the placement of a write-up in the aircraft forms. The recommendation will also provide the
  aircrew with the severity of the situation. Command Post will notify applicable aircraft
  commander of lost tool incident and aircraft commander will evaluate the recommendation
  and determine whether to continue the mission or abort.
8            445AWI21-104 8 NOVEMBER 2012


    STEPHEN D GOEMAN, Colonel, USAFR
    Commander
445AWI21-104 8 NOVEMBER 2012                                                        9


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 Feb 2003
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 Jul 2010
TO 32-1-101, Maintenance and Care of Hand Tools, 1 Dec 2004
TO 35F5-1-2, Operation and Maintenance Instruction – Explosion Proof Lanterns and
Extension Light Assemblies, 15 Jul 1988
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Forms Adopted
AFTO Form 99, Limited/Special TMDE Certification
AFRC Form 174, Lost Tool/Object Report
AFRC Form 175, Missing/Removed Tools and Equipment
AFRC Form 177, Consolidated Tool Kit Inventory and Control Log
AFTO Form 103, Aircraft/Missile Condition Data
AFTO Form 345, Aerospace Vehicle Transfer Inspection Checklist and Certification
AFTO Form 398, Limited TMDE Certification

Terms
Chit—A round piece of metal with a number on it.
G081 (Core Automated Maintenance System for Airlift)—Mainframe database for all AMC
aircraft to track maintenance, flying time and all other pertinent information.
Mission Design Series (MDS)—Aircraft make and model.
TCMax—Tool Control Software by Soaring Software Solution, Inc.
 10                                                         445AWI21-104 8 NOVEMBER 2012


                                             Attachment 2
                               CTK OR STOCK ITEM NUMBER

1. No CTK or Stock Item number can be longer than nine characters.
2. The 1st and 2nd characters, W9, will be the designators for 445 AW, Wright-Patterson AFB,
OH.
3. The 3rd character will be derived from the squadron/group:
       A 445th Aircraft Maintenance Squadron
       M 445th Maintenance Squadron
       L 445th Maintenance Group/Maintenance Operations Squadron
       O 445th Operations Group/Operations Support Squadron
4. The 4th character is the shop designator. The following tables apply:
                                          445 OG

S – Life Support     A – Aircrew
                     (Pilots/Co-pilots,
                     Engineers,
                     Loadmasters)
445 MXG
Q – Quality
Assurance
445 MXS
A - AGE Shop         G - Munitions          N – NDI Shop        E-
                                                                Electro/Environmental
                                                                Shop

F - Fuel Shop        H - Pneudraulic        P – Survival        J - Jet Shop
                     Shop

S - Structural       R - HSC                M – MTEC Shop
Repair Shop          Inspection
                     Section
445 AMXS
F - AMXS
Flight line

5. Technical Data will be labeled with the following characters:
              A. Small Binder T.O.s will have the 5th and 6th characters of JG.
              B. Large Binder T.O.s will have the 5th and 6th characters of TD.
445AWI21-104 8 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                11


6. Except where noted above, the 5th through 9th characters are for individual shops’ numbering
decisions, e.g. W9MJ01A01 for item located in Cabinet 01, Drawer A, Item 01.
12                                            445AWI21-104 8 NOVEMBER 2012


                               Attachment 3
                   MANUAL CTK NUMBER ASSIGNMENT

OPERATIONS GROUP
FLIGHT ENGINEERS     FE-01 through FE-50
OPERATIONS SUPPORT SQUADRON
LIFE SUPPORT         LS-10 through LS-30
