BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            446TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
446TH AIRLIFT WING                                                            36-101

                                                                            28 JANUARY 2011

                                                                                     Personnel

                                                             CIVILIAN WORK SCHEDULES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 446 AW/FMA                                                     Certified by: 446 AW/CCE
                                                                                       Pages: 6


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-1, Civilian Personnel
Provisions and Authorities. It provides for and describes civilian work schedules including
alternate work schedules in which 446th Airlift Wing (446 AW) non-bargaining unit employees
may participate. This instruction applies to all non-bargaining unit civilian employees assigned
to the 446 AW. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office
of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force Form (AF Form) 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form’s 847 from the field through Major Command
(MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. The use of the name or mark of
any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does
not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Added Gliding Schedule as authorized Flexible Work Schedule; removed description of on-the-
job meal periods; inserted instructions for leave requests submitted by email; and added DCPS
AWS codes.
1. Objective. The 446 AW depends heavily upon the work of its civilian and Air Reserve
Technician (ART) employees to perform its mission. Alternate Work Schedules (AWS) enable
managers, supervisors, and employees to meet or exceed mission requirements, program
effectiveness, and personal goals through increased flexibility. The goal of AWS programs is to
 2                                                          446AWI36-101 28 JANUARY 2011


provide quality support for our customers while allowing employees an opportunity to enhance
their quality of work life.
2. Terms Defined:
     2.1. Adverse Impact. A reduction in productivity, a diminished level of services, an increase
     in the cost of operations, facility security, and/or inadequate supervision.
     2.2. Alternate Work Schedule (AWS). Compressed Work Schedules (CWS) and flexible
     work schedules (FWS). See para 5 for specific descriptions.
     2.3. Compressed Work Schedule (CWS). An 80-hour biweekly basic work requirement that
     is scheduled for less than 10 workdays.
     2.4. Core Hours. Core hours are established to ensure office coverage to the greatest extent
     possible and are described as 0900 to 1500, Monday through Friday. Second and third shift
     managers may adopt core hours for the second and third shifts as approved by the respective
     Group commander.
     2.5. Credit Hours. Those hours within a Flexible Work Schedule (FWS) that an employee
     elects to work in excess of their basic work requirement so as to vary the length of a workday
     or workweek.
     2.6. Flexitour. A type of flexible work schedule in which an employee is allowed to select
     starting and stopping times with supervisor approval, as long as core hours are covered in the
     workday. Once selected, the hours are fixed until the agency provides an opportunity to
     select different starting and stopping times.
     2.7. Gliding Schedule: A type of flexible work schedule in which an employee has a basic
     requirement of five 8-hour days, 40 hours weekly and 80 hours biweekly. Employee may
     vary arrival and departure times when necessitated by mission requirements.
     2.8. Shift. Most employees will work the first shift (day), Monday through Friday.
     However, some units operate second and third shifts and have weekend work schedules. The
     calendar day on which a shift begins is considered the day of duty for that day even though
     the day of duty extends into the next calendar day or into the following administrative
     workweek.
3. Conditions and Regulatory Restrictions:
     3.1. Managers/Supervisors will schedule the work of their employees to accomplish the
     mission of the agency. They will schedule an employee’s regularly scheduled workweek so
     that it corresponds with the employee’s actual work requirement. The agency/organizational
     unit as a whole will remain open for business five days per workweek. Maintenance and
     Operations units will remain open for business IAW shift, mission requirements, etc. Group
     commanders are responsible for developing and documenting work schedules, including
     AWS, within their respective group to ensure adequate section/office/shop coverage, as well
     as provide for customer service.
     3.2. All full-time employees must take an unpaid meal period. The lunch period must be at
     least 30 minutes and will have scheduled starting and stopping times. Supervisors will
     ensure that employees take their meal break when scheduled. However, if mission requires
     an employee’s lunch be postponed to complete a task, such as finish helping a customer, or
446AWI36-101 28 JANUARY 2011                                                                    3


   complete an aircraft maintenance task, etc., the supervisor will ensure the employee takes
   their meal break as soon as possible. Annotate the reason for change in meal period in the
   Remarks & Notes section of the timecard. Temporary and part-time employees who work
   more than 6 hours per day must take an unpaid meal period of at least 30 minutes.
       3.2.1. The meal period will be scheduled towards the middle of the employee’s shift.
       Meal periods will not be taken at the end of the workday in order to shorten the duty day,
       nor will they be skipped in order to shorten the length of the duty day. The day shift (1st
       shift) lunch period will be scheduled to begin no earlier than 1030 and completed no later
       than 1400.
       3.2.2. Refer to Air Force Reserve Command Instruction (AFRCI 36-803, para 7) for on-
       the-job meal periods.
   3.3. Managers/supervisors may withdraw or alter an AWS to meet organizational mission
   requirements. Maximum possible advance notice will be given to the employee.
   3.4. Managers/supervisors may exempt from AWS any section and/or restrict an employee’s
   choice of arrival times if the participation in the program has had or is anticipated to:
       3.4.1. Have an adverse impact on the accomplishment of the mission;
       3.4.2. Incur an additional cost;
       3.4.3. Disrupt an office’s/section’s/shop’s function;
       3.4.4. Be detrimental to employee health or safety; or
       3.4.5. Be detrimental to the organization’s security.
   3.5. A Work Schedule Change sheet will be accomplished whenever there is a change in the
   employee’s work schedule. Examples include work start or end time change; meal length
   and/or start/stop change; starting or stopping an AWS, shift change; or workdays of week
   change. File signed Work Schedule Changes with the first affected pay period. Also file the
   latest Work Schedule Change in the first tab of the employee’s 6-part Time and Attendance
   folder.
4. Responsibilities:
   4.1. Managers and supervisors are ultimately responsible for setting up tours of duty for their
   employees in accordance with agency guidelines, activity delegations of authority, and
   mission requirements. They need to plan and organize work assignments to utilize work
   schedules to the best advantage of the mission.
   4.2. For organizations using AWS, managers and supervisors will also:
       4.2.1. As much as practical, attempt to schedule meetings and other all-employee
       functions during core hours to ensure necessary personnel are available to participate
       while maintaining the positive aspects of the AWS;
       4.2.2. Resolve differences between employees and subordinate supervisors on tour of
       duty requests;
       4.2.3. Approve the tour of duty for each employee and any changes in the schedule;
 4                                                          446AWI36-101 28 JANUARY 2011


        4.2.4. Submit approved changes to employee work schedules to the timekeeper when
        changes occur.
     4.3. Employees will:
        4.3.1. Report to work on time and follow applicable tour rules;
        4.3.2. Submit OPM Form 71, Request for Leave or Approved Absence, email, or other
        appropriate leave/absence documentation requesting leave and/or credit hours (email
        requests will include information found on OPM Form 71, i.e., type of leave (i.e., annual,
        sick, credit, etc.), leave date, hours of leave (i.e., 1400-1600);
        4.3.3. Request work schedule changes, in writing, to their immediate supervisor before
        the beginning of the desired pay period. If approved, the change will be effective the
        beginning of the requested pay period. Disapproval of a work schedule change may be
        submitted for reconsideration through the second level supervisor up to the respective
        Group commander. Employees reporting directly to the Wing commander will submit
        the request to the Wing commander who has final authority.
5. Tours of Duty:
     5.1. Regular tour of duty (standard schedule, not AWS) is a tour of duty in which an
     employee has a basic work requirement of 8 hours each day, 5 days per week, with a 30-, 45-
     , or 60-minute unpaid meal break, 40 hours each week. Credit hours cannot be earned.
     Defense Civilian Pay System (DCPS AWS Code 0.)
     5.2. The only Flexible Work Schedules authorized in the 446 AW are the Flexitour Schedule
     and the Gliding Schedule. Flexitour is a work schedule in which an employee has a basic
     work requirement of 8 hours each day, 5 days per week (see also para 2.6). For Flexitour, the
     employee and supervisor agree on a work start time, a lunch length and start/end time, and a
     workday end time. Group commanders are the approval authority for Flexitour schedules.
     (DCPS AWS Code 1.) The Gliding Schedule is a work schedule in which an employee has a
     basic requirement of five 8-hr days per week (see also para 2.7). For the Gliding Schedule,
     the employee and supervisor agree on a work start time, a lunch length and start/end time,
     and a workday end time, however, employees may vary arrival and departure times when
     mission requirements necessitate an early arrival or late departure. Group commanders are
     the approval authority for Gliding schedules. (DCPS AWS Code 1.) Credit hours may be
     earned and used with both work schedules.
        5.2.1. Credit hours may be earned by employees on a flexible schedule any time within
        the work week (see also para 2.5). Credit hours cannot be earned for a missed lunch
        period. There is no limit to the number of credit hours an employee may earn; however,
        only 24 credit hours may be carried into the next pay period. Employees will schedule
        the use of credit hours, like any other authorized leave, in advance. Final approval for
        use of credit hours is up to the supervisor and based on mission needs.
        5.2.2. If an employee converts to CWS with a credit hour accumulation, the credit hours
        are lost. A full-time employee who separates from service with a credit hour balance will
        be paid for that balance at the current rate of pay.
        5.2.3. Credit hours may not be regularly scheduled on a daily basis in order to have a set
        day off each week. The fulfillment of an employee’s basic work requirement in less than
446AWI36-101 28 JANUARY 2011                                                                     5


       10 days during the pay period constitutes a CWS, not a flexitour schedule, and credit
       hours are not authorized on a CWS.
       5.2.4. Credit hours will be entered onto the timecard and recorded into the Defense
       Civilian Pay System (DCPS). Use of credit hours will be requested in an email or OPM
       Form 71.
   5.3. Compressed Work Schedule (CWS) is a fixed schedule in which an employee has a
   basic work requirement of 80 hours per pay period in fewer than 10 workdays in the pay
   period. The only compressed schedule authorized in the 446 AW is the 5-4-9 format of eight
   9-hour days, one 8-hour day, and one scheduled day off (SDO) per pay period. The SDO
   will normally not be scheduled on a Friday due to the need of preparation time for unit
   training assemblies (UTAs). The SDO must be fixed and the meal period must be fixed.
   Credit hours may not be earned in a CWS. (DCPS AWS Code 6.) The 4-10 CWS format is
   not authorized.
   5.4. An employee on a CWS going temporary duty (TDY) in civilian status (DD Form 1610,
   Request and Authorization for TDY Travel of DOD Personnel) must convert to a regular
   tour of duty (8 hours, Monday through Friday) for the length of the TDY. The regular tour of
   duty will start at the beginning of the pay period in which the employee will travel even if the
   employee’s TDY starts in the middle of the pay period. The employee may return to a CWS
   at the beginning of the next pay period following their return from TDY.

6. Prescribed Forms:

None

7. Adopted Forms:

OPM Form 71, Request for Leave or Approved Absence
DD Form 1610, Request and Authorization for TDY Travel of DOD Personnel




                                             WILLIAM N. FLANIGAN, Colonel, USAFR
                                             Commander
 6                                                     446AWI36-101 28 JANUARY 2011


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-1, Civilian Personnel Provisions and Authorities, 7 March 1995
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
AF— Air Force
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AFRCI— Air Force Reserve Command Instruction
AFRIMS— Air Force Records Information Management System
ART— Air Reserve Technician
AW— Airlift Wing
AWS— Alternate Work Schedules
CC— Commander
CWS— Compressed Work Schedule
DD— Department of Defense
DCPS AWS— Defense Civilian Pay System
FMA— Financial Management and Comptroller Section
FWS— Flexible Work Schedule
MAJCOM— Major Command
OPM— Office of Personnel Management
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
POC— Point of Contact
RDS— Records Disposition System
SDO— Scheduled Day Off
TDY— Temporary Duty
UTA— Unit Training Assembly
