BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             446TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
446TH AIRLIFT WING                                                             36-2807

                                                                                   7 JUNE 2011

                                                                                      Personnel

                                                            CMSGT ARTHUR L. MORRISON
                                                                    MEMORIAL AWARD

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 446 MXS/MXM                                                      Certified by: 446 AW/CC
                                                                     (William N. Flanigan, Col)
Supersedes:   446 AWI 36-2807,                                                          Pages: 5
              10 February 2004


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-28, Awards and Decorations
Program. This instruction extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-2803, Air
Force Awards and Decorations Program. It provides guidance to annually recognize a 446th
Maintenance Group (446 MXG) enlisted member in the grade of Airman through Senior Master
Sergeant. It applies to all members assigned to the 446 MXG. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air
Force Form (AF Form) 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form’s 847
from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. The
use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or
service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication changes the maximum number of pages to one (para 2.1.); deletes the
requirement to submit two-three sentences to be used on the award certificate (2.2.); adds the
requirement for member to have a passing fitness score at time of award close out date (para 3.4.
added); changes time frame panel chairperson will be selected as well as notification time frames
(para 4.1. thru 4.4.); and chairperson will submit short summary of significant facts to 446
MXG/CC to be read during presentation
 2                                                                 446AWI36-2807 7 JUNE 2011


1. Objective. Chief Master Sergeant Arthur L. Morrison is remembered as the consummate
citizen-airman. His leadership of the enlisted force and involvement in their careers produced
numerous outstanding leaders for the group, wing and Numbered Air Force. The award
recognizes the individual who best personifies the professional qualities portrayed and promoted
by Chief Morrison. It also serves to keep mentorship, family and self-improvement foremost in
the minds of the group’s reservists, today, and in the future.
2. Nomination Process. Prepare nomination packages as described below:
     2.1. Nominations must be submitted on AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award, using bullet
     statements for the following categories: Leadership and Mentorship; Community/Family
     Involvement; Military Professionalism; Job Performance; and Significant Self-Improvement.
     Include specific facts and/or results from throughout the individual’s career as they pertain to
     each category. Do not exceed one page.
        2.1.1. LEADERSHIP AND MENTORSHIP. Describe the member’s leadership abilities,
        especially as they pertain to mentoring others. How did leadership contribute to overall
        mission effectiveness and/or accomplishment?
        2.1.2. COMMUNITY/FAMILY INVOLVEMENT.                      Describe the member’s
        contributions to promote the Air Force and the Air Force Reserve to the community.
        Describe the member’s contributions in promoting the morale and welfare of the Reserve
        family.
        2.1.3. MILITARY PROFESSIONALISM. How does the member project and/or
        promote professionalism both on- and off-duty? How is the member a positive role
        model?
        2.1.4. JOB PERFORMANCE. How did the member’s job performance enhance mission
        effectiveness and accomplishment?
        2.1.5. SIGNIFICANT SELF-IMPROVEMENT.                 Describe the member’s self-
        improvement efforts through on- and off-duty education Professional Military Education
        (PME), Career Development Courses (CDCs), Community College of the Air Force
        Degree (CCAF). What impact did this self-improvement have on mission effectiveness
        and/or accomplishment?
3. Criteria/Eligibility:
     3.1. Award period is 1 May through 30 April (close out date is 30 April).
     3.2. Member must have been assigned to the 446 MXG for at least one year at the time of
     the award’s close out date.
     3.3. Member must be in the grade of Airman through Senior Master Sergeant. Chief Master
     Sergeants are not eligible for this award.
     3.4. Member must have a passing Fit to Fight Physical Assessment Test score at the time of
     the award close-out date.
     3.5. If a member has previously won this award, facts and/or results used for the winning
     nomination may not be used. Only new information will be accepted. If a member has been
     previously nominated, but not selected, facts and/or results from that package may be used
     again.
446AWI36-2807 7 JUNE 2011                                                                        3


   3.6. Each unit may submit one nomination per year. Members assigned to the 446th
   Maintenance Operations Flight (446 MOF) and Quality Assurance (QA) will be combined
   for nomination purposes and submit one package between them. The 446th Aircraft
   Maintenance Squadron (446 AMXS) and 446th Maintenance Squadron (446 MXS) will each
   submit one package.
   3.7. Scoring criteria is as follows:         Leadership and Mentorship, 0-25 points;
   Community/Family Involvement, 0-25 points; Military Professionalism, 0-20 points; Job
   Performance, 0-15 points; Significant Self-Improvement, 0-15 points.
4. Panel Process:
   4.1. In March, the 446 AMXS, 446 MXS and 446 MOF/QA superintendents will select a
   panel chairperson. The chairperson will ensure notification and submission requests for the
   current year’s award are sent to each unit by the end of March. The notification shall require
   all submissions to reach the chairperson by close of business of the May B Unit Training
   Assembly (UTA).
   4.2. The chairperson solicits and identifies a panel of three chiefs, ideally one from each unit
   within the Maintenance Group, by close of business of the April B-UTA.
   4.3. The chairperson will determine the need to conduct training for any new panel
   members. Training will be conducted during the April or May UTA.
   4.4. The panel will meet during the month of June at a mutually agreed upon time, day and
   weekend to review the nominations and select a winner.
   4.5. The winner’s name will NOT be released publicly and will be known only to the 446
   MXG commander, unit commanders, superintendents, and panel members.
5. Award and/or Certificate Process. On a rotating basis, each unit will be tasked to purchase
the certificate and/or plaque and have them prepared and/or engraved with the winning
nominee’s information. The same unit will also be tasked to update the three units’ perpetual
plaques after the announcement has been made.
6. Presentation:
   6.1. The chairperson will provide the 446th Maintenance Group Commander (446
   MXG/CC) with a short summary of significant facts from the winning AF Form 1206 to be
   read at the presentation of the award.
   6.2. The 446 MXG/CC will present the award during the Family Recognition Day weekend
   either at a formation or at a Maintenance Group commander’s call.
   6.3. After presentation of the plaque, the superintendents representing each unit should
   annotate their next year’s planner and/or calendar as a reminder to start the next year’s panel
   process.




                                             WILLIAM N. FLANIGAN, Colonel, USAFR
                                             Commander
 4                                                          446AWI36-2807 7 JUNE 2011


                                       Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Program, 1 August 1997
AFI 36-2803, Air Force Awards and Decorations Program, 15 March 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AMXS—Aircraft Maintenance Squadron
AW—Airlift Wing
CC—Commander
CCAF—Community College of the Air Force
CDC—Career Development Courses
MAJCOM—Major Command
MOF—Maintenance Operations Flight
MXG—Maintenance Group
MXS—Maintenance Squadron
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PME—Professional Military Education
POC—Point of Contact
QA—Quality Assurance
RDS—Records Disposition System
UTA—Unit Training Assembly
446AWI36-2807 7 JUNE 2011                                                                          5


                                         Attachment 2
                    BIOGRAPHY—CMSGT ARTHUR L. MORRISON

Chief Master Sergeant Arthur L. Morrison (1936-1998) was a former Maintenance
Superintendent of the 446th Avionics Maintenance Squadron (446 AMS) and the 446th
Maintenance Squadron (446 MXS). Chief Morrison was the consummate professional from his
dress and personal appearance, his knowledge of regulations, policies and procedures, to his
articulate manner of conducting day-to-day business.

An avid airplane enthusiast as a child, he began his military career in 1954 as an avionics
technician. He served a variety of assignments while on active duty before joining the Oregon
Air National Guard in 1958. He entered the Air Force Reserve in 1961 transferring to McChord
Air Force Base, Washington in 1971. He was promoted to chief master sergeant in 1973.

Chief Morrison firmly believed in mentorship, self-improvement and recognition. He completed
all Professional Military Education and countless voluntary career development courses. He
understood the need for self-improvement to be prepared for career changes and to adapt to new
and unforeseen circumstances. His personal preparation paid off as he passed along his
philosophy and advice and began what is now referred to as mentoring. Many careers flourished
under the strong and insightful mentoring by Chief Morrison. He also knew that recognition is a
powerful motivator and worked diligently to ensure members were recognized for the
contributions they made.

One of the chief’s greatest legacies to the group was the inclusion of family members in special
events. During the AMS holiday parties, he ensured the members’ children were entertained
with games and amusements. He was also the driving force to establish children’s games and
entertainment at the annual family recognition day picnics. Through the years, hundreds of the
group’s children have walked away from the picnic with smiles on their faces, balloons tied to
their wrists, and ribbons clutched in their fingers.

The Chief Master Sergeant Arthur L. Morrison Award is dedicated to his legacy of true
professionalism and the hundreds of careers he influenced over the course of his 41 years of
service.
