BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        452D AIR MOBILITY WING INSTRUCTION
452D AIR MOBILITY WING                                                        91-203

                                                                          25 SEPTEMBER 2013

                                                                                    Maintenance

                                                                  HANGAR DOOR PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 452 MXG/MXQ                                                      Certified by: 452 MXG/CC
                                                                        (Col Robert R. Stormes)
Supersedes:    MARCHARBI21-101,                                                          Pages: 3
               21 September 2010


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space
Maintenance. This instruction extends the guidance of AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated
Occupational Safety Instruction. It outlines responsibilities and procedures for operation and
training requirements for hangar doors. This instruction is applicable to all personnel,
government and contractors, working in hangars used for aircraft maintenance and storage. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route AF Form 847s from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms
managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System     (AFRIMS)       Records      Disposition         Schedule     (RDS)       located     at
https://www.my.af.mil/gessaf61a/afrims/afrims/. The use of the name or mark of any specific
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been revised to a Wing Instruction and must be reviewed in its entirety.
1. Responsibilities:
   1.1. All personnel working in hangars with powered, manual, fold-up and counterbalanced
   doors that aircraft pass through require annual hangar door awareness training.
 2                                                   452AMWI91-203 25 SEPTEMBER 2013


     1.2. Supervisors will ensure individuals who routinely work in aircraft hangars accomplish
     hangar door familiarization, GO81 code MRCH 001100 (Hangar Door Awareness Course)
     annually.
2. Training:
     2.1. Operators of powered, manual, fold-up and counterbalanced hangar doors that aircraft
     pass through (not personnel doors) will accomplish hands on operator training for door
     operation annually. This training will be accomplished at the respective hangar door type.
     2.2. Training will be documented in GO81 or applicable training system or in TBA as a Job
     Qualification Standard Continuation/Command JQS, or contractor equivalent if GO81 is not
     accessible. Training may also be documented on each individual’s AF Form 55, Employee
     Safety and Health Record, or contractor equivalent.
        2.2.1. Supervisors are responsible for conducting annual hangar door awareness (non-
        operator) training for all personnel required to work in buildings having hangar doors
        (powered or non-powered) regardless of AFSC or work assignment.
     2.3. A detailed hangar door operating functional checklist will be on display at each hangar
     door control panel. Functional checklists will include step-by-step procedures (e.g., tail
     doors, etc.) and will list the name of the building custodian.
     2.4. The building custodian/designated contracting officer representative will develop
     awareness and operator training plans. Developed training plans will be forwarded to the
     452d Air Mobility Wing Safety Office via the 452 MXG QA. Lesson plans will include date
     developed, supervisor name, building custodian, hangar/building number and lesson content.
3. Procedures:
     3.1. If at any time the normal operation of the hangar doors is interrupted due to
     electromechanical failure, the operation will be stopped and evaluated by the building
     custodian or supervision. The custodian will contact base civil engineers/door contractor as
     required.
        3.1.1. Position cones or equivalent barrier around the opening to the hangar door(s) that
        is/are malfunctioning. Hangars with door malfunctions will be reported to the
        Maintenance Operations Center.
        3.1.2. Lock Out/Tag Out procedures will be followed to secure hangar doors until the
        malfunction is cleared.
     3.2. Hangar door identification of hazards requirements must meet AFI 91-203, Air Force
     Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction, requirements.
     3.3. Signage requirements for hangar doors: Proper signage must meet AFI 91-203, Air
     Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction, requirements.




                                             SAMUEL C. MAHANEY, Col, USAFR
                                             Commander
452AMWI91-203 25 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                   3


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 Feb 2003
AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction, 15 Jun 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 Mar 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AMWI—Air Mobility Wing Instruction
AMW—Air Mobility Wing
CC—Commander
JQS—Job Qualification Standard
MARBI—March Air Reserve Base Instruction
MXG—Maintenance Group
MXQ—Quality Assurance
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
QA—Quality Assurance
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TBA—Training Business Area
