BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                       459TH AIR REFUELING WING
459TH AIR REFUELING WING                                                INSTRUCTION 21-105

                                                                              4 DECEMBER 2013

                                                                                      Maintenance

                                                            CONSOLIDATED TOOL KIT (CTK)
                                                                             PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 459MXG/MXQ                                                      Certified by: 459 MXG/MXQ
                                                                        (SMS Harold E. Marbury)
                                                                                         Pages: 7




This instruction implements AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management and
AFI 21-101 AFRC Sup I, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, and establishes
policies and outlines procedures for the management of the Consolidated Tool Kit (CTK)
program. This instruction applies to all Air Force Reserve and civilian personnel working in, on,
or near 459 ARW aircraft or equipment, and to personnel traveling through 459 MXG facilities
or aircraft parking ramp. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional
chain of command.

This instruction is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This instruction
only includes the required local procedures IAW AFI21-101_AFRCSUP_I and must be used in
conjunction with AFI21-101_AFRCSUP_I.


1. Responsibilities:
   1.1. Group commanders and superintendents are responsible for the overall management of
   the CTK program within their organizations. Individual shop supervisors or shop chiefs are
 2                                                        459ARWI21-105 4 DECEMBER 2013


     responsible for the management of the CTK program within their functional areas. Each user
     of a CTK is responsible for the care, cleanliness, proper use, and security of CTKs in their
     possession. Flight chiefs will be responsible for designating in writing primary and alternate
     CTK custodians.
     1.2. Aircrew and Aircrew Flight Equipment (AFE) sections who dispatch tools to the flight
     line and/or carry tools onboard aircraft will establish tool control procedures IAW AFI 11-
     301V1_AFRC_I, Aircrew Life Support (ALS) Program.
2. Procedures:
     2.1. The tool room/tool issue center will be capable of being locked and afford protection
     through controlled key access. When all CTKs/TKs are not capable of being secured in the
     tool room, section supervisors will design a process to prevent the unauthorized use or access
     to tools and equipment.
     2.2. TCMax will be used to track all tools/CTKs issuance and turn-in. A TCMax generated
     product (form) or AFRC Form 177, Consolidated Tool Kit Inventory and Control Log, is
     used for accountability and control of CTKs and tools. The form remains in the tool room or
     work center. A separate AFRC Form 177 is not required for CTKs that do not leave the tool
     room or work center.
        2.2.1. An AFRC form 177 or TCMax generated equivalent will be maintained in each
        CTK, and will be used to document tool transfers from one employee to another. The
        person to whom the tool is transferred documents the “Out Time/Signature” block. The
        “In” block is annotated when the user returns the equipment to the technician who
        originally signed for the tool. The “Out” and “In” blocks will not be signed by the same
        person.
     2.3. Whenever the CTK custodian changes or at least annually, a comprehensive inventory
     of all tools, non-CA/CRL equipment, and CTKs will be conducted. The purpose of this
     inventory is to perform an extensive inspection of all tools and non-CA/CRL equipment, to
     include condition, identification markings, and accuracy of the MIL/TK/CRL supplemental
     listing. Inspect all tools for serviceability IAW applicable technical order for that item. CTK
     custodians will document these inventories and maintain the most current inventory
     documentation on file.
     2.4. The CTK program will be operated as a single program when two or more work centers
     operate out of the same tool room.
     2.5. In instances where only one person is assigned to a shift/work center, all tools and
     equipment will be inventoried and documented in TCMax by someone from another work
     center/squadron. If TCMax access is not available for turn in, an AFRC Form 177 will be
     used. TCMax will be updated once someone with access to that particular TCMax system
     becomes available.
     2.6. Work center supervisors or CTK monitors will ensure all damaged tools under warranty
     are exchanged on a one-for-one basis through the supplier.
     2.7. Only personnel who have a tool Government Purchase Card (GPC) account are
     authorized to procure tools. CTK custodians will provide their request to their unit’s tool
     GPC account holder for purchase of required tools.
459ARWI21-105 4 DECEMBER 2013                                                                 3


   2.8. Replacement tools, consumables, and HAZMATs (other than HAZMAT issued for one-
   time use), will be tracked in TCMax and replaced on a one-for-one basis. Only the CTK
   monitors and section chiefs will have access to spare tools.
   2.9. The first two characters of all EIDs in the 459th are “S3”. Work centers will use the
   EID assignments in Tables 1 and 2 for the third and fourth characters.

Table 1. The third character of the EID will be:
Section                            Letter
Maintenance Group                  G
Maintenance Squadron               M
Aircraft Maintenance Squadron      L
Aircrew Flight Equipment           F
459 AES                            S
756 ARS                            D

Table 2. The fourth character of the EID will be:
Section                            Letter
AERO                               R
AGE                                A
ISO                                I
NDI                                N
FAB                                F
SMCO                               S
MTEC                               M
FUEL                               L
HYD                                H
ELEC                               E
JETS                               J
FLIGHT LINE CTK                    G
QUALITY ASSURANCE                  Q
AIRCREW Flight Equipment           L
459 AES                            G
756 ARS                            O
   2.10. PPE that is permanently issued to an individual will be marked with an EID and
   tracked in TCMax. The EID will be the first four numbers of the person’s work center World
   Wide Identifier (WWID), followed by their five digit employee number or variant thereof.
   2.11. Rags, cheesecloth and absorbent material will be issued through TCMax. Unit of issue
   for rags will be “each.” Bulk rolls of cheesecloth will be controlled by the fuel section
   supervisor.
3. Lost Tool Procedures:
   3.1. Tools lost in shop: If the item is not found after an immediate search of the work area,
   immediately notify the shop supervisor and CTK custodian. The supervisor will determine if
 4                                                          459ARWI21-105 4 DECEMBER 2013


     other work centers need to be notified and will direct efforts to find the item. If the item is
     not recovered after a thorough search, initiate an AFRC Form 174, Lost Tool/Object Report,
     or equivalent TCMax generated product.
     3.2. Tools lost on aircraft: Immediately report lost items to the flightline expediter and/or
     supervisor. The Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) will be notified and complete the
     Lost Tool Quick Reference Checklist (QRC). An AFRC Form 174 or TCMax equivalent
     will be initiated after a thorough search of the area does not lead to recovery of the item.
        3.2.1. When an item is confirmed missing on or near an aircraft, a red X will be placed in
        the AFTO Form 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document. The write-up
        will contain a description of the item and the last known location in which it was used.
        3.2.2. Post taxi/take-off: If a tool is noticed to be missing after taxi or take off of aircraft,
        production supervision will immediately notify the Command Post and the MOC with a
        description of the tool and where it was believed to be lost, and a recommendation for the
        aircrew on the severity of the situation. The Command Post will notify the Aircraft
        Commander, who will make the determination whether to abort the mission.
4. Contractors and Depot Field Teams: QA will ensure that any maintenance teams or
contractors working on 459th equipment have tool inventory processes in place. If a tool or item
is lost, the procedures listed in this instruction will be followed. Field teams utilizing 459th tools
and equipment will be loaded into TCMax and will sign out/in tools IAW this instruction.
5. Crashed Damaged and Disabled Aircraft Recovery (CDDAR): This equipment is
managed by the host IAW the host tenant agreement. No CDDAR equipment maintained by the
459 MXG is located in trailers or vehicles.
6. CTKs onboard aircraft:
     6.1. When CTKs are required onboard the aircraft (such as TDY or configuration
     requirements) the CTK will have a folder kept with it while it is in use. When the CTK is
     opened, an inventory must be accomplished and annotated on the AFRC Form 177. At the
     end of the shift, a second individual will inventory the toolbox and sign the AFRC Form 177
     in the “In” block.
     6.2. A red “X” will be entered with the following discrepancy in the AFTO Form 781A,
     Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document: “Aircraft CTK tools/equipment inventory
     due before flight.” If the aircraft is off station, the pre-flight inventory will be accomplished
     and the AFRC 177 and the AFTO 781A entry will be signed off by a person other than the
     individual that performed the pre-use inventory.
7. Laminated Warning Tags:
     7.1. Laminated warning tags will be controlled and issued by the tool room.
459ARWI21-105 4 DECEMBER 2013                                                               5


  7.2. Laminated tags that are designated for a specific task will only be used while
  performing that task. No attempt will be made to obliterate or otherwise alter any permanent
  information contained on the tag.




                                          WILLIAM H. MASON, Colonel, USAFR
                                          Commander
 6                                                    459ARWI21-105 4 DECEMBER 2013


                                       Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 11-301 Volume 1_AFRCSUP_I, Aircrew Life Support (ALS) Program, 14 July 2006
AFI 21-101_AFRCSUP_I, AFRC Supplement to AFI21-101, 26 April 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AFRC Form 174, Lost Tool/Object Report
AFRC Form 177, Consolidated Tool Kit Inventory and Control Log
AFTO Form 22, Technical Manual (TM) Change Recommendation and Reply
AFTO Form 350, Reparable Item Tag
AFTO Form 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFE—Aircrew Flight Equipment
ARW—Aerial Refueling Wing
CA/CRL—Custodian Authorization/Custody Receipt Listing
CDDAR—Crashed, Damaged, or Disabled Aircraft Recovery
CTK—Consolidated Tool Kit
EID—Equipment Identification Designator
GPC—Government Purchase Card
HAZMAT—Hazardous Material
IAW—In Accordance With
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
MXG—Maintenance Group
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
QA—Quality Assurance
459ARWI21-105 4 DECEMBER 2013                  7


QRC—Quick Reaction Checklist
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TCMax—AFRC Tool Accountability System
TDY—Temporary Duty
TK—Tool Kit
TM—Technical Manual
TO—Technical Order
WWID—Worldwide Identification (code for TAS)
