BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         45TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 91-201
45TH SPACE WING
                                                                           19 DECEMBER 2012

                                                                                           Safety

                                                          FOREIGN OBJECT DAMAGE AND
                                                          DROPPED OBJECT PREVENTION
                                                                   (FOD/DOP) PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 45 SW/SEF                                           Certified by: 45 SW/SE (Col Edward M.
                                                                                        Rivera)
Supersedes:    45 SWI 91-201, 19 Mar 2010                                              Pages: 7


This instruction implements AFPD 91-2, Safety Programs, and AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations
and Reports. It establishes responsibility for implementation and continued operation of the
Foreign Object Damage (FOD) and Dropped Object Prevention (DOP) Program. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms
managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System       (AFRIMS)      Records      Disposition      Schedule      (RDS)       located      at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/_rims.cfm

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes include:
incorporates the requirement from AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance
Management, for a wing Dropped Object Program.
1. . Responsibilities.
   1.1. FOD/DOP monitors.
       1.1.1. The wing FOD/DOP monitor will be a qualified TSgt (or above), or civilian
       equivalent, or contractor if designated by PWS, with at least 8 years (1 year for ALC)
 2                                                          45SW91-201 19 DECEMBER 2012


        experience in the maintenance field. FOD/DOP monitor will appointed in writing by 45
        SW/CV.
        1.1.2. The wing FOD/DOP monitor will identify and develop training standards.
        1.1.3. All agencies that operate regularly on the airfield must have a unit FOD/DOP
        monitor designated in writing to the Base FOD/DOP Committee Chairperson.
        1.1.4. FOD/DOP monitor will investigate all FOD/DOP incidents for possible formal
        reporting and keep 45 SW/SEF informed. A dropped object becomes FOD once on the
        ground. Foreign objects (FOs) that have left an aircraft will be coordinated with the
        appropriate flying unit to ensure reporting under the unit MAJCOM/owning agency DOP
        guidelines. Tenant units will investigate their own FOD/DOP mishaps and keep
        FOD/DOP monitor informed. They will also evaluate the unit’s FOD/DOP program
        during annual safety inspections.
Note: This includes any unit with aircraft maintenance personnel, CE, airfield management and
security forces.

Note: Tenant units include the 920 RQW, Department of Homeland Security, Department of
State, Cape Canaveral AFS Skid Strip, and associated contractors. Ascension Auxiliary Airfield
FOD checks will be complied with by CSR 6310-FS-026 and any issues will be routed through
45 SW/SEF to the FOD/DOP Committee Chairperson. All personnel must strive to prevent all
instances of FOD/DOP in order to meet Air Force mission requirements and commitments.
     1.2. It is the responsibility of commanders and maintenance supervisors of all airfield
     agencies to ensure compliance with this instruction.
        1.2.1. Unit commanders must ensure newly assigned personnel receive initial FOD/DOP
        control training by their specific duty section supervisor and annual refresher courses.
        1.2.2. They must also ensure all FOD/DOP mishaps are reported to the unit safety
        representative and forwarded to the 45 SW/SEF for possible formal reporting.
     1.3. The 45 SW/SEF will administer the FOD Recognition Program.
     1.4. The Airfield Management Office will ensure the Airfield Driving Training Program
     stresses the importance of FOD prevention, control of vehicles on the airfield and precautions
     to be taken before entering the airfield.
2. Procedures.
     2.1. The Base FOD/DOP Committee will be chaired by 45 SW/CV. The committee will
     consist of the Chairperson, group CCs, directors, CCs of units with maintenance personnel,
     safety, CE, Airfield Manager, security forces, and additional attendees as designated by the
     45 SW/CV. In accordance with AFI 21-101, persons assigned to these positions will attend
     the quarterly FOD/DOP meetings.
     2.2. The primary duties of the FOD/DOP Committee Chairperson are:
        2.2.1. Coordinate the base FOD/DOP Committee meetings. Meetings will be scheduled
        such that all participants can attend (i.e., tenant units).
        2.2.2. Review suggestions relative to FOD/DOP control.
45SW91-201 19 DECEMBER 2012                                                                    3


      2.2.3. Discuss possible trends, viable solutions and conduct follow-up actions.
      2.2.4. Ensure each FOD/DOP mishap is investigated and action taken to solve any
      underlying problems.
      2.2.5. Ensure all necessary 45 SW operations personnel participate.
   2.3. The primary duties of the unit FOD/DOP monitor are:
      2.3.1. Attend the quarterly FOD/DOP meetings.
      2.3.2. Establish and maintain a unit FOD/DOP program.
      2.3.3. Conduct and document initial and annual refresher FOD/DOP training for
      appropriate personnel.
      2.3.4. Ensure the FOD/DOP program is evaluated during the annual safety inspection.
      2.3.5. Coordinate with unit facility managers to ensure an internal FOD/DOP control
      program is in place for appropriate buildings (i.e., airfield hangars and shops).
      2.3.6. Encourage participation and increase awareness of the FOD/DOP program through
      safety boards, commanders calls, staff meetings, read files, maintenance meetings, and
      posting of information in high-visibility areas.
      2.3.7. Report FOD/DOP trends at the quarterly FOD/DOP meetings.
   2.4. Tenant units and contractor services will monitor a formal weekly FOD inspection of
   their respective aircraft parking areas. For all tenant personnel, this inspection will be
   completed by a designated representative. A FOD walk will be scheduled for all
   maintenance personnel as required.
3. Airfield FOD/DOP Prevention.
   3.1. All airfield vehicles will be inspected for FOD at each shift turnover. This includes a
   visual tire inspection to ensure all stones and debris are removed from the tire treads.
   3.2. All vehicles will use the entry control points denoted by the FOD check point signs for
   routine access to the airfield. Vehicles will only enter the aircraft ramp area, taxiways, and
   runways from hard paved roads, or specified entry control points. exception: Emergency
   vehicles (airfield management, fire, crash recovery, security forces) in the performance of
   their duties are exempt.
   3.3. All vehicles that are normally driven on the airfield will be equipped with a FOD
   container that is clearly marked “FOD” in contrasting colors. Special-purpose vehicles are
   exempt.
   3.4. Tenant and Contractor maintenance units will have procedures in place for the
   elimination of FOs in aircraft cockpits and flight decks prior to flight, as well as for
   preventing dropped objects from occurring in flight.
4. Ramp Policing: .
   4.1. All personnel will exercise extreme care to police all working areas at the end of the
   duty day, including motor vehicles.
 4                                                            45SW91-201 19 DECEMBER 2012


        4.1.1. Commanders and FOD/DOP monitors will coordinate FOD checks to ensure all
        areas are policed. Wing and tenant personnel will share all working area responsibilities.
     4.2. The 920 RQW will equip four vehicles with a full-size magnetic bar. These vehicles
     will be used mainly on the 750 Ramp. Magnetic bars will be inspected and made FOD-free
     prior to the beginning of each shift.
5. General FOD/DOP Prevention Practices.
     5.1. Extreme caution will be used around running aircraft engines. Personnel will exercise
     positive control of aircraft safety pins, safety locks, aircraft forms and manuals, clothing and
     personal items such as pens, pencils, coins, hair-restraining devices, identification badges and
     passes.
     5.2. Unauthorized items include hats, wigs, earrings, metal clips, metal emblems/items,
     insignias/badges, any other jewelry that may fall off without notice, bobby pins, hair pins,
     plastic and leather hair fasteners. These items will not be worn by personnel on the flightline
     or when involved in aircraft, component or alternate mission equipment maintenance.
Exception: The Sun Hat/“Boonie” and Night Watchmen hats will be authorized for wear on the
750 Ramp. The Sun Hat/“Boonie” will be worn with a breakaway chin lanyard installed; the hat
strap will be in place under the chin when worn to prevent possibility of loss in high winds. Hats
will not be worn within 25 feet of running engines. Hats will be marked with: first initial, last
name, work center and man number if applicable
     5.3. Maximum use of engine inlet and tailpipe dust covers is essential. Covers will be on at
     all times when the aircraft is not operational, cocked, on alert status or receiving engine inlet
     or tailpipe maintenance.
     5.4. Aircraft and weapon safety pins will not be placed on or left unsecured on the aircraft
     parking ramp or movement areas at any time.
     5.5. At no time will aircraft forms be left unsecured on the ramp or any external area of the
     aircraft. The form pouch will be exclusively for aircraft form 46 series, used by Life Support.
     Hardware, parts, rags, bottles, cans, etc., will not be stored in these areas.
     5.6. Drinking Containers: To eliminate the possibility of a drinking container becoming a
     foreign object on the airfield, drinks should be consumed inside vehicles or aircraft.
        5.6.1. Personal Drinking Containers: Are authorized for use; container will have a
        tethered lid and be marked with (First Initial Last Name/Man# if applicable/Unit#).
        Personal drinking containers will be secured when not in use.
        5.6.2. Drinking Coolers: Are authorized; coolers will be marked with (Work Center &
        Unit #) and drinking coolers will be secured when not in use.
     5.7. Visually inspect all towing routes when an aircraft goes to and from the wash racks to
     prevent FOD. All towing vehicles will also be inspected before and after towing an aircraft.
     5.8. Maintenance personnel will inspect aircraft parking spots for foreign objects prior to an
     aircraft blocking in and prior to an aircraft leaving. After the aircraft departs, the parking
     spot will be cleaned of all non-essential equipment, liquid spills and foreign debris.
     5.9. Escorts of visiting personnel will ensure FOD/DOP control measures are taken.
45SW91-201 19 DECEMBER 2012                                                                   5


6. Airfield Sweeping.
   6.1. The 45th Civil Engineer Squadron will maintain a sweeper and driver for use during
   periods of airfield operation. If not actively sweeping on the airfield, a standby system may
   be used. Sweeping operations will begin as early as possible to minimize impact on
   operations.
      6.1.1. Due to the critical nature of the airfield sweeper, 45 CES is authorized two
      sweepers. One sweeper will be operational at all times at Patrick AFB. The second
      sweeper will be operational or in priority maintenance status. If an operational sweeper
      is not available, procedures will be in place to borrow one from Cape Canaveral Air
      Force Station (CCAFS). Should critical operations at CCAFS require it, reciprocal
      arrangements may be made for a Patrick AFB sweeper to be loaned to the CCAFS
      airfield.
   6.2. The Patrick AFB sweeper will check in with airfield management in the morning for
   any specific requests. The following schedule will be used as a guide:

Table 1. Patrick AFB Sweeper Schedule.
Monday          Runway 02/20, Taxiways Alpha, Bravo, Charlie, Delta, Echo and east Lima
Tuesday         Runway 11/29, Taxiways Golf, west Lima, Mike, Zulu and east 750 Ramp.
Wednesday       DOS ramp, 800 Ramp and 820 Ramp
Thursday        West 750 Ramp, Taxiway Juliet and Wash Racks
Friday          FOD Check Points
      6.2.1. Runway shoulders and overruns will be swept as needed.
   6.3. The following areas at CCAFS will be swept once a week: taxiway Alpha, taxiway
   Bravo, parking apron, runway, and Skid Strip Road from airfield lighting vault to runway.
   Remaining portion of Skid Strip Road from airfield lighting vault to Hangar F (towway) will
   be swept as required, upon request from CBP to Airfield Management.
   6.4. Any hardware or potential aircraft components found by sweeper will be brought to
   Airfield Management. Efforts will be made to locate the origin.
7. Recognition Program.
   7.1. In order to heighten awareness and provide additional incentive for FOD/DOP control,
   45 SW/SEF will implement the following awards.
      7.1.1. The “Individual Award.” Individual award nominees can be identified through the
      quarterly safety award program for above average FOD/DOP discoveries. For example,
      determining the origin of a piece of FOD/DOP that instituted a fleet-wide inspection or
      making a find in an unusual location that required extra effort.
      7.1.2. The “Unit FOD/DOP Award.” Winner will be selected by the FOD Committee
      from all units as needed to award exceptional unit performance. The winner will receive
      an award as determined by the FOD/DOP Committee.
6              45SW91-201 19 DECEMBER 2012


    RORY D. WELCH, Colonel, USAF
    Vice Commander
45SW91-201 19 DECEMBER 2012                                              7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 91-2, Safety Programs, 24 Jul 2012
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 Sep 2008
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 Feb 2003, 1 Mar 2008
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 Jul 2010
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFB—Air Force Base
AFS—Air Force Station
ALC—Air Logistics Center
CBP—Customs and Border Protection
CE—Civil Engineering
DOP—Dropped Object Prevention
FO—Foreign Object
FOD—Foreign Object Damage
MAJCOM—Major Command
PWS—Performance Work Statement
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RQW—Rescue Wing
TSgt—Technical Sergeant
45 CES—45th Civil Engineering Squadron
45 SW—45th Space Wing
