BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         45TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 90-801
45TH SPACE WING
                                                                                  29 JUNE 2012

                                                                              Medical Command

                                                   HAZARD COMMUNICATION PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 45 AMDS/SGPB                                                      Certified by: 45 MDG/CC
                                                                          (Lt Col Naili A. Chen)
                                                                                        Pages: 19
Supersedes:    45SWI90-801, 4 September
               2008


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 90-821, Hazard Communication. It
provides information and local procedures for all assigned personnel at the 45th Space Wing
unless otherwise noted, the guidance and procedures outlined in this instruction apply to all U.S.
Air Force military and civilian personnel, tenant units, and geographically separated units (GSU)
under the 45th Space Wing. Government-owned, contractor-operated (GOCO) operations within
the 45th Space Wing shall implement 29 CFR 1910.1200. The purpose of the Hazard
Communication (HAZCOM) Program is to minimize the incidence of chemically induced
occupational illness and injuries in the workplace by establishing guidance for training
employees on the health and physical hazards associated with, and proper preventative measures
to be taken when, using or handling hazardous chemicals in work area/shop(s). It also establishes
a prescribed format for all HAZCOM binders and provides a format for work area specific
training plans. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM)
publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

Additionally, if the publication generates a report(s), alert readers in a statement and cite all
applicable Reports Control Numbers (RCN) in accordance with AFI 33-324. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
 2                                                                                             45SWI90-801 29 JUNE 2012


Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functionalism chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. The title of the
instruction has changed from 45th Space Wing Instruction 48-105, Hazard Communication
Program, to 45th Space Wing Instruction 90-801, Hazard Communication Program. Changes
include training requirements and the switch to a new electronic management information
system.


        1.      General Description. ..............................................................................................    2
        2.      Program Responsibilities. ......................................................................................       3
        3.      Hazard Determination. ...........................................................................................      7
        4.      Material Safety Data Sheets. ..................................................................................        7
        5.      Labels and Other Forms of Warning. ....................................................................                8
        6.      Employee Information and Training. .....................................................................               8
        7.      Hazardous Chemical Inventory. .............................................................................            9
        8.      Contractor Operations. ...........................................................................................     9
        9.      Non-routine Tasks Involving Hazardous Materials. ..............................................                       10

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                        11

Attachment 2—EXAMPLE NON-ROUTINE TASK LISTING FORMAT                                                                                  14

Attachment 3—SAMPLE EMPLOYEE INFORMATION AND TRAINING PLAN                                                                            15


1. General Description.
     1.1. Scope. This instruction provides the requirements for an effective Air Force HAZCOM
     Program for those work area/shop(s) that have workers that handle or use hazardous
     chemicals. All employees that work in an environment where any chemical is known to be
     present in a manner such that those employees may be exposed under normal conditions of
     use or in a foreseeable emergency will be provided information about the hazardous
     chemicals to which they are exposed. This information shall be provided by means of a
     hazard communication program, including but not limited to material safety data sheets
     (MSDSs), labels, and other forms of warning, and information [e.g. Chemical/Hazardous
     Material Request/Authorization Forms, Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) shop survey
     letters] and training. This instruction does not apply to products, personnel, and work areas
     specifically exempted in AFI 90-821. The purpose of the HAZCOM program is to minimize
     the incidence of chemically induced occupational illness and injuries in the workplace. It
     establishes guidance for training employees on the health and physical hazards associated
45SWI90-801 29 JUNE 2012                                                                       3


   with, and proper preventative measures to be taken when, using or handling hazardous
   chemicals in workplace/shop(s).
2. Program Responsibilities.
   2.1. Wing/Installation Commander is ultimately responsible for all aspects of the 45th Space
   Wing HAZCOM Program. Commanders will:
      2.1.1. Ensure the program is prepared, implemented and effective and that all supervisors
      and employees who work with or have the potential to work with hazardous chemicals
      are properly trained.
      2.1.2. Ensure the 45th Space Wing Hazardous Materials Management Program (HMMP)
      and Hazardous Material Pharmacy (HAZMART) outside of Logistics Supply operate
      according to AF HAZCOM requirements.
   2.2. Unit Commanders will provide a safe and healthy work environment and ensure
   supervisors and employees who handle, use, or are potentially exposed to hazardous material
   (HAZMAT) in the course of official Air Force duties are provided information and training
   on the Air Force Hazard Communication Program (AFHCP) and the specific hazards in the
   work areas under their control.
   2.3. Medical Commander shall select a qualified individual to perform in the capacity of a
   Bioenvironmental Engineer (BE) if no BE is assigned to the 45th Space Wing.
   2.4. The 45 AMDS/SGPB, Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight (BEF) will:
      2.4.1. Provide technical expertise to work area/shops on potential health hazards, training
      requirements, and regulatory requirements (OSHA expanded standards) associated with
      hazardous chemicals.
      2.4.2. Assist Commanders and work area/shop supervisors by providing specific
      implementation/ compliance technical guidance on the AF HAZCOM program.
          2.4.2.1. Assess effectiveness of worker HAZCOM program training, including work
          area/shop level training, according to AFI 90-821, para. 2.7.5.
          2.4.2.2. Assess work area/shop compliance with the AF HAZCOM program
          prescribed in this instruction.
      2.4.3. Function as the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for installation MSDS
      management by: 1) maintaining access to the installation MSDSs contained in the
      Hazardous Material Information and Resource System (HMIRS) database; 2) establishing
      procedures for access to HMIRS; 3) establishing local procedures for getting MSDSs to
      the AF MSDS focal point at the U.S. Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine
      (USAFSAM); and 4) assisting in MSDS reviews, including interpreting information,
      understanding health effects, and identifying any necessary protective measures.
      2.4.4. Request from manufacturers, as needed, portions of a MSDS designated by the
      manufacturer as a trade secret, and send proprietary MSDS information to USAFSAM
      for incorporation into the HMIRS LR version. A sample request letter is provided in AFI
      90-821, Attachment 2.
4                                                                 45SWI90-801 29 JUNE 2012


       2.4.5. Advise installation work area/shops and personnel on labeling of hazardous
       chemical containers.
       2.4.6. Review and approve (as appropriate) work area/shop Chemical Hazardous
       Material Request/Authorization, requests/authorizations in accordance with (IAW) AFI
       32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management, prior to adding the new authorizations to
       the work area/shop hazardous chemical inventories. Periodically review the hazardous
       chemical inventory in conjunction with routine shop surveillance through an automated
       Air Force approved Hazardous Material Management System (i.e. Environmental, Safety,
       and Occupational Health Management Information System (ESOH-MIS).
       2.4.7. Provide hazard communication advice to the 45th Space Wing Contracting Office
       (45 CONS) upon request to assist in ensuring all contracts include hazardous material
       identification and data requirements.
       2.4.8. Request copies of, or contractor access to, the HMIRS when asked to do so by the
       Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO) for use by a contractor’s health and safety
       representative. BE will coordinate on providing the limited rights (LR) version of the
       HMIRS to contractor representatives who are health professionals (such as physicians,
       industrial hygienists, toxicologists, epidemiologists, or occupational health nurses.) BE
       will also coordinate on providing all other contractor representatives with the basic
       HMIRS (L) version, which is identical to the LR version, except it does not include
       proprietary ingredients information.
    2.5. The 45 AMDS/SGPM, Public Health (PH) Flight. PH is the point of contact for
    occupational health education, and provides consultation on training and technical matters to
    work area/shop supervisors on the AF HAZCOM Program. While primary responsibility for
    performing HAZCOM training rests with the work area/shop supervisor, PH will make the
    appropriate training available to work area/shop supervisors.
    2.6. The 45 CES/CEF, Fire Department: Provide technical expertise to work area/shop
    supervisors on potential fire hazards, make recommendations to work area/shop supervisors
    regarding fire-prevention controls, storage and handling to minimize or eliminate potential
    fire and explosion hazards.
    2.7. Supervisors of AF personnel will:
       2.7.1. Where employees are handling chemicals in sealed containers ONLY and
       containers are not opened under normal conditions:
           2.7.1.1. Train all employees on the hazards of the chemicals in their workplace, and
           to the extent necessary to protect them in the event of a spill or leak of a hazardous
           chemical from a sealed container.
           2.7.1.2. Ensure labels on incoming containers of hazardous chemicals are not
           removed or defaced.
       2.7.2. Obtain HAZCOM Program training and assure all elements of HAZCOM training
       are conducted IAW AFI 90-821, para. 2.7.2.1. through 2.7.2.2. Supervisors shall contact
       Public Health for assistance, if necessary.
       2.7.3. Implement all elements of the AF HAZCOM Program in their work areas as
       described in AFI 90-821, Chapter 2.
45SWI90-801 29 JUNE 2012                                                                    5


     2.7.4. Supervisors will ensure that PH, BE, Ground Safety, and the Fire Department
     review and approve the shop specific hazard training program for technical accuracy and
     completeness prior to implementation in the work area/shop.
     2.7.5. Ensure assigned personnel are trained in the AF HAZCOM Program as described
     in AFI 90-821, Chapter 2. Training will be conducted by the work area/shop supervisor
     or another work-place designee selected by the supervisor.
     2.7.6. Ensure newly assigned personnel are trained on the types of hazardous materials in
     their work area at the time of their initial assignment prior to potential exposure to
     hazardous materials. Ensure personnel receive additional training when a uniquely
     different type of hazardous material, with different hazardous properties, is introduced
     into their work area.
     2.7.7. In accordance with AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program,
     document the HAZCOM Program training and all supplemental hazard communication
     training of assigned personnel on AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record, or
     equivalent product. This information shall be accessible electronically or in hard copy.
     2.7.8. Develop and maintain a work area/shop-specific HAZCOM written program
     including a copy of the installation written HAZCOM Program described in AFI 90-821,
     para. 2.3., and work area/shop-specific program elements defined in AFI 90-821, para.
     2.5. through 2.9.
     2.7.9. Implement AF HAZCOM Program requirements for contractors in AF work
     area/shops as provided in AFI 90-821, para. 2.10.
     2.7.10. Maintain (or have access) to an inventory of all hazardous materials used in the
     work area/ shop and maintain (or have access) to current MSDSs for the materials in the
     inventory. At least annually, reconcile MSDSs on file (if files are outside of HMIRS, or
     an Air Force approved Hazardous Material Management System) and the work area/shop
     hazardous chemical inventory.
     2.7.11. Maintain a list of non-routine tasks/operations which include the use of
     HAZMAT. Ensure all routine and non-routine work tasks are thoroughly described to
     include associated hazards and controls. This description can be in the form of Technical
     Orders (TO), Job Safety Analyses (JSA), BEF survey letters, Operating Instructions (OI)
     or specific task lists.
     2.7.12. Conduct additional hazard communication training on contaminants as required
     by OSHA expanded standards such as asbestos, benzene, lead, etc. Refer to BEF survey
     letters to identify if expanded standards apply in a work area/shop.
     2.7.13. Maintain a copy of AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication Program.
     2.7.14. Maintain a copy of 45 SWI 90-801, Written Workplace Hazard Communication
     Program.
     2.7.15. Process an AF Form 3952, or electronic equivalent, through the HAZMART for
     each new hazardous material. HAZMART approval must be received prior to local
     purchase of HAZMAT.
6                                                                45SWI90-801 29 JUNE 2012


      2.7.16. Maintain a copy of the work area’s most recent BEF survey, subsequent annual
      updates, and other special surveys. BEF surveys must be publicly posted for ten (10) days
      and maintained for ten (10) years.
      2.7.17. Maintain a HAZCOM Binder containing the following information in the
      following order. Contents of tabs may be maintained in another location and cross-
      referenced.
         2.7.17.1. Tab A - HAZCOM Program Manager Appointment Memorandum.
         2.7.17.2. Tab B - AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication Program.
         2.7.17.3. Tab C – 45 SWI 90-801, Written Workplace Written Hazard
         Communication Program.
         2.7.17.4. Tab D - Hazardous Chemical Inventory Listing from an Air Force approved
         Hazardous Material Management System.
         2.7.17.5. Tab E - Non-routine Task Listing.
         2.7.17.6. Tab F - Employee Education and Training Plan and/or Workplace Specific
         HAZCOM Program.
         2.7.17.7. Tab G - BEF Surveys.
         2.7.17.8. Tab H – Site Specific Spill Plan.
         2.7.17.9. Tab I - Additional Information (i.e. Quality Control Checklists, applicable
         guidance).
         2.7.17.10. Tab J - MSDSs (or cross reference to separate binder).
      2.7.18. Ensure that all material including bypass material is labeled IAW paragraph 6. of
      this instruction.
      2.7.19. Maintain all documentation required by this program and ensure all employees
      have access to it during all work shifts and are aware of its location.
      2.7.20. Conduct quality control checks of the work area HAZCOM Program at least
      annually.
      2.7.21. Determine whether the type and quantity of a HAZMAT used in the workplace
      qualifies the item to be exempted as a ―consumer use‖ item, IAW AFI 90-821, paragraph
      2.2.9. Supervisors may wish to document items considered consumer use items on a
      separate inventory list.
    2.8. HAZMART will:
      2.8.1. Upon receipt of HAZMAT, receiving personnel will inspect the material and
      review the MSDS. Personnel will examine containers to ensure materials are labeled or
      marked properly, displaying the identity of the HAZMAT, the appropriate hazard
      warning and the name, address and phone number of the manufacturer, importer or other
      responsible party. If the MSDS is missing or the container is not properly labeled or
      marked, receiving personnel have the option to refuse the material or contact the supplier
      for the necessary paperwork.
45SWI90-801 29 JUNE 2012                                                                        7


      2.8.2. Ensure HAZMART develops sufficient guidance on receipt of hazardous materials
      with specific instructions to ensure compliance with all labeling directives found in AFI
      90-821, para. 2.6. and other applicable instructions.
      2.8.3. Ensure HAZMARTs obtain MSDSs for hazardous materials they receive.
      2.8.4. Ensure all hazardous chemicals are properly labeled prior to issue.
      2.8.5. For each first-time receipt (MSDS not already loaded into the HMIRS) of
      hazardous materials or whenever chemical constituents or manufacturer change, provide
      a copy, preferably electronic, of the MSDS(s) to the MSDS technical focal point at
      USAFSAM for inclusion into HMIRS.
   2.9. The 45 CONS, Contracting Officer will:
      2.9.1. Ensure compliance with AFI 90-821, para. 1.6.3.2. and paragraph 8 of this
      instruction.
      2.9.2. Advise contractors of hazardous chemicals used in AF operations they may
      encounter and any protective measures needed in the normal course of their work. The
      Contracting Officer will inform the contractor that MSDS information is available
      through the HAZMART.
      2.9.3. Ensure that all contracts require compliance with 29 CFR 1910.1200, Hazard
      Communication.
   2.10. Tenant units will participate in the 45th Space Wing HAZCOM Program when
   applicable.
3. Hazard Determination.
   3.1. The 45th Space Wing will rely on the hazard determination of the supplier or
   manufacturer of purchased chemicals. For Air Force produced chemicals, the Air Force
   activity controlling the formulation will make the hazard determination and produce an
   MSDS IAW 29 CFR 1910.1200. If the chemical is transferred to any other organizations, the
   producing organization will provide a MSDS with the shipment and transmit the MSDS to
   USAFSAM.
   3.2. Workplace supervisors, in consultation with BEF, are responsible for determining
   whether the type and quantity of a HAZMAT used in the workplace qualifies the item to be
   exempted as a ―consumer use‖ item, IAW AFI 90-821 para. 2.2.9.1.
4. Material Safety Data Sheets.
   4.1. Each MSDS is a detailed information bulletin prepared by the chemical manufacturer
   describing the physical and chemical properties, physical and health hazards, routes of
   exposure, precautions for safe handling and use, emergency and first-aid procedures, and
   control measures of the listed hazardous chemicals. The MSDS shall be prepared to be
   consistent with 29 CFR 1910.1200(g) requirements. An MSDS must be immediately
   accessible (in either paper or electronic format) for every item on the work area/shop-specific
   hazardous chemical inventory (Tab J, HAZCOM Binder). The MSDS on file must match the
   manufacturer and part number/trade name of the material on-hand. In addition, the MSDS
   preparation date must be consistent with the date/lot of any material on-hand. If a new MSDS
 8                                                                  45SWI90-801 29 JUNE 2012


     is received, but the old material is still on-hand, the MSDS, which matched the old material,
     must be retained. Supervisors must ensure access to workers during all work shifts.
     4.2. Where personnel must travel between work area/shops during a work shift (e.g., their
     work is carried out at more than one geographical location such as flight line operations), the
     MSDS may be kept at the primary work area/shop facility. In this situation, the supervisor
     shall ensure that personnel can immediately obtain the required information in an emergency.
     4.3. BEF is available and may be contacted for interpretation of information contained in an
     MSDS and/or assistance in procuring an MSDS from a manufacturer.
5. Labels and Other Forms of Warning.
     5.1. All HAZMAT containers brought onto, or used within the confines of the 45th Space
     Wing will be labeled, tagged or marked IAW 29 CFR 1910.1200 (f) and Department of
     Defense (DoD) Instruction 6050.05-H, DoD Hazardous Chemical Warning Labeling System
     with a minimum of the following information:
        5.1.1. Identity of the HAZMAT (i.e. material name, stock number and or part number).
        5.1.2. Appropriate hazard warnings (i.e. health, fire or reactivity hazards and severity as
        listed on the MSDS and areas of the body to protect such as eyes, skin or respiratory
        tract).
     5.2. Installation HAZMARTs may affix other labels to containers for locally determined
     purposes. If the HAZMART label duplicates the Federal HAZCOM standard requirements,
     the original label may be covered. If the HAZMART label does not duplicate the information
     required by the Federal HAZCOM standard, information on the original label must remain
     legible.
6. Employee Information and Training.
     6.1. All workers must be trained on hazards prior to the use of hazardous chemicals IAW
     AFI 90-821. The shop supervisor is responsible for providing this training and ensuring all
     employees are properly trained.
     6.2. Prior to starting work, each newly assigned person will receive a health and safety
     briefing and orientation that include at a minimum the following information:
        6.2.1. Identification of operations or processes in the work area/shop where hazardous
        chemicals are present or used, and the complete list of hazardous material used in
        association with work area/shop processes.
        6.2.2. Identification of relevant hazard categories associated with each chemical used
        (e.g., flammability, carcinogenicity, etc.) or the individual chemical hazards; including,
        but not limited to, those with specific regulatory requirements (e.g., asbestos, benzene,
        beryllium, cadmium, formaldehyde, and lead).
        6.2.3. The location and contents of the work area/shop-specific written hazard
        communication program.
        6.2.4. Proper labeling of hazardous materials.
        6.2.5. How to access and read MSDSs.
45SWI90-801 29 JUNE 2012                                                                      9


      6.2.6. Controls (engineering controls, administrative controls, and personal protective
      equipment) workers must use to minimize or eliminate exposure to hazardous chemicals
      specific to a task (e.g., the specific respirator for a specific spray painting process).
      Supervisors shall refer to the installation BE work area/shop survey reports for specific
      control requirements.
      6.2.7. Emergency procedures, such as recognition of a spill or accidental chemical
      release (e.g., visual, odor, alarm) and escape procedures to include the locations of
      emergency eye wash stations, showers, and monitoring capabilities.
      6.2.8. Chemical hazards associated with non-routine tasks (e.g., solvent tank change-out
      every three months).
   6.3. The written work area/shop hazard communication program must include a list of the
   hazardous. Chemicals known to be present in a work area/shop (the list may be compiled for
   the work area/shop as a whole or for specified and readily distinguishable portions of a work
   area/shop). The identity that is used on the MSDS must be cross-referenced to the inventory.
   Where accessible, the inventory may be maintained in the ESOH-MIS.
   6.4. Documentation: Though the Federal HAZCOM does not require documentation of
   worker training, supervisors should document initial and reoccurring training on AF Form 55
   or in equivalent product.
7. Hazardous Chemical Inventory.
   7.1. User Authorization Listing from an Air Force approved Hazardous Material
   Management System can be used for the work center chemical inventory. This listing must
   be kept current and must reflect a complete and accurate inventory of all HAZMAT used in
   the work area. A current listing may be obtained through the HAZMART. Where accessible,
   the inventory may be maintained in the Air Force approved Hazardous Material Management
   System.
8. Contractor Operations.
   8.1. Contractors working in areas storing or using HAZMAT will be provided the following
   information:
      8.1.1. Hazardous chemicals to which they may be exposed while on the job site.
      8.1.2. Measures the contractor can take to lessen the risk of exposure.
      8.1.3. Steps the Air Force has taken to reduce the risks.
      8.1.4. The location of MSDS for the chemicals which are stored or used in the area.
      8.1.5. Information on how the materials are labeled.
   8.2. The AF requesting activity Contracting Officer’s Representative will advise work area
   supervisors and Air Force employees monitoring the performance of contractors of
   HAZMAT introduced by the contractor.
      8.2.1. The contractor is required to submit information on the use of hazardous materials
      into an Air Force approved Hazardous Material Management System.
 10                                                              45SWI90-801 29 JUNE 2012


      8.2.2. Contracting is required to ensure that appropriate contracts require compliance
      with 29 CFR 1910.1200.
9. Non-routine Tasks Involving Hazardous Materials.
   9.1. The work area supervisor will list non-routine tasks performed in the work area which
   involve HAZMAT (Attachment 2). The supervisor will ensure work area Operating
   Instructions (OI) thoroughly describe non-routine tasks, associated hazards, and controls. An
   OI does not need to be pre-pared if technical orders or other documents adequately describe
   these tasks. Supervisors will ensure workers review these procedures before performing a
   non-routine task.
   9.2. When workers temporarily perform duties outside their normal job, the supervisor of the
   activity will ensure these workers receive the following training prior to beginning the
   activity:
      9.2.1. The initial training described in AFI 90-821, para. 2.7.2.1. for workers not
      previously trained.
      9.2.2. Supplemental training, as necessary, on specific chemical hazards which will be
      used or will be at the jobsite.
      9.2.3. The measures the worker can take to reduce the risk of exposure at the jobsite and
      steps already instituted to reduce the risk (e.g., ventilation system).
      9.2.4. The location of the MSDSs for chemicals present.
      9.2.5. The information contained on the labels.
   9.3. The supervisor of the activity will forward a letter to the worker’s formal supervisor
   describing the training conducted so the individual’s AF Form 55 can be updated.




                                           RORY D. WELCH, Colonel, USAF
                                           Vice Commander
45SWI90-801 29 JUNE 2012                                                            11


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management, 1 November 2004.
AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, 30 March 2005.
AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program,5 August 2011.
AFPD 90-8, Environmental Safety and Occupational Health Program, 9 January 2004.
DoDI 6050.05, Hazard Communication Program, 27 June 2007.
OSHA, 29 CFR 1910.1200, Hazard Communication.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACO—Administrative Contracting Officer
AF EMIS—Air Force Environmental Management Information System
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFIOH—Air Force Institution for Occupational Health
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
DoD—Department of Defense
ESOH—MIS—Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Management Information
System HAZCOM—Hazard Communication
HAZMAT—Hazardous Material
MSDS—Material Safety Data Sheet
NSN—National Stock Number
OI—Operating Instruction
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
SOPs—Standard Operating Procedures
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
TO—Technical Order
USAFSAM—U.S. Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine

Terms
Bypass Material—Material going directly to the user rather than to the supply receiving
function.
 12                                                              45SWI90-801 29 JUNE 2012


Chemical—Any element, chemical compound or mixture of elements, or compounds in a solid,
liquid, or gaseous form.
Container—Any bag, barrel, bottle, box, can, cylinder, drum, reaction vessel, storage tank, or
the like that contains a hazardous chemical. For purposes of this instruction, pipes or piping
systems, engines, fuel tanks, or other operating systems in a vehicle are not considered to be
containers.
Employee—A worker who may be exposed to hazardous chemicals under normal operating
conditions or in foreseeable emergencies. Workers such as office workers or finance tellers who
encounter hazardous chemicals only in non-routine, isolated instances are not covered by this
instruction.
Exposure or Exposed—An employee who is subjected to a hazardous chemical through any
route of entry (inhalation, ingestion, skin contact or absorption) in the course of employment.
Also includes potential, accidental, or possible exposure.
HAZMART—As the customer service desk for the IHMP, it is the only entity on an installation
authorized to issue government-owned HAZMAT. At a minimum, a HAZMART is a facility or
location where customers can receive support for obtaining HAZMAT, and where HAZMATs
are managed and tracked. A HAZMART is intended to be the primary location on an installation
where Logistics Readiness Flight (LRF) personnel stock, store, issue, and distribute HAZMAT.
Each installation must have at least one primary HAZMART established by, and accountable to
the LRF Commander. The HMMP team may designate additional unit-controlled supply
activities as HAZMARTs performing all the functions of the primary HAZMART. The
HAZMART responsibilities include the receipt and entry of data on Government-wide Purchase
Card purchases of HAZMAT, and the receipt and entry of data on contractor usage of
HAZMAT.
Hazardous Chemical or HAZMAT—Any material, which is a physical or health hazard and
requires a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) as defined in Federal Std 313, unless excluded.
The following items are not considered HAZMAT and are exempt: 1) Hazardous wastes; 2)
Tobacco; 3) Wood products; 4) Materials packaged for retail sale; 5) Personal food, drugs, or
cosmetics brought into the work area; 6) Consumer products used in small quantities for non-
occupational uses; 7) Chemicals used for laboratory analytical processes; 8) Pharmaceuticals and
biological materials, including serums and vaccines in their final form.
Label—Any written, printed, or graphic material, displayed on or affixed to containers of
hazardous materials.
Material—Same definition as chemical.
Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS)—Written or printed material concerning HAZMAT which
is prepared according to 29 CFR, 1910.1200.
Non—routine Tasks—Those tasks identified in a work area’s normal activities but performed
infrequently and/or as temporary duties outside an individual’s normal Air Force Specialty Code
(AFSC) or job series.
Use—To package, handle, react, or transfer.
Work Area—A room or defined space in a workplace where hazardous materials are produced
or used, and where employees are present.
45SWI90-801 29 JUNE 2012                                                                        13


Workplace—An establishment, jobsite, or project, at one geographical location containing one
or more work areas. For this instruction, the workplace is defined as all facilities located within
the boundaries of the 45th SW.
Worker—Same definition as employee.
 14                                                      45SWI90-801 29 JUNE 2012


                                   Attachment 2
                 EXAMPLE NON-ROUTINE TASK LISTING FORMAT

Table A2.1. Example Non-Routine Task Listing Format.
NON-ROUTINE          FREQUENCY       CHEMICALS         TARGET        PROTECTIVE
TASK                                 USED              ORGANS        MEASURES/
                                                                     PERSONAL
                                                                     PROTECTIVE
                                                                     EQUIPMENT

a. Lead & Copper     Annual         Nitric Acid        Eyes, Skin,   Face shield,
Sampling                                               Teeth,        Butyl rubber
                                                       Respiratory   gloves
                                                       System
b. Total             Annual         Sodium             None          Personal
Trihalomethane                      Thiosulfate                      hygiene (wash
Sampling                                                             hands after use)
45SWI90-801 29 JUNE 2012                                                                       15


                                        Attachment 3
            SAMPLE EMPLOYEE INFORMATION AND TRAINING PLAN

EMPLOYEE INFORMATION AND TRAINING PLAN
A3.1. This document provides supervisory personnel with the training requirements for the
Hazard Communication (HAZCOM) Program for all personnel assigned to this work area. Upon
completion of this training, personnel must have their AF Form 55 updated to reflect such
training.
A3.2. Overview:
   A3.2.1. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) issued the Hazard
   Communication Standard, which eventually became 29 CFR 1910.1200, Hazard
   Communication. It states that every individual has the right to know what hazards are faced
   on the job, and how to be protected against them. AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication,
   outlines the Air Force program.
   A3.2.2. In 1983, OSHA issued the Hazard Communication Standard for manufacturing
   operations to help protect you. In 1987, OSHA revised this standard and expanded it to
   include all workplaces where personnel are exposed to hazardous chemicals.
   A3.2.3. The goal of the Hazard Communication Program is to reduce the incidence of
   occupational illness and injury caused by hazardous chemicals in the workplace.
   A3.3.1. Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDSs) are located with the HAZCOM Program. All
   documents (including the chemical inventory, non-routine task listing, and written plan) are
   contained in the HAZCOM binder, located [insert room number/description, ex. ―on the wall
   in the workshop, next to the drill press]. Work area personnel are trained on how to read
   material labels and MSDSs during their technical training and during initial work area
   orientation.
      A3.3.1.1. An MSDS contains nine major sections (Material Identification, Ingredients
      and Hazards, Physical Data, Fire and Explosion Data, Reactivity Data, Health Hazard
      Data, Spill and Disposal Methods, Special Protection Information, and Comments
      Section). All North American companies follow this standard format.
          A3.3.1.1.1. Section I (Material Identification) contains the material identification and
          general information like company name, address, material name with synonyms, and
          an emergency phone number.
          A3.3.1.1.2. Section II (Ingredients and Hazard) lists all hazardous ingredients in the
          chemical mixture. Many chemical materials are mixtures. Not only does this section
          list the ingredients, but also states the percentages of each ingredient found in the
          total mixture. For example, acetic acid may contain two ingredients, water and acetic
          acid, where water makes up 72% of the mixture and 28% is acetic acid. This accounts
          for 100% of the mixture (72 + 28). Knowing percentages is helpful when an air
          sample is accomplished to determine the airborne concentration of the hazard.
          A3.3.1.1.3. Section III (Physical Data) contains physical data. Physical data is
          characterized by appearance, odor, a boiling point, freezing point, vapor pressure,
16                                                                45SWI90-801 29 JUNE 2012


         solubility, and specific gravity. The important data in this section are vapor pressure,
         and boiling point. For instance, methylene chloride has a boiling point of 39oC
         (102oF) and has a high vapor pressure. Because of these physical properties, an
         employee should be aware that this material must be stored in a cool, vented, and
         flame free environment.
         A3.3.1.1.4. Section IV (Fire and Explosion Data) provides data on fire and explosion
         information such as what type of fire extinguishing media to use and whether or not
         any toxic vapors are released during a fire. If so, it states the personal protective
         measures fire fighters should use. It is important that this section be reviewed prior to
         using the chemical.
         A3.3.1.1.5. Section V (Reactivity Data) provides reactivity data. This section simply
         describes ―what can be stored with what‖. An example is storing acids with bases.
         You would not want to store sodium hydroxide (lye) in the same cabinet with sulfuric
         acid (battery acid), If one of those containers broke, it would react vigorously,
         neutralize your chemicals, and produce hydrogen gas. It could produce a dangerous
         situation.
         A3.3.1.1.6. Section VI (Health Hazard Data) contains health hazard information,
         emergency and first aid procedures. The data found in this section describe the route
         of entry (e.g., skin, eyes, respiratory) and the target organs or systems (e.g., liver,
         lungs, central nervous system) and first aid procedures.
         A3.3.1.1.7. Section VII (Spill and Disposal Methods) provides information on the
         proper disposal of the material. This section tells you how to neutralize a chemical
         spill, how to dispose of the material, and who to contact if a spill occurs.
         A3.3.1.1.8. Section VIII (Special Protection Information) provides important
         information on specific personal protective equipment such as respiratory protection,
         rubber boots, or eye goggles. It also provides information on the necessity for
         engineering controls such as a ventilation system.
         A3.3.1.1.9. Section IX (Comments Section) is used for any additional comments the
         manufacturer deems necessary for the user. The key is educating the user on the
         product to prevent injury or illness.
  A3.4.1. A listing of all hazardous chemicals is provided as part of the HAZCOM Program.
  The actual chemicals are stored in [insert room/description. Ex. ―room 123, SSgt X’s office].
     A3.4.1.1. The HAZCOM Program requires the use of warning labels that contain the
     name and identity of the chemical, and appropriate hazard warnings.
     A3.4.1.2. Labels on containers that leave the work area must contain the name and
     address of the responsible party. The warning label is often your first source of
     information about chemical hazards. The name and identity on the label can be used to
     find the right MSDS, where you will find additional information.
  A3.5.1. Workcenter HAZCOM Binder MSDS’s provide the physical and health risks of each
  hazardous chemical along with the signs and symptoms of overexposure and the method of
  determining the presence or release of a hazardous material in the work area.
45SWI90-801 29 JUNE 2012                                                                       17


   A3.6.1. Work area personnel reduce or prevent exposure to hazardous chemicals by using
   appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) and by being familiar with the signs and
   symptoms of exposure to the materials they are working with. Three basic methods for
   controlling chemical hazards are engineering controls, PPE, and administrative controls.
      A3.6.1.1. Engineering controls include substitution, isolation, general ventilation, and
      local exhaust ventilation. Substitution applies when a chemical, process, or piece of
      equipment with fewer hazards can replace an existing one. Isolation refers to using an
      enclosure, barrier, or a safe distance to separate workers from the exposure hazard.
      Common examples of this are machine enclosures, enclosed control rooms, and splash
      guards. General ventilation is mixing an airborne hazard with fresh air to reduce exposure
      levels. This only applies when hazards have low toxicity and mix readily with air. Some
      examples of general ventilation are fans and vents. Local exhaust ventilation captures an
      airborne hazard as it is released and takes it out of the work area to eliminate the
      exposure.
      A3.6.1.2. Prioritizing how we control exposures is accomplished by looking at the
      source, path and receiver. Controlling the receiver is least desirable, but most often used.
      Personal protective equipment (PPE) is the most common means of protecting an
      individual against exposures (physical and health hazards). Some examples of PPE
      include gloves, aprons, eye and face protection, and respirators. To protect you, the PPE
      must be matched to the specific hazard. For example, cloth gloves are useless for
      protection against a corrosive liquid. Personal protective equipment is useless unless you
      wear it. Proper fit, correct use, and routine inspection are essential.
      A3.6.1.3. Administrative controls include documentation, information, and training in
      safe work practices, good housekeeping, and most of all, monitoring. This applies to
      personnel and equipment. The HAZCOM Program is an effective administrative control
      to ensure workers are informed on the work area hazards.
   A3.7.1. Steps taken to reduce exposure. Steps are described in the BEF survey reports,
   located in Tab G of the HAZCOM binder. The reports address PPE and administrative
   controls to reduce the risk of exposure to all workers. Additionally, all personnel are
   provided HAZCOM training and are always discussing potential situations as well as how to
   best deal with such situations.
   A3.8.1. Work area personnel do/do not use large quantities of hazardous materials. Most
   spills are cleaned up on the spot by following the Hazardous Material Spill Cleanup
   Procedures which are reviewed prior to working with any chemical. An emergency eyewash
   is available in [insert eyewash location] for accidental contact and a shower is available
   [insert shower location]. Immediately after flushing the exposed area for 15 minutes,
   personnel involved will be taken to the Emergency Room for further evaluation.
   Additionally, work area personnel receive in-service training on responding to hazardous
   material spills. If, at any time, there is a spill which is beyond our capabilities, work area
   personnel will evacuate the building and call the Fire Department for assistance.

Table A3.1. Patrick AFB Emergency Points of Contact.
Fire Department                                  4-7642
Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight              4-5435
 18                                                                 45SWI90-801 29 JUNE 2012


 Ground Safety                                     4-2202
 Public Health                                     4-8163
 Civil Engineering Environmental                   4-9272
   A3.9.1. Hazard Communication Training. Workers will be provided HAZCOM training
   prior to working with a material that could potentially create a health hazard, and when work
   area/shop conditions or hazardous materials change.
       A3.9.1.1. Initial Training. Workers will receive comprehensive HAZCOM training from
       their supervisors at the time of their initial assignment to [shop name]. This training, at a
       minimum, will include the following:
       A3.9.1.2. Identification of operations or processes in the work area/shop where
       hazardous chemicals are present or used, and the complete list of hazardous material used
       in association with work area/shop processes.
       A3.9.1.3. Identification of relevant hazard categories associated with each chemical used
       (e.g., flammability, carcinogenicity, etc.) or the individual chemical hazards; including,
       but not limited to, those with specific regulatory requirements (e.g., asbestos, benzene,
       beryllium, cadmium, formaldehyde, and lead).
       A3.9.1.4. The location and contents of this document.
       A3.9.1.5. Controls specific to each task involving chemicals (e.g., the specific respirator
       for a specific spray painting process). Supervisors shall refer to the installation BE work
       area/shop survey reports for specific control requirements.

Table A3.2. Hazard Communication Training Questions.
QUESTION                                          ANSWER
What chemicals could present a potential
health hazard used by your shop?
What is a MSDS?
Where are the MSDSs for your shop kept?
Where is the Hazardous Material Inventory?
What type of PPE is used in your shop?
Who is your HAZCOM Program Manager?
What procedures do you follow in the event of
a small spill? A large spill? What is the
difference?
       A3.9.1.6. Chemical hazards associated with non-routine tasks (e.g., solvent tank change-
       out every three months).
   A3.10.1. See Table A3.2. in 45SWI 90-801 for review questions that may be used by
   supervisors to test workers’ knowledge of the Hazard Communication Program.
Approve/Disapprove ___________________________________
(BEF representative signature/date)

Approve/Disapprove ___________________________________
45SWI90-801 29 JUNE 2012                                 19


(PH representative signature/date)

Approve/Disapprove ___________________________________
(Safety representative signature/date)

Approve/Disapprove ___________________________________
(Fire Dept representative signature/date)
