BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               45TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 32-7002
45TH SPACE WING                                                                           1 APRIL 2003

                                                                                      Civil Engineering

                                                            ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ANALYSIS
                                                                            PROCESS (EIAP)



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 45 CES/CEVP (Ms. Angy L. Chambers)             Certified by: 45 MSG/CC (Col Stephen J. Werner)
                                                                                         Pages: 17
                                                                                    Distribution: F

This instruction implements the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, 42 United States Code
(U.S.C.) Sections 4321 through 4347, the Council on Environmental Quality, Regulations for Implement-
ing the Procedural Provisions of the NEPA, 40 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Parts 1500 through
1508, Executive Order 12114, Environmental Effects Abroad of Major Federal Actions, 32 CFR 989,
Environmental Impact Analysis Process and Air Force Policy Directive 32-70, Environmental Quality.
This is the initial publication of 45SWI32-7002.


1. HOW TO USE THIS INSTRUCTION.
   1.1. Background. This instruction implements the U. S. Air Force’s Environmental Impact Analysis
   Process (EIAP). Its purpose is to ensure that all proposed actions within the 45th Space Wing (45 SW)
   with potential environmental impacts receive the appropriate level of environmental review early in
   the planning process. Effective EIAP will identify potential environmental impacts, project con-
   straints, permit requirements, and other regulatory obligations.
       1.1.1. This instruction focuses on the preliminary stages of the EIAP process only, i.e., the com-
       pletion of AF Form 813, Request for Environmental Impact Analysis. The AF Form 813 will
       determine whether the action is categorically excluded from the requirement of further environ-
       mental analysis, such as an Environmental Assessment (EA) or Environmental Impact Statement
       (EIS). If it is determined that a Categorical Exclusion (CATEX) does not apply, the Environmental
       Flight Office (45 CES/CEV) will determine the appropriate level of analysis required and work
       with the proponent on completion of the proper documentation. Proponents may reference 32 CFR
       989 for procedures in which a CATEX does not apply.
   1.2. Concept . This instruction applies to all 45 SW organizations, tenant organizations, visiting
   organizations, and contractors operating within the 45 SW and/or on 45 SW installations. Each orga-
   nization should have an environmental coordinator/representative to track environmental require-
   ments identified through their EIAP process, and ensure these requirements are identified to the
2                                                                          45SWI32-7002 1 APRIL 2003


    appropriate individuals within their organization. It is important that actions are thoroughly reviewed
    for environmental impacts prior to implementation, as violations of various environmental laws may
    result in civil or criminal penalties.
    1.3. Proposed actions requiring environmental impact evaluation include, but are not limited to:
       1.3.1. Implementing new programs, payloads, and procedures.
       1.3.2. Preparing, revising, and implementing land use plans.
       1.3.3. Engaging in construction, demolition, maintenance or excavation activities.
       1.3.4. Procuring and operating new equipment (i.e., parts washer).
       1.3.5. Engaging in hazardous operations.
       1.3.6. Performing training exercises.
       1.3.7. Granting easements, leases, licenses and other interests in real property.
       1.3.8. Acquiring or transferring real property or facilities.
       1.3.9. Procuring or handling hazardous materials.
       1.3.10. Generating liquid or solid wastes.
       1.3.11. Producing any release or discharge into the air or water.
    1.4. The 45 SW Customer Service Unit (CSU) will assist the proponent in the completion of 45 SW
    Form 2, 45 SW Environmental Checklist (Instructions, Attachment 2).
    1.5. The 45 SW Environmental Planning Function (EPF) will provide assistance with the completion
    of the AF Form 813, Request for Environmental Impact Analysis (Instructions, Attachment 3).

2. Responsibilities.
    2.1. Environmental Planning Function (EPF). The EPF is the 45th Civil Engineer Squadron Envi-
    ronmental Flight (45 CES/CEV), the interdisciplinary staff responsible for EIAP. The EPF:
       2.1.1. Assists the proponent in preparing a Description of Proposed Action and Alternatives
       (DOPAA) and actively supports the proponent during all phases of the EIAP. The Environmental
       Planning Function (45 CES/CEVP) will assist the proponent when needed.
       2.1.2. Evaluates proposed actions and completes Sections II and III of AF Form 813 subsequent
       to submission by the proponent. The EPF responsible official signs the AF Form 813.
       2.1.3. Identifies and documents, with technical advice from the 45th Bioenvironmental Engineer-
       ing Office (45 ADOS/SGGB), 45th Radiation Protection Office (45 ADOS/SGGM) and other
       applicable offices, environmental quality standards that relate to the actions under evaluation.
       2.1.4. Prepares environmental documents, or obtains technical assistance through Air Force chan-
       nels or contract support, and adopts the documents as official Air Force papers when completed
       and approved.
    2.2. Proponent. Any individual, office, unit, or activity at any level that initiates Air Force actions is
    responsible for:
45SWI32-7002 1 APRIL 2003                                                                                3


      2.2.1. Notifying the EPF of a pending action early in the planning stages of the action and com-
      pleting Section I of the AF Form 813, including a DOPAA, for submittal to the EPF. Many of the
      environmental processes must be coordinated with outside agencies so adequate time must be
      given to complete this process.
      2.2.2. Identifying key decision points and coordinating with the EPF on EIAP phasing.
      2.2.3. Ensuring environmental documents are available to the decision-maker before the final
      decision is made.
      2.2.4. Ensuring that, until the EIAP is complete, resources are not committed. Resource commit-
      ment before environmental review may prejudicially affect the selection of alternatives and
      actions that could, in turn, adversely impact the environment.
      2.2.5. Integrating the EIAP into the planning stages of a proposed program or action and, with the
      EPF, determining as early as possible whether to prepare an Environmental Assessment (EA) or
      an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS).
   2.3. Staff Judge Advocate (45 SW/JA). The Staff Judge Advocate:
      2.3.1. Advises the EPF on CATEX determinations and the legal sufficiency of environmental doc-
      uments.
      2.3.2. Advises the EPF during the scoping process of issues that should be addressed in EISs and
      on procedures for conducting public hearings.
      2.3.3. Promptly refers all matters causing or likely to cause substantial public controversy or liti-
      gation to HQ AFSPC/JAV.

3. Procedure for Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP). The EIAP flow chart describes the
sequence of events associated with the environmental review process.
4                                                     45SWI32-7002 1 APRIL 2003


Figure 1. Environmental Impact Analysis Flow Chart.
             ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ANALYSIS FLOW CHART
45SWI32-7002 1 APRIL 2003                                                                                5


  3.1. The proponent requesting or proposing the action must:
     3.1.1. Complete a 45SW Form 2, 45 SW Environmental Checklist, prior to submitting an AF
     Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, or initiating a proposed action on 45 SW proper-
     ties. The checklist will indicate if a proposed action has the potential to have an environmental
     impact and therefore requires an environmental review.
         3.1.1.1. If all of the answers are “No” on the checklist, submit the AF Form 332 and com-
         pleted checklist to the EPF office or appropriate CSU.
         3.1.1.2. If the answer is “Yes” or “Undetermined” for any item on the checklist, contact the
         EPF to determine the need for AF Form 813.
     3.1.2. Submit the completed 45SW Form 2, 45 SW Environmental Checklist, AF Form 332, and
     AF Form 813, if applicable, to the respective CSU for processing. For actions that will not enter
     the AF Form 332 system, the proponent may submit the checklist and/or the AF Form 813 directly
     to the EPF.
     3.1.3. To reduce processing time, obtain any required coordination, review, and/or approvals
     before submitting a work request to the CSU.
     3.1.4. If the scope of the project changes after the AF Form 813 has been approved, immediately
     notify the EPF to ensure proper evaluation of the change(s).
  3.2. The appropriate Customer Service Unit (CSU) will:
     3.2.1. Provide assistance to the proponent in completing the Environmental Checklist upon
     request.
     3.2.2. Review all work requests to verify that the proper environmental documents are attached. If
     incomplete, the 45SW Form 2, 45 SW Environmental Checklist, will be returned to the propo-
     nent.
     3.2.3. Forward all work requests requiring an environmental review to the EPF after assigning a
     Work Order Number/Service Order Number (WON/SON).
  3.3. The Environmental Planning Function (EPF) will:
     3.3.1. Provide assistance to the proponent upon request in completing the AF Form 813.
     3.3.2. Consider and document impacts to the environment from all proposed Air Force actions
     through AF Forms 813s, EAs, Findings of No Significant Impact (FONSIs), EISs, Records of
     Decisions (RODs), and documents prepared according to EO 12114.
     3.3.3. Evaluate proposed actions for possible categorical exclusion (CATEX) from environmental
     impact analysis. CATEXs may apply to actions in the United States, its territories and possessions,
     and abroad.
     3.3.4. Make environmental documents, comments, and responses, including those of other Fed-
     eral, state, and local agencies and the public, part of the record available for review and use at all
     levels of decision making in the EIAP process.
     3.3.5. Review the specific alternatives analyzed in the EIAP when evaluating the proposed action
     prior to decision making.
6                                                                         45SWI32-7002 1 APRIL 2003


       3.3.6. Ensure that alternatives considered by the decision-maker are both reasonable and within
       the range of alternatives analyzed in the environmental documents.
    3.4. An Environmental Compliance Checklist may be attached to AF Form 813s, after completion by
    the EPF, for notification to the appropriate planners of the potential need for various permits, consul-
    tation requirements, presence of asbestos containing material/lead based paint, need for further envi-
    ronmental analysis.
    3.5. Attachment 1 - Glossary of References and Supporting Information. Refer to 40 CFR Part 1508
    for other terminology used in this instruction.
    3.6. Form Prescribed. 45 SW Form 2, 45SW Environmental Checklist.



                                      J. GREGORY PAVLOVICH, Brigadier General, USAF
                                      Commander
45SWI32-7002 1 APRIL 2003                                                                        7


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
42 U.S.C. §§4321-4347, National Environmental Policy Act of 1969
42 U.S.C. §7506(c), Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990
42 U.S.C. §13101(b), Pollution Prevention Act of 1990
43 U.S.C. §§155-158, Engle Act
Executive Order 11988, Floodplain Management, May 24, 1977
Executive Order 11990, Protection of Wetlands, May 24, 1977
Executive Order 12114, Environmental Effects Abroad of Major Federal Actions, January 4, 1979
Executive Order 12372, Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs, July 14, 1982
Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for Implementing the Procedural Provisions of the
National Environmental Policy Act, 40 CFR Parts 1500-1508
DoD Directive 6050.1, Environmental Effects in the United States of DoD Actions, July 30, 1979
DoD Directive 6050.7, Environmental Effects Abroad of Major Department of Defense Actions, March
31, 1979
AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality
AFI 32-1021, Planning and Programming of Facility Construction Projects
AFI 32-7062, Air Force Comprehensive Planning
AFI 32-7064, Integrated Natural Resources Management
AFI 32-7080, Pollution Prevention Program
AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule

Abbreviations and Acronyms
45SW—45th Space Wing
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
CATEX—Categorical Exclusion
CEQ—Council on Environmental Quality
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
DoD—Department of Defense
DOPAA—Description of Proposed Action and Alternatives
EA—Environmental Assessment
8                                                                        45SWI32-7002 1 APRIL 2003


EIAP—Environmental Impact Analysis Process
EIS—Environmental Impact Statement
EO—Executive Order
EPA—Environmental Protection Agency
EPC—Environmental Protection Committee
EPF—Environmental Planning Function
FEIS—Final Environmental Impact Statement
FONPA—Finding of No Practicable Alternative
FONSI—Finding of No Significant Impact
GSA—General Services Administration
HQ AFMC—Headquarters, Air Force Materiel Command
HQ USAF—Headquarters, United States Air Force
NEPA—National Environmental Policy Act of 1969
ROD—Record of Decision
SPOC—Single Point of Contact
TDY—Temporary Duty
USC—United States Code
WON/SON—Work Order Number/Service Order Number

Terms
NOTE: All terms listed in the CEQ Regulations, 40 CFR Part 1508, apply to this instruction. In addition,
the following terms apply:
Description of Proposed Action and Alternatives (DOPAA)—An Air Force document that is the
framework for assessing the environmental impact of a proposal. It describes the purpose and need for the
action, the alternatives that will be considered, and the rationale used to arrive at the proposed action.
Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP)—The Air Force program that implements the
requirements of NEPA and requirements for analysis of environmental effects abroad under EO 12114.
Federal Action—Actions with effects that are potentially subject to federal control and responsibility.
Actions include new and continuing activities, including projects and programs entirely or partly
financed, assisted, conducted, regulated, or approved by federal agencies, new or revised agency rules,
regulations, plans, policies, or procedures; and legislative proposals.
Finding of No Practicable Alternative (FONPA)—Documentation according to Executive Orders
11988 and 11990 that explains why there are no practicable alternatives to an action affecting a wetland or
floodplain, based on appropriate EIAP analysis or other documentation.
Interdisciplinary—An approach to environmental analysis involving more than one discipline or branch
of learning.
45SWI32-7002 1 APRIL 2003                                                                                 9


National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA)—The basic national charter to protect the
environment that requires all federal agencies to consider environmental impacts when making decisions
regarding proposed actions.
Pollution Prevention—"Source reduction", as defined under the Pollution Prevention Act, and other
practices that reduce or eliminate pollutants through increased efficiency in the use of raw materials,
energy, water, or other resources, or in the protection of natural resources by conservation.
Proponent—Any individual, office, unit, or activity that proposes to initiate an action.
Proposal—A proposal exists when an organization has a goal and is actively preparing to make a
decision on one or more alternative means of accomplishing that goal and the effects that can be
meaningfully evaluated.
Scoping—A public process for proposing alternatives to be addressed and for identifying the significant
issues related to a proposed action prior to the initiation of an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS).
United States—All states, commonwealths, the District of Columbia, territories and possessions of the
United States, and all waters and airspace subject to the territorial jurisdiction of the United States. The
territories and possessions of the United States include the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Wake Island,
Midway Island, Guam, Palmyra Island, Johnston Atoll, Navassa Island, and Kingman Reef.
10                                                                          45SWI32-7002 1 APRIL 2003


                                               Attachment 2

     45 SW FORM 2, ENVIRONMENTAL CHECKLIST PREPARATION INSTRUCTIONS




1. Project Title: Title of proposed action as it appears on the work order or programming document.


2. Project Number: Insert SON, WON, PCN, DBEH, SXHT, MAXIMO or other authorized work iden-
tification number, as appropriate. If no project number has been assigned, leave blank and Work Control
or Plans and Programs will add this.


3. Project Location: Check box for applicable installation where work will be conducted. For off-site
work, identify location in “Other”.


4. Facility Name/Number: Use the proper name for the facility where work is being conducted and the
assigned facility number. If proposed action is not directly associated with a facility, use the closest facil-
ity for reference.


5. Requestor/Project Lead: List name of individual who has requested the proposed action. If this indi-
vidual cannot be identified, or no single individual is responsible for submitting the work requirement,
then list the person who is most familiar with the proposed action, such as the design engineer or project
lead and their mail code.


6. Phone Number: Telephone number of individual identified in #5.


7. The items listed in this section could be included in, or result from, the work that is being requested/
performed. To the best of your knowledge, indicate by checking the applicable box if any of these items
could be effected by the work requested/performed. Check the “UNDETERMINED” box if you are not
certain. If further information is required for items 7 a. - p., please reference the additional instruction
sheet.


AF/45 SW


Submit completed checklist (Sections 1 – 8a) with the appropriate work request form (AF Form 332) and
include a comprehensive project description, site map/project drawing or sketches. If the answer is “Yes”
or “Undetermined” for any of the checklist items, the proponent should contact the appropriate Environ-
mental Planning Function (EPF) to determine if preparation of an AF Form 813 is required.
45SWI32-7002 1 APRIL 2003                                                                                11



NASA/KSC Contractors Categorical Exclusion applicability (applies to actions on KSC ONLY)


If ALL items in section 7a-l, are marked “NO” the project qualifies for a categorical exclusion (CATEX)
and does not need to be forwarded to the NASA EPO if:


a. All Items in section 7m-p, are marked “NO”, OR


b. One or more items in section 7m-p are marked “YES” or “UNDETERMINED” and the appropriate
remedial action(s) are implemented, documented and maintained on file with a completed and signed
copy of this checklist.


If any item in section 7a-l is marked “YES” or “UNDETERMINED”, then a complete NEPA compliance
package must be submitted to the NASA EPO. A NEPA compliance package consists of a comprehensive
project description, detailed location maps and complete project drawings or sketches. Contact the
JBOSC Environmental Planning Office at 867-3540 for additional assistance.


8a. Requestor Signature: Signature of person completing checklist.


8b. Environmental Coordination/Concurrence: For further information please contact the 45th Space
Wing Environmental Flight (45 CES/CEV), 494-9259 for PAFB projects and 853-6822 for CCAFS
projects.


ENVIRONMENTAL CHECKLIST ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTIONS


SECTION 7a. -p.


The following additional information/instructions for Section 7a - p should be applied to Environ-
mental Checklist preparation for KSC and 45 SW actions.


Stormwater: Stormwater, i.e., rain, is an environmental concern primarily due to potential impacts of
rainwater run off from an impervious surface into the surrounding area. Secondarily, an impervious sur-
face prevents stormwater from percolating into the ground. Consequently, the St. Johns River Water Man-
agement District (SJRWMD) requires a permit to be obtained and a stormwater management system to be
constructed when a large impervious surface is created. The threshold for obtaining a permit varies from
4000 square feet for surfaces specifically supporting vehicular traffic, such as roads, parking lots, stabi-
lized areas, etc., to 9000 square feet for buildings inclusive of all other impervious surfaces. The permit
12                                                                        45SWI32-7002 1 APRIL 2003


threshold can also be “tripped” by adding to or modifying an existing impervious surface, so do not
assume your project will not require permitting if new impervious area is below the above thresholds. If
you check “yes”, please identify the number of square feet involved.


Drinking/FIREX Water: Check yes if the proposed project involves work that would affect a potable
water line. Environmental concerns with work that effects water lines are: 1.The disturbance of a water
line typically lowers water quality and therefore, requires disinfection and sampling prior to use; 2. Some
connections and/or additions to the existing water system require a permit. Supply as much design infor-
mation as possible relating to potable water system changes (e.g., new vs. extension, pipe diameter, etc.).
Permit determinations and applications will be handled by the applicable environmental office.


Domestic Wastewater/ Industrial Wastewater: Environmental concerns include potential impacts to
the Wastewater Treatment Plant with regards to its operation and existing FDEP permit conditions. New
connections and septic tank installations may require permitting, inspection, and/or certification. There-
fore, check yes if the proposed project will involve installation of new wastewater sources or in any way
effect the existing sanitary sewer system. Industrial wastewater is any water-based waste stream, dis-
charge, wash water, deluge outfall, etc., that would result from conducting an industrial-type operation.
The source of this wastewater typically requires permitting and therefore, must be identified to the appro-
priate environmental office as soon as possible. In addition, early environmental coordination could result
in the identification of a process alternative that may preclude or minimize the waste stream.


Dewatering: If the proposed project will require the pumping of water to support its construction activi-
ties, a permit may be required. There are a number of variances and quantity thresholds based upon the
amount of water being transferred and the area where the water will be discharged. Therefore, if your
project requires dewatering, check yes and the appropriate environmental office will determine permit
applicability.


Painting/Paint Removal: Painting or removal of existing paint coatings, depending on the method and
contents of the paint, can pose significant human health risks as well as generate hazardous or controlled
wastes. In some cases, old paint coatings containing lead and/or other metals as well as non-liquid PCB’s,
will require specific abatement procedures and special disposal of wastes generated. Additionally, use of
paint thinner and chemical stripper typically results in generation of wastes requiring special handling and
disposal. If known, please indicate if these painting related materials are to be used. If your project
includes any painting or paint removal activities check yes for this item and include specific information
regarding paint contents, other hazardous materials to be used and painting/paint removal methodology,
as applicable.


Air Emissions: If the project (either during construction or operation) would discharge any substance into
the air, other than vehicular or normal construction equipment exhaust, check yes and describe the source
of the emission in item “7l. Other”. Some emission sources may require State and/or Federal permitting
for both construction and operation. Some activities are of concern primarily from the worker health and
45SWI32-7002 1 APRIL 2003                                                                                     13


safety standpoint and secondarily for their potential effects to the natural environment. Therefore, early
identification of potential air pollution sources is imperative for worker safety.


Construction: Some proposed construction activities may not have their scope defined well enough to
allow easy identification of potential environmental concerns, and certain facilities and certain types of
construction activities have restrictions or constraints that may not be easily identifiable. An example may
be disposal of wastes from a construction or demolition project as opposed to waste generated from nor-
mal operations and maintenance (O&M) type projects. Construction and Demolition (C&D) debris is per-
mitted for disposal in the CCAFS landfill, whereas O&M wastes must go to the Brevard County landfill.
The proposed project must reflect the proper disposal method in the design specifications to ensure com-
pliance with existing permits.


Land Impacts: Areas of major environmental concern associated with this item include the loss of vege-
tation and disturbance of “natural” land that may provide habitat for various types of wildlife. Similarly,
the disturbance of the ground could impact burrowing animals, such as the gopher tortoise. Other issues
include the disposal of vegetation from land clearing, underground utilities, archaeological sites, wet-
lands, etc. If your project includes any type of vegetation removal, land clearing, tree trimming (other than
routine landscape maintenance), digging, grading or activity in or near wetlands/surface waters, check yes
for this item.


Exterior Lighting: Exterior lights at or near Atlantic coastal beaches in Florida have been proven to dis-
rupt sea turtle nesting. Consequently, NASA and the Air Force have developed exterior lighting policies
to minimize adverse impacts to threatened and endangered sea turtles that nest on their beaches. Should
the project include exterior lights, either new or replacement of existing, check yes and the appropriate
environmental office will monitor the design of your project to ensure compliance with the applicable pol-
icies. Typically exterior lights, that are not directly related to a color rendition or explosion proof require-
ment, will be the lowest wattage, low pressure sodium fixture that meets the needs of your request.


Historic Property: Several facilities at KSC and CCAFS are listed or are eligible for inclusion in the
National Register of Historic Places (NRHP). All activities or “undertaking” on these properties must be
reviewed to determine the effects on the property. If your activity is at or near any of the facilities listed in
this section, check yes.


Tanks: Any vessel that stores liquids, other than drinking water, must be evaluated for potential environ-
mental effects. Some tanks require registration with the State based upon the quantity and type of material
being stored. All tanks must be identified in the tank management program and various containment and
piping requirements may apply. If you suspect the involvement of any new or existing tanks, including
associated piping or containment, check yes and the environmental tank program managers will identify
if any regulatory requirements apply.
14                                                                          45SWI32-7002 1 APRIL 2003


Other: If aspects of the proposed project/work do not fit into any of the above categories, but may have
an effect on human health or the natural environment, explain in the space provided. This space should
also be used to explain or identify specific aspects of the above items, as necessary. If there is not enough
space to adequately explain the item you are describing, please attach an additional sheet and reference a
continuation sheet in case they should become separated.


Hazardous Material and Waste: A number of items have the potential to adversely effect human health
or the natural environment. Consequently, use of these items in the construction and/or operation of your
proposed project will require special storage, handling and disposal. Hazardous materials usually consti-
tute items that possess any one or more of the following characteristics: corrosive, flammable, toxic and/
or reactive. If you are not sure, contact the appropriate environmental office to determine if hazardous
materials may be used in your project. In addition, should hazardous materials be included in your pro-
posed project, the environmental office may be able to identify an acceptable non-hazardous alternative
through the Affirmative Procurement (AP) program. Wastes generated from use of hazardous materials
will generally be classified as a hazardous waste, which requires special handling and disposal. Contact
the appropriate environmental planning office for guidance regarding proper management of hazardous
waste generated by your activities or for assistance in determining waste characteristics.


Asbestos Containing Material (ACM): Due to the age of many of the buildings and structures, it is
likely that if your project affects an existing facility, ACM may be encountered. If the project involves
new construction or is remote from existing structures and/or utilities then it is unlikely that any ACM’s
would be disturbed by your action(s). Many of the existing facilities have already been sampled and the
ACM’s are already identified. Contact the JBOSC Industrial Hygiene Office at 867-2400 to determine if
the project will impact a known ACM source or access the JBOSC on-line ACM survey database at
http://kscboc-w3.ksc.nasa.gov/fams. If the potential for the presence of ACM’s exists, sampling must be
requested so a determination can be made for all possible sources.


Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCB): PCBs are chemicals that are primarily found in some types of fluids
used in electrical equipment, i.e., electrical transformers, switches, ballasts, etc. Non-liquid PCB’s may
also be present in older paint coatings, caulking and other materials. The primary environmental concern
associated with PCB is its potential to cause cancer. Consequently, all projects or jobs that will come in
contact with any fluid filled electrical equipment, or non-liquid materials suspected of containing PCB’s
should include sampling and analysis for PCB’s. A current analysis (within six months) must accompany
each fluid-containing piece of electrical equipment requiring disposal.


Radiation: Various types of mission related equipment has the potential to emit radiation that could affect
human health and the well being of other living organisms. Typically, the project/job requestor is aware of
the dangers associated with the equipment being constructed, installed or worked on. However, in some
cases, work may be requested that would take place within a zone of influence for an existing piece of
equipment, thereby requiring shutdown or some other operational constraint. Therefore, if you know the
project will involve a radiation source, or is in the vicinity of a potential source of radiation (radar, micro-
wave transmitter, etc.) check yes.
45SWI32-7002 1 APRIL 2003                                                                                 15



REQUIRED ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES FOR NASA/KSC
PROJECTS - SECTION 7m - p.


If all items in Section 7a-l are marked “no” you do not need to submit the checklist to the NASA Environ-
mental Program Office (TA-C3). However, the following instructions must be adhered to and documented
for activities identified under Section 7m-p of the Environmental Checklist.


Hazardous Material and Waste: Use, storage, generation and/or disposal of hazardous, potentially haz-
ardous, or toxic materials. For waste disposal, a Process Waste Questionnaire (PWQ) must be completed
through the JBOSC Waste Management Authority (867-8640). Please adhere to requirements identified in
the KHB’s 8800.6 and 8800.7.


Asbestos Containing Material: This is a regulated material that can no longer be used in construction
materials. If this project will disrupt (in any way) construction materials, an asbestos survey should be
completed if one has not already been completed. Contact JBOSC Environmental Health at 867-2400 for
a Support request. JBOSC Environmental Health has completed a KSC-wide asbestos survey and the data
is complied on the KSC Environmental Health Asbestos Survey Data Home Page
(http://kscboc-w3.ksc.nasa.gov/fams). If you know that asbestos exists and will be disturbed, regula-
tions from 62-257 F.A.C. must be followed. If less than 260 linear feet, or less than 160 square feet of reg-
ulated asbestos containing material (RACM) is to be removed, there are no fee or reporting requirements.
If the removal trips these thresholds, or is greater than 1 cubic meter (if the project cannot be measured in
linear or square feet), regulations require a notification (completed by JBOSC) to FDEP. The Permitting
and Compliance Group within TA-C3 Environmental Program Office must be copied on all reports sub-
mitted to FDEP.


PCB: If the project requires the installation, modification, removal or refurbishment of polychlorinated
biphenyl (PCB) containing materials, proper labeling, storing, and disposal methods must be followed.
For waste disposal, a Process Waste Questionnaire [KSC Form 26-551 (3/82)] must be completed through
the JBOSC Waste Management Authority (867-8640). Please adhere to requirements identified in KHB’s
8800.6 and 8800.7.


Ionizing or non-ionizing radiation: If the project includes generation or use (excluding microwave
ovens) of ionizing or non-ionizing radiation, the equipment involved must be reviewed and approved by
the KSC Radiation Protection Officer at 867-4237.
16                                                                      45SWI32-7002 1 APRIL 2003


                                                  Attachment 3

            DIRECTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS FOR COMPLETING AF FORM 813


RCS: CSUs assign control/service order number.


Section I


1. 45 CES/CEV (the 45th SW Environmental Planning Function (EPF).


2. The name of the proponent’s organization and functional address symbol.


2.a. The proponent’s telephone number.


3. The title of the proposed action.


4. Purpose and Need for Action (Use Continuation Sheet (back of AF Form 813) if needed). Brief justifi-
cation such as mission/project objectives and/or regulatory drivers. Include dates needed (if applicable).


5. Description of Proposed Action and Alternatives (DOPAA) (Use Continuation Sheet if needed).
Describe in detail the work to be done. Include site plans/drawings where possible. Use the Environmen-
tal Impact Checklist to highlight potential environmental issues. Provide alternatives including the No
Action Alternative. Include a discussion of any existing environmental documentation, permits, etc..


6. Name and grade of proponent’s approval authority for the action.


6.a. Signature of individual listed in block 6.


6.b. Date when signed.


Section II and Section III


7 – 18. To be completed only by the EPF office.
45SWI32-7002 1 APRIL 2003                                                               17


19. Name and grade of EPF person determining the level of analysis and documentation.


19.a. Signature of authorized EPF personnel.


19.b. Date of signature.
