BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       45TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 32-1001
45TH SPACE WING
                                                                                   5 JULY 2012

                                                                              Civil Engineering

                                                            FACILITY SPACE ALLOCATION


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 45 CES/CEAO                                                       Certified by: 45 MSG/CC
                                                                       (Col Loretta A. Kelemen)
Supersedes:   45 SWI32-1001,                                                            Pages: 17
              1 August 2006


This instruction implements AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities, AFI 32-1024, Standard
Facility Requirements, AFMAN 32-1084, Facility Requirements, AFI 32-9002, Use of Real
Property Facilities, and AFH 32-9007 Managing Air Force Real Property. It establishes
policies and procedures for utilizing facility space at Patrick Air Force Base (PAFB), Cape
Canaveral Air Force Station (CCAFS) and the Florida Annexes. It applies to personnel of the
45th Space Wing (45 SW), federal and non-federal tenant activities and government contractors.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF 847
from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with (IAW) Air Force Records Information Management Systems (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.myaf.mil.afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include, paragraph 1.1, Reduce by 20 percent the amount of 45 SW physical plant that requires
funds by 2020; paragraph 2.1., space request shall be submitted to 45 CES/CEAO on the 45 SW
Form 32, Space Allocation Request Form (SARF).
 2                                                                                                   45SWI32-1001 5 JULY 2012


        1.      Goals. .....................................................................................................................    2
        2.      Policy. ....................................................................................................................    2
        3.      Procedures. .............................................................................................................       4
        4.      Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................         7
        5.      Definitions. ............................................................................................................       9

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                 12

Attachment 2—WORKSTATION SPACE CRITERIA                                                                                                        14

Attachment 3—SPACE ALLOCATION MEMBERSHIP                                                                                                       16

Attachment 4—45 SW SPACE ALLOCATION PROCESS                                                                                                    17


1. Goals.
     1.1. Reduce by 20 percent the amount of 45 SW physical plant that requires funds by 2020.
     1.2. Efficiently utilize facility space to conserve energy, reduce costs, facilitate the
     demolition of surplus facilities and improve the accuracy of the real property records.
     1.3. Maintain compliance with Air Force facility utilization standards.
2. Policy.
     2.1. All organizations, units, tenants, new programs and range users who require any facility
     space on 45 SW installations shall request space through the 45th Civil Engineer Squadron,
     Asset Optimization Section (45 CES/CEAO). The space request shall be submitted to
     45 CES/CEAO on the 45 SW Form 32, Space Allocation Request Form (SARF). Requests
     shall detail the requirements that mandate facility space. Space shall be allocated based on
     requirements and compatibility with Installation General Plans, not the availability of
     specific facilities. Additional documentation, such as organizational charts, floor plans,
     mission requirements and staffing requirements, should be included with the request to
     further clarify requirements. Requests from 45 SW organizations should be emailed to
     45CES_SA within the 45 SW e-mail system. Requests from external customers that are not
     part of the 45 SW (e.g., tenants, range users, non-45 SW contractors) must be submitted to
     the 45th Space Wing, Plans and Programs Office (45 SW/XP) as the entry point for the space
     allocation process.
     2.2. The Facility Board is the only entity authorized to approve space allocations at the
     45 SW. For the purposes of space allocation, the Facility Board convenes as the Space
     Allocation Board (SAB). All valid space allocation requests shall be reviewed by the Space
     Allocation Working Group (SAWG) and approved by the Space Allocation Board. The
     SAWG and SAB shall meet quarterly. Membership of 45 SW Facilities Board is identified in
     the Facility Board Charter. SAB and SAWG membership is provided at Attachment 3.
     2.3. The SAWG shall make a recommendation on all minor space allocation requests. A
     minor space allocation request must meet all of the following criteria: space allocation of
     less than 5,000 square feet; internal (45 SW) organization; no secondary impacts such as the
     need for real property agreements, displacement of existing organizations, environmental
45SWI32-1001 5 JULY 2012                                                                        3


  impacts, etc.; negligible cost to the 45 SW as determined by the SAWG Chair; does not
  involve a change in facility use; and does not involve launch property or industrial facilities.
  Following SAWG recommendation on minor space allocation requests, the requestor may
  occupy the recommended space. The SAWG recommendation shall be presented to the SAB
  for approval after the fact.
     2.3.1. Temporary relocations meeting the criteria of a minor space allocation in 2.3 shall
     be reviewed by the SAWG. Temporary relocations typically require an expedited
     approval and are often associated with construction projects, time-sensitive operations,
     emergencies or unforeseen circumstances. The SAWG shall determine the duration of
     the temporary relocation. All temporary relocation approvals shall have a fixed end date
     and identify the permanent disposition of the involved personnel and/or hardware.
     Temporary relocation approvals shall detail the following: requesting organization;
     duration of relocation; requirement for temporary relocation; personnel and hardware to
     be relocated; vacated facility(ies); temporarily occupied facility(ies); and facility(ies) to
     be occupied following temporary relocation. Collateral arrangement provisions detailed
     in Section 3.8 of this instruction should be addressed by the requesting organization when
     coordinating temporary relocations.
  2.4. All space allocations associated with new programs, beddowns, support agreements,
  program requirements documents, the universal documentation system or non-45 SW
  contracts, shall first be worked with 45 SW/XP. Space assigned prior to full acceptance of
  the program shall be contingent upon all proper paperwork and approvals from the wing
  and/or HQ AFSPC formally accepting the program before the program can begin occupying
  space.
  2.5. Unit commanders or equivalent managers shall ensure their organization effectively and
  efficiently uses assigned facilities. Open-bay office areas and pre-wired workstations and
  systems furniture will be used to the greatest extent possible. Existing functions will be
  consolidated and compressed wherever possible to reduce expenditures and permit
  demolition of substandard facilities. Organizations requesting additional space must first
  demonstrate that every reasonable effort has been made to satisfy their space allocation needs
  within their existing assigned assets.
  2.6. Space allocations shall be based on actual requirements and shall comply with guidance
  in AFI 32-1024, Standard Facility Requirements, AFMAN 32-1084, Facility Requirements,
  45 SW Facilities Excellence Plan and this document. Granting use of facilities to other than
  Air Force activities will be in accordance with priorities and orders of preference in AFI 32-
  9003, Granting Temporary Use of Air Force Real Property.
  2.7. Permanent, hard-wall offices are only authorized for supervisory personnel with a two
  or three letter office symbol, or equivalent, and judge advocates. Private office space may be
  approved for certain employee relation functions and for some sensitive missions, so that
  confidentiality is not compromised.
  2.8. Assignment of secondary office space shall be minimized. Private secondary or satellite
  offices for duties away from authorized primary office locations will normally be limited to
  grades O-6, E-9, or civilian equivalent and above. Secondary offices are provided only with
  special justification. Shared use of secondary office space, up to three personnel per station,
 4                                                                  45SWI32-1001 5 JULY 2012


     is expected unless otherwise approved.      The SAB shall approve all space requests for
     secondary office assignments.
     2.9. Space shall be used only for its officially approved and assigned purpose. SAWG and
     SAB approval is required to change facility use and reallocate assigned space.
     2.10. Prior to acquiring real property by lease or purchase off the Air Force installation, the
     45 SW and Air Force tenants shall confirm that no property under Air Force control is
     available to meet mission requirements. Only the 45 SW/CC is authorized to acquire real
     property on behalf of the 45 SW.
     2.11. Any 45 SW contract involving the allocation of facility space shall contain language in
     the contract that requires a Space Utilization and Consolidation Plan. The intent of this plan
     is to identify all facilities utilized under the contract, evaluate their utilization and make
     recommendations for consolidation and utilization improvements.
     2.12. All 45 SW Real Property assets are subject to periodic utilization reviews and agency
     audits regardless of assigned organization.
     2.13. Subletting of assigned space to another organization without SAWG and/or SAB
     approval is not permitted.
     2.14. Facility space for reserve units or personnel that utilize space on a non-permanent,
     rotational or surge basis shall be addressed on a case-by-case basis. Non-permanent Reserve
     units shall seek to share workspace to the greatest extent possible.
     2.15. Expiring out grants shall be reviewed by the SAWG and SAB for approval 1 year prior
     to expiration to ensure alignment with 45 SW space allocation and facility planning policy.
     Approval of out grant renewals by SAWG and SAB shall initiate 45 CES completion of real
     property out grant templates with 45 SW/JA coordination for 45 SW/CC signature.
3. Procedures.
     3.1. Space Allocation Process. The process is divided into six phases: requirements
     validation; submittal; civil engineering solutions analysis; 45 SW solutions analysis;
     customer approvals; and 45 SW approvals. Attachment 4 and the following sections detail
     the components of the space allocation process.
     3.2. Requirements Validation and Submittal. All organizations, units, tenants and range
     users who require any 45 SW facility space shall submit a space allocation request form that
     details requirements that mandate facility space. The submittal process for 45 SW internal
     organizations and 45 SW external organizations are further outlined below.
        3.2.1. The 45 SW Internal Organizations. Unit Commanders must validate their
        organizations’ need for additional space by coordinating on the Space Allocation Request
        Form and forward to 45 CES/CEAO. 45 CES/CEAO shall verify the requestor is
        utilizing their existing facility space and validate the request prior to engaging in the
        solutions analysis phase. 45 SW units shall submit a copy of their UMD with requests
        for administrative space. Space allocation requirements for new government contracts,
        contract re-competitions or modifications to existing government contractors shall be
        submitted through the respective Program Management Office (PMO) and the 45 SW
        Contracting Squadron (45 CONS) for validation and compliance with the contract and the
        provisions of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, Section 45. Validation shall be
45SWI32-1001 5 JULY 2012                                                                         5


     documented on the Space Allocation Request Form. Following validation by PMO and
     45 CONS, all space allocations for new government contracts, contract re-competitions
     or modifications to existing government contracts shall be reviewed by the SAWG and
     SAB.
     3.2.2. The 45 SW External Organizations. Existing tenants, potential tenants and new
     programs or range users shall coordinate all requests for facility space through the
     45 SW/XP office. Upon receipt of an external space request, 45 SW/XP shall coordinate
     a requirements review team composed of 45 SW/XP, 45 CES/CEAO, the customer and
     the customer’s wing liaison. This team shall meet with the customer to assist in the
     completion of the SARF, refine the space requirements and provide the customer with a
     preliminary assessment of the feasibility of their space request. The requirements review
     may reveal preliminary results that facilities may or may not be readily available to meet
     their requirements. Following the requirements review meeting with key players, the
     customer shall complete the SARF, obtain the appropriate signature(s) and submit the
     completed SARF to 45 SW/XP for strategic review processing. A funded job order
     number (JON) may be required at the time of SARF submission in order to obtain base
     support services for the space allocation process prior to completion of the Program
     Introduction or basing process. This initial space allocation review assists the 45 SW and
     the customer to determine up front if facilities are available that meet the requestor’s
     requirements. Final allocation of facilities is contingent on SAWG and SAB approval.
  3.3. Civil Engineering Solutions Analysis. The 45 CES/CEAO shall evaluate the space
  request and identify candidate facilities. Use of the candidate facilities shall be evaluated for
  compatibility with the installation General Plan and the highest and best use of the facility in
  light of mission requirements and facility attributes.
     3.3.1. If no candidate facilities are identified, the 45 CES/CEAO shall notify the
     customer. If the customer agrees, the request will either be terminated or placed on hold
     until a facility becomes available. If the customer disagrees with the determination, they
     may appeal to the SAWG.
  3.4. The 45 SW Solutions Analysis. The 45 CES/CEAO shall transmit the space allocation
  request and candidate facilities from the Civil Engineering solutions analysis to the 45 SW
  solutions analysis team. Members of this team may include Fire, Safety, Civil Engineering,
  Security, Operations, Finance, Plans and Programs, Legal, Launch Group and others. The
  45 SW solutions analysis team shall identify potential liens against occupancy and secondary
  approvals in advance of the SAWG. Potential liens include incompatible use, safety issues,
  real property requirements, environmental health issues, facility modifications, costs and
  other issues.
     3.4.1. The 45 CES/CEAO shall prioritize the facility options and make a
     recommendation based on the results of the wing solutions analysis. For large-scale or
     critical space requests, the 45 CES/CEAO shall forward the results of the 45 SW
     solutions analysis and CEAO recommendation to wing leadership.
  3.5. Customer Approval. The 45 CES/CEAO shall notify the customer of the outcome of
  the Civil Engineering and 45 SW solutions analysis process and provide a recommended
  facility list with potential liens and facility modification costs. The customer may accept the
  recommendation and proceed with approval or appeal the recommendation to the SAWG.
6                                                                  45SWI32-1001 5 JULY 2012


    3.6. Wing Approval. 45 CES/CEAO shall make a recommendation to the SAWG based on
    the results of the space allocation analysis.
       3.6.1. For items that meet the minor space allocation criteria, the SAWG may either
       recommend approval or denial of the request. For approvals, the customer may proceed
       with the facility request and make arrangements to occupy the facility. If the customer
       disagrees with the SAWG recommendation, they may appeal to the SAB. SAWG actions
       shall be documented in meeting minutes. Minutes and slides from the SAWG shall be
       distributed to all SAWG members, meeting attendees, organizations requesting space and
       voting members of the SAB.
       3.6.2. For items that do not meet the minor space allocation criteria listed in Section 2.3,
       the SAWG shall make recommendations to the SAB to either approve or disapprove
       space requests.
       3.6.3. The 45 CES/CEAO shall organize a SAB quarterly. All pending requests shall be
       briefed at the SAB. The SAB shall approve or disapprove space requests. Minutes and
       slides shall document the actions of the SAB and shall be distributed to all SAB voting
       members and attendees.
       3.6.4. For critical and time-sensitive requests, space requests may be reviewed out of
       cycle. For items that meet the minor space allocation criteria, the results of the space
       allocation process may be electronically distributed to all SAWG voting members for
       their review by the 45 CES/CEAO. For items that do not meet the minor space allocation
       criteria, the 45 CES/CEAO shall prepare and distribute a Staff Summary Sheet (SSS) for
       review of the request. An out-of-cycle SAWG or SAB meeting may also be called at the
       discretion of the SAWG chairperson. Out-of-cycle approvals shall be minimized.
       3.6.5. Changes to support agreements due to changes in space allocation shall be
       coordinated with the 45 SW Point of Contact named in the Support Agreement and
       submitted to 45 SW/XP.
       3.6.6. Upon space allocation approval, the organization or activity shall assign a Facility
       Manager and support the Facility Manager Program in accordance with 45 SWI 32-9001,
       Building/Facility Care – Real Property Management.
       3.6.7. If a request for space is not validated or is disapproved, the requester may
       reengage the space allocation process with additional justification.
    3.7. Vacating Facilities. Organizations vacating rooms or facilities shall notify the
    45 CES/CEAO at least 30 days in advance of a move. A final walk-through must be
    scheduled with the 45 CES/CEAO to ensure the vacated facilities are cleaned, emptied of all
    furnishings, equipment and trash and be in good working order. This will allow the
    45 CES/CEAO to validate clearance of the facility.
       3.7.1. Disposal arrangements shall be made with DRMO for the disposal of unwanted
       furnishings and property.
       3.7.2. Keys to the vacated areas shall be returned to the 45 CES/CEAO.
       3.7.3. If a 45 SW organization moving into vacated space requests items be left behind,
       arrangements in the form of a ―Memo for Record‖ between the organizations and
       45 CES/CEAO shall be in place before the organization moving out can be released from
45SWI32-1001 5 JULY 2012                                                                       7


       its obligations. Other agencies providing collateral support will also be notified of
       pending action. For non-45 SW organizations, the 45 CONS, Service Contracts Flight,
       45 CONS/LGC, must be contacted to determine the disposition or transfer of government
       equipment assigned by the contract.
   3.8. Collateral Arrangements. Other move support arrangements must be considered when
   planning facility space requirements. Long lead times for many of the collateral elements
   can delay useable occupancy well beyond the date of actual space allocation approval. The
   moving organization should coordinate the following.
       3.8.1. The unit moving shall make moving arrangements. Requester shall arrange and
       fund for move, furniture and communications support.
       3.8.2. Moves may be paid for by funding and establishing a reimbursable Job Order
       Number through the 45 SW Job Order Manager or by providing funds directly to
       contractor with government purchase card or other agreed upon method of payment.
       3.8.3. Organizations who may require communications infrastructure (voice, video or
       data connectivity) as a part of a move or space allocation shall contact the 45th Space
       Communications Squadron (45 SCS) to identify the appropriate service provider for the
       affected facility. The 45 SCS should be engaged early in the move process to ensure
       communication infrastructure is in place and operational prior to occupation.
       3.8.4. The unit Telephone Control Officer (TCO) is the Tier-1 liaison for all
       communication service requests from 45 SCS. TCO shall use the web-based Work Order
       Management System (WOMS) to submit communication service requests.
       Communication service requests are prioritized in the order they are received.
       3.8.5. Contact the 45 CES Customer Service (45 CES/CEOER) for building renovation,
       repair, or alteration and to identify the appropriate service provider for the affected
       facility.
       3.8.6. Contact the 45 CES Fire Protection Flight (45 CES/CEF) for fire prevention and to
       identify the appropriate service provider for the affected facility.
       3.8.7. Contact the 45th Comptroller Squadron, Financial Management (45 CPTS/FM) for
       reimbursement policy.
       3.8.8. Contact the 45 CONS/LGC for changing the location of equipment serviced by a
       contract or the disposition of government equipment assigned by contract.
4. Responsibilities.
   4.1. The 45 SW Commander (45 SW/CC). The 45 SW Commander is responsible for
   overseeing space allocation and ensuring facility space is used appropriately and efficiently.
   The 45 SW/CC, or their designee, chairs the Space Allocation Board.
   4.2. The Space Allocation Working Group (SAWG). The SAWG shall meet on a
   quarterly basis or as required by the respective chairperson. The SAWG shall give special
   attention to requests that may necessitate a conversion in real property codes or exceed the
   standard allowances in AFMAN 32-1084, Facility Requirements and this instruction. The
   SAWG will perform the following functions.
       4.2.1. Review and validate space allocation requests.
8                                                                   45SWI32-1001 5 JULY 2012


       4.2.2. Develop options for space allocation requests.
       4.2.3. Resolve space allocation issues.
       4.2.4. Provide recommendations to the SAB.
    4.3. The Base Civil Engineer (BCE). The BCE will ensure facility space is efficiently and
    appropriately utilized.
    4.4. Civil Engineer Space Allocation Section (45 CES/CEAO). The 45 CES/CEAO will
    perform the following functions.
       4.4.1. Process space allocation requests and develop options and recommendations for
       requests.
       4.4.2. Maintain space allocation and utilization records and minutes of SAWG and SAB.
       4.4.3. Conduct space utilization surveys and census collections.
       4.4.4. Detail the inefficient use of space and areas for potential consolidation.
       4.4.5. Review changes to floor plans and new furniture purchases that impact space
       utilization.
       4.4.6. Review all off-base space allocation requests and approvals.
       4.4.7. Review all contracts or other documents that require any facility space allocations.
       4.4.8. Review all new support agreements and changes to support agreements to ensure
       accurate space allocation assignments.
       4.4.9. Provide decisions and/or results of SAWG and SAB meetings to the Support
       Agreements Manager.
    4.5. The 45 SW Plans and Programs (45 SW/XP). The 45 SW/XP shall perform the
    following functions:
       4.5.1. Serve as the single point of entry for all space requests from organizations external
       to the    45 SW, new programs, basing actions and external contractors to the wing.
       4.5.2. Coordinate the Requirements Review Team for external requests.
       4.5.3. Conduct a strategic review for external requests.
       4.5.4. In order to satisfy AFSPCI 10-1215, paragraph 11.3., the 45 SW/XP will create a
       Memo for Record for the 45 SW/JA coordination and 45 SW/CC approval of domestic
       source non-availability certification. 45 SW/XP will prepare a SSS package that includes
       the customer request, the Memo for Record for 45 SW/CC signature, supporting rationale
       and any supporting documentation.
    4.6. The 45th Launch Group (45 LCG). The 45 LCG maintains certain mission-critical
    facilities directly related to launch vehicle (LV) and satellite vehicle (SV) operations. These
    facilities typically fall outside the direct control of the 45 CES. The 45 LCG is also the
    primary 45 SW contact for many DoD and commercial customers. To that end, the 45 LCG
    shall perform the following functions.
       4.6.1. Coordinate with 45 CES on space allocation issues for launch customers and
       launch-related requirements.
45SWI32-1001 5 JULY 2012                                                                          9


       4.6.2. As the Launch Site Integration Manager for commercial entities, or in accordance
       with assigned responsibilities under Letters of Assignment with LV and SV program
       offices, the 45 LCG shall be a member of the space allocation requirements review team
       for requests by launch-related customers or for launch-related space allocation requests.
       4.6.3. Provide current and projected facility utilization data for launch-related facilities
       in support of the space allocation process.
       4.6.4. Provide and maintain facility attributes for launch-related facilities in support of
       the space allocation process.
       4.6.5. The 45 LCSS/PMO is the government agency responsible for ensuring tenants
       properly vacate contractor-managed facilities.
   4.7. The 45 SW organizations, tenants and contractors shall:
       4.7.1. Submit requirements for facility space or changes in facility use to the
       45 CES/CEAO. Organizations shall first evaluate their own facilities and resources for
       space utilization prior to seeking changes in use or new space allocations.
       4.7.2. Annually report any and all vacant or under-utilized space or proposed changes in
       use to the 45 CES/CEAO. Reporting vacant and under-utilized space allows for the
       efficient use of facilities, conserves energy, minimizes custodial and support services,
       reduces operation and maintenance requirements, facilitates the demolition of surplus
       facilities and improves the accuracy of the real property records.
5. Definitions.
   5.1. Administrative Space. Office floor space and administrative support areas, including
   cubicles, offices, aisle ways, break areas, conference rooms and storage areas and areas that
   are used for office-type functions shall be counted as administrative space, even if they are
   located in an area that is assigned a non-administrative category code. Building net floor
   area for administrative space is the sum of the net office floor area and administrative support
   space. Special purpose areas (areas required to support activities not normally associated
   with administrative functions) may be excluded from the total assigned area when
   determining the administrative usage ratio. However, any personnel whose primary
   workspace function is located in a special purpose area must also be excluded from
   manpower numbers for administrative space usage evaluations.
   5.2. Assignment. The allocation of facility space to a unit, organization, or agency for the
   purpose identified and approved by the 45 SW/CC or their designee.
   5.3. Building/Facility Manager. An individual having direct custody and area
   responsibility for a building or facility. Facility Managers ensure facility space is efficiently
   utilized and used for the purpose and extent assigned by the 45 SW/CC. Facility Managers
   do not have authority to assign or reallocate space.
   5.4. Common Area. Areas of the building that provide service to building tenants but
   which are not included in the office area such as washrooms, janitorial closets, electrical
   rooms, telephone rooms, mechanical rooms, elevator lobbies and public corridors.
   5.5. Core and Service Area. The floor area of a facility necessary for the operation of the
   facility but not available for general occupancy. These areas include lobbies, mechanical
10                                                                45SWI32-1001 5 JULY 2012


  rooms, electrical rooms, restrooms and custodial rooms. Core areas that serve only the
  special purpose needs of an individual occupant and are not required for the operation of the
  building and are not part of the building core and service area.
  5.6. Exterior Gross Area. The sum of the floor areas on all levels of a building that are
  totally enclosed within the building.
  5.7. Facility Board (FB). Provides corporate insight of Civil Engineering programs and
  work proposed by other organizations that impact facilities as established in AFSPCI 32-
  1008, Facilities Board. The FB is chaired by the 45 SW/CC or their assigned designee. For
  space allocation purposes, the FB meets as the Space Allocation Board.
  5.8. Facility. A building, structure, utility system, paved area or land.
  5.9. Internal Gross Floor Area. The total floor area enclosed within, but not including, the
  external building wall.
  5.10. Interior Gross Area. The building exterior gross area less the thickness of exterior
  walls.
  5.11. Intra-Organizational Move. A move within that organization’s officially allocated
  space that does not displace personnel or change the use of a facility or workspace. Intra-
  organizational moves do not require SAWG approval but organizations shall obtain unit
  commander approval or equivalent and notify 45 CES/CEAO of internal moves.
  5.12. Major Vertical Penetrations. Stairs, elevator shafts, flues, pipe shafts, vertical ducts
  and their enclosing walls.
  5.13. Net Floor Area. The total gross floor area in the building, less space occupied by
  outside walls, permanent interior partitions, stairwells, elevator shafts and equipment,
  telecom space, toilets, janitor closets, permanent hallways and corridors, basements and
  mezzanines unsuitable for occupancy and machinery and equipment used to provide HVAC
  and utilities for the building.
  5.14. Occupiable. Any room that can house personnel. Examples of occupiable rooms are
  offices, workstations and cubicles which may be assigned to and occupied by personnel.
  5.15. Office Area. The area where a tenant normally houses personnel and/or
  administrative furniture.
  5.16. Prewired Work Stations and Systems Furniture. Acoustical panels, electrical
  wiring, communication wiring and components used to form individual offices. Components
  include work surfaces, closed shelving, files and lighting. All furniture purchases shall
  comply with the 45 SW Facilities Excellence Plan. The 45 CES/CEAO shall review all
  major furniture purchases to ensure furniture dimensions and configurations comply with
  45 SW space allocation policies.
  5.17. Primary Circulation. The portion of a building that is a public corridor or lobby or is
  required for all occupants to common areas.
  5.18. Rentable Area. Interior gross area less major vertical penetrations and void areas.
  The administrative space standard for rentable space is 230 rentable square feet per person.
45SWI32-1001 5 JULY 2012                                                                      11


  5.19. Secondary or Satellite Office Space. Workspaces located at either PAFB or CCAFS
  that are used by one or more 45 SW personnel to perform duties away from their primary
  work area or for temporary duty and transient Launch Program personnel identified through
  UDS process.
  5.20. Service Area. Floor area in a facility that is necessary for the operation of a facility
  and is not available for general occupancy.
  5.21. Space Allocation Board (SAB). The SAB has 45 SW oversight of space allocation.
  For space allocation purposes, the Facility Board meets as the SAB. The SAB approves or
  denies all space allocation requests.
  5.22. Space Allocation Working Group (SAWG). The SAWG assists the 45 SW
  Commander with space allocation issues. The SAWG provides a forum to address issues,
  formulate options and provide recommendations to the Facility Board on space allocation.
  The 45 MSG/CD chairs the PAFB SAWG. The Det 1, 45 MSG/CC, chairs the CCAFS
  SAWG. Voting membership is detailed in Attachment 3. The SAWG meets on a quarterly
  basis or as determined by the chairperson.
  5.23. Special Purpose Areas. Spaces in administrative areas that are used for activities not
  normally associated with administrative functions such as auditoriums, conference centers,
  training rooms, laboratories, libraries, shipping and receiving and holding space for contract
  maintenance equipment. These types of areas may be classified as special purpose space at
  the discretion of the SAWG.
  5.24. Special Purpose Space. Space which is required to meet special needs in a building
  or by an occupant such as a libraries, drafting rooms, training rooms, conference rooms, etc.
  These areas shall be included in the occupant’s usable space.
  5.25. Tenant. Any non-45 SW organization authorized 45 SW support, including facility
  space.
  5.26. Usable Area. Floor area of a facility that can be assigned to occupant groups.
  Excludes exterior walls, major vertical penetrations, void areas, primary circulation, building
  core, and building service areas. The usable area equals the rentable area less the service
  area. The usable area standard is an organizational average of 200 square feet per person.




                                           RORY D. WELCH, Colonel, USAF
                                           Vice Commander
 12                                                              45SWI32-1001 5 JULY 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 32-1084, Facility Requirements, 20 April 2012
AFH 32-9007, Managing Air Force Real Property, 1 May 1997
AFI 32-1024, Standard Facility Requirements, 31 May 1994
AFI 32-9002, Use of Real Property Facilities, 22 November 1993
AFPD 32-10, Installation and Facilities, 4 March 2010
AFSPCI 32-1008, Facilities Board, 1 June 2005
45 SWI 32-9001, Building/Facility Care – Real Property Management, 20 June 1994
Prescribed Form
45 SW Form 32, 45 SW Space Allocation Request Form
Adopted Form
AF Form 847 Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
45 SW—(45th Space Wing)
AFH—Air Force Handbook
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
CCAFS—Cape Canaveral Air Force Station
DRMO—Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office
FB—Facility Board
LV—Launch Vehicle
PAFB—Patrick Air Force Base
PMO—Program Management Office
SAB—Space Allocation Board
SARF—Space Allocation Request Form
SAWG—Space Allocation Working Group
SF—Square Feet
SV—Space Vehicle
45SWI32-1001 5 JULY 2012             13


TCO—Telephone Control Officer
UDS—Universal Documentation System
 14                                                               45SWI32-1001 5 JULY 2012


                                         Attachment 2
                              WORKSTATION SPACE CRITERIA

Table A.2.1. Permanent Space (Maximum).

                                                   Net Office
                     Position                                              Office Type
                                                 Floor Area (sf)
   Wing Commander and equivalent positions            350            Traditional private office
  Group Commander and equivalent positions              250          Traditional private office
            O-6 or civilian equivalent                  200          Traditional private office
      Squadron Commanders and equivalent                150          Traditional private office
         Flight Commander or equivalent                 150          Traditional private office
         Senior Enlisted Superintendents                120          Traditional private office
              Supervisory Personnel                     120          Open office workstation
                   All Others                           100          Open office workstation


Table A.2.2. Secondary Space (Maximum).

                                              Net Office Floor
                  Position                                                 Office Type
                                                 Area (sf)
      Wing Commander and equivalent                 350              Traditional private office
                 positions
      Group Commander and equivalent                120              Traditional private office
                 positions
         O-6 or civilian equivalent                 120              Traditional private office
  Squadron Commanders and equivalent           100 sf shared use     Open office workstation
                                            3 persons/workstation
       Senior Enlisted Superintendents          75 sf shared use     Open office workstation
                                            3 persons/workstation
           Supervisory Personnel                52 sf shared use     Open office workstation
                                            3 persons/workstation
                 All Others                     40 sf shared use     Open office workstation
                                            3 persons/workstation

Table A.2.3. Special Purpose Administrative Space.

                Description                                       Planning Factors
  Reception Desk, Shipping/Receiving, Mail       User justified
 Rooms, Multipurpose Rooms, Waiting Room,
  Storage Rooms, SCIFs, Copy Rooms, and
                   others
45SWI32-1001 5 JULY 2012                                                                     15


                  Copy Room                       1/50 occupants – 150 sf each
                 Waiting Areas                    20 sf/person
                 Break Rooms                      16% Occupants x 18 sf (min 100 sf)
          Collaboration/Team Meeting              4-10 persons @ 15 sf/person
   Classroom (up to 30 seated at tables/desks)    150 sf (speaker area) + 25 sf/person
   Classroom (above 30 seated at tables/desks)    150 sf (speaker area) + 20 sf/person
          Conference Room (up to 49)              20 sf/person
          Conference Room (above 50)              150 sf (speaker area) + 20 sf/person
                  Auditorium                      200 sf (podium area) + 15 sf/person
                Training Room                     200 sf (instructor area) + 25 sf/student

NOTE: The space criteria prescribed by AFMAN 32-1084, Facility Requirements and this
instruction represent maximum allowed amounts and organizations are not necessarily entitled to
these spaces or allowances. The number and type of special purpose administrative space(s) per
facility is based on user requirements and determined on a case by case basis.
 16                                                         45SWI32-1001 5 JULY 2012


                                     Attachment 3
                        SPACE ALLOCATION MEMBERSHIP

Table A.3.1. 45 SW SAB Voting Members.

      Voting Member                                     Title
 45 SW/CC                    45 SW Commander (Chairperson)
 45 SW/CV                    45 SW Vice Commander (Alternate Chairperson)
 45 SW/CD                    45 SW Executive Director
 45 SW/CCC                   Command Master Sergeant
 45 OG/CC                    Operations Group Commander
 45 LCG/CC                   Launch Group Commander
 45 MSG/CC                   Mission Support Group Commander
 45 MDG/CC                   Medical Group Commander
 920 RQW/CC                  920th Rescue Wing Commander
 AFTAC/CC                    Deputy Commander, Air Force Technical Applications Center
 NOTU/CC                     Naval Ordnance Test Unit Commanding Officer
 NRO Cape/CC                 NRO Cape Commander

Table A.3.2. Patrick Air Force Base SAWG Members.

      Voting Member                                       Title
 45 MSG/CD                   Deputy Commander, 45th Mission Support Group (Chair)
 45 OG/CD                    Deputy Commander, 45th Operations Group
 45 LCG/CD                   Deputy Commander, 45th Launch Group
 45 MDG/CD                   Deputy Commander, 45th Medical Group
 45 CES/CD                   Deputy, Range/Base Civil Engineer
 45 SW/XPE                   Chief of Planning and Policy
 920 MSG/CD                  Commander, 920th Mission Support Group
 AFTAC/CD                    Deputy Commander, Air Force Technical Applications Center

Table A.3.3. Cape Canaveral Air Force Station SAWG Members.

        Voting Member                                     Title
 Det 1, 45 MSG/CC           Commander, Det 1, 45th Mission Support Group (Chair)
 45 OG/CD                   Deputy Commander, 45th Operations Group
 45 LCG/CD                  Deputy Commander, 45th Launch Group
 45 MDG/CD                  Deputy Commander, 45th Medical Group
 45 CES/CD                  Deputy, Range/Base Civil Engineer
 45 SW/XPE                  Chief of Planning and Policy
 NOTU/XO                    Executive Officer, Naval Ordnance Test Unit
 NRO Office of Space Launch Commander, Det 1, NRO Cape
SAWG members may designate an alternate if unable to attend.
45SWI32-1001 5 JULY 2012                                17


                                    Attachment 4
                       45 SW SPACE ALLOCATION PROCESS

Table A4.1. 45 SW Space Allocation Process.
