BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 45TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 16-501
45TH SPACE WING                                                                          1 AUGUST 2005

                                                                                      Operations Support

                                                                         RESOURCE PROGRAMMING




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 45 SW/XPE                                          Certified by: 45SW/XP (Mr. Patrick D. Blucker)
     (Mr. Thomas O. H. Hotchkiss)                                                             Pages: 7
                                                                                       Distribution: F

This instruction outlines and establishes responsibilities for the 45th Space Wing (45 SW) resource pro-
gramming process. It provides a framework of policies and procedures upon which the 45 SW plans and
programs for long-range requirements in preparations for Program Objective Memorandum (POM) infor-
mation to higher headquarters. It provides mechanisms for determination of wing position for require-
ments and resources in accordance with mission needs and prioritizations. It applies to all 45 SW
activities responsible for the identification and prioritization of long-range requirements. The 45th Space
Wing Planning and Programming Branch (45 SW/XPE) performs the wing planning and programming
functions, and as such is designated the office of primary responsibility, called the Programming Focal
Point, for developing the wing POM submission to Headquarters (HQ) Air Force Space Command
(AFSPC). The POM is the Programming portion of the Air Force Planning, Programming, Budgeting,
and Execution (PPBE) system, [formerly known as the Planning, Programming, and Budget System
(PPBS)]. Headquarters Air Force consolidates requirements from AFSPC along with other MAJCOMs
and this becomes the Air Force’s portion of the Department of Defense’s (DoD) Future Years Defense
Program (FYDP).


1. The 45th Space Wing Programming Objectives. The objectives of the 45th Space Wing’s wing pro-
gramming efforts are to develop out-year (FYDP years) resource requirements, synchronize resource
requirements across the wing, provide wing leadership with visibility of all wing resources, and provide
quality, user-friendly inputs into the HQ AFSPC POM process.
   1.1. Out-year Resource Requirements. Identify, validate and prioritize all resource requirements
   for fiscal years in the Future Year’s Defense Program beyond the current and budget (next) fiscal
   years.
   1.2. Synchronize Requirements. Plan and program all resource requirements for specific efforts and
   initiatives. This synchronization is made between requirements from all sources.
2                                                                       45SWI16-501 1 AUGUST 2005


    1.3. Provide Visibility. Provide the wing commander and his staff visibility of all 45 SW long-range
    resource requirements.

2. Programming Procedures.
    2.1. Resource Identification. Resource identification in the 45 SW is a continual process in which
    resource requirements are identified, technically evaluated, and staffed within an organization. The
    organization’s Program Working Group (PWG) member oversees identification of resource require-
    ments within that organization.
    2.2. Resource Validation. Resource validation is also a continuous process in which resource
    requirements are reviewed by the PWG member for realism, reasonableness, and affordability.
    2.3. Repository for Resource Requirements. 45 SW/XPE will serve as a repository for all require-
    ments in the wing resource programming process.
    2.4. Annual POM Call Procedures. While resource requirement identification and validation are
    continuous functions occurring throughout and across fiscal years, it is necessary for the wing to issue
    a call for POM issues once a year to unearth previously buried resource requirements and issues, and
    to provide an opportunity for all of the wing’s long-term resource requirements to be reviewed and
    prioritized.
    2.5. Wing POM Call Letter. The Programming Focal Point will prepare the Wing POM call letter
    approximately 90 days before the anticipated HQ AFSPC submission date.
    2.6. POM Kickoff Meeting. The purpose of the meeting will be to provide a face-to-face inter-
    change to explain the task and answer questions.
    2.7. POM Package Integration. The Programming Focal Point will receive and review various
    POM inputs. The Programming Focal Point will clarify questions on inputs with the project officer
    and, if required, return them to be re-accomplished. The focal point will follow-up on delinquent
    inputs to determine status.
    2.8. POM Package Review and Approval. The POM input will be reviewed by the PWG and the
    Resource Management Board (RMB) before being sent to 45 SW/CC for signature.
    2.9. POM Package Signature. The focal point will prepare a transmittal letter for the POM package
    for 45 SW/CC signature.
    2.10. POM Package Transmittal. Since the submissions are made to the HQ AFSPC Program Ele-
    ment Monitor (PEM), a separate submission will be prepared by the Programming Focal Point for
    each Program Element’s (PE) submission. The focal point will send both hard copy and soft copy ver-
    sions to each respective PEM. Information copies will be sent to 45 SW/CC, the respective Group
    Commanders, applicable PWG members, and the respective HQ AFSPC POM program team chief.
    Periodic communication and information exchange between wing program element POCs and their
    HQAFSPC PEMs are encouraged and not restricted.

3. Resource Programming System. The 45 SW Resource Programming will be administered primarily
by the following:
45SWI16-501 1 AUGUST 2005                                                                          3


  3.1. The 45 SW/XPE. Serves as the 45th Space Wing’s Programming Focal Point for long-range
  resource programming, and is the OPR for developing and providing the POM submission to HQ
  AFSPC.
  3.2. Programming Working Group (PWG).
     3.2.1. PWG Membership. The PWG will consist of individuals from the below organizations.
     Each organization will designate their members for the PWG to 45 SW/XPE. Individuals
     appointed as PWG members should be serving in capacities where they may direct the efforts of
     their organizations in programming efforts. They should also be able to represent their squadron
     and commanders’ points of view in PWG functions. The Programming Focal Point, (45 SW/
     XPE), serves as the PWG’s staff facilitator. Membership is specifically composed of the follow-
     ing:

Table 1. PWG Membership.
45 SW/XPE                                  Facilitator (Programming Focal Point)
45 SW/SED                                  Member
45 SW/XP                                   Member
45 MDG                                     Member
45 OSS                                     Member
45 RMS                                     Member
45 WS                                      Member
45 SCS                                     Member
1 ROPS                                     Member
1 SLS                                      Member
3 SLS                                      Member
5 SLS                                      Member
45 CES                                     Member
45 MSS                                     Member
45 SFS                                     Member
45 SVS                                     Member
45 LRF                                     Member
Det 1, 45 MSG                              Member (Serves as rep for CCSMO)
45 OG                                      Group Advisor and Financial Advisor
45 LCG                                     Group Advisor and Financial Advisor
45 MSG                                     Group Advisor and Financial Advisor
45 MSS/MOF                                 Advisor
45 CPTS/FMA                                Advisor
45 SW/JA                                   Advisor
45 CONS                                    Advisor
4                                                                      45SWI16-501 1 AUGUST 2005


       3.2.2. Specific PWG Member Responsibilities: The basic responsibility of PWG members is to
       direct the efforts required of their organizations in the determination of future resource require-
       ments for their organizations. PWG members pay particular attention to introducing new require-
       ments for the out-years of the POM, as the fewest restraints exist at that juncture. PWG member
       responsibilities are considered key duties for the individual. The PWG member may bring support
       personnel to meetings, as necessary.
       3.2.3. Corporate PWG Roles and Responsibilities.
           3.2.3.1. The PWG meets at the call of the Programming Focal Point, but at least semi-annu-
           ally
           3.2.3.2. Reviews and validates requirements submitted by 45 SW activities during the POM
           submission and throughout the year.
           3.2.3.3. Identifies and makes recommendations to the RMB for requirements that can be
           deferred, reduced, eliminated, or moved to the out years of the FYDP. Prioritizes requirements
           and makes recommendations for when new or increased resource requirements create a need
           for programming adjustments.
           3.2.3.4. Evaluates and recommends priority of unconstrained requirements within the FYPD
           years for RMB approval.
           3.2.3.5. Makes recommendations for other programming-related decisions to the Resource
           Management Board (RMB).
           3.2.3.6. Recommends changes to programming policy.
           3.2.3.7. Recommends wing position to resolve a variety of issues and topics, which affect the
           long-term interests, and business of the 45th SW.
    3.3. Other Modes of Communication.
       3.3.1. In addition to meetings, the PWG will conduct business via email and a dedicated program-
       ming suspense system.
       3.3.2. The PWG will also make use of collaboration and consensus management applications to
       improve the conduct of programming business, and to leverage the availability of PWG members.

4. Resource Management Board (RMB).
    4.1. Membership of the RMB is defined by 45th Space Wing Instruction 65-602.
    4.2. Reviews and takes action on recommendations make by the PWG to ensure that resource require-
    ments are valid, that they represent a balanced program, and that all known or anticipated resource
    requirements have been considered.
    4.3. Establishes local long-range resource planning and requirements definition policy.
45SWI16-501 1 AUGUST 2005                                                                        5


5. Resource Programming Training. The Programming Focal Point will develop resource program-
ming training for presentation during PWG and RMB meetings, as well as one-on-one training with PWG
members.



                                            MARK H. OWEN, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
6                                                                      45SWI16-501 1 AUGUST 2005


                                             Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Air Force Policy Directive 16-5, Planning, Programming, and Budgeting System
Air Force Instruction 16-501, Control and Documentation of Air Force Programs
AFSPC Regulation 27-1, Air Force Space Command Programming System

Terms
Affordability—Describes the deliberation and judgment of relative costs to the amount of resources
required in order to execute a reasonable solution or objective.
Direct Budget Authority (DBA)—Such funding pertains to an installation’s obligations and expenses
for operating facilities, purchasing materials, and so forth, of unit missions and for which reimbursement
is not received.
Program Objective Memorandum (POM)—The Programming portion of the Air Force Planning,
Programming, Budgeting, and Execution (PPBE) system.
Program Elements (PEs)—A combination of personnel, equipment, and facilities that constitutes an
identifiable military capability or support activity.
Realism—Realism describes the probability that a given scenario will occur in the manner predicted, and
will result in predicted ramifications (i.e., how realistic was a forecasted launch consideration?).
Reasonableness—Reasonableness describes how appropriate a solution or mitigation is with respect to a
predicted anomaly or other problematic situation (i.e., did the mitigation have a good chance of
preventing an anomaly?).
Reimbursable Budget Authority (RBA)—Authority allowed an installation to incur expenses for goods
or services on behalf of customers. When services are rendered, the reimbursement is earned and funds
are collected from the customer.
Resource—A tangible or intangible asset or capability to be used for mission accomplishment. A
resource is not the same as funding, a budget, money, or a cost. A resource costs the using organization
money out of its budget or funding line, etc.
Resource Requirement—A need for a resource that is required in order to accomplish the 45th SW
mission. A need may be a statement of a mission shortfall for which a solution has not been identified.
Total Obligation Authority (TOA)—The combined total of Direct and Reimbursable funding authority
located at an installation for a given fiscal year.
45SWI16-501 1 AUGUST 2005                             7


                                     Attachment 2

                        45SW PROGRAMMING FLOW CHART

Figure A2.1. 45SW Programming Flow Chart.
