BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         45TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 40-103
45TH SPACE WING
                                                                                  14 JUNE 2013

                                                                              Medical Command

                                                                AUTOMATED EXTERNAL
                                                         DEFIBRILLATOR (AED) PROGRAM


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at ww.e-
               Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 45 MDG/SGH                                                        Certified by: 45 MDG/CC
                                                                           (Col Allison Bowden)
                                                                                        Pages: 10
Supersedes:    45SWI40-103, 15 July 2007


This instruction was introduced by AFSPC/CV letter dated 28 May 1999, and implemented by
45 SW/CC letter dated 29 June 1999, and provides guidelines and describes oversight for the
management and use of the Automated External Defibrillator (AED) at facilities within the
45th Space Wing. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the OPR
listed above using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF
Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate chain of command. Requests for waivers must
be submitted to the OPR listed above, or as otherwise stipulated within this publication, for
consideration and approval. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). The use of the name or
mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this
publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication contains minor revisions. As AED units are upgraded once they reach their
recommended lifespan, the revision contains verbiage to allow for flexibility on frequency of
unit maintenance inspections based on manufacturer’s recommendations. Attachment 2 has been
modified to reflect this new maintenance schedule; it also contains more specific information to
include owning organization/section, Public Access Defibrillator (PAD) location, and Site
 2                                                                 45SWI40-103 14 JUNE 2013


Coordinator. Attachment 3 has been added as a template for monthly inspection reporting to the
45th Medical Group (45 MDG) allowing for a single document covering all unit AEDs.
1. General.
     1.1. Background: The American Heart Association estimates that approximately 220,000
     people die each year from sudden cardiac arrest (more than 600 deaths a day). About 75-80
     percent of these events occur beyond the grounds of a medical facility, and are due to a
     condition called ventricular fibrillation. “V-fib” results from disruption of the normal
     electrical impulses within the heart. When these impulses are out of synchronization, the
     heart’s ability to pump blood completely ceases, and every organ system of the body starves
     for oxygen. Brain cells begin to die almost immediately. For every minute that passes
     without defibrillation (shocking the heart), a victim’s chance of survival decreases by 7-10
     percent, and defibrillation is the only way to restore the heart’s ability to pump blood.
     Emergency medical service (ambulance) response times average about 12 minutes. If we
     relied on EMS, we would expect overall survival rates of less than 2 percent for victims of V-
     fib. A properly deployed AED program makes it possible for non-medical personnel to
     perform defibrillation for these victims. This capability greatly improves their chance of
     survival.
     1.2. Prerequisites: The essential key to a successful AED program is early defibrillation.
     Therefore, AEDs will be strategically placed throughout the 45 SW as recommended by the
     program medical director to reduce time between victim collapse and the ability to provide
     initial shock, if indicated.
        1.2.1. Factors that will be considered in determining AED placement in unit facilities or
        facility assets include:
        1.2.1.1. Unit’s general mission.
        1.2.1.2. Number of occupants or “customers” frequenting the building or area.
        1.2.1.3. Approximation of cardiac event risk for that population (older people,
        occupational or environmental risks such as job tasks involving work with electricity,
        strenuous physical activity, etc.).
        1.2.2. 45 SW units should contact the AED Program Medical Director (see paragraph 2.3
        below) by calling 494-8100 or 494-8578 for guidance regarding justification, logistical
        and training issues prior to ordering an AED unit. Additionally, when an AED unit
        approaches the end of its serviceable period (due for replacement), the AED Program
        Medical Director should be re-consulted to assess continued need. This approval practice
        helps ensure deployment of uniform AED models, training and maintenance protocols,
        and helps keep the 45 SW program manageable and effective.
     1.3. It is important to note that the participating 45 SW units are directly and solely
     responsible for their AED programs (purchasing, installing and user-level maintenance of
     equipment, personnel proficiency, designation of key personnel, etc.). The 45 MDG serves
     the units in a purely advisory capacity while providing global program oversight for
     45 SW/CC.
45SWI40-103 14 JUNE 2013                                                                          3


2. Responsibilities.
   2.1. The 45 SW/CC. The wing commander has the overall responsibility for the AED
   Program and directs the 45 MDG/CC to ensure proper medical objectives are maintained for
   the AED Program.
   2.2. The 45 MDG/CC. The 45 MDG/CC is responsible to the 45 SW/CC for sustainment of
   the AED Program. The 45 MDG/CC will ensure all medical objectives are maintained and
   provide professional guidance on program administration. The 45 MDG/CC will appoint in
   writing a Medical Director and Program Coordinator for the AED Program.
2.3. Unit/CC will appoint a site coordinator and ensure overall compliance with training,
maintenance and documentation for the unit AED program. Unit/CC will allocate funding for
purchase of AEDs to include supplies and routine maintenance for any unit facilities determined
to be “at risk” (see paragraph 1.2 above).

   2.4. Medical Director. The Medical Director will be a credentialed medical provider
   proficient and current in Basic and Advanced Cardiac Life Support. The Medical Director is
   responsible for formulation of AED deployment strategies (where, how many), and has
   approval authority for AED deployment to a unit requesting this capability. The Medical
   Director will provide oversight of the training and proficiency testing provided by the
   Program Coordinator. The Medical Director will review all event summary sheets within 1
   business day of AED use (see paragraph 4 below).
   2.5. Program Coordinator. The Program Coordinator must be a Basic Life Support (BLS)
   Program Director (previously known as “Instructor Trainer”) and is responsible for
   monitoring 45 SW AED training and program compliance. The Program Coordinator will
   maintain a current roster of all primary and alternate site coordinators and ensure that they
   are conducting unit training according to Military Training Network (MTN) standards. The
   Program Coordinator will ensure AED proficiency (including adult CPR) at each location
   through periodic testing which can be coordinated with facility fire drills in an effort to
   minimize mission disruption. The Program Coordinator works in concert with the Medical
   Director to address medical oversight issues and any irregularities that arise.
   2.5.1. Unit Inspections. The Program Coordinator will conduct a staff assistance visit
   (SAV) no less than once every 2 years and provide the Unit/CC with a copy of the report
   outlining any notable areas of concern.
   2.6. Site Coordinators. Units possessing an AED will designate a primary and alternate
   Site Coordinator appointed in writing by the unit commander. Each unit is responsible for
   providing an updated appointment letter to the Program Coordinator if there are any changes.
       2.6.1. Training Requirements. Site Coordinators must successfully complete all
       training requirements as established by the Program Coordinator, and will be responsible
       for identifying and training all Targeted Responders (see paragraph 2.7-2.7.2) within their
       unit.
       2.6.2. AED Location and Marking. The Site Coordinator will determine the placement
       of the AED (Program Coordinator can offer assistance) and ensure proper signs are
       posted directing rescuers to the AED unit. The location of the AED will also be marked
       on the facility fire evacuation plans. Attachment 2 contains a list of suggested additional
 4                                                                  45SWI40-103 14 JUNE 2013


        equipment items to be kept with the AED. These items are not mandatory, but are
        strongly recommended for an effective, safe program. The 45 MDG Medical Logistics
        (45 MDSS/SGSL, 494-7085) can offer assistance in obtaining these or similar items.
        2.6.3. AED Routine Maintenance and Inspections. Site Coordinators will ensure
        periodic operational checks are conducted as recommended by the manufacturer. Site
        coordinators will follow the procedure outlined in the PAD Maintenance Log,
        Attachment 3. Site coordinators will maintain completed copies of the PAD Maintenance
        Log for 2 years. A monthly PAD Program Report (Attachment 3) covering all unit AEDs
        will be submitted to 45 MDG to ensure compliance.
     2.6.4. AED Emergency Response Plan. Site Coordinators will develop their unit’s AED
     emergency response plan and forward the plan through their commander for approval.
     2.7. Targeted Responders. Targeted responders are personnel designated by the Site
     Coordinator as those likely to be in the vicinity of the AED unit when a victim is in need.
     Encourage all Airmen to become targeted responders.
        2.7.1. Training Requirements. Targeted responders will, as a minimum, successfully
        complete the American Heart Association (AHA) Heartsaver AED course and receive a
        certification card. This training is offered monthly for all 45SW personnel to include
        contractors through the 45MDG at no cost to the unit. Training can be scheduled by
        calling 494-8200. Certification must be renewed every 2 years. Currency of the
        certifications is the responsibility of the Site Coordinator. Unit training as a group builds
        a better sense of team responsibility than individual, separate training. Ideally, each unit
        would maintain a least one CPR instructor.
        2.7.2. Administrative Requirements. An Event Summary Sheet (Attachment 5) must
        be completed by the individual who used the AED on a victim. This form must be
        forwarded to the Medical Director within 1 duty day of the event via encrypted e-mail to
        45MDG.aed@us.af.mil.
3. AED Acquisition and Maintenance.
     3.1. Work centers requesting an AED will coordinate the request through the chain of
     command. The request will be sent in memorandum format to the 45 MDG Program
     Coordinator who staffs the request through the Medical Director for approval/disapproval.
     The Medical Logistics Flight will be the focal point for all AED acquisitions. Funding will
     be a unit responsibility. All AEDs will be gained on the 45 MDG equipment inventory. The
     item will be gained under the cost center of the owning unit.
     3.2. The 45 MDG Biomedical Equipment Repair (45 MDSS/SGSLE, 494-6134) will serve
     as the point of contact for any problems or technical questions regarding approved AEDs.
     Additionally, Biomedical Equipment Repair will be responsible for any inspections or
     maintenance beyond the technical ability of the Site Coordinator.
45SWI40-103 14 JUNE 2013                                                                   5



4. Actual Event Quality Assurance.
   4.1. The Medical Director or designee, with the assistance of the 45th Space Wing Staff
   Judge Advocate or designee and 45 MDG Chief of Clinical Services will review all Event
   Summary Sheets to ensure quality of care was in compliance with local Standard of Care,
   and applicable Federal and Florida statutory requirements within 2 duty days of the event.




                                          ROBERT J. PAVELKO, Colonel, USAF,
                                          Vice Commander
 6                                                      45SWI40-103 14 JUNE 2013


                                       Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AED—Automated External Defibrillator
AHA—American Heart Association
BLS—Basic Life Support
CPR—Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation
MDG—Medical Group
MTN—Military Training Network
PAD—Public Access Defibrillator
SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
45SWI40-103 14 JUNE 2013                                                              7


                                          Attachment 2
                ADDITIONAL RECOMMENDED EQUIPMENT LISTING

A2.1. Non-latex protective gloves.
A2.2. CPR face mask/shield.
A2.3. Disposable razors to dry shave a victim’s chest area if required.
A2.4. Bandage Scissors.
A2.5. Spare battery and electrode pads.
A2.6. Biohazard/medical waste container/bags.
A2.7. Pad of paper and pens.
A2.8. Absorbent towel.
A2.9. Surface-Mounted AED Cabinet or Semi-Recessed AED Cabinet.
A2.10. AED Location Wall Sign. NOTE: Please Contact 45th Medical Group Medical
Logistics (45 MDSS/SGSL) at 494-7085 for assistance in obtaining these or similar items.
8                                            45SWI40-103 14 JUNE 2013


                             Attachment 3
                       PAD MAINTENANCE LOG

Figure A3.1. PAD MAINTENANCE LOG
45SWI40-103 14 JUNE 2013                         9


                            Attachment 4
                    MONTHLY PAD PROGRAM REPORT

Figure A4.1. MONTHLY PAD PROGRAM REPORT
 10                                               45SWI40-103 14 JUNE 2013


                                   Attachment 5
                           EVENT SUMMARY SHEET

Figure A5.1. Event Summary Sheet
