BY ORDER OF THE 45TH SPACE WING                            45TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 33-110
COMMANDER                                                                                    1 JUNE 2007

                                                                       Communications and Information

                                                                    45TH SPACE WING ENTERPRISE
                                                                            NETWORK LOCKDOWN




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 45 SCS/SCA                                        Certified by: 45 SCS/CC (Lt Col James A. Clark)
                                                                                             Pages: 2

This instruction defines the criteria requiring the network configuration to be frozen prior to and during
launch operations. It describes the timelines when configuration changes, modifications, upgrades or new
installs of any type to the network or its associated components and systems are prohibited.


1. Scope.
   1.1. This instruction applies to the 45th Space Wing Enterprise Network (45 SW ENTNET) and the
   45th Space Wing Classified Enterprise Network (45 SW CEN) components and associated servers
   providing core communications and mission support services. It also defines the parameters for freez-
   ing the configuration of the network 48 hours before the launch of manned and unmanned spaceflight
   missions. It outlines that neither the network nor its components will be altered for the duration of
   manned spaceflight missions. Additionally, it states that no planned service interruptions will be initi-
   ated during this critical launch period.

2. Network Definition.
   2.1. The network includes all hardware and software components used to transfer data from one user
   to another within and between organizations in the 45 SW and its associated tenants.
   2.2. All 45 SW ENTNET and 45 SW CEN components are managed by the NCC and/or the AFSPC
   network operations and security center (NOSC). The NCC is responsible for all components inside the
   network firewalls while the NOSC is responsible for the boundary protection equipment (network
   firewalls, proxy servers and external routers) at both Patrick AFB and Cape Canaveral AFS. Modifi-
   cation to any of these devices would impact the systems supporting launch operations.
   2.3. All CITS backbone equipment and base infrastructure (copper and fiber) are managed by the
   Telephone Systems Branch (45 SCS/SCAD). The Telephone Systems Branch is responsible for all
2                                                                          45SWI33-110 1 JUNE 2007


    components of the CITS backbone on Patrick AFB. Modification to any of these infrastructure sys-
    tems could impact the systems supporting launch operations.

3. Network Connected Hardware and Software Applications.
    3.1. The hardware connected to the network supporting core services applications such as e-mail or
    web services will follow the same rules as reflected in paragraph 1.1. These components will not be
    modified unless there is an emergency Notice to Airman (NOTAM) issued by the AFSPC NOSC.
    Wing leadership will make the decision to implement each emergency NOTAM or delay such actions
    until a successful launch is completed. The network control center (NCC) will provide details pertain-
    ing to the NOTAM for leadership to use in making their decision to delay its implementation.
    3.2. All operating system and application software residing on servers supporting the base network
    customers and network component operating systems will not be modified or upgraded in any form
    while the network configuration is frozen.
    3.3. All process workflow requirements resource (PWRR) projects pertaining to network additions,
    upgrades and maintenance will be placed in an on-hold status for implementation during the 48-hour
    timeframe to prevent any action that would affect the network configuration.

4. Authorized Service Interruptions.
    4.1. The Authorized Service Interruption (ASI) process is a means for the NOSC and the base NCC
    to coordinate a planned outage for Preventive Maintenance Inspections (PMIs), configuration
    changes, and optimizations that require a service to be unavailable for a specific length of time (the
    exception being the Emergency Outage).
    4.2. All ASIs must be coordinated through the NCC and will follow the same rules as reflected in
    paragraph 1.1. Service interruptions affecting any hardware supporting core services will not be
    implemented unless there is an emergency Notice to Airman (NOTAM) issued by the AFSPC NOSC.
    Wing leadership will make the decision to implement each emergency NOTAM or delay such actions
    until a successful launch is completed. The network control center (NCC) will provide details pertain-
    ing to the NOTAM for leadership to use in making their decision to delay its implementation. For
    Authorized Outages, submit an NCC ASI Request and email it to 45scsnccv3@patrick.af.smil.mil.
    4.3. AFI 10-701, Operations Security (OPSEC), assists in the protection of AF capabilities by degrad-
    ing an adversary’s knowledge and subsequent ability to attack our forces or counter our operations. To
    protect ASI information, all ASI coordination will be conducted over secure means. Posting network
    and base outages to any NIPRNet workstation, server database or web site for maintaining an internal
    tracking mechanism is unauthorized for OPSEC reasons and could result in a Classified Message Inci-
    dent (CMI).

5. NCC/NOSC Coordination.
    5.1. The NCC will ensure the NOSC is made aware of the 45 SW launch schedule. This will prevent
    any conflicts between actions the NOSC would take pertaining to the boundary protection equipment
    and the range launch schedule.

                                               SUSAN J. HELMS, Brig Gen, USAF
                                               Commander
