BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 45TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 25-204
45TH SPACE WING                                                                     1 NOVEMBER 2005

                                                                                           Logistics Staff

                                                            45TH SPACE WING MISSION-RELATED
                                                                       AGREEMENTS PROGRAM



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 45 SW/XPE (Ms. Catherine Wager)                   Certified by: 45 SW/XP (Mr. Patrick D. Blucker)
Supersedes Portions of 45SWI25-203,                                                         Pages: 13
           1 May 1999                                                                  Distribution: F

This instruction implements Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 3200.11, Major Range and Test
Facility Base (MRTFB); DoDD 3230.3, DoD Support of Commercial Space Launch Activities and
49 U.S.C. 70101-70121, Commercial Space Launch Act; Air Force Instruction (AFI) 65-601, Vol I, Bud-
get Guidance and Procedures; and 45 SWI 65-601, Reimbursement Policy. This instruction defines the
45th Space Wing's (45 SW) mission and non-recurring intraservice/interservice/intragovernmental base
operations support (base operations support that is not provided on a day-to-day recurring basis) agree-
ments program, and recurring base operations support provided to DoD contractors via non-45 SW con-
tracts. This instruction establishes policy, assigns responsibilities, and prescribes procedures for the
development, coordination, negotiation, approval, management, and maintenance of Memorandums of
Agreement/Understanding (MOA/MOU); Base Support Attachments (BSA) of non-45 SW contracts;
Space Operations Support Agreements/Commercial Space Operations Support Agreements (SOSA/
CSOSA) and local Annexes thereto, and Fixed-Price Agreements for commercial launches. This instruc-
tion applies to customers receiving mission and non-recurring base operations support, as well as to DoD
range mission-related customers receiving recurring base operations support for their contractors. This
instruction also applies to all 45 SW staff and operating elements involved in providing/receiving mission
support, providing/receiving non-recurring base operations support, providing recurring base operations
support for DoD range mission-related contractors, or having operational relationships with non-45 SW
organizations. This instruction does not apply to support agreements that delineate day-to-day recurring
intraservice/interservice/intragovernmental base operations support, which clearly falls within the pur-
view/guidelines of DoDI 4000.19 and AFI 25-201, and which use DD Form 1144, Support Agreement, as
the cover sheet. 45 SWI 25-203 governs the support agreements program, which is managed by the 45th
Mission Support Group, Logistic Readiness Flight's Support Agreements Section (45 LRF/LGRR).

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This instruction is basically a new instruction; although, much of its material and structure was extracted
from 45 SWI 25-203, dated 1 May 1999. This instruction became necessary when the Chief of Staff of the
Air Force, under the Combat Wing Organization concept, directed that the Logistics Readiness Flight
2                                                                   45SWI25-204 1 NOVEMBER 2005


within the Mission Support Group manage all support agreements. As a result of this direction, the
45 SW's agreements function was split up between the 45th Space Wing's Plans and Programs Division
(SW/XP) and the 45th Logistics Readiness Flight (45 LRF) aligned under the 45th Mission Support
Group (45 MSG). All support agreements, using DD Form 1144 as their cover sheet, which fall under the
purview of DoDI 4000.19 and AFI 25-201, were transferred to 45 LRF/LGRR. 45 SWI 25-203 has been
revised to address only those types of agreements. The intent of this instruction is to address the roles and
responsibilities associated with the other types of 45 SW agreements addressed in the introductory para-
graph. Reference to DoDI 4000.19 and AFI 25-201 has been retained in this instruction since they recog-
nize the existence of other types of agreements that are outside the scope of these two instructions. This
instruction updates organizational names and symbols; adds Space Operations Support Agreements
(SOSA)1 and Commercial Space Operations Support Agreements (CSOSAs) (paragraphs 2.1.3. and
2.1.4.) and local Annexes thereto (2.1.5.), and Fixed-Price Agreements (2.1.6.) to the types of agreements
covered by this instruction; and requires the addition of a reimbursement matrix to signed BSAs, which
commit the 45 SW to furnish support to government contractors under non-45 SW contracts, to ensure it
is clear who pays for the services provided (paragraph 2.1.9.). Also, this instruction includes definitions
for: Spaceport Manager (SM) (paragraph 2.3.); Financial Advisor/Resource Advisor (FA/RA) (paragraph
2.6.); Job Order Manager (JOM) (paragraph 2.7.); Technical Point of Contact (paragraph 2.8.); Adminis-
trative Contracting Officer (paragraph 2.9.); and the Universal Documentation System (UDS) (paragraph
2.11.). In addition, this instruction adds the SM's responsibilities associated with SOSA/CSOSAs (para-
graph 3.2.1.) and SOSA/CSOSA Annexes (paragraph 3.2.2.); assigns the responsibility to the FA/RA for
BSAs funded via Direct Budget Authority (DBA) to complete and sign the funding matrix (paragraph
3.6.); assigns the responsibility to the Job Order Managers (JOM) for contract BSAs funded via Reim-
bursable Budget Authority (RBA) to prepare the funding matrix (paragraph 3.7.); requires the 45th
 Contracting Squadron (45 CONS) to provide the 45th Space Wing, Plans and Programs Division’s Plan-
ning and Programming Office (45 SW/XPE) 1) a copy of the final version of BSAs that have been
included in the awarded contract for which 45 CONS has been delegated Contact Administration Services
(CAS) responsibility, 2) the signed funding matrixes for these contracts, and 3) to assist 45 SW/XPE in
purging active agreement files of BSAs of contracts for which 45 CONS had CAS delegation that are no
longer in effect (paragraph 3.9.2.); and permits the 45 SW/XP Chief to approve certain MOAs for which
45 SW/XP determines 45 SW/CC or CV signature is not essential (paragraph 5.). NOTE: Since the term
"commercial" does not apply to the FSA, because it is an agency of the State of Florida, its agreement is
titled "Space Operations Support Agreement (SOSA)."


1. Policy. The 45 SW Commander's policy is that 45 SW mission-related MOAs/MOUs and the other
agreements addressed in the introductory paragraph are managed/maintained by a central point of contact
(POC). Specifically, 45 SW/XP is designated as the central POC for these types of agreements and is
charged with the management/maintenance of these agreements (please refer to the introductory para-
graph). Although 45 SW/XP manages/maintains these agreements, the functional area POCs/technical
POCs are ultimately responsible for developing and providing 45 SW/XP the language that goes in these
agreements. Agreements prepared in accordance with the provisions of DoDI 4000.19 and AFI 25-201,
which are managed by 45 LRF/LGRR, are excluded from this instruction.

2. Explanation of Terms.
    2.1. Types of Agreements.
45SWI25-204 1 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                            3


     2.1.1. Memorandums of Agreement (MOA). MOAs are documents that define general areas of
     responsibility and agreement between two or more government agencies. MOAs may be used to:
        2.1.1.1. Document base operations support relationships that involve no expenditure of
        resources.
        2.1.1.2. Define non-recurring base operations support relationships that could involve reim-
        bursable support, such as hurricane evacuation MOAs.
        2.1.1.3. Document the technical portions of range relationships governed by DoDD 3200.11,
        when deemed necessary, to supplement the UDS documentation exchange between the East-
        ern Range user and the 45 SW. These technical range support MOAs may include reimburse-
        ment language.
     2.1.2. Memorandums of Understanding (MOU). MOUs are documents that define general areas
     of understanding between two or more government agencies--explain what each party plans to do;
     however, what each party does is not dependent on what the other party does (e.g., does not
     require reimbursement or other support from the other agency).
     2.1.3. Space Operations Support Agreements (SOSA). SOSAs are agreements developed and
     signed by Headquarters Air Force Space Command (HQ AFSPC) with state government agencies
     in support of space activities.
     2.1.4. Commercial Space Operations Support Agreements (CSOSA). CSOSAs are agreements
     developed and signed by HQ AFSPC with commercial companies in support of commercial space
     activities.
     2.1.5. SOSA and CSOSA Annexes. SOSA and CSOSA annexes are documents prepared at the
     local level to describe the support to be provided by the 45 SW under SOSAs and CSOSAs to state
     government agencies and commercial companies, respectively, and also address the related
     responsibilities of the 45 SW and state government agencies/commercial companies.
     2.1.6. Fixed-Price Agreements. For some launches, the commercial launch customer has the
     option of requesting a Fixed-Price Agreement, when agreed to by the 45 SW, instead of paying for
     the actual costs incurred by the 45 SW in support of the launch. The Fixed-Price Agreement also
     addresses the responsibility of the commercial launch customer to fund the costs incurred due to a
     launch scrub (a fixed cost is included in the agreement for each scrub) and any additional costs due
     to launch customer Expedite Operation Requirements (EOR) changes, as defined in paragraph 5
     of the Fixed-Price Agreement, after the Fixed-Price Agreement has been signed by the 45 SW
     (these costs will vary depending on the changes requested).
     2.1.7. Functional-Area Agreements. Functional-area agreements are documents of mutually
     agreed to statements of fact, intentions, or procedures primarily confined to one functional area,
     which do not involve the expenditure of resources (manpower or funds) and are developed,
     signed, and managed by that functional area. Although functional-area agreements can/should be
     signed by the functional-area chief, many functional-area agreements with non-45 SW organiza-
     tions are submitted to the 45 SW Commander for signature for protocol reasons.
     2.1.8. Joint Operating Procedures (JOP). JOPs are documents used to supplement agreements to
     define procedures and responsibilities that are too detailed for inclusion in the agreement. JOPs
     are consummated at the lowest practical operating level to ensure specific knowledge of the cir-
4                                                                  45SWI25-204 1 NOVEMBER 2005


       cumstances is applied. 45 SWI 25-201, Joint Operating Procedures, defines the policies, rules,
       and procedures relative to JOPs.
       2.1.9. Base Support Attachments (BSA) of Non-45 SW Contracts. BSAs are attachments
       included in government contracts to specify the support to be provided by the government to the
       contractor. All BSAs to non-45 SW contracts that require support from the 45 SW must be submit-
       ted to, and coordinated and approved by, the 45 SW prior to contractor receiving required supplies
       and services negotiated in their BSA.. In effect, a signed BSA serves as an agreement between the
       requiring agency (the government agency that is seeking support for its contractor) and the 45 SW
       (may also include other support providers, i.e., the Defense Automated Printing Service; Defense
       Reutilization and Marketing Office; the Aerospace Fuels Laboratory; or the National Aeronautics
       and Space Administration, John F. Kennedy Space Center through a joint-service contract); hence,
       the BSA is coordinated in the same manner as other agreements. The agreement to provide sup-
       port does not imply the 45 SW or other support providers pay for the services included in the
       BSA; therefore, a funding matrix shall be prepared for each BSA to identify the parties responsi-
       ble for payment. The requiring agency will sign the funding matrix when the support is provided
       via an RBA JON, and return the signed matrix to the 45 SW to ensure agreement on the funding
       responsibility. The FA/RA/JOM in the 45 SW will sign the funding matrix when the support is
       funded via a DBA JON. NOTE: For simplicity's sake, if not otherwise specified, the above agree-
       ment types (except functional-area agreements and JOPs) are referred to as "agreements'' in later
       sections of this instruction.
    2.2. Agreements Manager. The Agreements Manager is the individual assigned the responsibility of
    managing/maintaining wing-level agreements (MOAs/MOUs and Fixed-Price Agreements). The
    Agreements Manager resides in 45 SW/XPE. Note: Functional-area/technical POCs are ultimately
    responsible for developing and providing 45 SW/XPE the language that goes in these agreements. ,
    The Agreements Manager only maintains SOSAs, CSOSAs, and the local Annexes thereto.
    2.3. Spaceport Manager (SM). The SM is the individual assigned as the range user's single point of
    contact within the Plans and Programs Division's Program Requirements Office (45 SW/XPR). The
    SM has primary responsibility for coordinating SOSA/CSOSAs and submitting a consolidated
    response to HQ AFSPC, and for developing, coordinating, and obtaining the signatures on local
    SOSA/CSOSA Annexes. The SM is also responsible for processing the Program Introduction (PI) and
    Statement of Capability (SC) for a new range customer's program.
    2.4. Program Support Manager (PSM). The PSM is an individual assigned to the 1st Range Opera-
    tions Squadron (1 ROPS) who assesses a range customer's support requirements and compares them
    to range capabilities to identify shortfalls. As the customer’s program matures from the SC through
    the operations planning phase, the PSM is responsible for range operations planning and management
    support. In this role, the PSM is responsible for the remainder of the UDS process and managing the
    necessary support for execution of the range customer’s program.
    2.5. Functional-Area Points of Contact (POC). Functional-area POCs are individuals appointed
    within 45 SW staff offices and functional areas to serve as the single POC within that organization for
    the coordination of agreements covered by this instruction.
    2.6. Financial Advisor/Resource Advisor (FA/RA). The FA/RA is a 45 SW individual assigned the
    responsibility for managing the funds received by the 45 SW to fund a specific Direct Budget Author-
    ity (DBA) program.
45SWI25-204 1 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                             5


   2.7. Job Order Manager (JOM). Per 45 SWI 65-601, the JOM is a 45 SW individual assigned the
   responsibility for managing a Job Order Number (JON) account.
   2.8. Functional Area Agreements Coordinator (FAAC). The FAAC is an individual that reviews
   agreements to assess reimbursement requirements within a functional area.
   2.9. Cost Center Manager (CCM). The CCM An individual, usually appointed by the commander of
   a squadron or staff agency, who is responsible for the funds spent within the cost center for which the
   individual is responsible.
   2.10. Technical Point of Contact. The technical POC is an individual who serves as the primary POC
   for an agreement that is of a technical nature. This individual may reside in any 45 SW organization,
   which has the predominant responsibility within that specific agreement. For example, an individual
   in the 45th Weather Squadron is generally the POC when the agreement addresses primarily weather
   support. For agreements associated with a UDS workload and broad-based, cross-functional support,
   the technical POC is normally the SM or PSM.
   2.11. The 4 SW Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO). The ACO is the individual who has pri-
   mary responsibility, per the Contract Administration Services (CAS) delegation from the requiring
   agency’s Contracting Officer, for the receipt and coordination (through 45 SW/XPE), of BSAs of
   non-45 SW contracts that require contractor performance at the Eastern Range or in support of the
   45 SW.
   2.12. Other Party to the Agreement. The other party to the agreement is a non-45 SW activity that
   receives or provides either non-recurring base operations support (interservice/intragovernmental), or
   range support governed by DoDD 3200.11 (government range user) or DoDD 3230.3 (commercial
   range user). For BSAs of non-45 SW contracts where the 45 SW provides recurring base operations
   support to a government contractor, the government agency (requiring agency) whose contractor is
   receiving the support is considered the other party to the agreement. NOTE: There are instances when
   there are more than two parties to an agreement.
   2.13. Universal Documentation System (UDS). The UDS is a multi-tiered mission requirements doc-
   umentation system used at the National Ranges to identify a range user’s support requirements. The
   UDS documents include the Program Introduction (PI), Program Requirements Document (PRD),
   Operations Requirements (OR), and the Range’s responses thereto, including the Statement of Capa-
   bility (SC), Program Support Plan (PSP), and the Operations Directive (OD), respectively. The UDS
   is the primary mechanism for coordinating and documenting a range user’s support requirements, per
   45 SWI 99-101. NOTE: 45 SW groups and staff offices and the range user should contact 45 SW/
   XPE if and when they determine that there is a need to supplement the UDS documentation exchange
   with an agreement. The organization that identifies this need, develops the initial draft agreement and
   submits it to 45 SW/XPE for processing.

3. Responsibilities and Procedures.
   3.1. The Plans and Programs Division's Planning and Programming Office (45 SW/XPE) will:
       3.1.1. Manage/maintain the 45 SW agreements covered by this instruction.
       3.1.2. Ensure the agreements are in compliance with this instruction and applicable DoD, USAF,
       and AFSPC instructions and guidance.
6                                                              45SWI25-204 1 NOVEMBER 2005


    3.1.3. Provide a sample agreement and guidance, as needed, to aid the functional-area/technical
    POC in developing the initial draft agreement.
    3.1.4. Review and make any required changes to the initial draft agreement prepared and provided
    by a either the functional-area POC or technical POC before initiating the formal coordination
    process. If a commercial launch customer requests a Fixed-Price Agreement, develop the agree-
    ment using the approved Fixed-Price Agreement template and the financial information provided
    by the 45 SW Comptroller (45 SW/FM).
    3.1.5. Serve as the 45 SW OPR for the formal coordination, negotiation, and approval of
    wing-level MOA/MOUs, BSAs of contracts, and Fixed-Price Agreements. NOTE: Excluded
    from this policy, in addition to the support agreements addressed in paragraph 1. above, are spe-
    cialized functional-area agreements such as Real Estate Use Agreements, Union-Management
    Agreements, Mutual Aid Agreements (e.g., fire protection), and other similar documentation usu-
    ally involving only one functional area. Funtional-area agreements will be prepared, approved,
    and managed by the office responsible for that function. Functional areas should consult with
    45 SW/XPE if there is any doubt when the use of a functional-level agreement is appropriate.
    Functional managers should exercise reasonable care when making the decision whether or not to
    use this lower-level form of agreement. Consideration should be given to the use of JOPs for
    which firm administrative procedures are specified in 45 SWI 25-201. As a minimum, functional
    areas must coordinate functional-area agreements with the 45 SW Comprtoller (45 SW/FM),
    45 SW Staff Judge Advocate Office (45 SW/JA), and 45 SWXP. Functional areas must provide
    completed copies of these agreements to 45 SW/XPE. Also excluded from this policy are SOSA/
    CSOSAs that are prepared and approved by HQ AFSPC, and local SOSA/CSOSA Annexes for
    which the designated Spaceport Manager will be the 45 SW's focal point (see paragraph 3.2.
    below).
    3.1.6. Upon request by 45 CONS, coordinate BSAs of delegated non-45 SW contracts with the
    appropriate 45 SW staff offices and functional areas. Furnish a BSA (with the funding matrix)
    signed by 45 SW/XP to 45 CONS. The signed BSA commits the 45 SW to provide the support
    stated in the BSA. Distribute a copy of the final BSA included in non-45 SW contracts, along with
    a copy of the signed funding matrix, to the affected organizations, to include the JOM. NOTE: It
    is a joint responsibility of the requiring agency's Contracting Officer, the technical POC, the SM/
    PSM, 45 CONS for delegated contracts, and the JOM to ensure the support commitment made by
    the 45 SW via the BSA is consistent with the 45 SW's commitment reflected in any existing, cor-
    responding UDS documentation exchange.
    3.1.7. Determine which staff offices and functional areas are affected by each agreement and
    ensure these offices/functional areas coordinate on the agreement.
    3.1.8. Coordinate each agreement with at least the following organizations:
       3.1.8.1. The Comptroller (45 SW/FM).
       3.1.8.2. The Staff Judge Advocate Office (45 SW/JA).
       3.1.8.3. The Manpower and Organization Flight (45 MSS/MOF).
       3.1.8.4. The 45th Contracting Squadron (45 CONS).
       3.1.8.5. The 45th Civil Engineer Squadron (45 CES).
45SWI25-204 1 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                            7


     3.1.9. Provide advice and assistance to the staff, functional-area/technical POCs, and the other
     party to the agreement. Provide advice relative to DoD, USAF, AFSPC, and local policies on
     agreement management and the development of agreements.
     3.1.10. Task functional-area POCs to provide the exact language of any provisions they wish to
     have included in the agreement.
     3.1.11. Task functional-area POCs to identify costs associated with 45 SW or 45 SW contractor
     provided support and forward to 45 SW/XPE Agreements Manager, who will consolidate and pro-
     vide to 45 SW/FM for review.
     3.1.12. Determine the appropriate level of approval authority and submit fully coordinated new
     agreements, amendments, or revisions to existing agreements to 45 SW/XP, the 45 SW Vice Com-
     mander, or the 45 SW Commander for signature.
     3.1.13. Assist staff offices/functional areas and the other party to the agreement in resolving sup-
     port problems when efforts between them to resolve the problems have failed. Take necessary
     action to elevate any impasses to the appropriate levels where the impasse can be resolved.
     3.1.14. Initiate triennial review actions to ensure agreements are kept current. Advise the affected
     functional areas, other party, and higher headquarters, as appropriate, upon completion of each
     review. If both the 45 SW and the other party’s functional-area POCs or technical POCs determine
     that the agreement requires no changes, and the agreement has no major impact on other 45 SW
     organizations, 45 SW/XPE will close out the triennial review of the agreement after obtaining the
     other party’s concurrence.
     3.1.15. Make the required distribution (electronically when possible) of completed agreements
     and place on the shared network drive. Provide instructions to the staff and functional-area person-
     nel on how to access the agreements on the shared network drive. Enter the relevant information
     for completed agreements on the list of 45th Space Wing Mission-Related Agreements and Joint
     Operating Procedures.
     3.1.16. Notify the affected functional areas, other party, and higher headquarters, as appropriate,
     when an agreement is terminated. Remove the terminated agreement from the 45th Space Wing
     Mission-Related Agreements and Joint Operating Procedures and from the shared network drive.
     3.1.17. Maintain the list of 45th Space Wing Mission-Related Agreements and Joint Operating
     Procedures that are managed/maintained/monitored by 45 SW/XP and publish this list semiannu-
     ally, with an as of date of 31 January and 31 July. NOTE: The 45 LRF/LGRR office prepares a
     similar list for support agreements managed by that office.
  3.2. The Plans and Programs Division's Program Requirements Office (45 SW/XPR) will:
     3.2.1. When requested by HQ AFSPC, coordinate SOSA/CSOSAs with the appropriate 45 SW
     staff offices and functional areas and submit a consolidated response to HQ AFSPC.
     3.2.2. Serve as the focal point for the preparation, coordination, negotiation, approval, and trien-
     nial review of local SOSA/CSOSA Annexes. Provide a copy of approved local SOSA/CSOSA
     Annexes to the Agreements Manager in 45 SW/XPE.
     3.2.3. Determine if additional agreements are needed to address relationships/ responsibilities not
     adequately defined in the CSOSAs, local Annexes thereto, and the UDS documentation exchange
     between the Spaceport customer and the 45 SW.
8                                                                   45SWI25-204 1 NOVEMBER 2005


    3.3. Group Commanders/Deputy Commanders and Staff Office Chiefs/Deputy Chiefs will:
       3.3.1. Appoint an individual to serve as the single point of contact within their organization for the
       coordination of agreements. Submit the appointment memorandum/E-mail to 45 SW/XPE.
       3.3.2. Generally, sign out the agreement review responses. Provide a delegation of authority
       memorandum/E-mail to 45 SW/XPE if the authority to sign out the responses has been delegated
       to personnel at a lower level within the organization. Submit a new delegation of authority memo-
       randum/E-mail to 45 SW/XPE whenever there is a change in group commander/staff office chief.
    3.4. Functional-Area POCs will:
       3.4.1. Prepare the initial draft agreement when the need for a wing-level agreement has been
       established, and the POC's functional area is the area most affected by the subject matter to be
       addressed in the agreement. As needed, request assistance from 45 SW/XPE in formatting the
       agreement and on administrative issues. Obtain working-level coordination from the counterpart
       within the other party's organization. Submit the initial draft agreement to 45 SW/XPE for pro-
       cessing (see paragraph 3.1.).
       3.4.2. When requested by 45 SW/XP, review the agreement’s terms and specific provisions relat-
       ing to their functional area to ensure the required support is documented clearly. Determine if the
       requested support can be provided. Ensure sufficient and accurate information is contained in the
       agreement's specific provisions.
       3.4.3. Provide inputs as required to ensure a fully coordinated 45 SW position on each agreement.
       3.4.4. Submit the exact language to 45 SW/XPE, for any requested changes during the review of
       the initial draft and during the triennial review of agreements, and to existing agreements as soon
       as the need for changes becomes evident. In the responses, avoid questions; instead, provide the
       language that will resolve the questioned areas. For commercial programs, submit the exact word-
       ing for any requested changes to a local CSOSA Annex to the designated SM in 45 SW/XPR.
       3.4.5. Upon request by 45 SW/XPE, perform the initial triennial review of an MOA/MOU that
       primarily affects that functional area, and submit recommended changes to 45 SW/XPE. If the pri-
       mary functional areas of both parties to the agreement determine that the agreement requires no
       changes, 45 SW/XPE will close out the triennial review of the agreement after obtaining the other
       party’s concurrence.
       3.4.6. When the functional area is the primary functional area affected by the subject matter
       addressed in the agreement, perform a final review of the fully coordinated draft agreement, when
       requested by 45 SW/XPE. The purpose of this review is to ensure that the agreement is acceptable
       as modified during the review, and is ready for signature. The functional area primarily affected by
       the agreement is ultimately responsible for its content.
       3.4.7. If requested, provide annual cost estimates to 45 SW/XPE for support falling within their
       area of responsibility. Also furnish this cost information to the Cost Center Manager who will val-
       idate and input this cost data into the Automated Cost Estimating System (ACES).
       3.4.8. For a launch to be covered by a Fixed-Price Agreement with the commercial launch cus-
       tomer, provide the estimated costs to the appointed JOM for that program.
       3.4.9. Submit functional-area agreements to 45 SW/XPE for an initial review. If a Staff Summary
       Sheet (AF Form 1768) is used for the final review of a functional-area agreement, ensure 45 SW/
45SWI25-204 1 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                           9


     XP coordinates on the Staff Summary Sheet. Furnish 45 SW/XPE a copy approved func-
     tional-area agreements (see the Note after paragraph 3.1.5. for more information concerning func-
     tional-area agreements).
     3.4.10. Notify the other party to an agreement as soon as possible of a reduction in support capa-
     bility that may have an impact on support provided the other party. Provide an information copy to
     45 SW/XP.
     3.4.11. For non-recurring base operations support, make every effort to resolve support problems
     within their functional area directly with their counterpart of the other party to the agreement.
     Refer problems that cannot be resolved to 45 SW/XP for resolution. For range support governed
     by DoDD 3200.11 and DoDD 3230.3, refer problems to the user’s designated single point of con-
     tact at the 45 SW (could be the SM within 45 SW/XPR, the PSM in 1 ROPS, or the cognizant
     ACO in 45 CONS).
  3.5. The Technical Point of Contact (POC) will:
     3.5.1. Develop an initial draft agreement when the need for a wing-level agreement has been
     established by the technical POC's organization. As needed, request assistance from 45 SW/XPE
     in formatting the agreement and on administrative issues. Obtain working-level coordination from
     the counterpart within the other party's organization. Submit the initial draft agreement to 45 SW/
     XPE for processing (see paragraph 3.1.).
     3.5.2. Review the proposed agreement (fully coordinated within the 45 SW) to ensure it accu-
     rately reflects the support arrangement and agrees with the support committed via any correspond-
     ing UDS documentation exchange, prior to 45 SW/XP's transmittal of the agreement to the other
     party. The technical POC is ultimately responsible for the content of an agreement that addresses
     primarily a technical support relationship between the parties to the agreement.
     3.5.3. Upon request by 45 SW/XPE, perform the initial triennial review of an MOA/MOU that
     primarily affects the technical POC’s area of responsibility, and submit recommended changes to
     45 SW/XPE. If the technical POCs of both parties to the agreement determine that the agreement
     requires no changes, 45 SW/XPE will close out the triennial review of the agreement after obtain-
     ing the other party’s concurrence.
  3.6. The Comptroller (45 SW/FM) will:
     3.6.1. Review agreements and proposed changes/revisions for compliance with applicable fiscal
     directives.
     3.6.2. Determine whether the agreement should contain a funding section and reference a JON. If
     the agreement already contains funding language, ensure the wording is correct.
     3.6.3. When a commercial launch customer's launch program qualifies for and the customer
     requests a Fixed-Price Agreement, finalize fixed-price and launch scrub costs based on the consol-
     idated input received from the JOM as submitted by CCMs and provide the costs and relevant pro-
     gram related information to 45 SW/XPE for development of the Fixed-Price Agreement.
     3.6.4. Validate the accuracy and completeness of the BSA funding matrix. Work with the FA/RA/
     JOM/CCM or the requiring organization to resolve any questionable areas. Ensure the FA/RA has
     signed the funding matrix when the support included in the BSA is funded via a DBA JON. For-
     ward the validated funding matrix to 45 SW/XPE.
10                                                                  45SWI25-204 1 NOVEMBER 2005


     3.7. The Financial Advisor/Resource Advisor (FA/RA) will:
        3.7.1. For BSAs of non-45 SW contracts funded by a DBA JON, complete and sign the funding
        matrix and forward it to 45 SW/FMAP for validation. Work with 45 SW/FMAP and 45 CONS to
        resolve any questionable items included in the BSA's funding matrix.
        3.7.2. If DBA-funded support under an agreement is eliminated for any reason, transfer DBA
        funding originally programmed for that requirement to HQ AFSPC for reallocation to the respon-
        sible AFSPC organization.
        3.7.3. Ensure that the 45 SW plans and budgets for adequate funding of resources to meet its func-
        tional obligations under existing agreements.
     3.8. Job Order Managers (JOM) will:
        3.8.1. For mission-related MOAs and BSAs of non-45 SW contracts funded via an RBA JON,
        provide an annual estimate to the other party to the agreement and obtain the other party's concur-
        rence and a funding document. The estimate provided annually (in some cases more often) for
        UDS customers, IAW 45 SWIs 65-601 and 99-101, will normally suffice.
        3.8.2. Provide CCMs with requirements for reimbursable JONs on an annual or as needed basis.
        3.8.3. Ensure estimates have been identified for all applicable cost centers.
        3.8.4. Review/approve estimates in the Automated Cost Estimating System (ACES).
        3.8.5. Validate that all charges to a reimbursable JON are valid under the procedures described in
        DoD 7000.14-R and 45 SWI 65-601.
        3.8.6. For BSAs of non-45 SW contracts funded by an RBA JON, complete the funding matrix
        and forward it to 45 SW/FMAP for validation. Work directly with 45 SW/FMAP and 45 CONS
        (for delegated contracts) to resolve any questionable items included in the funding matrix.
        3.8.7. For Fixed-Price Agreements, obtain the estimated costs from the various 45 SW CCMs,
        review/approve the estimates, and notify 45 SW/FMAP when the total estimated cost for the
        launch is complete.
        3.8.8. Follow the guidance contained in 45 SWI 65-601 and 45SWI 99-101.
     3.9. Cost Center Managers (CCMs) will:
        3.9.1. Based upon estimated requirements, validate estimates that have been received from con-
        tractors and/or functional areas providing support to the reimbursable JON.
        3.9.2. Enter validated estimates in ACES.
        3.9.3. Update estimates on an annual basis or as requirements change.
     3.10. The Staff Judge Advocate (45 SW/JA) will: Review all agreements for legal sufficiency, includ-
     ing a general review for compliance with DoD directives, treaties, laws, Executive Orders, and for
     proper legal format and language.
     3.11. The 45th Contracting Squadron (45 CONS) will:
        3.11.1. Review agreements and proposed changes/revisions to determine applicability and com-
        pliance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and other procurement/contracting direc-
        tives. Provide contracting policy language pertinent to the agreement when the FAR applies.
45SWI25-204 1 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                         11


     NOTE: The 45 CONS is identified in the Federal Directory of Contract Administration Services
     Components per the FAR, Part 42.203.
     3.11.2. Appoint an ACO to support delegated non-45 SW contracts with operations at the ER.
     3.11.3. Submit to 45 SW/XPE for wing-wide coordination BSAs of delegated or to be delegated
     non-45 SW contracts that require support from the 45 SW. Include a draft funding matrix in this
     package. The ACO is responsible for the resolution of comments received by 45 SW/XPE during
     the review of BSAs.
     3.11.4. Forward the 45 SW-agreed to BSA, signed by 45 SW/XP, and the funding matrix to the
     requiring agency. Request the requiring agency to sign the funding matrix when the support is pro-
     vided via an RBA JON.
     3.11.5. Provide 45 SW/XPE a copy of the signed funding matrix and the BSA that is included in
     the awarded contract. Notify 45 SW/XPE when the BSA requires modification or when the con-
     tract is terminated.
     3.11.6. Assist 45 SW/XPE in purging files of BSAs for contracts no longer in effect.
  3.12. The Manpower and Organization Flight (45 MSS/MOF) will:
     3.12.1. Review all agreements and relevant functional-area inputs for manpower impact and
     advise 45 SW/XPE if any manpower issues are detected.
     3.12.2. Prepare a Manpower Attachment for mission-related MOAs, when deemed appropriate.
     3.12.3. Ensure adequate manpower is assigned to the 45 SW to furnish the support included in
     existing agreements.
  3.13. The 45th Civil Engineer Squadron (45 CES) will:
     3.13.1. Review agreements to ensure any environmental concerns are addressed.
     3.13.2. Conduct a review of the agreements to decide if a conformity determination, pursuant to
     Section 176(c) of the Clean Air Act, may be required.
     3.13.3. Ensure facility/space requirements included in the agreement can be accommodated.
     3.13.4. Periodically review facility/space assignments with the other party to the agreement to
     ensure the assigned facilities and space are properly used.
     3.13.5. Develop and administer necessary real property instruments with non Air Force entities if
     real property is involved in the 45 SW provided support.
  3.14. The Other Party to the Agreement shall:
     3.14.1. Notify 45 SW/XP of initial support requirements for 45 SW support in accordance with
     45 SWI 10-601, Acceptance of New Workloads. Support needs should be as detailed as possible
     regarding type, quantity, quality, frequency, commencement, and duration. Notify 45 SW/XP,
     45 CONS, the technical POC, the JOM, and the SM/PSM, as appropriate, of subsequent changes
     to these requirements. The appropriate 45 SW element(s) to be notified depends on the extent of
     the changes, the stage of the program, and whether the changes pertain to support that is included
     in a contract BSA/UDS documentation.
12                                                                 45SWI25-204 1 NOVEMBER 2005


        3.14.2. Submit BSAs of contracts with performance requirements at the ER to 45 SW/CONS for
        assignment of an ACO (if the Contract Administration Services (CAS) function is or will be dele-
        gated to 45 CONS) and coordination and formal commitment by the wing to provide support,
        prior to contractor receiving required supplies and services in their BSA.. Contact 45 CONS to
        determine the FAR 42.302 areas of responsibility required to be delegated to the 45 SW for receipt
        of support services. When the CAS delegation is not given to 45 CONS for contracts with perfor-
        mance requirements at the ER, submit the BSA directly to 45 SW/XP for coordination and formal
        commitment by the wing to provide support, prior to contract award or extension. Sign the funding
        matrix to indicate agreement to fund any reimbursable support provided by the 45 SW (or other
        government agencies) under the BSA.
        3.14.3. Identify a functional-area/technical POC to work with the 45 SW’s functional- area/tech-
        nical POC in developing an initial draft agreement when the need for an agreement has been iden-
        tified.
        3.14.4. Make a reasonable effort to resolve a support problem at the functional level before refer-
        ring the problem to 45 SW/XPE, the SM, the PSM, or the ACO for resolution.
        3.14.5. Provide funding for the total annual estimated reimbursable costs at the beginning of the
        fiscal year or when a new JON is activated.
        3.14.6. Sign proposed agreements in a timely manner and return them to 45 SW/XP. Submit any
        requested changes to the proposed agreement to 45 SW/XP as quickly as possible to avoid lengthy
        delays in completing the agreement. For SOSA/CSOSA Annexes, send the signed Annexes or
        requested changes to the designated SM in 45 SW/XPR.
        3.14.7. Upon request by 45 SW/XPE, ask its primary functional-area/technical POC for the agree-
        ment to perform the initial triennial review. Submit recommended changes to 45 SW/XPE. If the
        primary functional-area/technical POCs of both parties to the agreement determine that the agree-
        ment requires no changes, 45 SW/XPE will close out the triennial review of the agreement after
        obtaining the other party’s concurrence.

4. Agreement Format. Each agreement should include at least the following:
     4.1. Purpose.
     4.2. Authorities or references.
     4.3. Responsibilities and general procedures.
     4.4. Financial provisions, as required.
     4.5. Review, modification, and termination procedures.
     4.6. Approvals, with full titles and dates of signature.
     4.7. Funding matrix for BSAs of non-45 SW contracts.
     4.8. Distribution, except in BSAs of non-45 SW contracts.

5. Approval and Signatory Authority. The 45 SW Commander or Vice Commander will approve and sign
CSOSA Annexes, and most mission-related MOAs. The 45 SW/XP Chief may approve and sign
fully-coordinated MOA/MOUs that do not commit new wing resources, Fixed-Price Agreements, and the
45SWI25-204 1 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                          13


BSA of non-45 SW contracts. When the level of signature is questionable, 45 SW/XP will determine
which signature is appropriate. This policy does not apply to the specialized functional-area agreements
described in paragraph 2.1.7. and in the paragraph 3.1.5. Note.



                                              MARK H. OWEN, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander
