BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         45TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 99-101
45TH SPACE WING
                                                                                20 APRIL 2012

                                                                            Test and Evaluation

                                                    45TH SPACE WING MISSION PROGRAM
                                                                          DOCUMENTS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 1 ROPS/DOUF                                        Certified by: 45 OG/CC (Col Denette L.
                                                                                      Sleeth)
Supersedes:   45 SWI 99-101, 31                                                     Pages: 25
              December 1997


This instruction implements AFI 10-1211, Space Launch Operations; AFI 99-103, Capabilities-
Based Test and Evaluation; AFPD 10-12, Space; AFPD 99-1, Test and Evaluation Process; and
AFSPCI 10-1208, Spacelift Operations. It documents the policies, procedures, and instructions
for preparing, submitting, and processing documents in the Universal Documentation System
(UDS), and related organizational roles. The instruction applies to 45th Space Wing (45 SW),
Range contractors (as a compliance document), Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC) and its
contractors supporting Range and Range customer requirements (as a compliance document),
and to Range customers through current Memorandums of Understanding, Interservice Support
Agreements, or CSOSA Annex Agreements between the customers and the 45 SW. Users of this
instruction should familiarize themselves with the contents to ensure they meet the established
suspense requirements for submitting and processing documents. Specifics for each of the
documents are included in the individual chapters. Other 45 SW Instructions, as well as internal
agreements, address support for unit bed down/deployment, tenant organizations, and
management of Range resources. The potential for overlapping processes, functional
responsibilities, and categorization/status of an organization seeking 45 SW support (wing
customer) necessitates early coordination between 45 SW/XP, 45 SW/FM, 45 LCG, 45 MSG,
and 45 OG to determine the basis, process, and overall OPR for support to that organization.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms
managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
 2                                                                                                   45SWI99-101 20 April 2012


Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include updates to wing organizations and their roles and responsibilities; updates to the
Universal Documentation System (UDS) lead times and timeline information; the consolidation
of all UDS lead time tables and timeline information into one attachment.

        1.      GENERAL. ............................................................................................................         2
        2.      SECURITY. ...........................................................................................................         7
        3.      DOCUMENTATION SYSTEM. ...........................................................................                             8
        4.      PROGRAM INTRODUCTION AND STATEMENT OF CAPABILITY. ..........                                                                  9
        5.      PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS DOCUMENT AND PROGRAM SUPPORT
                PLAN. ....................................................................................................................   10
        6.      OPERATIONS REQUIREMENTS DOCUMENT AND OPERATIONS
                DIRECTIVE. .........................................................................................................         11
        7.      DOCUMENTATION PROCESS. .........................................................................                             12

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERNCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                19

Attachment 2—UDS ORGANIZATION AND LEAD TIMES                                                                                                 23


1. GENERAL.
     1.1. Purpose. The documentation system and procedures described in this instruction are
     prescribed for use at the 45 SW and comply with all UDS standards specified by the
     applicable version of the Range Commander’s Council (RCC) UDS Document. The structure
     for format and text is compatible with documentation in use at all major ranges and test
     facilities. The UDS provides a common language and format for stating requirements and
     preparing support responses. The UDS is based on a common structure to enable customers
     to employ one basic format when presenting requirements to support agencies. However, 45
     SW requires certain modifications or adaptations to the UDS, and these are described within
     this instruction. Air Force Range Standardization and Automation (RSA), including an
     automated UDS, may also require additional modifications and adaptations. These will be
     identified to all customers when available and are expected to require more structure and
     specifically defined subordinate paragraph formats for communication of detailed
     requirements and solutions. 1 ROPS/DOUF should be contacted by 45 SW internal and
     external customers prior to their preparation of any requirements/UDS documents, including
     “electronic media” communication of the document.
     1.2. Responsibilities.
45SWI99-101 20 April 2012                                                                       3


      1.2.1. The 45 SW operates the Eastern Range (ER). As an AF Range and DoD Major
      Range and Test Facility Base (MRTFB), the mission is to provide launch and tracking
      facilities, safety of flight, and data to a wide variety of customers. The customers include
      the Air Force, Navy, Missile Defense Agency (MDA), National Aeronautics and Space
      Administration (NASA), and various other civil and commercial organizations. Wing
      organizations and non-Wing organizations such as NASA, other DoD, civil, and
      commercial enterprises may be required to provide input to UDS and related
      documents/processes to establish support for an ER customer.
      1.2.2. The Plans and Programs office (45 SW/XP) serves as the office of primary
      responsibility (OPR) and single point of contact for all inquiries regarding 45 SW ER
      services and new work until it is conditionally accepted as a new 45 SW Range workload,
      and the Statement of Capability (SC) or SC letter is signed and distributed. After the SC,
      XP remains a point of contact for the customer’s convenience, as required. 45 SW/XP's
      other responsibilities include:
         1.2.2.1. Point of contact for prospective Range customers and provider of a Wing
         Planning Engineer (WPE) to act as the customers’ initial “single point of contact”.
         1.2.2.2. Accepts new workloads or significant changes to existing workloads IAW 45
         SWI 10-601, staffs requirements, and prepares the Range's SC or letter SC to be
         returned to the customer.
         1.2.2.3. Provides the customer with all necessary information to use the Range
         including available resources, documentation, base support policies, initial cost
         estimates, and a step-by-step process of working with the wing.
         1.2.2.4. Analyzes future customer requirements and coordinates and formulates plans
         for support by 45 SW resources. Maintains familiarity with potential customers'
         programs, aids potential customers in obtaining information on ER capabilities to
         facilitate potential customers' program planning and the wing's long-range planning,
         and educates the customer on wing processes.
         1.2.2.5. Acts as the wing focal point for new Government customers, determining if
         additional support documentation, such as a new Support Agreement, Memorandum
         of Agreement, Memorandum of Understanding or Joint Operating Procedure, is
         required to support the new program.
         1.2.2.6. Acts as the wing focal point for new commercial customers, executing Initial
         Support Agreements (ISAs) and Wing annexes to the Commercial Space Operations
         Support Agreement (CSOSA). Also, acts as the focal point for evaluating customer
         satisfaction through personal contact, written surveys, and other means as
         appropriate.
      1.2.3. The 45 SW Safety Office (45 SW/SE) establishes, directs, and manages the overall
      safety program for flying, nuclear, explosive, missile, ground, industrial, and system
      safety. They prepare Range safety inputs to SCs, Program Support Plans (PSPs) and
      Operations Directives (ODs) within the time lines provided in this instruction in response
      to customer requirements. They compute destruct criteria and prepare appropriate
      displays for the safe conduct of missile and space vehicles. They provide estimates and
      estimate revisions for all safety support as required by this instruction.
4                                                              45SWI99-101 20 April 2012


    1.2.4. The 45th Launch Group (45 LCG) provides the on-scene Launch Vehicle (LV)
    and Space Vehicle (SV) technical and operations expertise to support processing and
    launch for AF “heritage” and EELV launch systems. This includes direct support to the
    System Program Director (SPD) and Mission Director (MD) for all Air Force, DoD, and
    National Security Space Satellite and LV programs as required for launch systems
    operations and payload integration.
       1.2.4.1. The 45th Launch Support Squadron (45 LCSS) provides technical
       surveillance and risk assessment of spacecraft processing, critical infrastructure, and
       emerging launch vehicles in support of spacecraft system wings to fulfill combatant
       commander and national requirements. Provides management, oversight, surveillance
       and sustainment of spacecraft processing facilities, munitions and fuel storage areas,
       and common use launch infrastructure (e.g., common launch control centers,
       processing centers, etc.).
           1.2.4.1.1. The 45 LCSS Mission Support Flight (45 LCSS/LSM) provides a
           Launch Site Integration Manager (LSIM) who upon completion of statement of
           capabilities by 45 SW/XP, acts as the primary interface between the emerging
           launch vehicle customer and the 45 SW for all booster and spacecraft activity
           requirements. The LSIM conducts 45 SW integration and leadership
           responsibilities consistent with approved arrangements (Commercial Space
           Operations Support Agreement (CSOSA), Space Operations Support Agreement
           (SOSA), etc).
           1.2.4.1.2. The 45 LCSS Spacecraft Flight (45 LCSS/LSG) provides a wing Field
           Program Manager (FPM) who will provide on-site representation, acquisition
           management, engineering, contractual oversight, mission assurance and direct
           support for SV System Program Offices and other payload customers per Letter of
           Assignment (LOA) or Letter of Delegation (LOD). The FPM supports SV
           design/production/planning per LOA/LOD to include, but not exclusive to, the
           following activities: launch site infrastructure requirements and plans, system
           safety documentation development, universal documentation system development
           and launch base plans and procedure development. FPMs delegated financial
           management responsibility on behalf of the SV/LV customers will work closely
           with the 1 ROPS Program Analysts (PAs).
       1.2.4.2. The 5th Space Launch Squadron (5 SLS) is the launch agency for Atlas V
       and Delta IV launch operations conducted on the ER in support of AF, other DoD,
       and non-DoD U.S. government programs. The 5 SLS provides mission assurance to
       the Mission Director through management of LV processing from receipt at Cape
       Canaveral Air Force Station (CCAFS) through launch. Their role mitigates risks to
       booster processing, integrated operations pre-launch, launch, and post-launch by
       providing the government insight or oversight of launch services contractor activities
       throughout launch vehicle processing. They are responsible for oversight,
       surveillance, and mission assurance for all EELV launch facilities, booster processing
       facilities, and other specific or associated facilities.
    1.2.5. The 45th Mission Support Group (45 MSG) is responsible for base and
    organizational support to wing, ER customers, and tenant units. Functional areas include
45SWI99-101 20 April 2012                                                                         5


      civil engineering, security, contracting, human resource services, and Morale Welfare
      Recreation (MWR) services. Additionally, they are responsible for CCAFS through
      Detachment 1 (Det 1, MSG).
         1.2.5.1. The 45th Security Forces Squadron (45 SFS) establishes, directs, and
         manages the overall security program for Space Launch Systems and Patrick Air
         Force Base (PAFB), including CCAFS annexes. They prepare Range security input to
         SCs, PSPs, and ODs within time lines provided in this instruction in response to
         customer requirements. They identify security requirements and provide necessary
         controls in support of secure launch operations.
         1.2.5.2. The 45th Civil Engineering Squadron (45 CES) provides, operates and
         maintains facilities, utilities, housing, environmental, fire protection, base operability,
         and Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) support for the 45 SW and other assigned
         units in support of DoD and commercial space launch or other assigned programs.
         1.2.5.3. The 45th Logistics Readiness Flight (45 LRF/LGRT) manages transportation
         and traffic services for efficient movement of personnel and material to include
         support to DoD space launches, and coordinates airlift and sealift to the downrange
         stations and other worldwide destinations. They operate an air terminal in support of
         the Air Mobility Command (AMC) peacetime exercises or contingency operations,
         provide planning and organization for air transportation activities, and process
         passengers and cargo for movement by military air. The 45 LRF provides traffic
         management services for personnel, personal property, and commercial surface
         freight movement to include freight operations at Port Canaveral and manages and
         operates preservation and packaging activities.
         1.2.5.4. The 45th Contracting Squadron (45 CONS) provides contracting services to
         meet all 45 SW and tenant requirements. They award and administer contracts for
         supplies, services, construction, research, and development. They also provide
         contract administration for contracts awarded by other DoD and NASA offices for
         space launch systems and payload programs.
         1.2.5.5. The Det 1 Launch Integration Office (LIO) at CCAFS ensures the integration
         of 45 SW launch support requirements.
         1.2.5.6. The Det 1 Program Management Office (PMO) at CCAFS manages
         operational control and oversight of Institutional Base Support Restructure (IBSR)
         Program service contracts (infrastructure O&M services, fire protection/emergency
         management and emergency medical services, grounds maintenance/pest control
         services, vehicle operations/vehicle & equipment maintenance services, refuse
         disposal, and NASA service contracts).
      1.2.6. The 45th Operations Group (45 OG) is responsible for the direction of real-time
      Range operations, support planning, and scheduling, to include the operation and
      maintenance of all ER instrumentation: command control, communications, telemetry,
      radar, metric optics, other sensors, timing countdown, critical data collection and
      processing systems, and meteorology in support of all Range operations/tests (primarily
      missile and space vehicle launches). Also manages the Range contract that provides
      significant technical and management core support for the 45 OG responsibility.
6                                                            45SWI99-101 20 April 2012


    1.2.6.1. The 1st Range Operations Squadron (1 ROPS) is responsible for planning,
    operational control, and allocation of resources in support of Range operations. They
    are the 45 SW support OPR, after SC turnover, to provide the assigned programs with
    planning, documentation support, resources, funding management, Range operations
    control and execution, and data accuracy. 1 ROPS plans and directs instrumentation
    platform deployments and is responsible for 45 SW airspace and sea space as a range
    resource. All other 45 SW organizations coordinate with and may obtain assistance
    from 1 ROPS in order to conduct support planning and execution for the customers.
       1.2.6.1.1. The 1 ROPS Program Management Flight (1 ROPS/DOUF) provides
       the wing’s Program Support Managers (PSMs) as the customer’s primary point of
       contact for Range support following XP publication of the SC. The PSMs are
       responsible for the application of and adherence to the UDS system by both the
       customer and Range organizations within the confines of the applicable RCC
       UDS Document and this instruction. A Program Analyst (PA) is also provided as
       the customer’s primary financial liaison to the wing. All financial matters are
       handled through the Program Analyst from the wing planning phase to close out
       of customer account. They also provide cost estimates and revisions for all Range
       support, as required by this instruction. FPMs delegated financial management
       responsibility on behalf of the SV/LV customers will work closely with the PAs.
       1.2.6.1.2. The 1 ROPS Scheduling Flight (1 ROPS/DOUS) is the primary point
       of contact and single scheduling authority for all launch operations, launch
       associated tests and internal Range activities requiring ER and 45 SW support
       resources excluding base support and 45 SW Safety Office functions. Their
       objective is to ensure that all launches, operations and associated tests are fully
       supported on the dates and times requested by the range customer, or as close to
       the requested date and time as possible. DOUS will consider mission priorities,
       range capabilities, economy of operations, funding availability and established
       safety and security criteria when processing and prioritizing authorized schedule
       requests.
    1.2.6.2. The 45th Weather Squadron (45 WS) is responsible for natural aerospace
    environmental support and service, as needed, including monitoring plans and
    programs to determine meteorological requirements and recommending actions, as
    necessary, to satisfy these requirements. The 45 WS provides pre-mission staff
    support and launch weather forecasts for all ER operations. They provide Closed
    Circuit Television (CCTV) weather briefings for all operations. They act as OPR for
    natural aerospace environmental support. They provide cost estimates and revisions
    for all weather support as required by this instruction.
    1.2.6.3. The 45th Operations Support Squadron (45 OSS) provides comprehensive
    spacelift operations support to fulfill national requirements. Support functions include
    assisting in flight hardware processing and launch operations, overseeing the
    establishment of wing operations training programs and policy, and managing all
    airfield and air traffic services for three geographically separated airfields. They also
    provide cost estimates and revisions for all spacelift operations they support.
45SWI99-101 20 April 2012                                                                         7


          1.2.6.4. The 45th Range Management Squadron (45 RMS) manages the daily
          operation and maintenance of ER instrumentation. These resources support all
          spacelift and ballistic missile launches from CCAFS, Kennedy Space Center (KSC),
          and many operations and tests conducted by other Ranges. They provide wing
          program management for the Range contract and chair the Requirements Validation
          Board (RVB), which approves support requirements-range capability enhancements
          requiring modification/new ER Systems (ERS). They are the interface for the wing to
          SMC. Their role is to best ensure necessary resource availability that permits the
          timelines specified/authorized by this instruction. Also responsible for operational test
          and evaluation (OT&E) for all ERS.
          1.2.6.5. The 45th Space Communications Squadron (45 SCS) operates and maintains
          communications-computer systems, airfield operations systems, enterprise network,
          and Range wideband communications to ensure space launch readiness. Also
          manages 45 SW communications plans, resources, systems integration and
          architecture, and spectrum management direction and support. The functions support
          DoD, civil, and commercial customers, serving as the single communications
          integrator for PAFB, CCAFS, and the ER.
2. SECURITY.
   2.1. Purpose. These security instructions are provided for personnel who prepare and
   control 45 SW Operations Documents IAW DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program,
   AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, and the applicable RCC UDS
   Document. The originating agency of the UDS document is responsible for identifying the
   information to be protected, including application of the proper security classification
   designators and any other special security markings.
   2.2. Classification Markings.
      2.2.1. Each classified document will show on its face the overall classification, source of
      classification, date or event for declassification, office of origin, and date of origination.
      The overall classification of a document will be conspicuously marked permanently at the
      top and bottom on the outside of the front cover, the first page of the interior pages, and
      on the outside of the back cover. All other pages, except those that are blank, will be
      marked at the top and bottom according to content to include "unclassified" when no
      classified information is contained on such a page. These instructions are IAW DoD
      5200.1-R, Information Security Program and AFI 31-401, Information Security Program
      Management.
      2.2.2. When the classified sections of large documents are few in number, it may be
      expedient to provide unclassified basic documents with the classified portions provided
      in a separate classified document extract or annex. Classified extracts will have limited
      distribution and should be cross-referenced in the basic unclassified document.
      2.2.3. Proprietary Information. Range customers requesting ER support and
      organizations providing off-range support to the ER should identify proprietary
      information in documents provided to the 45 SW.
8                                                                 45SWI99-101 20 April 2012


    2.3. Operations Security (OPSEC). When applicable, authors of documents will consider
    AFI 10-701, Operations Security (OPSEC) and, if required, will include an OPSEC annex or
    incorporate specific OPSEC procedures within the document.
3. DOCUMENTATION SYSTEM.
    3.1. Purpose. The 45 SW official documentation system to request and deliver Range
    support is the UDS approved and adopted by the RCC. All UDS documentation should be
    submitted IAW lead times shown in Attachment 2, Tables A2.1 thru A2.5. Modifications to
    lead times for all UDS are open to negotiation and mutual agreement between 45 SW and the
    Range customer. Details of the system are shown in the RCC UDS Document as well as
    supplemental guidance provided by 45 SW/XP and 1 ROPS. The UDS is based on a common
    numbering system which serves as the framework for all documents within the UDS. The
    document system addresses all support (including leased/licensed real property, facilities,
    base support, Range instrumentation, airspace, aerospace, and construction engineering) that
    a Range customer requires for their mission/operations execution.
       3.1.1. The advent of support to “purely commercial” Range customers IAW the
       Commercial Space Launch Act (CSLA), and the resultant changes to base support
       available to these customers, does not alter the need for UDS to consolidate
       documentation of all support requirements and solutions. The PI, PRD, and OR must
       identify the customer’s requirements even if the base support policy precludes the 45 SW
       (or other US Government organizations) as a source of the service/commodity.
       3.1.2. The identification in UDS of a customer’s overall support requirements best
       ensures delivery of authorized 45 SW support, avoidance of conflicts/delays in Range
       operations, and identification of derivative Range requirements, including public safety,
       that can exist irrespective of the source of the support. All organizations and commercial
       entities providing support are subject to these requirements (badging, materiel
       authorization/access to PAFB/CCAFS/KSC, environmental and safety compliance,
       resource preservation/protection, i.e., “dig permits”, among others). At the time of UDS
       document submission to the Range, the customer will, at minimum, enter the notation
       “commercial source” in the appropriate UDS section to indicate resolution of a
       requirement. When known, the service/commodity provider must be identified by
       company name and address (which, if so indicated, will be treated by the 45 SW as
       “proprietary information”). This information is necessary in order for the customer’s
       document to be accepted by the 45 SW ER and for Range documents to be issued.
       Reference Attachment 2 for the lead time associated with this information.
       3.1.3. The SC, PSP, and OD must document the solution and source of all customer
       support requirements, regardless of source, for the same reasons that the minimum
       information is identified in the customer’s UDS documents. Additional information from
       the Range customer may be required as appropriate to identify criticality/impact of the
       support. Coordination of “commercially available” service providers, their compliance
       with KSC/45 SW requirements, and their coordination with KSC/45 SW is the
       responsibility of the Range customer.
    3.2. Document Organization. The UDS provides for three levels of customer and support
    agency documentation (reference Attachment 2, Table A2.1). They are as follows:
45SWI99-101 20 April 2012                                                                        9


      3.2.1. The level 1 documents are used to initiate program support planning between
      customers and support agencies.
      3.2.2. The level 2 documents are for additional or more detailed program information,
      especially for the more complex programs.
      3.2.3. The level 3 documents are used to plan separate operations within a program.
   3.3. Flexibility. The UDS can be used in situations involving a single customer and a single
   support agency or for operations involving multiple customers with multiple support
   agencies. For multiple customers and multiple support agencies, the recommended approach
   is to use a lead range agency to coordinate all the customer and support agency documents.
   Depending on the size and complexity of the program, one or two levels may be combined.
   For example, the PRD/OR or PSP/OD may be combined if this is a more expedient approach.
   For all UDS documents, only those applicable pages and sections of Range UDS formats
   from the UDS Document need to be used in these combined documents. For programs/
   customers requiring minimal overall or narrow functional support, the UDS documents can
   be further tailored for simplicity and efficiency and will not affect purpose and suitability.
4. PROGRAM INTRODUCTION AND STATEMENT OF CAPABILITY.
   4.1. Program Introduction (PI). The PI is the UDS initial statement of program support
   requirements and is the official document prepared by the customer to introduce a new Range
   workload. The PI phase leads to 45 SW conditional approvals of new programs. Customers
   should submit the PI IAW lead times shown in Attachment 2, Table A2.2. Customers prepare
   the PI using procedures in the applicable RCC UDS Document and 45 SW UDS
   documentation guidance. This document is prepared by the customer to inform the Range of
   the customer's initial understanding of support requirements including test and evaluation of
   specific systems, sub-systems, and equipment. For programs requiring limited support, a
   simple letter PI may serve as the initial statement of support requirements. In some cases, for
   payloads or minor support requirement change, a PRD may be appropriate, and a PI may not
   be required. Additionally, new non-Range workloads will not typically require a PI, but
   instead require a request letter. Any customer request that requires a significant or unique re-
   evaluation of Range resources will be processed by 45 SW/XP IAW 45 SWI 10-601,
   Acceptance of New Workloads. Prior to submitting the PI, the customer shall establish a 45
   SW Job Order Number (JON) account and deposit initial funding in an amount specified by
   45 SW/XP.
   4.2. Statement of Capability (SC). The SC is the UDS response to the PI and is the 45 SW’s
   conditional acceptance of a new Range workload subject to working through future
   requirement approvals. Prior to acceptance, all requests for support of new Range workloads
   will be staffed by XP, reviewed by applicable 45 SW offices, and evaluated by the affected
   wing organizations for their ability to support before signature by the 45 SW Commander. 45
   SW/XP should submit the SC IAW lead times shown in Attachment 2, Table A2.4. The SC
   may also provide the User with a Rough Order of Magnitude (ROM) cost estimate, identify
   additional documentation which must be provided, and lay out conditions that further wing
   support is contingent upon. In cases where requirements are not well defined, cost estimates
   may be delayed until the second and third levels of the UDS. For programs that submitted a
   letter PI, a letter SC will document the acceptance rather than the usual UDS SC.
   Requirements that cannot be satisfied with available resources will be identified and
10                                                                45SWI99-101 20 April 2012


  recommendations made on resolving the deficiency. The 45 SW also has the option of
  responding to the PI with a letter stating the wing cannot support the request.
5. PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS DOCUMENT AND PROGRAM SUPPORT PLAN.
  5.1. Program Requirements Document (PRD). The PRD is the customer's request to the
  Range describing in detail the customer's requirements for support of the program. It will list
  operation or test parameters, reports, data reduction, analyses, and evaluation requirements.
  The document should be prepared using the applicable UDS formats as outlined in the
  applicable RCC UDS Document and submitted IAW times shown in Attachment 2, Table
  A2.2. The 1 ROPS will forward the PRD to the Range contractor following 45 SW/CPTS
  confirmation of program funding. Information, even though not complete, should be
  submitted as early as possible, especially when support of certain items requires long lead
  times. As new or revised requirements develop, the original pages are revised and submitted
  as a PRD Revision (PRDR). The implementation of new Range capabilities is accomplished
  through     the    Requirements     Statement      Process    (for   information,    go      to
  https://imis.rc.patrick.af.mil/imisl/Vrhome/ or contact 1 ROPS/DOUF).
     5.1.1. A PRD is not mandatory for programs that do not require Range development or
     for programs of short duration or minimal support. However, submission of a PRD will
     help to ensure that existing equipment will be available during the time period required
     by the customer. A PRD is highly desirable when off-range support is required. The
     Range will initiate a critical analysis of the PRD to identify requirements which cannot be
     met and respond with a “Response To Requirements Tasking” or a PSP IAW lead times
     in Attachment 2, Table A2.4.
     5.1.2. PRD drafts will be prepared and coordinated through 1 ROPS for new programs
     when considered advantageous to the Range customer. The draft document provides the
     opportunity for early coordination and clarification of requirements and an assessment of
     support questions that may arise concerning support from organizations external to the
     wing. A PRD Extract (PRDE) is used when requirements placed on the ER necessitate
     support from other organizations external to the wing, commonly other ranges or sensor
     operators. These derivative requirements occur when it is not appropriate to levy the
     original PRD on these other agencies. The derivative requirements are prepared using
     PRD formats IAW the standard UDS outline. The PRD Extract will be prepared by 1
     ROPS/DOUF. When the response is received, the ER will ensure the input is
     incorporated into the consolidated PSP along with appropriate cost estimates provided by
     the supporting Range. The 45 SW responds to PRD Extracts from other Ranges or
     organizations as well.
  5.2. Program Support Plan (PSP). The PSP is the official wing response to the PRD. It is
  an assessment of the Range capability to meet requirements identified in the PRD. The
  document should be submitted IAW lead times shown in Attachment 2, Table A2.4. The
  Range contractor prepares a schedule outlining the preparation of the PSP and sends it to
  agencies responsible for review. After the review, negative or positive responses for all items
  are sent directly to the Range contractor. The Range contractor prepares and forwards a
  “Response to Requirements Tasking” to 1 ROPS which contains a preliminary list of PRD
  requirements which cannot be met. The 1 ROPS will coordinate submission of Requirement
  Statements or negotiate a waiver of the requirements until a Range capability has been
45SWI99-101 20 April 2012                                                                      11


   developed that can satisfy the requirement. The PSP is then prepared and will be ready for 45
   SW review and coordination after receipt of the PRD. Requirements which cannot be met by
   existing capabilities may be met by SMC engineering solutions identified using the
   Requirements Statement Process. Cost estimates for developing new Range capabilities to
   meet requirements identified as NOWILCO in the PSP are developed and provided under the
   Requirement Statement process and are delivered separately from the PSP.
      5.2.1. The following disclaimers should be added to all PSPs generated by the ER in
      Section 1010-Approval Authority and under Remarks: “The Implementation of this PSP
      and the cost/schedule estimates are not automatic. The PSP must be approved by the
      requesting agency and notification given to proceed, taking into consideration the
      identified lead times.” "This PSP does not represent final commitment by the United
      States Government to support this program. This PSP is based on requirements as defined
      in the Requesting Agency PRD. Further refinements specified in the OR may result in the
      identification of requirements which the government may be unable to support.
      Furthermore, manpower and scheduling priorities may preclude support as outlined in
      this PSP." If the PSP is for a commercial program, the following sentence should be
      added to the above statement: "The United States Government reserves its right to
      priority access IAW with Article III of the Commercial Space Operations Support
      Agreement (CSOSA), dated 27 October 1998, or the latest revision of the subject
      agreement."
      5.2.2. When it is determined that changes to Range capabilities will impact customer
      requirements, the Range contractor will notify 1 ROPS by letter. 1 ROPS will coordinate
      with the customer to determine if a PSP revision is appropriate or the customer desires
      further resolution.
6. OPERATIONS REQUIREMENTS DOCUMENT AND OPERATIONS DIRECTIVE.
   6.1. Operations Requirements (OR). The OR identifies the specific Range support
   requested from the 45 SW/Range to conduct an operation or a test. Missile and spacelift
   vehicle launches, research and development activities (sensor development testing), internal
   Range operations, Range engineering tests, and special projects (data collection/studies) must
   have a PRD/OR, an OR, or an Expedite OR for each operation or series of operations for
   which 45 SW support is required. The PRD/OR may be used in lieu of the OR only if
   requirements in the PRD are sufficient in detail. If the PRD is deficient in describing all the
   Range support needed, a separate detailed OR must be written to cover each operation or
   series of operations. The OR will be prepared IAW the UDS formats in the applicable RCC
   UDS Document and submitted IAW lead times shown in Attachment 2, Table A2.3. The OR
   describes in detail an individual operation and specific requirements for a portion of the
   overall program. When there is a published PRD, the OR is not intended to reflect new
   requirements or workload not previously stated in the PRD. The OR may be used instead of a
   PRD for programs of short duration requiring minimal use of Range resources. A critical
   analysis to identify new requirements not previously covered in the PRD will be made, and
   any item in this category will be returned to the customer for appropriate action.
      6.1.1. Draft OR. Customers with new programs or complex operations/tests which may
      require additional information before the OD is prepared should present a draft OR in
      advance of the normal OR time line. 1 ROPS will be able to review the requirements and
12                                                               45SWI99-101 20 April 2012


     set up a conference between the customer and 45 SW organizations to resolve the
     problem areas/issues. If a draft OR conference is not needed, 1 ROPS will advise the
     customer to proceed in preparing the OR.
     6.1.2. Operations Requirements Extracts (ORE). The official means for any Range to
     levy requirements for operational support on another Range or support agency is with an
     ORE. The ORE contains requirements extracted by the Range from the customer's OR
     with supplementary requirements added and forwarded to one or more Ranges or other
     organizations to request their support. 1 ROPS advises the Range contractor to review the
     OR and the PRD Extract and prepare the ORE as well as the OD. The ORE is prepared
     using the prescribed UDS formats and produced within the time lines of Attachment 2,
     Table A2.4. An ORE will have the same number as the customer's OR and will always
     have an OD input in response. The ORE is required to be forwarded to 1 ROPS for
     approval and is then returned to the Range contractor for publication and distribution.
  6.2. Operations Directive (OD). The OD is a complete and detailed operations plan used to
  schedule Range resources through coordination of equipment operation and services needed
  to support a specific operation or series of operations or tests. The OD fulfills three basic
  purposes: It provides detailed instructions to operating personnel; it serves as the 45 SW
  implementation of customer and internal Range requirements; and it becomes the instrument
  for operation or test scheduling. Additional requirements from the Range Safety Operations
  Requirement (RSOR) will be addressed in the OD. It is written in sufficient detail to furnish
  complete instructions for Range execution of a specific activity. ODs will be prepared using
  the UDS format and produced within the time lines of Attachment 2, Table A2.4. Scheduled
  Range support/resource utilization may also be executed through an Operations Control
  Instruction (OCI) when necessary for expediency due to time constraints or other factors (see
  paragraph 7.8.7.2.). Or, in the case of minor Range support, the OD may be substituted by an
  OCI when the PRD contains all necessary requirements.
     6.2.1. OD Disclaimer. The following disclaimer should be inserted in all ODs in Section
     1010-Approval Authority under Remarks: "This OD is based on requirements as defined
     in the Requesting Agency OR. Further requirements or refinements arising after the date
     of this directive may result in increased cost and/or the identification of requirements
     which the government is unable to support. Furthermore, manpower and scheduling
     priorities may preclude support as outlined in this OD."
     6.2.2. If the OD is for a commercial program, the following statement should be added:
     "The United States Government reserves its right to priority access IAW Article III of the
     Commercial Space Operations Support Agreement (CSOSA), dated 27 October 1998, or
     the latest revision of the subject agreement."
7. DOCUMENTATION PROCESS.
  7.1. Purpose. The 45 SW has a set procedure and process for submitting and evaluating
  documents. To facilitate mission/program execution, the customer and the wing will follow
  these procedures as closely as possible. However, the 45 SW is flexible and this process is
  negotiable to meet customer needs. The earlier in the process that customer concerns are
  identified and resolved, the smoother the documentation process will flow and the more
  likely that the mission/program will succeed without delays.
45SWI99-101 20 April 2012                                                                     13


   7.2. Procedures:
      7.2.1. The 45 SW/XP is the initial OPR for new programs or new mission workloads.
      When required, a PI shall be submitted by the prospective Range customer to 45 SW/XP.
      In response, 45 SW/XP will prepare an SC, which will include a ROM cost estimate, if
      possible, and return it to the prospective customer once it is signed by the wing
      commander. The ability to provide a cost estimate is dependent on the completeness of
      the PI. The point of contact for all other UDS documents concerning accepted programs
      is 1 ROPS.
      7.2.2. The Range customer signature on the PI, PRD, and OR signifies that the document
      represents valid and necessary program information and support requirements and that
      the customer is requesting 45 SW/Range response to the document.
      7.2.3. The 45 SW representative's signature on the PI, PRD, and OR signifies that the
      document has been accepted to facilitate preparation of a response document. This is not
      intended to certify requirements or that 45 SW will provide support as requested. The
      requirements will be confirmed and support determined during upcoming planning
      conferences.
      7.2.4. The 45 SW representative's signature on the SC, PSP, and OD signifies that
      support will be provided as stated.
   7.3. Categories of Objectives and Requirements Classes. Support agency resources and
   development plans are based on valid support requirements submitted by the Range
   customers. The requirements are those needed to meet customer program, mission, or
   operations objectives. To ensure that requirements will be met, the Range customer must
   determine the category of objectives and the class (accuracy) of requirements and relate these
   to basic needs. For a full description of categories, requirements, and requirement
   prioritization refer to the applicable RCC UDS Document.
   7.4. Lead Times. Lead times will vary considerably from program to program and are
   negotiable depending on the scope of support, customer needs, and determinations of
   priority. 1 ROPS must obtain coordination from all affected wing organizations/contractors
   prior to committing to a customer that modified lead times can be met.
      7.4.1. The PI lead times will be established by negotiation between the customer and 45
      SW/XP. Nominal lead times for PIs are shown in Attachment 2, Table A2.2.
      7.4.2. A PRD should be submitted immediately when support requirements are
      identified. The customer should not delay submittal of the PRD because of incomplete
      knowledge of support requirements. If extensive programming effort is required, a
      complete PRD with exact telemetry format must be in place prior to mission execution.
      Attachment 2, Table A2.2 shows required lead times for PRDs.
      7.4.3. For final ORs, the minimum lead times shown in Attachment 2, Table A2.3 reflect
      the number of calendar days required from time of receipt of an OR by the Range until
      Range support of the first scheduled launch, countdown rehearsal, launch simulation, or
      mission execution. Failure to meet these lead times could result in support delays due to
      insufficient planning time. The minimum lead times in Attachment 2, Table A2.3 are
14                                                               45SWI99-101 20 April 2012


     required for acceptance, publication, and distribution of the OR and the preparation,
     review, approval, publication, and distribution of the OD.
     7.4.4. A combined PRD/OR may be acceptable if sufficient detail is known early. The
     PRD/OR must have requirements detailed at the OR level.
  7.5. Assignment and Numbering of 45 SW Programs. The Range contractor manages
  assignment of UDS numbers for 45 SW programs. A list of assigned UDS program numbers
  will be maintained by the Range contractor and published quarterly in the Operations
  Documentation Index. Program titles will not be used when it results in an unclassified
  document becoming classified. In such cases, the words "Title Classified" will be used in lieu
  of the program title. Annexes will be used to describe subsystems or special operations
  related to the major operation in the basic document. Annexes will be numerically identified.
  7.6. Distribution of Documents. The Distribution List Section (UDS 1020) in each support
  agency document shows the initial distribution which is monitored by 1 ROPS. The Range
  contractor maintains a current Supplementary Distribution List for the following documents:
  ORs, PRDs, PRD/ORs, PRD/OR/RDs, and RSORs. The Range contractor extracts and
  prepares for distribution the needed documents required by all support agencies. Access to
  electronic media libraries changes the process by which documents are “Distributed.” A
  notification of document availability may substitute for “Distribution.” All initial and
  subsequent changes to the distribution list will be approved by 1 ROPS.
  7.7. Document Cancellation. The Range customer or originator will notify 1 ROPS in
  writing when a PRD or OR is to be canceled, including the number, title, and date of the
  document. Cancellation of the requirements document automatically cancels the support
  document. Official cancellation is published in the Quarterly Operations Documentation
  Index.
  7.8. Revisions. A revision is considered to be any information or pages replaced, added to,
  or deleted from an existing document through the official, established UDS process.
  Revisions may be made either by preparing a completely new document or by submitting the
  revised information. The UDS documents will reflect the revision number and date of the
  revision. Revisions shall be numbered consecutively (for example: 1, 2, etc.). When the basic
  document becomes unmanageable due to an excessive number of revisions, the basic
  document should be reissued, incorporating the revisions. The Revision Control and
  Classification Section (UDS 1030) will be used to identify the scope of the revision and shall
  be transmitted with any revised pages. Section 1030 also provides a historical record of
  revisions made to the document. The use of the symbol "R" in the margin identifies revised
  lines in an automated format and should be used whenever practical.
     7.8.1. When a PRD item is referenced in an OR and the PRD is revised, the customer
     will simultaneously submit a revision to the applicable OR. A PRD revision with
     significant changes may require revisions to supporting documentation. Examples are
     additions or deletions of requirements which affect needed resources, variations in data
     processing or data products, and changes in funding responsibilities. 1 ROPS, in
     conjunction with the Range Contractor, will evaluate such PRD changes. Support
     documents will be revised accordingly when requirements documents are revised,
     changed, or modified.
45SWI99-101 20 April 2012                                                                       15


      7.8.2. Expedite PRD Revision. An Expedite PRD Revision is a tool to facilitate new
      requirements of changes and requires immediate staffing and reply to the customer.
      Timelines for an Expedite PRD Revision must be met as soon as possible if delays are to
      be avoided.
      7.8.3. When changes in Range instrumentation capabilities occur, 1 ROPS, in
      conjunction with Range contractor support, is responsible for revising the Range response
      documents for their identified assigned programs, as applicable.
      7.8.4. The 1 ROPS maintains current knowledge of all 45 SW instrumentation
      capabilities, range configuration, and operating policies as applicable to their assigned
      programs. When changes in these areas occur, as in the "Support Requirements Which
      Cannot be Met" Section (UDS 2060), 1 ROPS will initiate actions to revise the PSP
      wherever applicable.
      7.8.5. OR Revision. This is a program OR change prepared when operations support
      required by the customer needs to be redefined or refined. This change is followed by
      publication of an OD Revision or a new OD, depending on the extent of the revision.
      7.8.6. Expedite OR (EOR). An EOR may be prepared when required for immediate
      support or one-time changes to support a specific mission. These requirements are
      implemented by the use of supplemental documents such as OCIs to augment customer
      support. EORs shall be numbered consecutively starting with "1" and chronologically
      numbered. If the EOR becomes a permanent change to the OR, then an OR revision must
      be submitted.
      7.8.7. The ODs are supplemented through the use of the following documents:
         7.8.7.1. Range Operating Instructions (ROIs). ROIs may contain procedures for
         operation and management of Range resources and equipment. The appropriate
         section in the OD may reference the applicable ROI, thereby permitting the OD to
         limit content to a brief statement identifying the type of equipment or procedures to
         be used. ROIs are Range contractor documents/processes that are also Contract Data
         Requirements Lists (CDRLs).
         7.8.7.2. Operations Control Instructions (OCIs). OCIs are detailed procedures
         addressing last minute requirements, usually provided in an EOR. OCIs are
         developed by the Range contractor and delivered as Contract Data Requirements
         Lists (CDRL) items via the Range contractor portal, VPort.
      7.8.8. Revision Approval. Section UDS 1010 (Approval Authority) shows approval of
      the revision by the customer and acceptance by the Range. This is used as a cover sheet
      for transmission, revised, or added pages and summarizes the major changes in support
      requirements included in the revision. In the case of EORs and OD revisions, a separate
      sheet is used to transmit the revised or added pages but is not filed in the document as is a
      1010 section.
   7.9. Other Documents and Processes Supporting UDS Execution.
      7.9.1. RSOR. An RSOR shall be published for each major program and is used to
      document exceptions to the standard provisions of missile flight operations IAW either
      EWR 127-1, Range Safety Requirements or AFSPC 91-710, Range Safety Publication
16                                                              45SWI99-101 20 April 2012


     Series, and to levy requirements peculiar to a launch vehicle series. The RSOR should be
     submitted IAW lead times shown in Attachment 2, Table A2.4. The draft RSOR will be
     prepared by 45 SW/SELP, approved by the 45 SW Chief of Safety, and forwarded to 1
     ROPS. Following resolution of any changes, the final RSOR will be prepared, approved,
     and forwarded in the same manner to 1 ROPS for the safety requirements levied. 1 ROPS
     is responsible for printing and distributing the RSOR. 45 SW/SE will provide the Range
     customer, through 1 ROPS, all required safety documentation, checks, and timelines. The
     timelines will include Safety's response turnaround times back to the customer through 1
     ROPS. The requirements from the RSOR will be included in the PSP for the safety
     functional area requirements.
     7.9.2. RSOR OPSUP. The RSOR OPSUP contains additional information or
     requirements peculiar to an operation, but not contained in the RSOR. This document is
     produced by 1 ROPS, coordinated through 45 SW/SE and approved by 45 OG/CC. A
     copy will be provided to the Range customer through 1 ROPS.
     7.9.3. Range safety data is required and will include such items as a Flight Analysis Data
     Package, telemetry information including calibration and sensing data, and analysis of
     propellants used and their radio frequency propagation effects. Specific program
     requirements will be provided by 45 SW/SE to 1 ROPS.
     7.9.4. If the range customer supplements basic information in the PRD and OR in
     separate correspondence or on other appropriate forms (e.g. RS 1320, EOR, PRDR), a
     comprehensive list of these requirements with appropriate time lines will be provided
     with the next UDS document revision or update IAW lead times listed in Attachment 2.
        7.9.4.1. Customers must ensure that any communications-electronics equipment that
        radiates or receives electromagnetic energy used in support of their operations has an
        approved frequency allocation. Submitting a PI or a PRD is not a request by the
        Range customer for either an allocation or authorization of frequency usage. The
        Frequency Management Office (45 SCS/SCBMM) will verify the frequency
        allocation status of equipment approved for use by or in support of a Range customer.
        A DD Form 1494, Application for Equipment Frequency Allocation, must be
        submitted to the Military Communications-Electronics Board (MCEB) through 1
        ROPS to 45 SCS/SCMMP for any equipment not having an approved frequency
        allocation. Additionally, a DD Form 1494 normally requires a lead time for
        processing. Therefore, submission of the DD Form 1494 must be made as early as
        possible to avoid unnecessary program delays. Reference Attachment 2 for the lead
        time associated with this document.
        7.9.4.2. AFI 33-118_45SWSUP1, Electromagnetic Spectrum Management and 45
        SWI 33-102, Radio Frequency Environment Working Group (RFEWG). The
        RFEWG is co-chaired by the 45 OG/TD and 45 LCG/TD or his/her designated
        representatives. Its purpose is payload RF sensitivity and protection and all related
        issues pertaining to the RF environment. In addition, 45 SW routinely limits the RF
        field intensity to 1 V/m at the payload for launch complexes and processing facilities
        which have requested this protection. This limit increases significantly during launch
        operations. Any Range customer requirement for limitation should be coordinated
45SWI99-101 20 April 2012                                                                      17


         early in the planning cycle. NOTE: This is only applicable to emitters under 45 SW
         control.
         7.9.4.3. The 45 SWI 40-201, Radiation Protection Program, defines the requirements
         for protecting personnel from the biological hazards of ionizing and non-ionizing
         radiation on the ER. AFI 48-148, Ionizing Radiation Protection, AFOSHSTD 48-9,
         Radio Frequency Radiation (RFR) Safety Program and AFOSHSTD 48-139, Laser
         Radiation Protection Program, further specify Air Force personnel protection
         requirements for ionizing, radio frequency, and laser radiation hazards respectively.
         7.9.4.4. A theoretical trajectory package must be furnished in addition to the PRD, if
         applicable. The package should be submitted IAW lead times shown in Attachment 2,
         Table A2.5. The package must provide coverage from lift-off through the end of 45
         SW support requirements and should include the complete mission requirements. The
         trajectory data must be formatted per AFSPCMAN91-710, Volume 2, Attachment 5 -
         Ver 2 Draft.
         7.9.4.5. Information concerning missile antennas must be provided. The data must be
         forwarded on a CD IAW pre-defined lead times to 1 ROPS prior to the first launch of
         any program. The data must be re-submitted IAW pre-defined lead times prior to the
         first use of an antenna that is different, or in a new configuration, or relocated on the
         launch vehicle per IRIG Standard 253-93, Missile Antenna Pattern Coordinate
         System and Data Formats. Reference Attachment 2, Table A2.3 for the lead times
         associated with this information.
         7.9.4.6. The Customer Countdown lists the sequence of specific actions and events
         which occur or are to be performed to execute a particular operation. It is considered
         a hazardous procedure by 45 SW Wing Safety and must be written IAW either EWR
         127-1 or AFSPC 91-700 series publications, and submitted to 45 SW/SE through 1
         ROPS for approval IAW lead times listed in Attachment 2, Table A2.3.
         7.9.4.7. The 45 SW Form 2091, Mission Operations Schedule Record Card; 45 SW
         Form 2050, Launch Operation Schedule Request; and 45 SW Form 2010, Launch
         Forecast, indicate date and range use time for scheduling the OD. The forms are
         submitted to 1 ROPS/DOUS for scheduling purposes. Procedures are provided in 45
         SWI 13-206.
         7.9.4.8. The 45 SWI 99-103, Time Division Multiplexed Data Information Required
         for Eastern Range Telemetry Support, defines format and lead times to be supplied
         for use in programming telemetry decommutators used in providing data to the
         customer. Telemetry format changes must be submitted IAW pre-defined lead times
         prior to launch. If this time line or any requirements in 45 SWI 99-103 cannot be met,
         a new schedule must be negotiated during the PI/SC phase. Reference Attachment 2,
         Table A2.3 for the lead time associated with this information.
      7.9.5. Any aircraft supporting ER operations or any aircraft operations with their own
      ODs (therefore an associated operation) must provide the 1 ROPS with written
      notification of the intended support IAW lead times in Attachment 2. The Intended
      Support Plan (ISP) gives Mission Support Positions (MSPs) as well as alternate MSPs,
      for weather or other constraints. The ISPs and MSPs are approved by 45 SW/SELF and
18                                                               45SWI99-101 20 April 2012


     forwarded to 1 ROPS and 45 SW/SE. Associated operations approval and ISP/MSP
     approval requirements are general provisions for all such activities in the air, on land or
     water which require 45 SW or ER support, are in ER controlled areas, which may present
     a safety hazard, or which may affect Range/other customer missions.
  7.10. Guidelines for Preparing UDS Documents. Instructions for preparing UDS
  formatted documents are found in the applicable RCC UDS Document which is available
  from 45 SW/XP and 1 ROPS. 45 SW/XP and 1 ROPS will provide assistance necessary for
  the customer to utilize the UDS. The RCC UDS Document describes the total UDS structure,
  the individual documents within the system, and the use and control of the system. It includes
  sample formats and describes procedures for preparation of the PI, PRD, and OR. It also
  includes sample formats and describes procedures for preparation of the SC, PSP, and OD.
  The UDS can be implemented using either the automated or manual methods as described.
  45 SW/XP, 1 ROPS, and 45 LCSS (as required) will assist and act in a team effort to support
  the customer.




                                           RORY D. WELCH, Colonel, USAF
                                           Vice Commander
45SWI99-101 20 April 2012                                                                  19


                                       Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERNCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
45 SWI 10-601, Acceptance of New Workloads, 15 November 2004
45 SWI 13-206, Eastern Range Scheduling, 19 July 2011
45 SWI 33-102, Radio Frequency Environment Working Group, 15 December 2002
45 SWI 40-201, Radiation Protection Program, 15 December 2004
45 SWI 99-103, Time Division Multiplexed Data Information Required for Eastern Range
Telemetry Support, 1 August 2005
45 SWI 25-203, Support Agreements Program, 16 December 2011
45 SWI 25-204, Mission-Related Agreements Program, 1 November 2005
AFI 10-1211, Space Launch Operations, 17 July 2006
AFI 10-701, Operations Security (OPSEC), 18 October 2007
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 November 2005
AFI 33-118_45SWSUP1, Electromagnetic Spectrum Management, 22 August 2008
AFI 48-148, Ionizing Radiation Protection, 12 October 2001
AFI 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation, 26 February 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFOSHSTD 48-139, Laser Radiation Protection Program, 10 December 1999
AFOSHSTD 48-9, Radio Frequency Radiation (RFR) Safety Program, 1 August 1997
AFPD 10-12, Space, 1 February 1996
AFPD 99-1, Test and Evaluation Process, 22 July 1993
AFSPCI 10-1208, Spacelift Operations, 1 October 2008
AFSPCI 10-1215, Support to FAA-Licensed Space Launch Activities
AFSPC 91-700, Range Safety Publications Series, 1 May 2004
DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, January 1997
EWR 127-1, Range Safety Requirements, 31 October 1997
IRIG Standard 253-93, Missile Antenna Pattern Coordinate System and Data Formats, August
1993
RCC Document 501-08, Universal Documentation System (UDS), January 2008
Prescribed Forms
45 SW Form 2010, Launch Forecast, 1 October 1996
45 SW Form 2050, Launch Operation Schedule Request, 1 October 1996
 20                                                          45SWI99-101 20 April 2012


45 SW Form 2091, Mission Operations Schedule Record Card, 1 October 1996
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
DD Form 1494, Application for Equipment Frequency Allocation, August 1996


Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFOS—Air Force Occupational, Safety & Health
AFSC—Air Force Systems Command (disestablished)
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
CCAFS—Cape Canaveral Air Force Station
CCM—Cost Center Manager
CCSMO—Cape Canaveral Spaceport Management Office
CCTV—Closed Circuit Television
CDRL—Contract Data Requirements List
CLSA—Commercial Launch Support Annex
CSLA—Commercial Space Launch Act
CSOSA—Commercial Space Operations Support Agreement
DoD—Department of Defense
EELV—Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle
EOD—Explosive Ordnance Disposal
EOR—Expedite Operations Requirement
ER—Eastern Range
ERS—Eastern Range System
EWR—Eastern/Western Range
FPM—Field Program Manager
IAW—In Accordance With
IRIG—Inter-Range Instrumentation Group
ISA—Initial Support Agreement
ISP—Intended Support Plans
JON—Job Order Number
KSC—Kennedy Space Center
45SWI99-101 20 April 2012                            21


LSIM—Launch Site Integration Manager
LOA—Letter of Assignment
LOD—Letter of Delegation
LRA—Lead Range Agency
MCEB—Military Communications-Electronics Board
MDA—Missile Defense Agency
MOC—Morrell Operations Center
MRTFB—Major Range Test Facility Base
MSP—Mission Support Positions
NASA—National Aeronautics and Space Administration
OCI—Operations Control Instructions
OD—Operations Directive
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OPSEC—Operations Security
OPSUP—RSOR Operations Supplement
OR—Operations Requirements
ORE—Operations Requirements Extract
OT&E—Operations, Test, and Evaluation
PA—Program Analyst
PI—Program Introduction
PRD—Program Requirements Document
PRDE—Program Requirements Document Extract
PSP—Program Support Plan
RCC—Range Commanders' Council
RF—Radio Frequency
RFEWG—Radio Frequency Environmental Working Group
RFR—Radio Frequency Radiation
ROI—Range Operating Instructions
ROM—Rough Order of Magnitude
RS—Requirements Statement
RSA—Range Standardization and Automation
RSOR—Range Safety Operations Requirement
 22                                                             45SWI99-101 20 April 2012


RVB—Requirements Validation Board
SC—Statement of Capability
SMC—Space and Missile Systems Center
SW—Space Wing
UDS—Universal Documentation System
USAF—United States Air Force
WPE—Wing Planning Engineer

Terms
Lead Range Agency (LRA).—The Range that is responsible for coordination of total support
planning and operations for a particular program, mission, or test. After initial program
acceptance by 45 SW, the customer submits detailed needs to the lead range. The lead Range
identifies the support required from other agencies and coordinates the total support effort.
Mission.—An operation, research and development project, launch, or other activity requiring
45 SW support and use of Range resources.
New Workload. Any new activity not previously accepted by the 45 SW which requires
wing support and commitment or expenditure of 45 SW resources, or any activity changing
a previously accepted workload to require a $500,000 or more increase in resources or a
significant reevaluation of the 45 SW support effort (reference 45 SWI 10—601, Acceptance
of New Workloads).
Range Customer or Requesting Agency.—Any Department of Defense (DoD) organization,
other U.S. Government agency, state or local government, civic, private, or commercial
organization, or foreign government with authority to use Range resources.
Range Instrumentation Scheduling Meeting—. A meeting hosted by 1 ROPS/DOUS at the
Morrell
Operations Center (MOC) every Thursday at 0900 to review and de—conflict all operations
scheduled for the following Monday through Sunday.
Support Agency (SA)—. An agency which commits its resources in support of LRA program,
mission or test requirements. Goddard Space Flight Center and White Sands Missile Range can
be agencies in support of lead range requirements when the ER is lead Range for an operation.
Support Range Agency—. MRTFB or operational facility that provides support services to
qualified customers as determined by current directives. KSC is considered a Support Range for
the Lead Range Agency, 45 SW.
45SWI99-101 20 April 2012                                                                   23


                                            Attachment 2
                          UDS ORGANIZATION AND LEAD TIMES

Table A2.1. Document Organization.
 LEVEL      CUSTOMER REQUIREMENTS                          SUPPORT AGENCY RESPONSE
            DOCUMENTS                                      DOCUMENTS
 1          Program Introduction (PI)                      Statement of Capability (SC)

 2          Program Requirements Document (PRD)            Program Support Plan (PSP)

 3          Operations Requirements (OR)                   Operations Directive (OD)


Table A2.2. Lead Times prior to Mission Execution (PI / PRD).
 NEEDED                                PI             PRD

 New Construction of Facilities        3 1/2 years    3 years

 Extensive Additions                   3 years        2 1/2 years

 Extensive Programming and/or Siting   2 years        1 1/2 years

 Instrumentation Additions             2 years        1 1/2 years

 Minor Improvements                    1 year         1/2 year


Table A2.3. Documentation Lead Times (In Calendar Days).
 DOCUMENT (See Notes 1 thru 5)         ER             REMARKS

 PI                                                   See Table 2

 PRD                                                  See Table 2

 Missile Antenna Data                  365            Prior to Mission Execution (Note 4)

 Telemetry Format Changes              310            Prior to Mission Execution

 OR                                    90             Prior to Mission Execution

 Customer Countdown                    30             Prior to Mission Execution

 Mandatory Hold Letter                 20             Prior to Mission Execution

 Expedite OR                           5              Prior to Mission Execution
 24                                                                         45SWI99-101 20 April 2012


Table A2.4. Documentation Production Lead Times (In Calendar Days).
 DOCUMENT                            ER                        REMARKS

 SC                                  125                       After receipt of PI

 PRDE                                                          After receipt of PRD

 PSP Preparation Notice              7                         After receipt of PRD

 Response To Requirements            30                        After receipt of PRD
 Tasking
 PSP                                 110                       After receipt of PRD (Note 6)

 OD/ORE                              30                        Prior to Mission Execution

 Draft RSOR                          30                        After receipt of PRD

 Final RSOR                          90                        Prior to Mission Execution

 OPSUP                               35                        Prior to Mission Execution


Table A2.5. Lead Time for Theoretical Trajectories for Ballistic Missile Flights and Space
Missions (In Calendar Days).
                                     New System                Operational System

 Initial Submission                  550                       260

 Final Submission                    120                       65

NOTES:

1. The Range will attempt to assist with any draft reviews.

2. If the Range customer permanently supplements basic information in the PRD or OR in separate
correspondence (i.e., RS 1320, EOR), these requirements modifications will be included in a UDS
document revision or update within 180 days.

3. Application for Equipment Frequency Allocation (DD Form 1494) normally requires 180 days lead
time for processing. Submission must be made as early as possible to prevent unnecessary program
delays.
4. Missile antenna data must be re-submitted 105 days prior to the first use of an antenna that is different,
or in a new configuration, or relocated on the launch vehicle.

5. Service/commodity provider information for organizations/commercial entities providing support for
customer requirements must be identified not later than 14 days prior to first use.

6. For PSP production lead times, 20 days are included for 45 SW review, signature, printing, and
distribution.
45SWI99-101 20 April 2012                                                                                 25



7. Any aircraft supporting ER operations or any aircraft operations with their own ODs (therefore an
associated operation) must provide 1 ROPS with written notification of the intended support at least 30
days prior to mission execution.
