BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                45TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 33-109
45TH SPACE WING                                                                      15 JANUARY 2004

                                                                     Communications and Information

                                                      SPACELIFT PROGRAM COMMUNICATIONS
                                                                         SUPPORT POLICY



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 45 RMS/RMRC (Mr. Paul J. Franz)                Certified by: 45RMS/ RMA (Mr. Charles M. Olive)
                                                                                           Pages: 3
                                                                                    Distribution: F

This instruction implements management policy for providing communications support to Commercial
Space Launch Operations activities at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station (CCAFS). This policy applies to
non-federal entities seeking to obtain/procure communications support from the 45th Space Wing (45
SW).


1. Purpose and Scope.
   1.1. Formerly, base communications support was funded by the Air Force and provided by the 45 SW
   for activities performed under Air Force launch contracts with commercial companies. The Air Force
   is now taking a new approach, beginning with the Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle (EELV) Pro-
   gram, whereby no base support is funded by the Air Force as part of its launch contracts. Also, the
   base support provided by the 45 SW on a reimbursable basis to private companies, will be limited.
   Companies awarded government launch contracts that do not include Air Force-funded base support
   or companies that are performing under launch contracts with industry, will be required to obtain and
   pay for base support from their own resources.
   1.2. The purpose of this policy is to clarify for launch/range customers those instances where the
   45 SW is a "required" or "available" source of base support, as well as, the types of base support that
   must be acquired from commercial sources (i.e., “commercially available”). This policy applies
   immediately to the EELV Programs, but does not apply to existing commercial customers while they
   are sharing Air Force-owned launch facilities made available to them under separate Air Force launch
   contracts (i.e., Atlas and Delta launch vehicles using Space Launch Complexes (SLCs) 36 A/B and
   17A/B). All other existing commercial customers must be compliant with this policy.

2. Terms Explained.
   2.1. Base Support. Any services and/or support provided by the government or commercial sources
   to commercial launch and range customers.
2                                                                      45SWI33-109 15 JANUARY 2004


    2.2. Customers. Non-federal entities seeking to obtain 45th Space Customers Wing provided base
    support pursuant to the terms of a signed Commercial Space Operations Support Agreement
    (CSOSA) or a signed Space Operations Support Agreement (SOSA).
    2.3. Communication Demarcation. The point or area where government operation and maintenance
    responsibilities and customer responsibilities transfer.
    2.4. Communications Service Connectivity. The transport of customer communications services
    from communication demarcation to demarcation.
    2.5. Commercial Point Of Presence. The customer commercial demarcation point is located in
    Building 1641 (XY), Room 104.
    2.6. Information System. Any telecommunications and/or computer-related equipment or intercon-
    nected system or subsystems of equipment used in the acquisition, storage, manipulation, manage-
    ment, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of voice, and/or
    data, including software, firmware, and hardware.

3. Procedures.
    3.1. Communication Demarcations. The government will own, operate, maintain, and sustain the
    communications infrastructure and provide a standard set of services for all spacelift programs up to
    points of demarcation established by the government for respective spacelift facilities. The point of
    demarcation for all new spacelift programs should be within only one facility such as a launch control
    center or space launch complex, whereby the connectivity does not ingress back into the communica-
    tions infrastructure. The selected facility would serve as a hub for a campus of facilities that are in
    close geographical proximity to each other and are critical in the processing of a family of launch
    vehicles such as the EELV and the commercial derivatives. Stand-alone facilities that are not shared
    with any other entity and are dedicated to the same spacelift customer either through lease or license
    will have a single demarcation point within that facility.
    3.2. Connectivity to the Communications Service. Connectivity to the CCAFS Communications
    Service may require equipment provided by the government to be located in dedicated racks within
    the customer's facility. This equipment will be operated and maintained by the government with the
    cost reimbursed to the government on a pro-rata basis as part of the Communications Service fee.
    3.3. Intra-/Inter-Site Connectivity. Land-line communications connectivity across CCAFS or to
    points external to CCAFS will be evaluated by the government for optimum solutions that consider
    cost, impacts to the CCAFS Communications Service, customer needs, and government information
    assurance issues/programs. It is the intention of the government to provide a cost-effective service to
    transport all land-line data, voice, video, timing, etc., to/from a customer's point of demarcation at the
    respective facilities or complex/campus of facilities to/from other CCAFS facilities and external loca-
    tions on a fee-for-service basis. The government will provide a limited amount of rack space within or
    around the government external interface point for the customer to utilize for interfacing their commu-
    nications equipment to the government service and/or the commercial point of presence carrier.
    3.4. Customer Communications Equipment. Spacelift customers will procure, install, operate, and
    maintain all launch processing/operations communications equipment internal to their respective
    facilities (except the CCAFS Communications Service equipment) regardless if the facility is or is not
    within a launch complex/campus and providing the customer does not share the respective facilities
    with any other customer or government entity. For those customers that share the use of a facility, and
45SWI33-109 15 JANUARY 2004                                                                             3


  there is no government presence, the customer's specific communications equipment will interface to
  a common communications area within the facility. DoD 7000.14-R, specifies the government will
  bill each customer utilizing the facility, on a pro-rated basis, for any charges incurred by the govern-
  ment to establish, maintain, or terminate communications from the point of embarkation onto CCAFS,
  up to the point of demarcation into the customer-leased facility. Any charges realized past the point of
  demarcation will be considered a commercial matter between the customer that owns, operates and
  maintains the common communications area within the facility and the customer(s) interfacing their
  equipment to the common communications area.
  3.5. Open Air Communication. Customers may utilize their own equipment to accomplish Radio
  Frequency (RF) link-checks required for pre-launch checkout of payloads between the respective
  launch pads and the payload processing facility. The customers can also implement microwave or sat-
  ellite communications systems either between their own facilities at CCAFS or to external facilities,
  so long as the installations (ground equipment) comply with all government requirements and regula-
  tions for such communications (frequency clearance, etc.). These communications paths can include
  direct connection to commercial carriers if the customers so desire and doing so is not prohibited by
  any government information assurance policy.
  3.6. Basic Rules of Engagement. The government reserves the right to place Eastern Range instru-
  mentation and associated communications connectivity for same within the physical boundary of any
  spacelift complex/campus. All customer communications systems shall be designed to interface with
  the CCAFS Communications Service infrastructure using standards as determined by the government
  to transport all voice, data, video, timing, etc. The government will operate the CCAFS Communica-
  tions Service on a fee-for-service basis, charging all users a share of common service fees.
  3.7. Information Security. In order for the government to maintain an acceptable level of risk for its
  information systems, it is necessary to consider the risk that may be introduced by the connection of
  other systems. Each information system connected to a government information system must have a
  formal security plan and risk assessment, which would allow the government to assess the risk that the
  connection would present for the government system. Prior to connection, the government shall
  review the connecting system’s security plan and risk assessment and establish an agreement regard-
  ing information security. The agreement shall precisely identify both systems, specify responsible par-
  ties and points of contact, describe the interfaces between the systems, and provide procedures for
  prompt notification of the government if an event occurs which could affect the security of the gov-
  ernment information system. This information may be incorporated in a CSOSA, an SOSA, or other
  signed agreement such as a Service Level Agreement.



                                              J. GREGORY PAVLOVICH, Brigadier General, USAF
                                              Commander
