BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  45TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 35-101
45TH SPACE WING                                                                             1 APRIL 2002

                                                                                             Public Affairs

                                                               RELEASE OF INFORMATION TO THE
                                                                                      PUBLIC



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.

OPR: 45 SW/PAO (Mr. Kenneth E. Warren)                  Certified by: 45 SW/PA (Lt Col Michael J. Rein)
Supersedes 45SWI35-201, 1 June 1998                                                            Pages: 3
                                                                                        Distribution: F

This instruction establishes guidance and procedures for releasing information on 45th Space Wing (45
SW) and tenant unit activities. It refers primarily to requests for information from elements of the news
media. This instruction serves to safeguard individual rights, protect investigations, promote proper com-
munity relations and preclude unauthorized disclosure of information which might endanger the nation's
defense. It applies to personnel or organizations and activities assigned or attached to 45 SW and tenant
organizations at Patrick AFB and Cape Canaveral AFS.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision updates policy and procedures for releasing information on 45th Space Wing and tenant unit
activities. It also updates office symbols and publication references. A bar ( | ) indicates a revision from
the previous edition.



1. Term Explained. The term "information" includes, but is not limited to, all utterances, visual access,
reports, studies, articles, press releases, speeches or transcripts thereof, tape recordings, photography,
sketches, drawings, advertisements, exhibits, displays, and so forth, intended for dissemination to news
media or the general public. The term is not considered to include advertising, release of documents,
drawings, and so forth, required by acquisition activities as prescribed by law and government publica-
tions nor records as defined by DoD Regulation 5400.7, Freedom of Information Act Program.

2. Release of Information.
   2.1. Requests from the news media and the general public should be referred to 45 SW/PA for prompt
   response in accordance with AFI 35-101, Public Affairs Policies and Procedures. 45 SW/PA will log
   these requests showing date of receipt, name and address of the requester, nature of the query and the
   response on AF Form 39, Response to Query.
2                                                                         45SWI35-101 1 APRIL 2002


    2.2. The release of information pertaining to 45 SW activities, other than Freedom of Information Act
    requests, may be made only by the 45 SW Commander, the Public Affairs Officer, or by those individ-
    uals or agencies given specific release authority by the 45 SW Commander.
       2.2.1. The release of information pertaining to any tenant unit activity shall be in accordance with
       that unit's host/tenant agreement. In general, 45 SW/PA will provide assistance upon request to
       any tenant unit for the purpose of making a release of information. In turn, tenant units should
       coordinate with 45 SW/PA prior to releasing information on unit activities.
       2.2.2. All acquisition activities and using agencies will ensure that contractors comply with the
       terms and conditions of their contracts governing the release of news and management informa-
       tion. Commercial launch organizations will coordinate all proposed releases of information and
       public affairs activities with 45 SW/PA in advance, when the potential release refers to any aspect
       of 45th Space Wing operations such as Eastern Range assets or scheduling.
    2.3. Information of national significance concerning USAF activities at Patrick AFB or Cape Canav-
    eral Air Force Station intended for public dissemination and requiring security review prior to release
    will be submitted to 45 SW/PA for processing in accordance with applicable directives. Material to be
    reviewed should be submitted in two copies. Speeches should be initialed in the upper right corner of
    each copy by the speech presenter. At least 10 working days are required for processing within each
    reviewing headquarters. Review of technical publications or lengthy articles may require more time.
    2.4. Information of national significance generated at 45 SW locations by governmental agencies
    other than the Air Force will be coordinated with 45 SW/PA prior to release in accordance with exist-
    ing policies and directives of DoD and the agency concerned.
    2.5. Release of information on "Accidents and Incidents" will be in accordance with AFI 35-101 and
    DoD Regulation 5400.7.
    2.6. Release of information regarding 45 SW acquisition actions (including contract synopses) will be
    in accordance with DoD Regulation 5400.7/Air Force Supplement, Freedom of Information Act Pro-
    gram; AFI 33-332; FAR Parts 3, 5, 14 and 15 as supplemented; and DOD 5220.22-M, Industrial
    Security Manual for Safeguarding Classified Information.

3. Requests for Information.
    3.1. Persons assigned to, or employed by an organization or activity listed in the purpose statement
    who receive written or verbal inquiries from the general public or news media concerning USAF oper-
    ations, plans, programs, or construction activities will refer them to 45 SW/PA for action. Request for
    records or documents will be processed in accordance with current directives, including DoD Regula-
    tion 5400.7, AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program, and AFI 35-101.
    3.2. When it is considered necessary or desirable for news media representatives to visit an installa-
    tion, organization, or activity on 45 SW or tenant unit properties, the request will be referred to 45
    SW/PA which will obtain authorizations and provide an escort. 45 SW/PA will coordinate news media
    visits to tenant organizations, facilities, or operations with commanders and/or PAOs of the tenant
    units involved.
45SWI35-101 1 APRIL 2002                                                                       3


4. Distinguished Visitors (DV). 45 SW Protocol will coordinate DV visits with 45 SW/PA, including
specific instructions received regarding news release policy and desires of the principals.



                                                SAMEUL R. DICK, Colonel, USAF
                                                Vice Commander
