BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        45TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 40-201
45TH SPACE WING
                                                                              19 MARCH 2012

                                                                            Medical Command

                                                     RADIATION PROTECTION PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 45 AMDS/SGPB                                                     Certified by: 45 MDG/CC
                                                                         (Lt Col Naili A. Chen)
Supersedes:   45SWI40-201,                                                             Pages: 26
              15 December 2004


This instruction implements AFI 40-201, Managing Radioactive Materials in the USAF, AFI 48-
148, Ionizing Radiation Protection, AFOSHSTD 48-139, Laser Radiation Protection, and
AFOSHSTD 48-9, Radio Frequency Radiation Protection. This instruction details policy and
procedural requirements of the 45th Space Wing Radiation Protection Program. Approval and
coordination procedures are established and direction is provided for the proper control of
radiation sources, excluding disaster control operations. This document applies to all
organizational elements under 45th Space Wing jurisdiction or direction, including contractors,
tenants and visitors. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM)
publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Records
Information Management Systems (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.myaf.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

This instruction requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy
Act of 1974. Executive Order 9397, FDR on Social Security-Numbering System for Federal
Accounts Relating to Individual Persons, 22 November 1943, authorizes using the social security
number as a personal identifier. The Social Security Number is required for the positive
identification of personnel. The authority to collect and maintain the information is 5 U.S.C.
552A, Title 5, United States Code (U.S.C.) Section 552a as amended, The Privacy Act of 1974.
 2                                                                                             45SWI40-201 19 MARCH 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include clarification of certain procedures and requirements, updates regulatory and
organizational references, and deletes extensive material duplicated in higher Air Force
instructions.

        1.      General Description. ..............................................................................................            2
        2.      Program Responsibilities. ......................................................................................               3
        3.      Administrative Provisions For Control of Sources of Radiation. ..........................                                      5
        4.      Control Provisions and Guidelines for Sources of Ionizing Radiation. .................                                         8
        5.      Control Provisions and Guidelines for the Use of Lasers and Optical Radiation
                Devices. ..................................................................................................................   13
        6.      Control Provisions and Guidelines for the Use of Radiofrequency/Microwave
                Radiation Devices. .................................................................................................          17

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                21

Attachment 2—AS LOW AS REASONABLY ACHIEVABLE POLICY                                                                                           23

Attachment 3—RADIATION INCIDENT GUIDELINES AND NOTIFICATIONS                                                                                  25


1. General Description.
     1.1. Policy. At any location or facility under the purview of the 45th Space Wing,
     centralized control will be exercised over the use of devices and sources capable of
     producing radiation to ensure radiation exposure is As Low As Reasonably Achievable
     (ALARA). This will be done to safeguard the health of the military and civilian populations.
     All activities involving the use of sources of radiation shall be conducted in such a manner as
     to conform to all pertinent Federal, State and local instructions and controls. Personnel
     exposures will not be permitted to exceed applicable Federal or State regulatory limits except
     in the event of an extreme emergency, as defined by those instructions and controls. The
     45th Space Wing Radiation Protection Program has been established to implement and
     maintain this policy. Attachment 2 details the 45th Space Wing ALARA policy.
     1.2. Scope. This instruction defines requirements regarding the introduction and use of
     sources and devices capable of producing radiation, and describes the basic organization and
     responsibilities of the 45th Space Wing Radiation Protection Program as they pertain to
     personnel health protection and regulatory compliance. It does not address reviews and
     approvals related to frequency authorization. Frequency authorization is the purview of the
     45th Space Wing Frequency Manager.
     1.3. Applicability. This instruction applies to all organizational elements under
     45th Space Wing jurisdiction or direction, including associated contractors, tenants,
     transients, principal investigators and visitors. It expressly concerns personnel directly
45SWI40-201 19 MARCH 2012                                                                       3


   involved with management, procurement, surveillance and use of materials, machines,
   devices or sources producing any type of radiation.
2. Program Responsibilities.
   2.1. The 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer.
      2.1.1. Represents the 45th Space Wing on matters of policy and procedures related
      specifically to control of radiation sources on the Eastern Range.
      2.1.2. Evaluates, makes recommendations and provides general surveillance over the
      45th Space Wing Radiation Protection Program to ensure compliance with regulatory
      agency requirements relative to all radiation activities.
      2.1.3. Audits the recordkeeping systems of the 45th Space Wing Radiation Protection
      Program to ensure compliance with regulating agency requirements for licenses,
      registrations, reports and records.
      2.1.4. Provides technical guidance on radiological matters.
      2.1.5. Provides technical direction to the Medical Environmental Support Contract
      (MESC) contractor Health Physics Office in fulfilling their responsibilities to the extent
      that the Contracting Officer delegates technical management authority to the
      45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer.
      2.1.6. Ensures proper disposition of radiation exposure records for all government
      employees, both military and civilian, annually and upon transfer or termination of
      employment.
      2.1.7. Assumes technical control, initiates investigations, and directs corrective action in
      radiological incidents and emergencies.
      2.1.8. Ensures coordination with 45th Space Wing Safety Officer on all operations and
      incidents associated with launch processing areas and areas where ordnance, toxic
      materials, cryogenics or other hazards may affect radiological operations.
   2.2. Bioenvironmental Engineer. Acts in the absence of the 45th Space Wing Safety
   Officer.
   2.3. Medical Environmental Support Contract (MESC) contractor Health Physics Office.
   In accordance with the terms of its contract and as specified in the contract Performance
   Work Statement (PWS), is functionally responsible to:
      2.3.1. Operationally implement the 45th Space Wing Radiation Protection Program at
      Cape Canaveral AFS (CCAFS) and other locations under the direction of the
      45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer.
      2.3.2. Evaluate, make recommendations and provide technical assistance to the
      45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer on matters concerning radiation protection.
      2.3.3. Act as field representative for the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer and
      liaison between user organizations and the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer on
      matters concerning radiation protection.
4                                                               45SWI40-201 19 MARCH 2012


       2.3.4. Perform on-site surveillance and inspections of radiation users, use areas,
       operations and facilities.
       2.3.5. Maintain licenses and registrations for CCAFS together with associated records
       and reports in compliance with regulating agency publications and provide general
       surveillance functions for the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer.
       2.3.6. Provide technical evaluations and other assistance to the 45th Space Wing
       Radiation Safety Officer on matters concerning radiation protection.
       2.3.7. Provide health physics services and consultation to the 45th Space Wing and to the
       users at CCAFS.
       2.3.8. Advise the CCAFS Fire Department of locations on CCAFS where hazards to
       personnel may be created as a result of a fire involving radioactive materials.
    2.4. Safety Officer. Ensures radiation control requirements are incorporated into the overall
    hazard control of booster/payload systems. In these capacities, the Safety Officer will:
       2.4.1. Review and approve procedures which involve missile-related hazards in
       conjunction with radiological hazards.
       2.4.2. Coordinate all identified plans, procedures, etc., involving radiological activities
       with the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer.
       2.4.3. Ensure the enforcement, as applicable, in coordination with the 45th Space Wing
       Radiation Safety Officer, of all such requirements, directives and adjunct controls
       established by the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer.
       2.4.4. Provide consultation to the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer and the
       MESC Health Physics Office on all safety problems associated with operations, to
       include equipment and personnel, involving radiological matters.
    2.5. Supply Officer. Ensure that the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer has
    approved all procurement requests for material and equipment that produce or contain
    sources of radiation. Ensure that all material and equipment that produces or contains
    sources of radiation that has been turned in for excess or redistribution has been approved by
    the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer for such disposition.
    2.6. Contracting Officer. Incorporate the applicability of this instruction in all Requests for
    Proposals and Invitations for Bid, to include requests for equipment, materials and services.
    Ensure that existing contracts administered by the 45th Space Wing include the applicability
    of this instruction including a requirement that all contractors holding Agreement State
    licenses apply for and obtain an approved NRC Form 241 before bringing radioactive
    materials onto the installation.
    2.7. Transportation Officer.
       2.7.1. Ensure that all outbound shipments of radioactive materials comply with
       applicable directives and have been approved for shipment by the 45th Space Wing
       Radiation Safety Officer or the MESC Health Physics Office.
45SWI40-201 19 MARCH 2012                                                                     5


      2.7.2. Ensure that receipts of radioactive materials are identified to, and that approvals
      are received from, the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer or the MESC Health
      Physics Office for disposition.
   2.8. Civil Engineering. Ensure that the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer approves
   requests for construction or modification of facilities or systems in which radiation sources
   are intended to be stored, tested or used.
   2.9. Organizations’ Supervisors.
      2.9.1. Ensure that all radiological operations under their control have been approved by
      the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer and comply with the applicable
      requirements of the 45th Space Wing Radiation Protection Program. Procedures for
      submitting appropriate Radiation Use/Authorization forms and obtaining approval are
      detailed in paragraph 4.5, 5.4 and 6.4.
      2.9.2. Ensure that all personnel under their supervision who are involved in the use of
      sources of radiation have been approved by the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety
      Officer and have been trained in the use of, and personnel protection practices for, such
      operations.
      2.9.3. Appoint an Area Radiation Officer to act as the coordinating point for contact for
      all 45th Space Wing Radiation Protection Program requirements relative to their
      approved operations.
      2.9.4. Ensure the safe use and accountability of all sources of radiation under their
      jurisdiction according to the provisions specified by the 45th Space Wing Radiation
      Safety Officer.
      2.9.5. Immediately notify the MESC Health Physics Office in the event of any accident
      or incident involving a potential overexposure of personnel at CCAFS. Notify the
      45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer of accidents or incidents occurring at PAFB or
      downrange locations.
   2.10. User. Observe applicable provisions of this instruction and those provisions and
   procedures as stated in the approved Radiation Use Authorization.
3. Administrative Provisions For Control of Sources of Radiation.
   3.1. General Provisions. Exposure to personnel from sources of radiation that are
   controlled or regulated by the provisions of the 45th Space Wing Radiation Protection
   Program will be restricted to levels as low as reasonably achievable (ALARA). In order to
   achieve those goals, all personnel involved in operations that entail the use of sources of
   radiation must ensure that all such operations conform to the provisions and requirements
   described herein and any additional provisions imposed by the 45th Space Wing Radiation
   Safety Officer. The following general provisions are provided to assist users of radiation
   sources under the purview of the 45th Space Wing Radiation Protection Program.
      3.1.1. All proposed procurement and use of radiation sources will be submitted to the
      45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer for review and approval prior to such
      proposed procurement and use.
6                                                               45SWI40-201 19 MARCH 2012


       3.1.2. Procedures for submitting appropriate Radiation Use/Authorization forms to the
       45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer for authorization of radiation sources are
       detailed in paragraph 4.5, 5.4 and 6.4.
       3.1.3. In some instances, radiation sources may be exempt from 45th Space Wing
       Radiation Protection Program control requirements. Questions regarding exempt status
       of a specific source of radiation that the user cannot otherwise determine may be
       addressed by submitting the appropriate Radiation Use /Authorization forms.
       3.1.4. All receipt, internal transfer, disposition and shipment of radiation sources will be
       coordinated with and approved in advance by the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety
       Officer. Wing program/project leaders and technical representatives will review project
       plans and procedures involving use of radioactive material or radiation-producing devices
       to ensure such coordination and approval.
       3.1.5. The 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer will maintain applicable records
       pertaining to the 45th Space Wing Radiation Protection Program. Such records will
       include, but not necessarily be limited to, records of procurement, receipt, use
       authorization, exemption, licensing, inventory, survey, dosimetry, disposal, shipment and
       investigations.
       3.1.6. Personnel who enter a designated ionizing radiation area will be appropriately
       monitored to quantify all radiation exposures.
       3.1.7. The KSC Radiation Protection Officer must also approve sources stored or used
       on Kennedy Space Center (KSC) by organizations under CCAFS purview. This approval
       is accomplished by concurrence signature of the KSC Radiation Protection Officer on the
       appropriate Radiation Use/Authorization form. This coordination is performed by the
       45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer or designee and does not require separate
       submittals to the KSC Radiation Protection Officer by the user organization.
    3.2. Specific Provisions. Specific provisions and guidelines are provided to assist
    prospective users in complying with 45th Space Wing Radiation Protection Program
    requirements. Compliance with these provisions, in addition to any specific restriction or
    constraints imposed in the applicable Radiation Use Authorization, is required for continued
    authorization of use.
       3.2.1. All procurement requests for equipment or devices capable of producing
       hazardous levels of ionizing or nonionizing radiation must be accompanied by a
       statement or signature of approval from the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer.
       3.2.2. Radiation use authorization for possession and use of radiation sources requires
       the review and approval of the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer. For
       authorizations, submittal of a completed Radiation Use/Authorization package is
       required. These forms, in conjunction with any necessary supportive data, shall be
       submitted as soon as practicable and should be provided 30 days prior to the intended
       arrival of the sources on the Eastern Range.
       3.2.3. A Radiation Use Authorization may be issued upon evaluation of the Radiation
       Use/Authorization form and related information. Pre-operational source data including
       use and emergency procedures, site and area plans, qualifications of users and Area
45SWI40-201 19 MARCH 2012                                                                     7


     Radiation Officers and equipment characteristics should be submitted to the
     45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer by those who intend to operate or utilize a
     source of ionizing/nonionizing radiation source no later than 30 days prior to planned
     operation or as soon as practical.
     3.2.4. Under certain circumstances, a General Use Authorization may be issued in
     response to the Radiation Use/Authorization submittal for sources that present a minimal
     hazard potential to personnel. Use of sources under general authorizations will still be
     subject to specific controls or restrictions as required. General use authorizations will
     normally be issued for indefinite periods of time.
     3.2.5. Prior to utilizing radiation sources, individuals must possess current medical
     clearance (as applicable), pertinent experience, understanding of the limiting provisions
     of the Radiation Use Authorization, and have received training or orientation covering at
     least the following topics:
        3.2.5.1. General description of radiation and associated biological effects;
        3.2.5.2. Basic principles of radiation protection;
        3.2.5.3. Radiation protection procedures relevant to intended use;
        3.2.5.4. Provisions of this instruction and appropriate Federal, State, and local
        directives;
        3.2.5.5. Emergency procedures appropriate to source use.
     3.2.6. Due to the nature of the work to be performed, personnel subject to unusual
     radiation hazards may be required to obtain additional training as determined by the
     45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer. All potential users will supply the necessary
     information on 45 SW Form 2256, Radiation Training and Experience Summary
     (Ionizing Radiation), or 45 SW Form 2257, Radiation Training and Experience Summary
     (Nonionizing Radiation).
     3.2.7. The 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer will evaluate each radiation use
     request submittal to determine which sources are capable of producing potentially
     hazardous levels of radiation. Additional information and site inspections or surveys may
     be utilized in the course of analysis and evaluation.
     3.2.8. Based on the preliminary evaluation of a radiation use request submittal, an initial
     comprehensive survey may be required and will be conducted by the 45th Space Wing
     Radiation Safety Officer, or designee, prior to or in conjunction with, initial use.
     Periodically, routine surveys will be conducted to ensure continued compliance with
     stated procedures and controls, as applicable.
     3.2.9. The fundamental objective behind all radiological controls is to limit potentially
     hazardous exposures to personnel. In addition to complying with applicable Federal,
     State and local directives, applicable exposure limits and radiation protection guides, an
     individual radiation use request submittal may have additional controls assigned by the
     45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer because of unique operational characteristics.
 8                                                                45SWI40-201 19 MARCH 2012


        3.2.10. Due to the potential hazard level of some systems and devices, organizations
        responsible for their use may be required to schedule their activities through the
        45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer or to provide other prior notification of
        operations. These requirements will be specified in the approved Radiation Use
        Authorization. Radiation support requirements for activities involving hazardous
        radiation sources may be specified in the approved Radiation Use Authorization. The
        user shall ensure that all such requirements are included in the support-required section of
        the Scheduling System. If advance notification is required, the user will ensure a
        minimum of 24 hours advance notification to the Cape Support Coordinator.
        3.2.11. The 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer must approve modifications to
        approved Radiation Use Authorizations in advance. This approval process may be
        initiated by submittal of 45 SW Form 2260, Modification of Radiation Use Authorization,
        to the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer, or designee as soon as practicable but
        in no case later than 30 days prior to implementation. Examples of modifications include
        changes to approved procedures, locations, operating parameters, personnel and
        equipment.
        3.2.12. Radiation Use Authorizations will expire 1 year from their effective date if
        requests for renewal are not submitted to the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer
        for extension of the use period. Renewal requests will be submitted by the user on a
        completed 45 SW Form 2260, Modification of Radiation Use Authorization, as soon as
        practicable but in no case later than 30 days prior to expiration of the Radiation Use
        Authorization.
     3.3. Incidents, Accidents and Emergencies. All real or suspected accidents, incidents or
     emergencies involving potential radiation exposure or loss or theft of radiation sources, must
     immediately be reported to the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer or designated
     representative.
4. Control Provisions and Guidelines for Sources of Ionizing Radiation.
     4.1. General Provisions. Procurement, possession and use of sources of ionizing radiation
     require prior coordination and approval by the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer.
     Because of the unique nature of certain radiation sources, regulatory agencies outside of the
     45th Space Wing may require authorization or registration of such sources or intended use
     location in addition to 45th Space Wing approvals. The provisions and guidelines in this
     chapter are provided to assist users in their efforts to comply with the requirements as well as
     those of other regulatory agencies as they apply to operations on the Eastern Range.
     4.2. Licensing. Appropriate licenses issued by the United States Nuclear Regulatory
     Commission (USNRC) or State of Florida are generally required for possession and use of
     licensable quantities or concentrations of radioactive materials on pertinent areas of the
     Eastern Range. In some cases, reciprocal recognition of other Agreement State licenses may
     be sufficient for possession. For material in the possession of Air Force organizations, a
     permit from the Air Force Radioisotope Committee may be required. Copies of all licenses
     and reciprocal authorizations must be provided to the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety
     Officer for review prior to approving source use.
45SWI40-201 19 MARCH 2012                                                                     9


  4.3. Registration. Certain radiation producing machines or devices may require specific
  registration by the State of Florida on pertinent areas of the Eastern Range. Copies of all
  such registrations must be provided to the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer as part
  of the data submission required for approval of radiation producing machines or devices.
  4.4. The 45th Space Wing Required Authorization/Provisions for Use of Sources of
  Ionizing Radiation.
     4.4.1. A license, registration, reciprocal authorization or petitioned exemption issued by
     the Air Force Radioisotope Committee, USNRC, an Agreement State, or a nonagreement
     State to an individual or organization is not valid on the Eastern Range until
     45th Space Wing approval has been obtained.              Any organization or individual
     functioning under 45th Space Wing jurisdiction proposing to procure, use, store, transfer
     or dispose of radiation sources must obtain radiation use authorization from the
     45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer.
     4.4.2. Radiation use authorization is required (unless specifically exempted by the
     45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer) for:
         4.4.2.1. By-product, source or special nuclear material.
         4.4.2.2. Naturally occurring radioactive material in any form other than, or in a
         quantity or concentration greater than, that found in the natural environment.
         4.4.2.3. Accelerator-produced radioisotopes.
         4.4.2.4. Generally licensed items or devices acquired under the general license
         provisions of Title 10, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), or issued under the
         provisions of an Agreement or Non-Agreement State.
         4.4.2.5. Machines/devices primarily designed to produce ionizing radiation, or for
         which ionizing radiation is a by-product of their operation.
     4.4.3. Prior written authorization to use or transport radioactive materials or radiation-
     producing devices on the Eastern Range must be obtained from the 45th Space Wing
     Radiation Safety Officer. This applies to activities that involve the acquisition,
     possession, use, storage and transfer or disposal of such radiation sources. No operation
     or modification to an existing operation will be implemented prior to issuance of a
     Radiation Use Authorization.
     4.4.4. Radiation use authorization of storage and use areas and facilities will be obtained
     prior to commencing initial operations.
     4.4.5. Individual users and use organizations shall ensure accountability for their sources
     and coordinate this effort with the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer.
     4.4.6. Radiation-controlled areas and exclusion areas described by the applicable
     Radiation Use Authorization will be posted and controlled by the user.
     4.4.7. All personnel exposure to radiation sources will be kept as low as reasonably
     achievable (ALARA).
10                                                            45SWI40-201 19 MARCH 2012


     4.4.8. Any radioactive materials or radiation-producing devices improperly transported
     onto the Eastern Range will be subject to impoundment until either the irregularities are
     corrected and appropriate authorizations are obtained or proper removal from the range is
     arranged.
     4.4.9. Unattended sources of radiation will be secured against unauthorized access and
     handling at all times.
     4.4.10. Users must have a medical clearance (as appropriate) and be properly trained for
     work involving radiation sources.
     4.4.11. Personnel who enter a radiation area must wear an appropriate dosimeter device
     specified and be approved by the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer.
     4.4.12. All real or suspected incidents or accidents, unusual occurrences and excessive
     exposures involving or resulting from sources of radiation must immediately be reported
     to the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer.
     4.4.13. Noncompliance with 45th Space Wing Radiation Protection Program
     requirements relative to the authorized use of radiation sources may result in the
     revocation or suspension of such radiation use authorizations, and possible impoundment
     of sources.
  4.5. Data Submittals and Approvals.
     4.5.1. Radiation use authorization for the possession or use of ionizing radiation sources
     requires submittal of the appropriate completed 45th Space Wing Radiation Protection
     Program forms for the type of sources along with any necessary supportive data.
     4.5.2. Submittals must be made as soon as practicable, but no later than 30 days prior to
     the intended receipt of the radiation sources. The appropriate forms required for specific
     types of radiation sources and the data submittal requirements for approval are described
     in this section.
     4.5.3. The 45 SW Form 2255, Radiation Use/Authorization (Radioactive Materials),
     must be completed and submitted for evaluation of all intended users of radioactive
     materials including sources contained within equipment, instrumentation or devices.
     4.5.4. The 45 SW Form 2254, Radiation Use/Authorization (Ionizing Machine/Device),
     must be completed and submitted for evaluation of all intended use of ionizing radiation
     producing machines/devices.
     4.5.5. The 45 SW Form 2256, Radiation Training and Experience Summary (Ionizing
     Radiation), must be completed and submitted for evaluation of the Area Radiation
     Officer and each person intended to possess and use the specific radiation sources.
     4.5.6. The 45 SW Form 2260, Modification of Radiation Use Authorization, must be
     completed and submitted for evaluation of any intended changes or modifications to
     applicable procedures, licenses, registrations, facilities, personnel, equipment or materials
     described by the current Radiation Use Authorization. Submittal of modification requests
     should be made no later than 30 days prior to such intended changes taking effect.
45SWI40-201 19 MARCH 2012                                                                    11


     4.5.7. Certain information is required to be submitted in support of a specific
     45th Space Wing Radiation Use Request form. All documentation will be submitted as a
     single complete original package and one complete package copy, as early as practicable,
     but no later than 30 days prior to intended use. Elements of this complete package
     include, but may not necessarily be limited to:
        4.5.7.1. The appropriate Radiation Use Authorization form as described in paragraph
        4.5.
        4.5.7.2. USNRC or Agreement State licenses or other appropriate authorizations (i.e.,
        registrations possessed by the requester to own, maintain and use the specific
        radiation source).
        4.5.7.3. Copies of basic license/registration applications, subsequent amendments
        and any pertinent correspondence between the regulatory agency and the
        licensee/registrant will be submitted with the license or registration.
        4.5.7.4. All applicable operating and emergency procedures involving procurement,
        possession and use of radiation sources for which authorization is being requested.
        4.5.7.5. Completed original of 45 SW Form 2256 for each individual User, Area
        Radiation Officer and Use Supervisor/Custodian who will use or control the sources
        of ionizing radiation.
        4.5.7.6. Names and telephone numbers of responsible individuals (including the Area
        Radiation Officer) assigned the control and accountability responsibilities for the
        sources.
        4.5.7.7. Approximate dates of intended arrival and departure of the sources of
        radiation, the proposed mode of transportation to be utilized, description and
        specifications of packaging/special containment and any shielding or special handling
        instructions, as applicable.
  4.6. Radiation Protection Controls for Ionizing Radiation.
     4.6.1. Control measures required by AFI 48-148 and the applicable Radiation Use
     Authorization shall apply at all times when radioactive materials or a radiation-producing
     device is being used.
     4.6.2. All radiation areas will be identified, posted and controlled to prevent unnecessary
     exposure to personnel. Identification of such areas will be made in coordination with the
     45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer. Normally, areas requiring posting and control
     as radiation areas will be identified by the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer as
     part of the specific provisions of the Radiation Use Authorization. User organizations
     will ensure that these radiation areas (and sources) remain controlled and posted with
     appropriate signs, tags, labels, barriers and notices/instructions, as specified therein. A
     sufficient number of warning signs will be used to adequately identify the controlled
     areas.
     4.6.3. Approved users will control access to radiation areas. No personnel will enter a
     radiation area without prior authorization and appropriate dosimeter devices. Violations
     of radiation areas by unauthorized personnel will be viewed as incidents. In such cases,
     the user organization will immediately secure operations, escort the violator out of the
12                                                             45SWI40-201 19 MARCH 2012


     radiation area, obtain the individual's name, organization, badge number and supervisor's
     name/telephone number and report the incident to the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety
     Officer for investigation.
  4.7. Radiation Exposure Control.
     4.7.1. Radiation exposures to personnel will be monitored and maintained at levels as
     low as reasonably achievable (ALARA). All operations involving the use of radiation
     sources will be designed to conform to the principles of ALARA. In all cases, operations
     involving potential radiation exposures will be reviewed and evaluated and control
     provisions identified to minimize radiation exposure. It is the responsibility of each
     individual involved in the use of radiation sources to use any reasonable means available
     to ensure the minimization of radiation exposure to themselves and to others from
     sources of radiation under their control.
     4.7.2. In the absence of specifically identified external radiation exposure control
     provisions, all personnel will employ the use of limiting stay times in radiation areas,
     maximizing distance from radiation sources (consistent with operational requirements),
     and employing any appropriate means of shielding available. No radiological operations,
     excluding specifically approved medical procedures, will be performed which would
     inherently result in internal deposition of radionuclides.
     4.7.3. Operations having a potential of resulting in internal deposition of radioactive
     materials as a result of an accident or incident will include the identification and use of
     limiting provisions, control measures, and protective equipment to preclude such
     potential uptake.
  4.8. Transportation and Receipt of Radioactive Materials.
     4.8.1. Transportation of radioactive materials requires prior coordination and approval by
     the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer.
     4.8.2. Requests for transportation authorization will include the following information:
        4.8.2.1. Name of person responsible for the procedure;
        4.8.2.2. Identification of the source (isotope, form, type, activity, etc.);
        4.8.2.3. Type of vehicle;
        4.8.2.4. Point of origin and delivery;
        4.8.2.5. Name of authorized receiver, if applicable;
        4.8.2.6. Description of container and shielding;
        4.8.2.7. Proposed route of travel;
        4.8.2.8. Special handling equipment;
        4.8.2.9. Procedures, restrictions and precautions.
     4.8.3. Transportation of radiation sources will be in accordance with applicable State and
     Federal Department of Transportation (DOT) requirements. All such transfer activities
     will be coordinated and approved, in advance, through the 45th Space Wing Radiation
     Safety Officer. Shipments of radioactive material require completion of 45 SW Form
45SWI40-201 19 MARCH 2012                                                                      13


      2252, Radioactive Material Transfer and Shipment Record (Outbound), and 45 SW Form
      2261, Radioactive Material Transfer Receipt.
      4.8.4. The user is responsible for ensuring that the radioactive material package or
      container is properly marked and labeled, safely loaded for transport, and the transport
      vehicle is in compliance with applicable transportation requirements. The user will
      ensure transportation forms are accurately completed, copies distributed, and shipment
      receipt is acknowledged by the receiving organization.
      4.8.5. Loss, theft, or accident involving radiation sources in transit will be immediately
      reported to the local emergency response and security agencies and to the
      45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer.
      4.8.6. Unless otherwise specifically exempted by the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety
      Officer, any organization receiving radioactive materials or radiation producing devices
      will notify the MESC Health Physics Office prior to or upon receipt of the item.
      Notification shall include a description of the material or device, destination, and user
      organization.
      4.8.7. Each receiving organization will have a designated controlled access storage area
      for short term holding of such materials. Under no circumstances will such material be
      released to the consignee/user until the MESC Health Physics Office has been notified.
      4.8.8. Transportation vehicles carrying packages labeled with Radioactive Yellow III
      labels, or other as designated by the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer, will not
      be unloaded until the vehicle has been surveyed by the MESC Health Physics Office.
   4.9. Radioactive Waste Control.
      4.9.1. All radioactive waste will be strictly controlled and disposal will be in accordance
      with 45th Space Wing Radiation Protection Program procedures. Procedures for control
      of radioactive waste will be so designed as to preclude the release to or contamination of
      the local environment by any radioactive material.
      4.9.2. No radioactive waste material may be disposed of or removed from the Eastern
      Range by the individual user without prior approval of the 45th Space Wing Radiation
      Safety Officer. In the absence of other approved prior arrangements, waste material will
      be collected and disposed of by the MESC Health Physics Office on CCAFS using
      methods consistent with all applicable directives and accepted radiation protection
      practices.
5. Control Provisions and Guidelines for the Use of Lasers and Optical Radiation Devices.
   5.1. General. Procurement, possession, and use of lasers and optical radiation devices
   require prior coordination and approval from the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer.
   Because of the unique nature of certain laser or optical radiation devices, regulatory agencies
   outside of the 45th Space Wing may require authorization or registration of the device or
   intended use location in addition to 45th Space Wing approval. The provisions and
   guidelines in this chapter are provided to assist users in their effort to comply with the
   requirements as well as those of other regulatory agencies as they apply to operations on the
   Eastern Range.
14                                                            45SWI40-201 19 MARCH 2012


  5.2. Registration. Certain types of hazardous nonionizing radiation devices on pertinent
  areas of the Eastern Range may require specific registration by the State of Florida. Copies
  of all such registrations must be provided to the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer as
  part of the data submittal required for authorization of laser or optical radiation devices.
  5.3. The 45th Space Wing Required Authorizations and Provisions.
     5.3.1. Any organization or individual functioning under 45th Space Wing jurisdiction
     proposing to procure, possess, use, store, transfer or otherwise dispose of hazardous laser
     or optical radiation devices that are not specifically exempted from 45th Space Wing
     Radiation Protection Program requirements must request and obtain radiation use
     authorization to do so. The 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer is the focal point
     of the 45th Space Wing Radiation Protection Program for coordination of such
     authorizations.
     5.3.2. Unless specifically exempted, radiation use authorization is required for:
         5.3.2.1. Lasers and laser systems, (ANSI Class II or greater);
         5.3.2.2. Potentially hazardous nonlaser optical radiation devices operating in the
         ultraviolet, visible, or infrared wavelength range of the electromagnetic spectrum;
     5.3.3. Prior written authorization to use laser or optical radiation devices on the Eastern
     Range must be obtained from the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer. This
     applies to activities that involve the acquisition, possession, use, storage and transfer or
     other disposition of such laser or optical radiation devices. No operation or modification
     to existing operation will be initiated prior to the issuance of a Radiation Use
     Authorization.
     5.3.4. Radiation use authorization of storage and use areas and facilities shall be obtained
     prior to commencement of initial operations.
     5.3.5. Individual users and use organizations shall ensure accountability for their sources
     and coordinate this effort with the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer.
     5.3.6. Radiation controlled areas and exclusion areas described by the applicable
     Radiation Use Authorization will be posted and controlled by the user.
     5.3.7. Any nonexempt laser or optical radiation device improperly transported onto the
     Eastern Range will be subject to impoundment until either the irregularities are corrected
     and appropriate authorizations are obtained or removal from the Eastern Range is
     arranged.
     5.3.8. Noncompliance with 45th Space Wing Radiation Protection Program requirements
     relative to the authorized use of lasers or optical radiation devices will result in the
     revocation or suspension of such radiation use authorization, and impoundment of
     radiation devices.
  5.4. Data Submittals and Approvals.
     5.4.1. Radiation use authorization for the possession or use of laser or optical radiation
     devices requires submittal of the appropriate completed 45th Space Wing Radiation
     Protection Program forms for the type of devices, together with any supportive data
     required.
45SWI40-201 19 MARCH 2012                                                                    15


     5.4.2. Submittals shall be made as soon as practicable, and should be provided no later
     than 30 days prior to the intended arrival of the radiation devices. Appropriate forms
     required for laser and optical radiation devices and associated data submittal
     requirements for radiation use authorization are described in this chapter.
     5.4.3. The 45 SW Form 2244, Radiation Use /Authorization (Laser/Optical Device),
     must be completed and submitted for evaluation of all intended uses of lasers and laser
     systems including laser diodes, diode arrays and LEDs not associated with optical fiber
     communications systems (OFCS) and lasers incorporated in equipment, instrumentation
     or other devices.
     5.4.4. The 45 SW Form 2244 must be completed and submitted for evaluation of all
     intended uses of non-laser optical radiation devices, fiber optic systems and OFCS
     including equipment, instrumentation or other items incorporating such devices.
     5.4.5. The 45 SW Form 2257, Training and Experience Summary (Nonionizing
     Radiation), must be completed and submitted for evaluation of the Area Radiation
     Officer and each person intended to possess and use the specific laser or optical radiation
     device.
     5.4.6. The 45 SW Form 2260, Modification of Radiation Use Authorization, shall be
     completed and submitted for evaluation of any intended changes to applicable
     procedures, licenses or registrations, facilities, personnel, or equipment or materials
     described by the current Radiation Use Authorization. Submittal of requests for
     modification of radiation use authorization should be submitted not later than 30 days
     prior to the implementation of the intended changes.
     5.4.7. Requests for use of lasers or optical devices shall be submitted to the
     45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer. Elements of a complete data submittal
     package for radiation use authorization include, but may not necessarily be limited to,
     those described below.
        5.4.7.1. The appropriate Radiation Use/Authorization form as described by paragraph
        5.4.
        5.4.7.2. Licenses or other appropriate registrations possessed by the user organization
        to own, maintain and use the specific radiation device.
        5.4.7.3. All applicable operating, maintenance and emergency procedures relating to
        possession and use of the radiation device for which radiation use authorization is
        being requested.
        5.4.7.4. Listing by full name of all proposed user/operator personnel, accompanied
        by a completed 45 SW Form 2257 for each individual identified.
        5.4.7.5. Completed 45 SW Form 2257 for the designated Area Radiation Officer and
        all users.
        5.4.7.6. Approximate dates of arrival and departure of the specified radiation device,
        and mission or payload designation.
16                                                              45SWI40-201 19 MARCH 2012


  5.5. Program Exemptions. A variety of commercially available consumer, business and
  industrial application laser and optical radiation devices are exempted from the requirements
  of the 45th Space Wing Radiation Protection Program due to their common usage and
  negligible potential for hazardous exposure under conditions of normal use. However, such
  exemption is valid only when certain conditions are met. The following paragraphs describe
  currently exempted devices and the conditions necessary for their exemption. Individuals
  should consult with the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer or the MESC Health
  Physics Office if there is a question regarding applicability of program exemption to their
  particular situation or requirement.
     5.5.1. The following general categories of products and systems using Class 1 laser
     devices are exempted:
         5.5.1.1. Laser printers;
         5.5.1.2. Laser copiers;
         5.5.1.3. Image scanners;
         5.5.1.4. CD/DVD/other laser-read disc readers and writers;
         5.5.1.5. Barcode scanner, reader and verifier units;
         5.5.1.6. Class 1 laser devices and any other Class 1 laser product, except for those
         that allow access to other classes of laser radiation during servicing operations,
         provided that the laser product is maintained as a Class 1 laser product through its
         useful life.
         5.5.1.7. Service Group 1 (SG1) fiber optic systems and fiber optic systems when
         normal operation does not involve connection or disconnection of cables.
     5.5.2. The following general categories of products and systems using non-laser optical
     devices are exempted:
         5.5.2.1. Photographic strobe units;
         5.5.2.2. High-intensity discharge (HID) lamps utilized for facility lighting;
         5.5.2.3. Infrared radiation devices with accessible irradiance less than 0.1 milliwatt
         per square centimeter (mW/cm2);
         5.5.2.4. Visible radiation devices with accessible luminance less than 1 candela per
         square centimeter (cd/cm2);
         5.5.2.5. Ultraviolet radiation devices with accessible effective irradiance of less than
         0.1 microwatt per square centimeter (uW/cm2).
     5.5.3. Exemptions are valid for the general categories of equipment, instruments and
     systems identified by paragraph 5.5.1. and 5.5.2. provided that:
         5.5.3.1. The individual item is maintained in its original design configuration and
         utilized for its originally intended use;
         5.5.3.2. The design and manufacture of the item is in accordance with the
         specifications of the Federal Performance Standard for Light Emitting Products (Title
         21, CFR, Part 1040);
45SWI40-201 19 MARCH 2012                                                                     17


          5.5.3.3. The item is operated in accordance with the manufacturer's recommended
          operating procedures;
          5.5.3.4. Maintenance, service or repair activities that could expose personnel to laser
          radiation will be performed only by appropriately authorized and qualified personnel.
   5.6. Radiation Protection Controls for Lasers and Laser Systems.
      5.6.1. Control measures required by AFOSH STD 48-139, ANSI Z-136.1, and the
      Radiation Use Authorization shall apply at all times when a laser or laser system is in
      operation.
      5.6.2. Control measures required by AFOSH STD 48-139, ANSI Z-136.2, and the
      Radiation Use Authorization shall apply at all times during OFCS installation and
      service.
6. Control Provisions and Guidelines for the Use of Radiofrequency/Microwave Radiation
Devices.
   6.1. General. Procurement, possession and use of radiofrequency/microwave
   (RF/microwave) radiation devices require prior coordination and approval from the
   45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer. Because of the unique nature of certain
   RF/microwave radiation devices, regulatory agencies outside of the 45th Space Wing may
   require authorization or registration of the device or intended use location in addition to
   45th Space Wing approval. The provisions and guidelines in this chapter are provided to
   assist users in their effort to comply with the requirements as well as those of other
   regulatory agencies as they apply to operations on the Eastern Range.
   6.2. Registration. Certain nonionizing radiation devices on pertinent areas of the Eastern
   Range may require specific registration by Federal agencies, such as the Federal
   Communications Commission. Copies of all such registrations must be provided to the
   45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer as part of the data submittal required for radiation
   use authorization of RF/microwave radiation devices.
   6.3. 45th Space Wing Required Authorizations and Provisions.
      6.3.1. Any organization or individual functioning under 45th Space Wing jurisdiction
      proposing to procure, possess, use, store, transfer or otherwise dispose of RF/microwave
      devices that are not specifically exempted from 45th Space Wing Radiation Protection
      Program requirements must request and obtain radiation use authorization to do so. The
      45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer is the focal point of the 45th Space Wing
      Radiation Protection Program for coordination of such authorizations.
      6.3.2. Unless specifically exempted, radiation use authorization is required for any
      RF/microwave radiation device operating at frequencies between 3kHz and 300 GHz, to
      include but not limited to:
          6.3.2.1. Radar systems;
          6.3.2.2. Spacecraft and vehicle telemetry and communications systems;
          6.3.2.3. Earth stations;
          6.3.2.4. Microwave diathermy units;
18                                                            45SWI40-201 19 MARCH 2012


        6.3.2.5. Radiofrequency generators.
     6.3.3. Prior written authorization to use RF/microwave radiation devices on the Eastern
     Range must be obtained from the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer. This
     applies to activities that involve the acquisition, possession, use, storage, and transfer or
     other disposition of such RF/microwave radiation devices. No operation or modification
     to existing operation will be initiated prior to the issuance of a Radiation Use
     Authorization.
     6.3.4. Radiation use authorization for storage and use areas and facilities shall be
     obtained prior to commencement of initial operations.
     6.3.5. Individual users and use organizations shall ensure accountability for their sources
     and coordinate this effort with the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer.
     6.3.6. Radiation controlled areas and exclusion areas described by the applicable
     Radiation Use Authorization will be posted and controlled by the user.
     6.3.7. Any non-exempt RF/microwave radiation device improperly transported onto the
     Eastern Range will be subject to impoundment until either the irregularities are corrected
     and appropriate radiation use authorization is obtained or removal from the range is
     arranged.
     6.3.8. Noncompliance with 45th Space Wing Radiation Protection Program requirements
     relative to the authorized use of RF/microwave radiation devices will result in the
     revocation or suspension of such radiation use authorization and impoundment of
     radiation devices.
  6.4. Data Submittals and Approvals.
     6.4.1. Radiation use authorization for the possession or use of RF/microwave radiation
     devices requires submittal of the appropriate completed 45th Space Wing Radiation
     Protection Program forms for the devices, together with any supportive data required.
     6.4.2. Submittals shall be made as soon as practicable, but no later than 30 days prior to
     the intended arrival of the radiation devices. Appropriate forms required for
     RF/microwave radiation devices and associated data submittal requirements for radiation
     use authorization are described in this section.
     6.4.3. The 45 SW Form 2245, Radiofrequency/Microwave Systems Use /Authorization,
     must be completed and submitted for evaluation of all intended uses of radiofrequency
     and microwave systems including radar units, communication systems satellite earth
     stations and radiofrequency generators.
     6.4.4. The 45 SW Form 2257, Training and Experience Summary (Nonionizing
     Radiation), must be completed and submitted for evaluation of the Area Radiation
     Officer and each person intended to possess and use the specific RF/microwave radiation
     device.
     6.4.5. The 45 SW Form 2260, Modification of Radiation Use Authorization, shall be
     completed and submitted for evaluation of any intended changes to applicable
     procedures, licenses or registrations, facilities, personnel or equipment or materials
     described by the current Radiation Use Authorization. Submittal of requests for
45SWI40-201 19 MARCH 2012                                                                    19


     modification of radiation use authorization shall be submitted no later than 30 days prior
     to the implementation of the intended changes.
     6.4.6. Request for use of RF/microwave radiation devices shall be submitted to the
     45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer. Elements of a complete data submittal
     package for radiation use authorization include, but may not necessarily be limited to:
         6.4.6.1. The appropriate Radiation Use Authorization form as described by
         paragraphs 6.3.2.1 and 6.3.2.2;
         6.4.6.2. Licenses or other appropriate registrations possessed by the user organization
         to own, maintain and use the specific radiation device;
         6.4.6.3. All applicable operating, maintenance and emergency procedures relating to
         possession and use of the radiation devices for which radiation use authorization is
         being requested.
         6.4.6.4. A listing by full name of all proposed user/operator personnel accompanied
         by a completed 45 SW Form 2260 for each individual identified.
         6.4.6.5. A completed 45 SW Form 2260 for the designated Area Radiation Officer
         and Use Supervisor/Custodian;
         6.4.6.6. Approximate dates of arrival and departure of the specified radiation devices
         to and from the Eastern Range, and mission or payload designation.
  6.5. Program Exemptions. A variety of commercially available consumer, business and
  industrial application RF/microwave radiation devices are exempted from the requirements
  of the 45th Space Wing Radiation Protection Program due to their common usage and
  negligible potential for hazardous exposure under conditions of normal use. However, such
  exemption is valid only when certain conditions are met. The following paragraphs describe
  currently exempted devices and the conditions necessary for their exemption. Individuals
  should consult with the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer or the MESC Health
  Physics Office if there is a question regarding applicability of program exemption to their
  particular situation or requirement.
     6.5.1. The following general categories of radiofrequency and microwave radiation
     devices are exempted:
         6.5.1.1. Devices with transmitter power of 7 watts or less and an antenna gain of
         unity (walkie-talkies, car phones, cellular phones);
         6.5.1.2. Speed-monitoring devices (radar guns);
         6.5.1.3. Automotive radar detectors;
         6.5.1.4. RF/microwave radiation devices designed for and operated in a completely
         enclosed configuration where no open-air transmission is possible;
         6.5.1.5. RF/microwave radiation devices designed to operate in a hard-lined, closed-
         loop configuration where no open-air transmission is possible;
         6.5.1.6. Microwave oven.
20                                                          45SWI40-201 19 MARCH 2012


     6.5.2. Exemptions are valid for the general categories of equipment, instruments and
     systems identified by paragraph 6.4.1 provided that:
         6.5.2.1. The individual item is maintained in its original design configuration and
         utilized for its originally intended use over the useful life of the item.
         6.5.2.2. The design and manufacture of the item is in accordance with the
         specifications of the Federal Performance Standard for Electronic Products (Title 21,
         CFR, Part 1010).
         6.5.2.3. The item is operated in accordance with the manufacturer's recommended
         operating procedures.
         6.5.2.4. Only appropriately authorized and qualified personnel will perform
         maintenance, service or repair activities that could expose personnel to
         RF/microwave radiation.
  6.6. Radiation Protection Controls for RF/Microwave Systems. Control measures
  required by AFOSH STD 48-9 and the applicable Radiation Use Authorization shall apply at
  all times when an RF/microwave system is in operation.




                                          ANTHONY J. COTTON, Brig Gen, USAF
                                          Commander
45SWI40-201 19 MARCH 2012                                                                  21


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 48-148, Ionizing Radiation Progection, 21 September 2011
AFOSH STD 48-9, Radio Frequency Radiation Protection, 10 December 1999
AFOSH STD 48-139, Laser Radiation Protection Program, 10 December 1999
AFOSH STD 48-148, Ionizing Radiation Protection, 10 December 1999
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Title 21, CFR, Part 1010, Code of Federal Regulations Food and Drugs, 1 April 2011
Title 21, CFR, Part 1040, Code of Federal Regulations for Performance Standards for Electronic
Products, 1 April 2011
NUREG 8.19, Instruction Concerning Prenatal Radiation Exposure, June 1999
Prescribed Forms
45SW Form 2245, Radiation Use Request/Authorization (Radio Frequency Microwave System),
1 November 1991
45SW Form 2252, Radioactive Material Transfer and Shipment Record (Outbound),
1 November 1991
45SW Form 2254, Radiation Use/Authorization (Ionizing Machine/Device), 1 November 1991
45SW Form 2255, Radiation Use/Authorization (Radioactive Materials), 1 November 1991
45SW Form 2256, Radiation Training and Experience Summary (Ionizing Radiation),
1 November 1991
45SW Form 2257, Radiation Training and Experience Summary (Nonionizing Radiation),
1 November 1991
45SW Form 2260, Modification of Radiation Use Authorization, 1 November 1991
45SW Form 2261, Radioactive Material Transfer Receipt, 1 November 1991
Adopted Forms
NRC Form 241, Report of Proposed Activities in Non-Agreement States, Areas of Exculsive
Federal Jurisdiction, or Offshore Waters, November 2011
Abreviation and Acronyms
45 AMDS/SGPB—Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFOSH STD—-Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Standard
AFRIMS—Air Force Record Information Management System
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
 22                                                 45SWI40-201 19 MARCH 2012


ALARA—As Low as Reasonable Achieveable Policy
CCAFS—Cape Canaveral Air Force Station
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
DOT—Department of Transportation
HID—High Intensity Discharge
KSC—Kennedy Space Center
MESC—Medical Environmental Support Contract
NUREG—Nuclear Regulatory
OFCS—Optical Fiber Communications Systems
PAFB—-Patrick Air Force Base
PWS—Performance Work Statement
RDS—Record Disposition Schedule
RF—Radiofrequency
SW—Space Wing
USNRC—United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission
45SWI40-201 19 MARCH 2012                                                                      23


                                         Attachment 2
                   AS LOW AS REASONABLY ACHIEVABLE POLICY

A2.1. Introduction. As Low As Reasonably Achievable (ALARA) is a policy adopted by the
nuclear and radiation protection communities to maintain doses from ionizing radiation to a level
where risk to an individual or group of individuals from any necessary exposure is minimized,
while beneficial work is being accomplished. For example, certain tasks require work with or
near a radioactive source. Personnel performing these tasks will receive a radiation dose.
ALARA practices do not preclude the work being done, but require that it be done effectively
and efficiently, thereby decreasing the amount of time personnel have to spend near the material,
and decreasing the dose received. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy,
the U.S. Air Force and state and local law, require ALARA as an operational policy.
A2.2. Policy. It is the policy of 45th Space Wing that all ionizing radiation doses will be
maintained ALARA. While it is understood that in many operational circumstances a radiation
dose is unavoidable, unnecessary dose is to be eliminated.
A2.3. Responsibility:
   A2.3.1. 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer. The 45th Space Wing Radiation
   Safety Officer has the overall responsibility for the implementation of the 45th Space Wing
   ALARA program. As such, he is responsible for reviewing dosimeter reports, conducting
   surveys of work sites, reviewing and recommending changes to work practices and
   investigating doses received which he considers questionable or which exceed investigation
   limits. If the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer is unavailable, this responsibility
   falls to the designated alternate, normally Bioenvironmental Engineering (45 AMDS/SGPB).
   A2.3.2. Work Center Supervisors. Work center supervisors have the responsibility for
   effectively minimizing personnel ionizing radiation exposure. This can be accomplished by:
       A2.3.2.1. Proper job planning to include considering the effects of time, distance and
       shielding in reducing dose.
       A2.3.2.2. Considering the use of mock-ups to practice a difficult job.
       A2.3.2.3. Ensuring personnel are properly trained to perform the job at hand. Poorly
       trained personnel may spend a great deal of time beyond that needed by a trained worker
       to perform the same task.
       A2.3.2.4. Ensuring dosimeters are worn if required.
       A2.3.2.5. Ensuring warning boundaries are in place if required.
       A2.3.2.6. Referring any questions to the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer.
   A2.3.3. Individuals. Individuals are responsible to maintain their own exposures to an
   ALARA level.
A2.4. Investigational Limits. A threshold of dose above which an investigation by the
45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer is warranted. Results of the investigation will be
discussed with the individual, and presented to the Aerospace Medicine Council without naming
the individual. If the results of the investigation indicate a change in work practices is needed,
this will be discussed with appropriate work center supervisors, Bioenvironmental Engineering
 24                                                         45SWI40-201 19 MARCH 2012


services, and also reported to the Aerospace Medicine Council. The investigational limits for
whole body, head or extremity doses to radiation workers are as follows
   A2.4.1. Monthly. A dose in excess of 100 mRem.
   A2.4.2. Quarterly. A dose in excess of 125 mRem.
   A2.4.3. Pregnant Workers. A dose in excess of 50 mRem.
A2.5. ALARA Report to Aerospace Medicine Council. A report of significant facts and
events about the radiation program shall be made annually. The reports shall consist of the
following at a minimum:
   A2.5.1. Review of dosimeter results.
   A2.5.2. Review of significant survey results.
   A2.5.3. Review of investigations.
   A2.5.4. Review of radioactive material permits.
   A2.5.5. Review of inspections.
A2.6. Aerospace Medicine Council. The Aerospace Medicine Council shall review all
ALARA reports presented by the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer, as well as radiation
issues discussed at the Occupational Health Working Group and make recommendations as
required. The ALARA reports shall be included as an attachment to the Aeromedical Council
minutes on an annual basis.
A2.7. Declared Pregnant Workers and Their Supervisors. Declared pregnant workers are
required to be educated about the specific hazards of exposure to ionizing radiation while
pregnant. Guidance is available from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in NUREG 8.13.
This training must be documented. Declared pregnant military workers must inform their
supervisors in writing of a confirmed pregnancy as soon as possible. Civilian workers should
declare their pregnancy but the decision is voluntary. Supervisors shall ensure that the
45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer and 45 AMDS/SGPB are informed so that appropriate
badging, exposure limits, and other necessary actions can be instituted.
45SWI40-201 19 MARCH 2012                                                                       25


                                         Attachment 3
             RADIATION INCIDENT GUIDELINES AND NOTIFICATIONS

A3.1. General.
   A3.1.1. Radiation incidents may result in exposure of personnel and radioactive
   contamination that can be spread or dispersed in situations such as fire, flood, explosion,
   spillage or breach of containment.
   A3.1.2. The resulting radiation cannot be detected except by the use of specialized
   techniques and instrumentation. The procedures described in this attachment are intended to
   be applied to the extent needed in any radiation incident to protect personnel.
A3.2. Basic Emergency Procedures.
   A3.2.1. Eliminate the source of radiation. Remove power source to radiation producing
   device. (If unable to remove power to radiation source, evacuate personnel from the
   immediate area). If source is radioactive material, cover source with applicable shielding
   material.
   A3.2.2. Isolate the contamination. Close doors, windows, etc. Shut down air handling
   systems, lab hoods, etc.
   A3.2.3. Evacuate personnel to a safe marshaling area and have all personnel remain in the
   area. The marshaling area should be upwind if radioactive material spill is involved.
   A3.2.4. Notify Appropriate Response Elements.
       A3.2.4.1. Radiation incidents involving fire, explosion, personnel injury or facility
       damage requiring emergency response by medical, fire, or security elements should be
       reported by using the telephone number 911.
       A3.2.4.2. All other radiation incidents not requiring emergency notification must be
       immediately reported to the 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer or MESC Health
       Physics Office.
       A3.2.4.3. Caller should be able to identify the radiation source and describe its
       involvement in the emergency.
   A3.2.5. Standby Activities for Affected Area Personnel.
       A3.2.5.1. Control unauthorized access to the area.
       A3.2.5.2. Inform response element(s) of the nature of the radiological hazard (i.e., type
       of device).
       A3.2.5.3. Detain evacuated personnel in marshaling area until released by the
       45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer, or designated representative.
A.3.2.5.4. Potentially exposed or otherwise involved personnel shall be prepared to provide a
detailed account of conditions/circumstances surrounding the exposure incident.
A3.3. Radiation Incident Notification.
   A3.3.1. All Hours Emergency Response (Fire, Medical, Security): 911.
26                                                       45SWI40-201 19 MARCH 2012


  A3.3.2. Normal Duty Hours (0730-1630):
     A3.3.2.1. 45th Space Wing Radiation Safety Officer (PAFB): 494-5435.
     A3.3.2.2. Bioenvironmental Engineering (PAFB): 494-5435.
     A3.3.2.3. MESC Health Physics Office (CCAFS): 853-5688.
     A3.3.2.4. KSC Radiation Protection Officer (KSC): 867-6958.
  A3.3.3. After Normal Duty Hours (1630-0730), Holidays and Weekends:
     A3.3.3.1. Patrick Command Post (Operations on PAFB): 494-7001.
     A3.3.3.2. Cape Support (Operations on CCAFS): 853-5211.
     A3.3.3.3. Institutional Service Contract (ISC) Duty Office (Operations on KSC): 861-
     5050.
