BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         45TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 65-301
45TH SPACE WING
                                                                                2 MARCH 2011
                                                                 Certified Current 19 June 2014
                                                                         Financial Management

                                                                        AUDIT PROCEDURES



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 45 CPTS/FMAP                                      Certified by: 45 CPTS/CC (Major Edward
                                                                               E. Marshall, Jr.)
                                                                                      Pages: 8


This instruction implements AFI 65-301, Audit Report Procedures, and AFI 65-403, Follow up
on Internal Air Force Audit Reports. It provides the 45th Space Wing (45 SW) and its customers
a broad understanding of the audit process. Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR). Ensure that all records created as
a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

1. LOCAL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   1.1. Introduction: The 45th Space Wing (45 SW) depends on measuring its performance
   and examining its procedures to sustain successful operations. Audits are accomplished to
   evaluate and improve programs; improve the accuracy of financial reporting; and promote
   economy, efficiency, and effectiveness of operations.
   1.2. Policies and Procedures:
       1.2.1. Audit Focal Point: The 45th Comptroller Squadron serves as the primary liaison
       between audit organizations and 45 SW. The primary responsibility of the Audit Focal
       Point (AFP) is to coordinate audits and monitor actions taken on audit recommendations.
       1.2.2. Audit Process: The AFP receives notice of audit through an announcement
       memorandum from the audit organization and tasks the appropriate functional focal
       point.
2                                                           45SWI65-301 2 MARCH 2011


       1.2.2.1. The AFP coordinates with audit organization to schedule inbriefs with key
       personnel (e.g., Commanders, section chiefs, points of contact) as necessary.
       1.2.2.2. The audit organization performs audit fieldwork, summarizes data, and
       prepares a draft report of audit (ROA) to discuss results with management prior to
       requesting management comments. The draft ROA is the normal reporting vehicle
       for communicating the results of an audit. If the audit only identifies positive
       conditions not requiring corrective action by management, the audit organization will
       issue a clear report or closure memorandum. Audit organizations performing a
       follow-up on significant findings and recommendations from prior reports will issue a
       report to inform management if corrective actions taken fixed the previously
       identified condition.
       1.2.2.3. The audit organization will coordinate with AFP to schedule formal out-
       briefs with key personnel.
    1.2.3. Report Process: The audit organization provides an installation-level draft ROA
    package for formal management comments to AFP. The AFP tasks the draft ROA for
    management comments to functional focal point. Once management comments have
    been prepared by the functional focal point, the AFP staffs comments through group and
    wing commanders using AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet.
       1.2.3.1. Management Comments: The AFP prepares a transmittal letter to request
       management comments. The AFP aids the functional focal point in preparing and
       providing responsive comments. Management has 30 days to prepare final
       management memorandum with wing commander or designee signature and provide
       to the audit organization. To complete quick-reaction audit reports, management
       must respond within the timeframe specified by the audit organization.
           1.2.3.1.1. Management expresses explicit concurrence or nonconcurrence on each
           finding, recommendation, and potential monetary benefit (PMB) (if applicable).
           Management details all completed actions and planned corrective actions.
           Specifically, the management comment must include: (a) dates of all completed
           actions, (b) estimated completion dates (ECD) for planned corrective actions, (c)
           suspense dates for phases of corrective actions that require more than one year to
           complete, and (d) estimated monetary benefit.
              1.2.3.1.1.1. If management agrees with finding, recommendation, and PMB,
              management will concur and describe corrective actions taken and/or planned
              with an ECD. ECDs should be at least 90 days from the date comments are
              provided.
              1.2.3.1.1.2. If management agrees with finding and agrees action should be
              taken but not the action(s) recommended, management can concur with
              intent/principle and propose an alternative to correct report deficiencies.
              1.2.3.1.1.3. If management agrees with findings and recommendations but
              disagrees with the PMB, management must clearly state the reason for
              disagreement and give a revised PMB estimate. If management cannot
              provide revised PMB by the due date, AFP may request an extension from the
              audit organization in 15-day increments not to exceed 30 days from the
45SWI65-301 2 MARCH 2011                                                                     3


               original suspense date. If management disagrees there will be any PMB, the
               audit organization will evaluate the amount as a nonconcurrence for
               resolution.
               1.2.3.1.1.4. If management nonconcurs with findings, management comments
               should specify the reason for the nonconcurrence. The audit organization will
               evaluate the nonconcurrence for resolution.
        1.2.3.2. AFP compiles the staff summary package for the Wing Commander or
        designee signature which includes, in order: (a) cover memo or Staff Summary Sheet
        signed by the Comptroller or designee and (b) official management comments with
        attachments (draft ROA, copy of organizational responses, and other pertinent
        information). The package is hand-carried to the command section for approval and
        signature. After the Wing Commander or designee signs the package, the AFP
        forwards the management comments to the audit organization for inclusion in the
        final ROA.
     1.2.4. Procedures for Nonconcurrence: Management and audit officials must attempt to
     resolve disagreements (nonconcurrence) locally. If nonconcurrence is not resolved
     locally, the audit organization will elevate the nonconcurrence to the MAJCOM
     functional. If the MAJCOM and the audit representative do not resolve the
     nonconcurrence within 60 days of the final report date, the audit representative sends a
     copy of the report, applicable management comments and other information derived from
     previous resolution discussions for resolution at the Secretariat or Air Staff level.
     1.2.5. Follow-up Process: The follow-up process begins after issuance of the final ROA.
     The follow-up process helps to ensure that management implements recommendations
     and corrects identified deficiencies.
        1.2.5.1. The AFP (a) tracks open ECDs until the action is completed, (b) sends
        responses to MAJCOM AFP and audit organization until closed, and (c) forwards
        ECD extensions to MAJCOM AFP and audit organization.
        1.2.5.2. After closure of all ECDs, AFP closes the audit file and maintains records for
        five years.
            1.2.5.2.1. Formal follow-up records contain: (a) the audit report, (b) a signed
            copy of management's comments, (c) the name of the functional focal point
            responsible for implementing the agreed-on corrective actions, and (d) the current
            status of management actions, including an explanation for delays in any planned
            corrective actions.
               1.2.5.2.1.1. For audit reports documenting completed management actions,
               include management's explicit written and signed confirmation that all agreed-
               on corrective actions are complete (or that on-site verification indicates
               completed actions).
               1.2.5.2.1.2. For audit reports documenting estimated PMB, include
               management's explicit written and signed confirmation that the monetary
               benefits were actually realized. Include references to official budget or
               accounting data or, if such data isn't feasible, an updated estimate and its
 4                                                              45SWI65-301 2 MARCH 2011


                   rationale.
2. Functional Responsibility.
     2.1. Introduction. This chapter describes the responsibilities of the functional areas in
     respect to the audit process.
     2.2. Under Secretary of the Air Force. Resolves nonconcurrences between management
     and audit organization that lower levels could not resolve.
     2.3. MAJCOM Functional.
        2.3.1. Receives all audit reports and sends to appropriate command organizations.
        2.3.2. Administers nonconcurrences between management and audit organization that
        lower level could not resolve.
     2.4. Wing Workflow.
        2.4.1. Tasks audits to 45 SW personnel.
        2.4.2. Receives staffed and coordinated comments from AFP.
     2.5. Installation Audit Focal Point. The 45 SW Financial Management Policy and
     Programs Division (45 SW/FMAP) is the central focal point within the wing for all matters
     relating to Air Force Audit Agency, Office of Inspector General, Department of Defense, and
     Government Accounting Office.
        2.5.1. Informs MAJCOM functional and Wing Commander of audit activity by
        developing a program for processing related correspondence and monitoring ROAs,
        including tracking PMB cost applicable to the wing.
        2.5.2. Coordinates ROAs through wing tasker and staffs management comments through
        the wing.
            2.5.2.1. Sends ROAs with detailed instructions and request the appropriate functional
            point of contact to accomplish reviews and responses within 30 days. Ensures every
            effort is made to meet established suspense for management comments. If 30-day
            suspense cannot be met, the AFP will request an extension.
            2.5.2.2. Advises and assists functional offices in preparing responses to draft ROAs
            and other related correspondence to ensure management comments are valid and
            responsive, and procedures outlined above are followed.
            2.5.2.3. Advises audit organizations of any disagreements, nonconcurrence, or
            needed clarifications that arise during response preparation.
        2.5.3. Attends inbriefs and outbriefs on high visibility audits. Acts as an arbitrator
        between wing and audit personnel when necessary.
        2.5.4. Determines when management has completed agreed-on corrective actions and
        realized monetary benefits and sends tracking summaries to follow-up focal points during
        the first 10 days of the month following the estimated completion date for a corrective
        action.
        2.5.5. Complies with follow up requirements (AFI 65-403, Follow up on Internal Air
        Force Audit Reports) by maintaining wing formal audit follow-up files and records.
45SWI65-301 2 MARCH 2011                                                                       5


   2.6. Group Commander.
      2.6.1. Ensures management takes agreed-on corrective actions on all audit reports to
      meet projection dates and eliminate deficiencies.
      2.6.2. Designates a functional focal point. Each group will appoint, in writing, a primary
      focal point for audit activity. As necessary, appoint an additional focal point at squadron
      level. Appointment letter must contain designee’s name, grade, office symbol, telephone
      number, and e-mail address and be provided to AFP.
   2.7. Functional Focal Point:
      2.7.1. Serves as the group point of contact (or assigns POC) with the audit organization
      for all questions/requests during, and subsequent to, the field visit.
      2.7.2. . Serves as the point of contact for receiving and distributing all reports to the
      proper office for action.
          2.7.2.1. Advises and assists in preparing responses to draft ROAs and other related
          correspondence involving activities within their organization’s purview to ensure
          responses are timely and accurate. Provides responses and correspondence to AFP
          for review and distribution.
      2.7.3. Establishes records for all installation-level report recommendations and monitors
      their status until implemented. Provides progress reports on implementation status or
      extension request with revised ECD to AFP. Note: AFP maintains formal follow-up
      records.
2.8. Point of Contact.
      2.8.1. Serves as the squadron POC with the audit organization for all questions/requests
      during, and subsequent to, the field visit.
          2.8.1.1. Grants auditors access to information according to AFPD 65-3.
      2.8.2. Prepares and/or consolidates responses to draft ROAs and other related
      correspondence involving their activity. Provides Functional Focal Point responses and
      correspondence for distribution.
      2.8.3. Accomplishes the audit quality service survey.




                                           B. EDWIN WILSON, Brigadier General, USAF
                                           Commander
 6                                                       45SWI65-301 2 MARCH 2011


                                     Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFAA 65-104, Air Force Audit Agency Focal Point Guidance, 30 November 2006
AFI 65-301, Audit Report Procedures, 28 May 2010
AFI 65-403, Financial Management¸2 June 1994
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, 15 April 2004
AFPD 65-3, Financial Management, 25 July 2005

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFAA—Air Force Audit Agency
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFP—Audit Focal Point
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
DoD—Department of Defense
ECD—Estimated Completion Date
FMAP—Financial Management Policy and Programs Division
MAJCOM—Major Command
PMB—Potential Monetary Benefit
POC—Point of Contact
ROA—Report of Audit
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
45SWI65-301 2 MARCH 2011                                                                          7


                                         Attachment 2
                SAMPLE REQUEST FOR MANAGEMENT COMMENTS

MEMORANDUM FOR AUDIT FUNCTIONAL FOCAL POINT

FROM: 45 CPTS/CC

SUBJECT: Request for Management Comments, Report of Audit, Title, Wing, Location
(Project #) (Suspense: Date)

1. The attached draft report of audit is provided for your review and response.

2. Request you provide written comments to comply with the requirements of AFI 65-301,
which states that comments should identify action taken or planned and be suitable for verbatim
inclusion in the final report. Request concurrence or nonconcurrence with each finding and
recommendation is specifically indicated. Alternative corrective actions are acceptable if it
corrects the problem and will not be considered a nonconcurrence. Comments must include
actual completion dates for completed actions and initial estimated completion dates (ECD) for
each planned action. These ECDs must be at least 90 days out. Interim milestones every 120
days are necessary if action cannot be completed within 12 months of your response.

3. After we receive your comments, they will be forwarded to the wing commander for review
and signature. After the wing commander signs, management comments will be sent to the
AFAA Area Audit Office at (location), for inclusion in the final report of audit.

4. If your OPR needs to contact the auditors to discuss any nonconcurrence or other points in the
report, or needs additional assistance with the formats for answering the report, contact me at
phone number as soon as possible. Please forward your formal comments NLT date.



                                               COMPTROLLER NAME
                                               COMPTROLLER


Attachements:
1. Sample responses
2. Draft Report of Audit
 8                                                              45SWI65-301 2 MARCH 2011


                                          Attachment 3
          SAMPLE MANAGEMENT COMMENTS MEMORANDUM TO AUDIT

                                                                                          (Date)
MEMORANDUM FOR AUDIT ORGANIZATION

FROM: Wing Commander or Vice Wing Commander
      Address

SUBJECT: Management Comments, Report of Audit, Title, Wing, Location, (Project #).

1. Reference your subject, date, memorandum requesting written comments on subject audit
report. The following management comments are submitted for inclusion in the final audit
report.

     a. Audit Results 1. Concur with intent.

       (1) Recommendation A.1. Concur. An Action Officer will be appointed to provide
oversight for the program. ECD: (Date)

      (2) Recommendation A.2. Concur with intent. In lieu of the audit recommendation, a
working group has been established to develop local operating instructions pertaining to all
assigned units and tenant organizations. The instruction will outline procedures required to
comply with regulatory requirements to include a procurement process. ECD: (Date)

     b. Audit Result 2. Concur.

    c. Recommendation B.1. Concur. Training will be conducted for all members assigned to
the flight. ECD: (Date).

    d. Audit Result 3. Nonconcur. The audit does not take into account the unique operations
overseas, i.e. 2-year tours for unaccompanied Airmen destabilizes the workforce’s overall
qualification/proficiency level and to a great degree impedes the organization’s production
capacity the manpower required and recent increases in demands placed on the organization as
result from manpower cuts.

2. If you have any further questions, please contact our audit focal point, Name, and phone
number.




                                                   NAME
                                                   Rank, USAF
                                                   Wing or Vice Commander
