BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         45TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 10-202
45TH SPACE WING
                                                                             8 OCTOBER 2013
                                                                  Certified Current 3 July 2013
                                                                                     Operations

                                                      PYRAMID RECALL, NOTIFICATION
                                                    AND ACCOUNTABILITY PROCEDURES


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available online at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 45 SW/CP                                                           Certified by: 45 SW/CP
                                                                (Maj Chintaporn Hiransomboon)
Supersedes: 45 SWI 10-202, 1 April 2005                                                Pages: 27


This 45 SWI implements AFI 36-3803, Personnel Accountability in Conjunction with Natural
Disasters or National Emergencies. It outlines the purpose, procedures and responsibilities for
conducting pyramid recall, notifications and Total Force accountability of 45 SW personnel
assigned to units at Patrick AFB (PAFB), Cape Canaveral AFS (CCAFS), Eastern Range sites,
Mission Partner and tenant organizations. Respective groups will identify mission and non-
essential personnel. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command. Requests for waivers must be submitted through chain of command to the OPR listed
above for consideration and approval. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). The use of
the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in
this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

This instruction is affected by the Privacy Act of 1974. Authority for collecting the information
required by this instruction is contained in 10 U.S.C. 8012. The information will be used by
management to locate personnel for alerting purposes. Routine uses listed in AFDIR 37-144, Air
Force Privacy Act Systems of Records Notices, apply.
 2                                                                                          45SWI10-202 8 OCTOBER 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction was changed in its entirety and requires complete review by the 45 SW Director
of Staff and group commanders. Updated terminology (such as from Battle Staff to Crisis
Action Team - CAT). Provides notification, recall and accountability procedures (AF's Total
Force Accountability (AFPAAS) and AtHoc instructions were added). Clarifies roles and
responsibilities of wing agencies, groups, squadrons, UCCs, mission partner, tenant
organizations, and individuals. Provides guidance to ensure new Mission Partner/tenant
organizations are paired with 45 SW groups or units so they are properly notified of situations
affecting their missions.        45 SW/CP will update Format (recall) messages and
accountability/strength reporting instructions for Crisis Action Team/Commander's Senior Staff,
mission partners and Mission Essential Federal Employees (MEFE).

        1.     General Policy. .......................................................................................................        2
        2.     Purpose. ..................................................................................................................    3
        3.     Structure. ................................................................................................................    3
        4.     Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................        4
        5.     Notification Procedures. ........................................................................................             10
        6.     Recall Procedures. .................................................................................................          11
        7.     Reporting Centers. .................................................................................................          12
        8.     Accountability Procedures. ....................................................................................               12
        9.     Unit and Wing Military Strength Reports. .............................................................                        13
        10.    Miscellaneous. .......................................................................................................        15
        11.    Operational Security and Information Protection. .................................................                            15

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                               17

Attachment 2—INCIDENT DRIVEN COMMUNICATION FLOW                                                                                              19

Attachment 3—GLOSSARY OF MISSION PARTNERS                                                                                                    20

Attachment 4—FORMAT MESSAGES                                                                                                                 23

Attachment 5—UNIT MILITARY STRENGTH REPORT                                                                                                   26

Attachment 6—WING MILITARY STRENGTH REPORT                                                                                                   27


1. General Policy.
     1.1. Pyramid Recalls will be conducted without public announcement (news media) unless
     the declaring authority advises differently. Unless directed otherwise by the declaring
     authority, do not display signs in public that indicate a recall is in progress.
     1.2. Unless otherwise directed, crews/shift workers will follow their current duty schedule
     and remain on telephone standby during a recall.
45SWI10-202 8 OCTOBER 2013                                                                     3


   1.3. As a minimum, each unit will have Attachment 4 listed on the back of their unit’s
   pyramid recall roster.
   1.4. Mission Essential Federal Employees (MEFE). Wing staff agencies, group and unit
   commanders will identify and notify those civilian employees who are mission essential to
   the accomplishment of the 45 SW mission during contingencies or emergencies.
      1.4.1. Contractors must be identified as mission essential for operations in their contract
      statement of work and also include DFARS 252.237-7023 prior to a unit listing
      contractor key personnel on a recall roster.
   1.5. Notifications normally passed include (but are not limited to) information regarding a
   national emergency, natural disaster(s), changes in hurricane/information/force protection
   conditions or other time-sensitive information requiring instant and broad dissemination.
   1.6. IAW AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management Program Planning and
   Operations Chapter 9, PAFB and CCAFS must have a rapid and effective system to
   disseminate emergency information quickly. This compilation of available resources to meet
   this need is called an Installation Notification and Warning System (INWS). The AtHoc
   system integrates this rapid and powerful INWS capability, force multiplier and common
   core command and control advantage for PAFB and the CCAFS. AtHoc will be the primary
   means to incorporate PAFB and the CCAFS INWS. If AtHoc system is non-operational for
   any reason, the back-up capability of a unit pyramid notification system will be initiated.
2. Purpose.
   2.1. Provide a timely and efficient way to notify all 45 SW personnel, mission
   partners/tenant organizations and base agencies of important information (during real-world
   or exercise scenarios).
      2.1.1. Provide a timely and well-organized process for all 45 SW personnel (active duty,
      MEFEs and contractors) to be contacted and recalled to their duty stations when directed.
      2.1.2. AtHoc and/or, based on the situation, unit pyramid recall rosters will be used for
      the notification process by all units.
   2.2. Ensure all members of PAFB, CCAFS and Geographically Separated Units (GSUs) are
   accounted for if the scenario dictates (during real-world or exercise scenarios). This
   accountability process can be accomplished after FORMAT 1, 3 or 5 recall is initiated.
3. Structure.
   3.1. Pyramid Recall, Notification and Accountability procedures consist of:
   3.2. Wing Pyramid Recall, Notification, and Accountability Procedures. The 45 SW/CC or
   designated representative initiates the recall notification through the Patrick Command Post
   (CP). The CP will notify the group and unit/organization levels via AtHoc.
      3.2.1. If AtHoc is not operational, CP will notify group commanders and a unit pyramid
      notification system will be initiated.
   3.3. Unit Pyramid Recall, Notification, and Accountability Procedures. Each wing staff,
   group and unit organization is responsible for developing and managing specific procedures
 4                                                              45SWI10-202 8 OCTOBER 2013


     designed to contact their assigned personnel (i.e., active duty, Mission Partners, civilians and
     reserve personnel).
     3.4. Mission Partner/tenant organization notifications. 45 SW staff, groups and units are
     paired up with mission partner/tenant organizations according to their missions/functions
     during the initial recall process.
4. Responsibilities.
     4.1. The 45 SW/CC or designated representative is the declaring authority for a 45 SW
     pyramid recall.
     4.1.1. The 45 SW/CC or designated representative will direct Total Force Accountability
     (TFA), as required, through the CP.
        4.1.2. The 45 SW/CC will ensure group commanders and directors fully addressed the
        need to account for their assigned personnel as soon as possible.
     4.2. Patrick Command Post (CP).
        4.2.1. Perform overall AtHoc user management of the wing pyramid recall and
        notification communication system.
        4.2.2. When directed by the 45 SW/CC or designated representative, execute the 45 SW
        pyramid recall, notifications and accountability procedures, in accordance with
        Attachment 2.
        4.2.3. Report notification problems encountered during pyramid recall or accountability
        procedures to appropriate commanders for resolution, as required.
        4.2.4. Coordinate recalls, notifications and accountability updates with the PCC in order
        to provide 45 SW senior leaders with timely and accurate information, as required.
        4.2.5. When directed by the 45 SW/CC or designated representative, recall the CAT
        and/or Emergency Operations Center (EOC).
     4.2.6. Ensure CP controllers utilize AtHoc to provide personnel installation-wide
     information such as Mission Oriented Protective Posture (MOPP) levels, orders, alarm
     conditions, FPCON/INFOCON changes, recalls, natural disaster warnings and other locally
     determined information at the commander’s discretion. The CP will be the lead AtHoc
     operational administrator/manager. The activation node will be located in the CP EA cell.
     4.3. Personnel Control Center (PCC).
        4.3.1. PCC is a 45th Force Support Squadron (FSS) function used for Total Force
        Accountability. Collect and compile accountability data from UCCs and AFPAAS
        (https://afpaas.af.mil) for TFA. Provide accountability data to the CAT Director (if
        CAT is activated) and/or the 45 SW/CC within established timelines, if directed.
            4.3.1.1. Collect and compile accountability data, from UCCs, for locally initiated
            scenarios. Provide accountability data to the CAT Director (if CAT is activated)
            and/or the 45 SW/CC within established timelines if directed.
45SWI10-202 8 OCTOBER 2013                                                                   5


        4.3.1.2. Identify individuals assigned within the affected area who are not necessarily
        on a major AF installation (without a servicing FSS) and/or who are serviced by an
        FSS located outside the area, in the event AFPAAS is not available.
        4.3.1.3. Consolidate rosters of those individuals on leave, on a pass (if known), or
        TDY in the impacted area assigned to their FSS and provide this data to the CAT
        Director (if activated)/the 45 SW/CC within established timelines, in order to provide
        timely updates to the 45 SW leadership.
        4.3.1.4. Consolidate any published evacuation orders for DAF and NAF civilian
        dependents and forward to the CAT Director (if activated) and the 45 SW/CC. There
        is no requirement to forward copies of evacuation orders of military dependents.
  4.4. Group, Squadron        Commanders’,       Agency/Unit     Chiefs’,    and    Directors’
  Responsibilities.
     4.4.1. Ensure their unit members have provided their point of contact information in their
     unit’s pyramid recall roster. The Air Force’s ability to track its members will succeed or
     fail based on their efforts.
     4.4.1.1. Ensure all of their personnel assigned to them provide all the necessary current
     and accurate information in the AtHoc Client’s Access Self-Service option (aka “The
     Purple Globe”      or
     https://alerts.patrick.af.mil/SelfService/Entry.aspx?pid=2010110). All members can
     update their information via “The Purple Globe” located in the lower right hand corner of
     their computer’s taskbar. A weekly desktop pop-up will be sent as a reminder to update
     this information accordingly. If the individual does not have AtHoc’s Active Client
     loaded on their computer, the individual should contact their unit Information Assurance
     Officer (IAO). If the individual does not have access to a computer, contact their unit
     AtHoc/UCC representative.
        4.4.1.2. Account for assigned military, military family members, civilian
        (appropriated and non-appropriated fund) personnel, DoD civilians and certain family
        members of civilian personnel within 48 hours of a natural disaster or national
        emergency.
        4.4.1.3. Verify all assigned unit members, military, DAF, and NAF civilians have
        evacuation plans in place that are reasonable, actionable and current.
        4.4.1.4. Review data for accountability received from their respective reporting
        center. Accountability information will be passed to the 45 SW/CC or designated
        representative based on the situation (see Attachment 2).
        4.4.1.5. Brief all military members annually on the importance of having their
        dependents report their status to their sponsor in the event they evacuate without the
        military member. Commanders are encouraged to emphasize the military’s concern
        for the safety of dependents and the vital need for positive contact to allow for
        maximum assistance.
        4.4.1.6. Brief all civilian personnel on the need to report their status (and in some
        cases the status of their family members) in the event of a disaster or crisis.
        Emphasize that civilians on leave or on a pass when a disaster happens can assist
6                                                          45SWI10-202 8 OCTOBER 2013


       greatly in achieving 100% accountability by calling back to their supervisor or
       commander/director to confirm they are safe.
       4.4.1.7. Encourage all civilian personnel whose dependents are receiving evacuation
       entitlements to report the status of those family members to their supervisor or
       commander/director and to continue reporting their status until entitlements cease.
       4.4.1.8. Once an employee has arrived at a safe evacuation location, they should
       immediately report their status and location back to their UCC. If an employee is
       unable to contact their UCC, they should immediately contact the HQ AFPC/PRC at
       1-800-435-9941 to report their location. HQ AFPC/PRC is manned 24/7 to respond
       to any emergency.
       4.4.1.9. Ensure all personnel are aware they should immediately contact their
       supervisor to report their status if they are either on leave, on scheduled off-duty time
       (regardless of location) or TDY during a crisis.
    4.4.2. Maintain updated unit pyramid recall rosters.
       4.4.2.1. Ensure all assigned unit personnel provide a minimum of rank, name, office
       symbol, duty phone number, address (for Comm-Out Procedures) home phone
       number and cell phone number (if available).
       4.4.2.2. A new effective date will be placed on the unit pyramid recall roster by the
       POC monthly to verify it has been reviewed and, if required, updated.
       4.4.2.3. Group pyramid recall rosters will include their assigned mission
       partner/tenant organizations. Ensure assigned mission partners have a current copy of
       the group’s pyramid recall roster.
       4.4.2.4. Ensure the HQ AFPC/PRC toll-free number (1-800-435-9941, 1-210-565-
       2020, DSN 665-2020) and the AFPAAS website (https://afpaas.af.mil/) are printed
       on all unit pyramid recall rosters.
           4.4.2.4.1. Must designate, in writing, at least two unit members as AFPAAS
           trusted agents with Commanding Officer Representative (COR) to account for all
           Airmen and family members assigned or subordinate to the PAS Code in their
           hierarchy, upon request from the PCC.
       4.4.2.5. All units will have Attachment 4 of this wing instruction on the back of their
       unit pyramid recall roster(s). NOTE: AFPAAS is not available for local
       accountability or exercises.
       4.4.2.6. Ensure an actionable Communications-Out pyramid recall roster is
       maintained. In the event local means of communications are inoperative or
       overloaded, Communications-Out recall rosters will be essential.
    4.4.3. The 45 SCS will facilitate the presence of the AtHoc Client on all installation
    computers to ensure the rapid notification process is operational 24/7.
    4.4.4. The 45 OSS/CC is responsible for overall training and management of all assigned
    CAT members, equipment and systems assigned to the CAT.
45SWI10-202 8 OCTOBER 2013                                                                     7


     4.4.5. The 45 SW/CP is responsible for facilitating Mission Partner/tenant organization
     pairings with appropriate wing agencies, groups and/or units during the initial bed down
     process whenever a host-tenant support agreement is initiated.
         4.4.5.1. When a Mission Partner/tenant organization status has changed, notify the
         host unit and provide an updated Mission Partner/tenants’ list. A new listing will be
         provided annually (October) or when requested by other wing agencies.
     4.4.6. The 45 CPTS/FM is responsible for advising wing leadership, CAT, PCC and unit
     commanders on issues related to evacuation orders.
         4.4.6.1. Provide estimated costs, appropriate evacuation areas, authorized distances,
         mileage rates and per diem entitlements for DEERS-enrolled dependents, DoD
         civilians and NAF employees.
         4.4.6.2. Maintain templates of the commander’s letter directing evacuation as well as
         the various evacuation order formats for the various groups of evacuees (i.e., all
         services’ active duty members and their DEERS-enrolled dependents, DoD civilians,
         NAF employees, etc.).
     4.4.7. The 45 SW/DS or designee initiates recall of wing command section and wing
     staff agencies.
     4.4.8. The 45 CES/CEX will be responsible for initial UCC training. This training will
     include AtHoc user proficiency training.
  4.5. Unit Control Centers’ (UCCs) responsibilities include (but are not limited to):
     4.5.1. Planning for quick transfer of accountability rosters and evacuation spreadsheets
     to a different location in the event the UCC is forced to evacuate or loses connectivity
     with the rest of the base.
     4.5.2. Collect and compile accountability data from all assigned flights/offices, to
     include satellite offices that are geographically separated. Provide accountability data to
     the PCC. If the PCC is not activated, the UCCs will pass accountability data to their unit
     commander (see Attachment 2).
     4.5.3. Consolidate any published evacuation orders for DAF and NAF civilian
     dependents only and forward to PCC, or as directed by the CAT (when activated),
     commanders or CP, if required.
     4.5.4. Report at the 1.5-hour mark, then at the top of every hour, until 100%
     accountability of unit personnel is attained. Continue to track and report evacuation
     information until all unit personnel and their families return to their normal place of duty
     or have been reassigned to a new place of duty.
     4.5.5. If the UCC is deactivated prior to the return of all personnel and their families,
     ensure all current information is properly transferred over to the person/office responsible
     for tracking all evacuees as designated by their unit commander or designee.
     4.5.6. Ensure members are familiar and proficient in unit procedures for AtHoc, DCO
     Chat, AFPAAS and/or DCO XMPP desktop notifications and information dissemination.
8                                                              45SWI10-202 8 OCTOBER 2013


       4.5.7. While utilizing the DCO desktop client chat, the following roles and
       responsibilities will be adhered to while using the following rooms:
       4.5.8. All users will use Rank and Last Name upon signing into DCO. The DCO room
       will be monitored and managed by the CAT Administrator. It will be used in addition to
       or in conjunction with e-mail and phone notifications.
       4.5.9. During an AFPAAS event, will have CORs with AFPAAS access trained and in
       place (as conditions permit) for members to report their evacuation location in the event
       the member and/or their families are required to relocate.
    4.6. The 45 FSS/CC responsibilities include (but are not limited to):
       4.6.1. In addition to meeting all the requirements of the other unit commanders, ensure
       all NAF personnel maintain comprehensive and actionable evacuation plans in
       anticipation of either natural disasters or national crises.
       4.6.2. Ensure mechanisms exist for NAF employees to record their evacuation location
       and an emergency point of contact in the event the member is required to relocate.
       4.6.3. Provide the CAT other products, if additional records or data is needed to account
       for NAF civilians within the affected area.
       4.6.4. If requested, assist the CAT with the accounting of NAF civilians who are
       assigned within the affected area until 100% accountability is achieved. Continue to
       track, assist, and report until all personnel and their dependents have returned to their
       normal place of duty or have been reassigned to a new place of duty.
       4.6.5. Ensure NAF civilian employees are aware of their responsibilities to contact their
       leadership and keep them informed of their locations.
       4.6.6. Encourage civilian personnel to provide a leave address to enable commanders to
       determine who may have been in an affected area.
    4.7. Individual (Active Duty, Selective Reserve, DAF and NAF Civilians) responsibilities
    include (but are not limited to) the following:
       4.7.1. Maintain realistic and actionable evacuation plans in anticipation of national crises
       or natural disasters.
       4.7.2. If the military member has DEERS-enrolled dependents living in the area of
       concern (i.e., dependent children living with a former spouse), they will continue to
       account for those members.
       4.7.3. Ensure personal information is current on unit pyramid recall roster(s). Keep
       latest recall roster(s) readily available at all times.
           4.7.3.1. Ensure personal information is current and accurate in the AtHoc Client (aka
           “Purple Globe”       or
           https://alerts.patrick.af.mil/SelfService/Entry.aspx?pid=2010110). A weekly
           desktop pop-up will be sent as a reminder to update this information accordingly.
           The requirement for civilian personnel to enter their contact information after duty
           hours will be identified by the commander to which the member is assigned. This
           instruction will not be used to dictate every civilian’s mandate for contact other than a
45SWI10-202 8 OCTOBER 2013                                                                       9


        course of action to help notify or recall all members employed by this federal
        installation. The mandate to enter this information lies on the chain of command and
        supervision of that member.
     4.7.4. Military members will annually update their Virtual Record of Emergency Data
     (vRED) along with their home and mailing address information under Record Review
     application in vMPF. DAF civilians will update MyBiz and/or ensure their supervisor’s
     employee work folder contains current contact information (as applicable). NAF
     civilians will ensure their supervisor’s record of employee contains current emergency
     point of contact information.
     4.7.5. Ensure personnel contact their leadership and keep them informed of their (and
     their dependents) location(s).
     4.7.6. Once a member/employee (and their dependents) has arrived at a safe evacuation
     location, their first act should be to report their (and their dependents) status and location
     in AFPAAS. If unable to access AFPAAS, member should try calling their UCC, then
     the PCC, and then finally AFPC (1-800-435-9941), if no one else is available to help
     them report their accountability status.
     4.7.7. If a member is on leave, pass (military), scheduled off-duty time (civilians), or
     TDY into an affected area, the member will take immediate action to report their status to
     their home unit, their TDY unit and/or HQ AFPC/PRC. AFRC personnel will report their
     status to their home unit, their TDY unit or their NAF.
     4.7.8. Civilians who are on leave, on scheduled off-duty time, or TDY during a crisis,
     should immediately report their status back to their supervisor or home unit, regardless of
     their location. This will allow the home unit to know the member is not in the affected
     area or is in the affected area but is safe and accounted for.
        4.7.8.1. All civilian personnel whose family members are receiving evacuation
        entitlements should report the status of those family members to their supervisor or
        commander/director and encourage them to continue reporting their status until
        entitlements cease.
     4.7.9. In the event a member is stranded in a crisis area with no communications
     available, members are encouraged to report their status to any responding agency (Red
     Cross, local police, Federal Emergency Management Agency, etc.) and ask that agency to
     report the status of the member to the Air Force through any means available.
     4.7.10. Maintain contact with and know the whereabouts of DEERS-enrolled dependents
     physically residing in the area of concern and then provide accountability information on
     those same dependents. If dependents of civilian employees (DAF or NAF) are receiving
     evacuation entitlements, employees should provide a list of those family members to their
     commander/director or UCC for tracking purposes.
     4.7.11. Members on or going on a remote assignment will notify the nearest Airman &
     Family Readiness Flight of where the family members will be residing so they can be
     contacted for follow up in case of an emergency or evacuation.
 10                                                           45SWI10-202 8 OCTOBER 2013


5. Notification Procedures. The following 45 SW notification procedures are used to
disseminate information:
   5.1. Use of preformatted “Format Message” templates when relaying information is
   mandatory (Attachment 4). Personnel must read the 45 SW/CC-approved formatted message
   verbatim to ensure that the correct information is relayed.
   5.2. Units will ensure procedures are in place to continue contacting personnel who were
   missed during the initial notification process until positive contact is made and the
   notification is relayed. Leaving a message on someone’s answering machine, voicemail, text
   message or pager is not considered notification.
   5.3. Runners, loudspeaker-equipped vehicles and the giant voice speaker system may be
   used to notify personnel when communications are impaired. Any problem areas identified
   during actual, or exercise notification, will be forwarded to 45 SW senior leadership.
   5.4. The 45 SW units will be notified in accordance with Attachment 2.
   5.5. Notifications to mission partners/tenant organizations will be accomplished early in
   each wing agency, group or unit’s notification process.
   5.6. Agencies with contractor personnel working within their units are responsible for
   notifying those personnel, as applicable.
   5.7. Ensure an actionable Communications-Out recall roster is maintained in the event local
   communications become inoperative or overloaded.
         5.7.1. The 45 SFS may be required to notify personnel residing in base housing and Fam
         Camp via PA/speaker-equipped vehicles.
   5.8. Ensure all evacuation orders are forwarded to the PCC, as soon as possible, to identify
   both military and civilian dependents receiving evacuation entitlements. Ensure contact is
   made to appropriate supervisor / CC.
         5.8.1. Ensure UCCs are trained and in place (as conditions permit), for members to
         report their evacuation location in the event the member and/or their families are
         required to relocate. UCCs must have administrator access to AFPAAS, as appropriate.
         5.8.2. Ensure UCC members are familiar and proficient in unit procedures for AtHoc and
         Adobe Connect Defense Connect Online (DCO) Chat.
      5.9. Types of Notifications.
         5.9.1. Wing Pyramid Recall (Format 1). Used to direct military personnel to report for
         duty during real-world or exercise situations. If not directed, the Airman Battle Uniform
         (ABU) will be the uniform to report in. Mission Essential Federal Employees (MEFE)
         will be recalled at the discretion of the unit commander based on the situation. During
         exercises, personnel in non-duty status (leave, temporary duty and non-duty Individual
         Mobilization Augmentees) are not normally contacted. UCCs will begin strength
         reporting with Attachment 5 of this Instruction, via AFPAAS if applicable, and using
         AtHoc to help gather data, as directed, no later than Recall Reference Time +1.5 hours.
         Shift workers will be recalled at the discretion of the unit commander. If a CAT or
         Commander’s Senior Staff recall is initiated during a FORMAT 1, CAT Support Staff
         will convene before the formation time.
45SWI10-202 8 OCTOBER 2013                                                                   11


      5.9.2. Crisis Action Team/Commander’s Senior Staff Recall (Format 2). Used to recall
      the wing commander, vice commander, group commanders, 45 SW/DS, CAT Director
      and CAT Support Staff. The Commander’s Senior Staff Recall Roster is used to recall
      the wing commander, vice commander, group commanders, 45 SW/DS, 45 SW/CCC and
      other agencies as deemed appropriate by CC or designee and CAT Director. Recalls are
      at the discretion of the 45 SW/CC (or designated alternate). Members of the
      Commander's Senior Staff may initially report in uniform or civilian attire, whichever is
      quicker. All others will report in the ABU.
      5.9.3. Six-Ring Telephone Standby (Format 3). Personnel placed on six-ring alert will
      remain in the immediate vicinity of their telephone (i.e., within hearing distance), must
      answer their telephone within six rings and wait for further instructions. Unless
      otherwise directed, these personnel will be available for immediate recall and will report
      for duty as directed.
      5.9.4. Practice/Test (Format 4). Used to test the notification alerting system. Units will
      contact present-for-duty personnel via landline or runner per their notification rosters.
      Strength reporting is not required.
      5.9.5. General Notification (Format 5). Used to transmit need-to-know information to
      the base populace to include accountability. In some situations if accountability is
      needed, it will utilize the recall roster and will require military strength reporting.
      Military only and MEFE will require strength reporting unless otherwise specified for
      Total Force Accountability (TFA). TFA includes Air Force active duty, Selected Reserve
      personnel, DAF and NAF civilians, Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System
      (DEERS) enrolled family members and family members of DAF/NAF employees.
      5.9.6. AtHoc Notification Messages. Used to transmit mass notification alerts. Units
      will contact present-for-duty personnel via landline or runner per their notification
      rosters. Strength reporting is not required.
6. Recall Procedures.
   6.1. Recall procedures are normally used to recall military personnel and MEFE to their duty
   stations. The nature of the situation or Higher Headquarters’ direction determines the
   personnel who will be recalled and the type of recall. It is paramount that individuals
   respond in an expeditious and safe manner.
   6.2. When recalled, all military members will report to their assigned/appointed duty
   sections as directed. The appropriate uniform to report for a wing recall is the ABU. Do
   NOT delay reporting for personal grooming, meals, etc. (with the exception of child care).
   6.3. Covert Recall. Recall personnel as quickly as possible without public notice and
   minimize actions which might alarm the general public. Notifications by telephone are
   standard; however, if communications are inoperable or personnel do not have a telephone,
   person-to-person contact is mandatory. Remember OPSEC!
   6.4. Overt Recall. Recall personnel using the fastest means available. Telephone and public
   media (radio and television) are authorized for use.
 12                                                           45SWI10-202 8 OCTOBER 2013


   6.5. Units will ensure procedures are developed to contact personnel missed during the
   initial recall and continue trying to reach those individuals until contact is made. Reaching
   an individual’s answering machine or pager is not considered notification.
   6.6. Problem areas identified during tests, exercises or actual recall drills will be forwarded
   to respective group commanders, 45 SW/CCE or the agency conducting the recall, as
   appropriate, accompanied by a recommended solution.
7. Reporting Centers.
   7.1. The 45 SW/PCC, duty phone 494-7832 (primary), 494-7577 (secondary), 494-5121
   (tertiary) or 494-5604 (tertiary), is the installation focal point for TFA and, if mandated by
   the 45 SW/CC, the installation accountability subject matter expert on accountability.
   7.2. If there is a need to stand up a virtual CAT, members are directed to:
      7.2.1. Log into DCO using their CAC, then.
      7.2.2. Go to PAFB CAT under My Meetings.
      7.2.3. or - search PAFB in Meeting/Recording Search.
      7.2.4. or - https://connect.dco.dod.mil/pafbcat.
8. Accountability Procedures.
   8.1. Unless otherwise directed, Air Force Personnel Accountability and Assessment System
   (AFPAAS), is the Air Force’s web-based system designed to gain TFA of Air Force
   personnel and their families directly affected by natural and man-made disasters.
      8.1.1. AFPAAS is the primary means to report and attain accountability in the event of a
      disaster or unless otherwise directed by AF leadership.
      8.1.2. Applies to the Total Force (i.e., active duty, reservists on active duty, DoD and
      NAF civilian employees, family members of active duty and selected reservists -
      reflected in DEERS - and family members of DoD and NAF civilians) receiving benefits
      associated with being evacuated to an authorized safe haven.
      8.1.3. AFPAAS utilizes data from the Defense Military Data Center’s (DMDC)
      Personnel Accountability Reporting System (PARS) to identify members assigned or
      living in the affected area. AFPAAS provides valuable information to the Air Force chain
      of command, enabling commanders at all levels to make strategic decisions, which
      facilitate a return to normal operations following a national emergency or disaster.
   8.2. Units are responsible for military accountability during communication outage
   situations.
   8.3. Recalls and notifications will be tracked by the method which they were initiated.
   8.4. Unless otherwise directed, the Reference time is the time at which accountability was
   initiated.
   8.5. Ensure all evacuation orders are forwarded to the PCC, as soon as possible, to identify
   both military and civilian dependents receiving evacuation entitlements. Ensure contact is
   made to appropriate supervisor or CC.
45SWI10-202 8 OCTOBER 2013                                                                      13


9. Unit and Wing Military Strength Reports.
   9.1. In some situations, if accountability is required the military strength report in
   Attachments 4 and 5 will be utilized. Military only and MEFE will require strength reporting
   unless otherwise directed.
   9.2. Units will report strength figures compiled and gathered from AtHoc and record them in
   the format in Attachment 5, Unit Military Strength Report.
9.3. If AtHoc is unavailable, the 45 SW units will gather the data from sign-in rosters or
other means. The bottom line, is to complete Attachment 5 for military members and forward
the completed attachment to their respective reporting centers. The reporting centers will
complete a consolidated Attachment 5 and forward the group/wing staff strength report to their
group commanders and the wing staff agency director. Units will report military strength
numbers at Recall Reference Time +1.5 hours, 2 hours, 3 hours, 4 hours, and 5 hours.
       9.3.1. Recall and/or Accountability Reference Time (RT), is the time the Format
       message was initiated and will be designated in the Format message. Upon notification
       of strength reporting, the reporting centers listed in paragraph 7 are responsible for
       collecting, consolidating and reporting strength figures for all assigned military personnel
       and providing this information to the CAT, EOC, ESFs, EOC group reps, commanders or
       PCC as directed by the 45 SW/CC.
   9.4. The following helps codify how to utilize Attachment 5, the Unit Military Strength
   Report:
       9.4.1. Column A: Total Military Assigned - Total number of military personnel assigned
       to a unit and already reported to the base. The unit is required to provide this number
       using PC-III minus their exceptions.
       9.4.2. Column B: Total Military Not Present For Duty (NPFD) - Total number of
       military absent on temporary duty, AEF deployments and AEF stand down time, leave or
       in the hospital. The unit is required to provide this number.
       9.4.3. Column C: Total Military Available - Total number of military personnel
       available (Column A minus Column B). The unit will calculate this figure.
       9.4.4. Column D: Total Military Present For Duty (PFD) - Total number of military
       personnel physically PFD, on shift work or mission crew rest. The unit is required to
       provide this number.
       9.4.5. Column E: Total Military Available for Base Manpower Pool (BMP) - Total
       number of military personnel available for the BMP. The unit will report the number of
       personnel who are not needed to fulfill the unit's tasking based on the scenario or
       situation and will make those personnel available to the BMP. This is extremely
       important during situations such as hurricanes.
       9.4.6. Column F: Total Reserve/Guard on Orders - Total number of Reserve/Guard
       currently on orders and assigned to 45 SW units. The unit is required to provide this
       number.
       9.4.7. Column G: Total Reserve/Guard NPFD - Total number of Reserve/Guard absent
       on temporary duty, leave or in the hospital. The unit is required to provide this number.
14                                                             45SWI10-202 8 OCTOBER 2013


        9.4.8. Column H: Total Reserve/Guard Available - Total number of Reserve/Guard
        available (Column F minus G). The unit will calculate this figure.
        9.4.9. Column I: Total Reserve/Guard PFD - Total number of Reserve/Guard physically
        PFD, on shift work or mission crew rest. The unit is required to provide this number.
  9.5. Strength reports will reflect strength figures "as of” Reference Time +1.5, 2, 3, and 4
  hours. Group and wing staff reports will be submitted to the respective group commander or
  wing staff agency director NLT 15 minutes after the "as of" times. Late reports by UCCs
  will be reported to the Commander’s Senior Staff as "No Report." Once a unit's strength
  figures stabilize (i.e., there are no changes to report), submit a “No change since last report.”
  However if AFPAAS is used, strength reports will be collected from that site.
     9.6. The respective PCC will complete Attachment 6, Wing Military Strength Report, as
     described below from the UCCs using the unit military strength reports and forward the
     completed format to NAF OPR or runner NLT 30 minutes after the "as of" times; also
     forward to the CP via e-mail or fax (494-2844). However, if AFPAAS is used, strength
     reports will be collected from that site. The CAT administrative staff will accept and forward
     group or wing staff “100%” reports at any time during the strength reporting process. The
     following helps codify how to utilize Attachment 6, the Wing Military Strength Report:
        9.6.1. Column A: Total Military Assigned - Total number of military personnel assigned
        to a unit and already reported to the base. The unit is required to provide this number
        using PC-III minus their exceptions.
        9.6.2. Column B: Total Military NPFD - Total number of military absent on temporary
        duty, AEF deployments and AEF stand-down time, leave or in the hospital. The unit is
        required to provide this number.
        9.6.3. Column C: Total Military Available - Total number of military personnel
        available (Column A minus Column B). The unit will calculate this figure.
        9.6.4. Column D: Total Military PFD - Total number of military personnel physically
        PFD, on shift work or mission crew rest. The unit is required to provide this number.
        9.6.5. Column E: Percentage of available personnel PFD (Column D divided by Column
        C). The PCC calculates this number.
        9.6.6. Column F: Total Military Available for BMP - Total number of personnel
        available to support the BMP. The unit provides this number.
        9.6.7. Column G: Total Reserve/Guard on Orders – Total number of Reserve/Guard
        currently on orders and assigned to 45 SW units. The unit is required to provide this
        number.
        9.6.8. Column H: Total Reserve/Guard NPFD – Total number of Reserve/Guard absent
        on temporary duty, leave or in the hospital. The unit is required to provide this number.
        9.6.9. Column I: Total Reserve/Guard Available – Total number of Reserve/Guard
        available (Column G minus H). The unit will calculate this figure.
        9.6.10. Column J: Total Reserve/Guard PFD - Total number of Reserve/Guard
        physically PFD, on shift work or mission crew rest. The unit is required to provide this
        number.
45SWI10-202 8 OCTOBER 2013                                                                      15


10. Miscellaneous.
   10.1. The 45 SW-assigned personnel will ensure they have adequate Family Care Plans. The
   45 SW/CC determines if child care facilities will open to support contingencies.
   10.2. The CP will distribute notifications using AtHoc to all 45 SW group commanders and
   the Director of Staff (DS) or their designated alternates, and anyone else the 45 SW/CC
   deems appropriate. The 45 SW/CC/CV, group commanders and the Director of Staff (DS)
   will keep the CP informed of their physical location throughout the duty day to ensure timely
   contact.
   10.3. The PCC will monitor the strength reporting to ensure timely and efficient information
   is passed on to the 45 SW/CC. However, if AFPAAS is used, strength reports will be
   collected from that site.
   10.4. Upon receipt of a deployment tasking, the CP will ensure the Installation Deployment
   Officer (IDO) and the 45 SW/CC is notified. If the IDO is in receipt of the deployment
   tasking, they will notify the 45 SW/CC and the CP. While the 45 SW/CC may direct a recall
   to support deployment activities, at a minimum, the IDO will ensure that all required
   deployment work centers are notified.
11. Operational Security and Information Protection.
   11.1. Recall Rosters. The term “recall rosters” and/or “rosters” pertains to all alert
   notification types of rosters. Units will develop and maintain recall rosters that include both
   communications-in and communications-out formats and instructions. The recall roster must
   contain the following statement: “The information herein is For Official Use Only
   (FOUO) which must be protected under the Freedom of Information Act of 1966 and
   Privacy Act of 1974, as amended. Unauthorized disclosure or misuse of this
   PERSONAL            INFORMATION           may     result   in    criminal       and/or     civil
   penalties. Information is being collected to allow for alert notifications procedures and
   is for official intra-governmental use only.”
      11.1.1. Unlisted phone numbers must be identified with an asterisk (*). Release of
      unlisted numbers is NOT authorized without permission of the individual.
      11.1.2. Mark rosters FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY, in the header or top of document.
      Show an “as of” date, and identify the unit’s recall roster POC. POCs will include the CP
      for distribution of revised rosters.
      11.1.3. This information shall be added to all unit recall rosters. Once a member (or
      dependents if evacuating separately) has arrived at a safe evacuation location, their first
      act should be to report their status and location back to their unit. If unable to contact
      their unit, immediately contact HQ AFPC/PRC at 1-800-435-9941 to report your
      whereabouts.
16                                                      45SWI10-202 8 OCTOBER 2013



 11.2. Destroy obsolete rosters in such a manner as to prevent the unauthorized release of
 personal information.




                                        NINA M. ARMAGNO, Brigadier General, USAF
                                        Commander
45SWI10-202 8 OCTOBER 2013                                                                17


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-3803, Personnel Accountability in Conjunction with Natural Disasters or National
Emergencies, 21 December 2010
AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management Program Planning and Operations, 24 January
2007
AFI 33-138, Enterprise Network Operations Notification and Tracking, 28 November 2005
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPAAS—Air Force Personnel Accountability and Assessment System
AFPC/PRC—Air Force Personnel Center/Personnel Readiness Center
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ABU—Airman Battle Uniform
APF—Appropriated Fund
CCAFS—Cape Canaveral Air Force Station
CPS—Civilian Personnel Section
CP—Command Post
CAT—Crisis Action Team
DCO—Defense Connect Online
DEERS—Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System
DAF—Department of the Air Force
DoD—Department of Defense
EA—Emergency Action
EOC—Emergency Operations Center
EXMPP—Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol
FPCON—Force Protection Condition
FSS—Force Support Squadron
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
 18                                                 45SWI10-202 8 OCTOBER 2013


HURCON—Hurricane Condition
INFOCON—Information Condition
INWS—Installation Notification and Warning System
MEFE—Mission Essential Federal Employees
MOPP—Mission Oriented Protective Posture
NAF—Non-Appropriated Funds
PAFB—Patrick AFB
PCC—Personnel Control Center
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TFA—Total Force Accountability
TDY—Temporary Duty
UCC—Unit Control Center
v RED—Virtual Record of Emergency Data
45SWI10-202 8 OCTOBER 2013                             19


                                   Attachment 2
                  INCIDENT DRIVEN COMMUNICATION FLOW

Figure A2.1. Incident Driven Communication Flow




Figure A2.2. Non-Incident Driven Communication Flow
     20                                                    45SWI10-202 8 OCTOBER 2013


                                          Attachment 3
                               GLOSSARY OF MISSION PARTNERS

    Table A3.1. Mission Partners
45 OG Mission Partners                  OPR      45 LCG Mission Partners                  OPR
114th Range Operations Squadron        1 ROPS    23 SOPS Site C                          5 SLS
Civil Air Patrol – US Liaison Office   45 OSS    23 SOPS EVCF                           45 LCSS
Computer Sciences Raytheon 1100        45 OSS    Aerospace                               5 SLS
CSR Maintenance Control Center         45 OSS    Boeing GPS                             45 LCSS
CSR Safety                             45 OSS    Boeing TSTS Ops                        45 LCSS
Customs and Border Protection          45 OSS    Lockheed Martin Director of Florida    45 LCSS
                                                 Government Relations
Department of State/ Bureau of         45 OSS    Seventh District/Coast Guard Station    5 SLS
International Narcotics and Law                  Port Canaveral
Enforcement/Office Of Aviation
(DOS/INL/OA)
Federal Aviation                       45 OSS    Military Sealift Command Atlantic       5 SLS
Administration/Associate                         (MSCLANT)
Administrator for Commercial Space
Transportation (FAA/AST)                         Lockheed Martin DSCS/GPS               45 LCSS
Naval Ordnance Test Unit (NOTU)        1 ROPS    USCG Ordnance Support Unit             45 LCSS
Joint STARS/Test Force (OL-AA          45 OSS    MSDDC 832nd Transportation              5 SLS
751 ELSG JTF/DD)                                 Battalion, Cape Canaveral Det
Space & Missile Center/Operating       45 RMS    National Reconnaissance Office          5 SLS
Location U (SMC OL-U)                            /Office of Space Launch-Detachment
                                                 1 (NRO/OSL-Det 1)
Spacelift Range System Contract        45 RMS    Space X                                45 LCSS
(SLRSC)
NASA/AF Management Office               Det 3    United Launch Alliance- ULA             5 SLS
(NAMO)
National Geospatial-Intelligence       45 SCS    Propellants South                       5 SLS
Agency/Geodetic Surveys
Division(NGA)
U.S. Post Office                       45 SCS    LOSC SCLS                               LCSS
Defense Automated Printing Service     45 SCS    Space Florida                          45 LCSS
(DAPS)
Detachment 3, 17th Test Squadron       45 RMS    Elvis II                               45 LCSS
Lockheed Martin NOTU Branch            1 ROPS    NASA LSP                               45 LCSS
    45SWI10-202 8 OCTOBER 2013                                                  21


45 MSG Mission Partners              OPR      45 MDG Mission Partners            OPR
Air Force Petroleum                           Defense Security Service (DSS)    MCC
Office/Aerospace Fuels Laboratory   45 LRS
(AFPET/PTPLH)
CMT Pest Control                    45 CES    Red Cross                         MCC
Defense Contracting Auditing                  IHA Medical & Environmental       MCC
Agency (DCAA)                       45 CONS

Del-Jen (Fuels)                     45 LRS    IHA Health Physics                 MCC
FEMS Emergency Management           45 CES    45 SW Mission Partners              OPR
FEMS Fire                           45 CES    Pad Safety                       45 SW/SE
Defense Logistics                             Bank of America                   45 CPTS
Agency/Disposition Services         45 LRS
(DLA/Disposition Services)
Air Force Labor Advisors Office               Kennedy Credit Union (Cape)      45 CPTS
(SAF/AQCR)                          45 CONS

National Imagery & Mapping                    Space Coast Credit Union         45 CPTS
Agency (NIMA)                       45 CES
IOMS                                45 CES
TESS                                45 CES
333rd Recruiting Squadron (333
                                    45 FSS
RCS)
Army Air Force Exchange Service
(AAFES)                             45 FSS
Army Corps of Engineers/Mobile
District (COE)                      45 CES
Defense Commissary Agency
                                    45 FSS
(DeCA)
Army Veterinary Clinic              45 MDG
AFOSI                                45 SFS
ESC (SpecPro)                        45 CES
Pride Industries                     45 CES
Brevard Achievement Center           45 CES
22                            45SWI10-202 8 OCTOBER 2013




     THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
45SWI10-202 8 OCTOBER 2013                                                                        23


                                         Attachment 4
                                    FORMAT MESSAGES

Figure A4.1. FORMAT Messages

*FORMAT 1: WING PYRAMID RECALL

“This is the (name and organization) with a Format 1 notification. Mission Partner recalls [ are
or are not ] in effect. Mission Essential Federal Employees [will or will not] report for duty.
Reference Time is:            local hours. Crisis Action Team (CAT) or Commander’s Senior
Staff [ will or will not ] form at the [ Primary or Alternate ] location. UCCs [will or will not]
be activated. Formation time is: _____________ local hours."

Instructions: Complete your pyramid recall alert notifications and report for duty
immediately.
(NOTE: Unit commanders and supervisors must ensure proper response. Unit
commanders and supervisors may exercise discretion when shift workers are involved or
when other circumstances preclude contacting or having personnel report for duty.)

* FORMAT 2: CRISIS ACTION TEAM (CAT) / COMMANDER’S SENIOR STAFF
RECALL

“This is the (name and organization) with a Format 2 notification. Mission Partner recalls [ are
or are not ] in effect. CAT or Commanders Senior Staff will form at the     [ Primary or
Alternate ] location. CAT or Commander’s Senior Staff formation time is: _____________
local hours. Reference Time is:              local hours.”
Instructions: CAT or Commanders Senior Staff members report to the assembly area
immediately.

*FORMAT 3: SIX-RING TELEPHONE STANDBY

“This is the (name and organization) with a Format 3 notification. Mission Partner recalls [ are
or are not ] in effect. Reference Time is ______________ local hours.”

Instructions: Complete your pyramid notifications and stand by on six-ring alert until
further notice. You must answer your telephone within six rings.
 24                                                             45SWI10-202 8 OCTOBER 2013



*FORMAT 4: PRACTICE /TEST NOTIFICATION

"This is the (name and organization) with a Format 4 notification. Mission Partner practice/test
notifications [ are or are not ] in effect. Reference Time is __________ local hours.”

Instruction: Complete your pyramid notifications
NOTE: A reference time may or may not be established.

*FORMAT 5: GENERAL NOTIFICATION

"This is the (name and organization) with a Format 5 notification of ______________. Mission
Partner notifications [ are or are not ] in effect. UCCs [ will or will not ] be activated. Military
Accountability and Strength Reporting [ is or is not ] required or Total Force Accountability [ is
or is not ] required. Reference time is ___________ local hours.”

Instructions: For military or Total Force Accountability, all groups and 45 SW/DS must
report to the PCC when 100% accountability is attained.

(NOTE: A reference time may or may not be established.)

TERRORISM FORCE PROTECTION CONDITIONS (FPCON)

       FPCON NORMAL: Defined as a general threat that possible terrorist activity exists, but
       warrants only a routine security posture. At a minimum, access control will be conducted
       at all DoD installations and facilities. This FPCON equates to normal day-to-day
       operations.
       FPCON ALPHA: This condition is declared as a when there is an increased general
       threat of possible terrorist activity against personnel or facilities, the nature and extent of
       which are unpredictable, and circumstances do not justify full implementation of FPCON
       BRAVO measures. However, it may be necessary to implement certain measures from
       higher FPCON measures resulting from intelligence received or as a deterrent. The
       measures in this FPCON must be capable of being maintained indefinitely.
       FPCON BRAVO: This condition is applies when an increased or more predictable
       threat of terrorist activity exists. Sustaining FPCON BRAVO measures for a prolonged
       period may affect operational capability and relations with local authorities.
       FPCON CHARLIE: This condition is declared when an incident occurs or when
       intelligence is received indicating that some form of terrorist action is imminent.
       Implementation of this measure for applies when an incident occurs or intelligence is
       received indicating some form of terrorist action or targeting against personnel or
       facilities is likely. Sustaining FPCON CHARLIE measures for a prolonged period may
       affect operational capability and relations with local authorities.
45SWI10-202 8 OCTOBER 2013                                                                25


     FPCON DELTA: This condition applies in the immediate area where a terrorist attack
     has occurred, or when intelligence has been received that terrorist action against a
     specific location is likely. Normally, this FPCON is declared as a localized warning.
  PHASE I - LIGHTNING WITHIN 30-MINUTE RANGE
     Phase I Lightning Condition. Take protective action. Lightning within 5 nautical miles
     is expected to occur within the next 30 minutes.
  PHASE II - LIGHTNING IMMINENT OR OCCURRING WITHIN A 5-MILE
RADIUS
     Phase II Lightning Condition. Lightning within 5 nautical miles is imminent or
     occurring.
  HURRICANE CONDITIONS (HURCON)
     HURCON IV: 72 hours prior to forecast--arrival of 50-knot (58 mph) winds
     HURCON III: 48 hours prior to forecast--arrival of 50-knot (58 mph) winds
     HURCON II: 24 hours prior to forecast--arrival of 50-knot (58 mph) winds
     HURCON I: 12 hours prior to forecast--arrival of 50-knot (58 mph) winds
  Patrick AFB information hotline is (800) 470-PAFB or (321) 494-4636.
 26                                                 45SWI10-202 8 OCTOBER 2013


                                     Attachment 5
                       UNIT MILITARY STRENGTH REPORT

Figure A5.1. Unit Military Strength Report
45SWI10-202 8 OCTOBER 2013                            27


                                    Attachment 6
                      WING MILITARY STRENGTH REPORT

Figure A6.1. Wing Military Strength Report
