BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         45TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 23-101
45TH SPACE WING
                                                                               19 MARCH 2010

                                                                          Materiel Management

                                                            PRECIOUS METALS RECOVERY
                                                                      PROGRAM (PMRP)




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 45 LRF/CC                                                         Certified by: 45 MSG/CC
Supersedes: 45SWI23-101, 1 July 2002                                       (Col Charles J. Beck)
                                                                                         Pages: 8


This instruction establishes procedures and provides instructions for operating the Precious
Metals Recovery Program (PMRP). It is developed according to AFMAN 23-110V6. It applies
to all organizations on Patrick AFB and Cape Canaveral Air Force Station (CCAFS) that
generate precious metals-bearing scrap or by-products. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision changes review requirements to once every 24 months; corrects turn-in procedures
and utilizes AF Form 2005; Base Precious Metals Monitor responsible for processing
documentation and delivering precious metals to Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office
(DRMO); and provide the Defense Reutilization and Marketing Service (DRMS) website.
1. Objective. The 45th Space Wing (45 SW) PMRP ensures that precious metals, defined by
the program as silver, gold and the platinum family are recovered, safeguarded and properly
processed through Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office (DRMO) channels according to
all federal, state, local and Air Force precious metals and hazardous waste publications. In
2                                                              45SWI23-101 19 MARCH 2010


addition, the program directs the maximum use of Department of Defense (DoD) refined
precious metals as Global Freight Management (GFM) for new procurements. Conservation,
recovery and reuse of precious metals are consistent with DoD, Air Force, AFSPC and 45 SW
policies for economical use of limited natural resources. Attachment 1 is a list of the metals
covered by the PMRP according to all federal, state, local hazardous waste regulations and Air
Force precious metals publications.
2. Responsibilities.
    2.1. The 45 SW Commander (45 SW/CC) appoints the primary and alternate PMRP
    Manager, who are responsible for the management of the program and act as the focal point
    for all matters concerning the PRMP.
3. The 45 SW PMRP Manager will:
    3.1. Participate in all Defense Reutilization and Marketing Service (DRMS) surveys of base
    precious metals recovery activities.
    3.2. Distribute PMRP reports, surveys and related correspondence dealing with precious
    metals recovery and processing to affected organizations with an information copy to
    Industrial Security (45 SFS/S6B).
    3.3. Monitor General Accounting Office (GAO), Air Force Inspector General and Air Force
    Audit Agency PMRP reports and ensure that applicable corrective action is timely and
    responsive.
    3.4. Schedule and perform reviews and surveys at least once every 24 months of operations,
    documentation, and adherence to overall program requirements.
    3.5. Maintain a list of Patrick AFB and Cape Canaveral AFS unit and organization PMRP
    monitors, the location of generating organizations and the types of recovery equipment and
    precious metals generated.
    3.6. Provide Environmental Planning (45 CES/CEV) current listings of Patrick AFB and
    Cape Canaveral AFS unit and organization PMRP monitors and the location of generating
    organizations and the types of recovery equipment and precious metals generated.
    3.7. Serve as the turn-in point for all precious metals from all units and organizations
    (excluding FM account).
4. Chiefs of 45 SW Staff Activities, 45 SW Groups Commanders, and Commanders of
Tenant Units. These officials will appoint, in writing, primary and alternate unit and
organization PMRP monitors that generate precious metals and send the original letter (include
names, grades, office symbols, telephone numbers and duty locations of the PMRP monitors) to
45 LRF/MWLSC/LGRM with information copies to the designated monitors. Large units and
organizations may designate unit precious metal expeditors to facilitate collection, processing
and turn-in of precious metals scrap. If there is a process involved with precious metals recovery
that generates hazardous waste, Chiefs will ensure that PMRP monitors, who manage or handle
this waste, receive training in accordance with 40 Code of Federal Regulation (CFR), Part 265.
5. Medical Activities. Medical activities use the internal procedures in AFMAN 23-110, V6,
Chapter 4 and the following:
45SWI23-101 19 MARCH 2010                                                                      3


   5.1. Silver recovery cartridge issue, turn-in and electrolysis equipment requirements are not
   required to be coordinated by the 45 SW PMRP Manager. Medical activities can go directly
   to DRMS for assistance at website: http://www.drms.dla.mil/precmet/pmhome.htm.
   5.2. All precious metals coded items managed by the medical supply (FM) account are
   excluded from these procedures. The medical unit's PMRP monitor is responsible for the
   auditable documents and transactions for FM account item residue.
6. Unit and Organization PMRP Monitors. Unit and organization PMRP monitors, their
alternates and designated expeditors are the only individuals authorized to process, move and
turn in recovered precious metals and precious metals-bearing scrap. The monitors will:
   6.1. Develop internal procedures (such as operating instructions) for the collection,
   safeguarding and turn-in of precious metal by-products. A copy of these procedures will be
   provided to the 45 SW PMRP Monitor (office: 45 LRF/MWLSC/LGRM). Attachment 3 is a
   list of precious metals indicator codes (PMIC).
   6.2. Conduct the unit and organization PMRP self-inspection program according to 45 SWI
   90-201, Commander’s Self-Inspection Program, and other appropriate command directives.
   6.3. Maintain a copy of this instruction in their precious metals folder.
   6.4. Ensure recovered precious metals-bearing scrap is safeguarded before turn-in.
   6.5. Ensure compliance with all applicable federal, state, and local regulations and Air Force
   publications and directives.
   6.6. Ensure containers are provided in convenient locations for collection of precious metals-
   bearing scrap.
   6.7. Ensure precious metals generated within the organization are delivered to the 45 SW
   PMRP Manager.
   6.8. Maintain documentation on precious metals collection and turn-in.
   6.9. Participate in unit and organization surveys with the 45 SW PMRP Monitor.
   6.10. Ensure 45 SFS/S6B is provided information concerning protection of high cash value
   resources as prescribed in AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense (FOUO).
   6.11. Ensure all personnel who manage or handle hazardous waste receive training
   according to 40 CFR, Part 265. Identify to 45 CES/CEV those personnel who manage or
   handle hazardous waste generated from silver recovery processes.
7. Defense Reutilization and Marketing Service (DRMS). For further guidance contact
DRMS at website: .
8. Environmental Planning, 45 CES/CEV. Provide technical support to ensure compliance
with all applicable federal, state, and local environmental regulations and DoD and Air Force
requirements. Technical support will include initial inspections, follow-up, process review, and
waste characterization.
9. Turn-in Procedures.
4                                                               45SWI23-101 19 MARCH 2010


    9.1. The generating activity prepares AF Form 2005, Issue/Turn-In Request, in three copies.
    Ensure the NSN (national stock number) or appropriate scrap code and organization/shop
    code (634PM) are annotated on turn-in document.
    9.2. The generating activity delivers the AF Form 2005 in 3 copies and precious metal-
    bearing scrap, waste, or refined precious metals to the 45 SW PRMP Manager. Contact
    DRMS at website:         http://www.drms.dla.mil/precmet/pmhome.htm for instructions
    concerning spent hypo solution. The 45 SW PMRP Manager and Base Supply receiving in
    checker will acknowledge receipt of material. Receiving in checker returns copy 2 to
    generating activity and forwards copy 1 to Document Control. Copy 3 will be used for input
    processing; all turn-ins will be processed through the computer for accountability purposes.
    The 45 SW PRMP Manager should ensure the paperwork for precious metals hazardous
    waste is given priority to ensure compliance with hazardous waste regulations. DD Form
    1348-1A in 4 copies will accompany material to DRMO.
    9.3. The 45 SW PMRP Manager processes the documentation and provides transportation of
    the material to DRMO at Cape Canaveral AFS.
    9.4. Base Supply storage of precious metals residue is not authorized; however, residue
    materials may be secured temporarily in Base Supply until moved to DRMO.
10. Recovery from Hypo Solution. The unit or organization PMRP monitors using silver
recovery cartridge equipment will:
10.1. PMAR’s (Precious Metals Area Representative) will obtain silver recovery cartridges and
supplies from DRMS / website: .
    10.2. Maintain a file of silver recovery cartridge transactions to include date cartridge was
    received from DRMO, serial number, turn-in date, weight and condition of cartridge at turn-
    in. File turn-in receipts (DD Form 1348-1A) and AF Form 2005 as backup documentation.
    10.3. Use unit of issue pound (lb), include the weight of the container, and enter the
    cartridge serial number in card columns 67-80 on the turn-in document.
    10.4. Ensure expended cartridges are safeguarded prior to removal by DRMO.
    10.5. Spent hypo solution must be labeled and managed as a hazardous waste. Store spent
    hypo solution in plastic or fiberglass containers during all periods of equipment downtime. If
    storage becomes a problem, contact 45 SW PMRP Manager for disposition instructions.
    (See para 9.3).
    10.6. Ensure cartridges are filled with water prior to installation to reduce channeling effect
    of the filler solution.
    10.7. Replace cartridges every six months or when 180-200 gallons of fixer have been
    passed through them. Use litmus paper (Silver Est. Test Papers, LITMUS, PN 196-5466, 1-
    Bk, NSN 6760-00-033-4342) to determine if the cartridge should be replaced.
    10.8. Appoint, in writing, an individual not involved in the PMRP to witness the cartridge
    removal and to certify the weight. Both the harvester and the witness should individually
    weigh the harvested cartridge since merely observing the weighing process could result in
    certifying an incorrect weight.
45SWI23-101 19 MARCH 2010                                                                     5


   10.9. If needed, obtain technical advice from DRMS concerning operation of silver recovery
   cartridge equipment.
11. Electrolytic Silver Recovery Units. The unit or organization PMRP monitor or designated
representative using electrolytic silver recovery units will:
   11.1. Operate electrolytic equipment according to the manufacturer's instructions.
   11.2. Witness all silver harvesting operations.
   11.3. Use command assigned stock number 9660L0000010 and unit of issue Troy ounce.
   11.4. Ensure harvested silver is secured until turn-in to PMRP Manager for turn-in to
   DRMO.
   11.5. Keep a file of harvesting actions to include date harvested, personnel present and date
   turned in to DRMO at Cape Canaveral AFS.
   11.6. Appoint in writing an individual not involved in the PMRP to witness the harvesting of
   the silver flake and to certify the weight. Both the harvester and the witness should
   individually weigh the harvested silver since merely observing the weighing process could
   result in certifying an incorrect weight.
   11.7. Obtain technical information on operation of electrolytic recovery equipment from
   DRMS using website: http://www.drms.dla.mil/precmet/pmhome.htm.

12. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                            ANDRÉ L. LOVETT, Colonel, USAF
                                            Vice Commander
6                                                          45SWI23-101 19 MARCH 2010


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 23-110CD, Air Force Supply Systems Electronic Library, 1 April 2009
AFI 31-101, The Air Force Installation Security Program,08 October 2009
45SWI 90-201, Commander’s Self-Inspection Program, 31 January 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CCAFS—Cape Canaveral Air Force Station
CFR—Code of Federal Regualtion
DoD—Department of Defense
DRMO—Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office
DRMS—Defense Reutilization and Marketing Service
GAO—General Accounting Office
GFM—Gobal Freight Management
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PMIC—Precious Metals Indicator Codes
PMPR—Precious Metals Recovery Program
45SWI23-101 19 MARCH 2010                                                                       7


                                     Attachment 2
  METALS COVERED BY THE DOD PRECIOUS METALS RECOVERY PROGRAM



Table A2.1. Metals Covered by the DoD Precious Metals Recovery Program.
METAL                      EXAMPLE ITEMS

Gold                       Semiconductors, diodes, rectifiers, and transistors

Silver                     Photographic and x-ray film, photo processing solution (hypo),
                           desalting kits, silver-lined bearings and bushings, and electrical
                           contacts

Platinum                   Telescopic and microscopic crosshairs, electrical fuses, and slide
                           resistant wire

Platinum Family

Osmium                     Alloy for phonograph needles, fountain pen points, and bearings

Palladium                  Telephone relay contact points, ignition contact points, and
                           electrical outlets

Iridium                    Telegraphic contact points, watch bearing, penpoints, and
                           scientific
                           instruments

Ruthenium                  Some electrodes and contacts

Rhodium                    Thermocouple wires and some military insignia
8                                                           45SWI23-101 19 MARCH 2010


                                        Attachment 3
                 PRECIOUS METALS INDICATOR CODES (PMIC)



Table A3.1. Precious Metals Indicator Codes (PMIC).
Code             Type of Precious Metal (PM)

A                Item does not contain precious metal.

C                Item contains combination of two or more precious metals (silver, gold,
                 platinum)

G                Item contains gold

P                Item contains platinum family metals

S                Item contains silver

U                Precious metal type is unknown

V                Precious metals type varies between manufacturers
