BY ORDER OF THE 45TH SPACE WING                          45TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 33-112
COMMANDER                                                                                  1 MAY 2006

                                                                      Communication and Information

                                                            45TH SPACE WING LIFE CYCLE PLAN
                                                                       FOR AUTOMATED DATA
                                                               PROCESSING EQUIPMENT (ADPE)



                COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 45 SCS/SCAE (Mr. John Hawthorne)                Certified by: 45 SCS/CC (Lt Col James A. Clark)
                                                                                             Pages: 2
                                                                                      Distribution: F

This instruction implements the policies of AFI33-112, Computer Systems Management; and AFSPC Pol-
icy for Computer Systems Asset Management, LC-2005-02. It outlines the 45th Space Wing Life Cycle
Plan for Automated Data Processing Equipment (ADPE) computer systems. This policy provides stan-
dardization, life cycle management and asset management practice requirements. This policy applies to
the 45th Space Wing, its subordinate units and those organizations serviced or supported by the wing
equipment management office, 45 SCS/SCAE.


1. General Responsibilities.
   1.1. Each commander or staff office with computer system resources must implement and enforce
   this policy as it pertains to the life cycle management (LCM) and support of their organization’s com-
   puter systems and resources. Each commander is responsible for all computer systems assigned to
   his/her unit.
   1.2. Commanders will review their equipment annually to determine if the equipment still meets
   organizational requirements. All systems not meeting organizational requirements must be upgraded
   or replaced.
   1.3. Commanders will plan for, budget and purchase replacement equipment as prescribed in the
   timelines reflected in paragraph 2. through paragraph 4. It is recommended that commanders estab-
   lish a process whereby a percentage of their systems are replaced annually to meet these timelines.

2. Desktops and Laptops/Notebooks.
   2.1. Desktop and laptop/notebook client computing systems should be replaced based on the schedule
   set forth by the Air Force Information Technology Commodity Council. This policy directs the
   replacement of desktop systems every 4 years and laptop/notebook systems every 3 years. All Air
   Force organizations should plan, program, and budget to fully implement this policy utilizing the
2                                                                            45SWI33-112 1 MAY 2006


    Quarterly Enterprise Buy (QEB) process managed by Headquarters, Operations and Sustainment Sys-
    tems Group (OSSG). In the event that funding is not available in the year of execution to fully imple-
    ment this policy, then Air Force organizations will, as a minimum, replace systems that do not meet
    minimum requirements to support the AFSPC standard operating system and application software.
       2.1.1. Desktop and laptop/notebook client computing systems that do not meet the minimum tech-
       nical requirements are not authorized to operate on AFSPC enterprise network and must be
       removed or replaced.

3. Peripherals.
    3.1. Replace peripherals (such as printers and scanners) that become inoperable/unsupportable or turn
    them in in accordance with (IAW) DoD 4160.21-M, Defense Material Disposition Manual and AFI
    33-112, Chapters 10 and 11 if no longer needed. IAW 33-112 the equipment control officer (ECO)
    will create an electronic excess list in the asset information management systems (AIMS) for those
    items that are no longer needed locally. After the expiration of the advertisement in AIMS expires, the
    equipment custodians are instructed by the ECO to turn in the equipment to the nearest Defense Reuti-
    lization Management Office.

4. Network Servers.
    4.1. Network servers used to support e-mail, file, web, and print should be replaced every 3 years.
    Additionally, servers supporting the storage area network for backend storage should be replaced
    every 3 years.



                                               MARK H. OWEN, Brigadier General, USAF
                                               Commander
