BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       45TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 10-203
45TH SPACE WING
                                                                                13 MAY 2013

                                                                                   Operations

                                                          45TH SPACE WING REPORTING
                                                                           GUIDANCE

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 45 SW/CP                                                         Certified by: 45 SW/CP
                                                                   (Maj Michael Synakiewicz)
Supersedes:   45 SWI 10-203, 1 April 2005                                            Pages: 10


This instruction implements AFPD 10-2, Readiness. It directs operational reporting within the
45th Space Wing (45 SW). It extends the guidance as established and described in AFI 10-206,
Operational Reporting. This instruction applies to all subordinate units, tenant units, Air
National Guard units and Air Force Space Command (AFSPC) gained Air Force Reserve
Command units under the operational control of 45 SW upon federalization or activation. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field to the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Changes include
updating the Commander’s Situation Report, adding Cyber Incident Reporting, removing Status
of Resources and Training System (SORTS) information, which will be incorporated into an
additional SWI and removing Incident Objective Reporting criteria.
1. Introduction.
   1.1. General. This instruction establishes reporting requirements for 45 SW and tenant
   units. Specific 45 SW and tenants’ responsibilities are outlined herein.
 2                                                                  45SWI10-203 13 MAY 2013


        1.1.1. Units at the lowest level of command having knowledge of an event/incident are
        responsible for reporting the event/incident immediately to the Patrick Command Post
        (CP).
        1.1.2. Any unit or agency having knowledge of an event/incident should report to the CP
        by the most expedient means available. Information can be relayed by telephone (494-
        7001), e-mailed to global “Patrick Command Post” cpost2@us.af.mil, fax (494-2844), or
        hand-carried to building 423, room C-122.
        1.1.3. Specific operational event/incident reporting requirements, broken down by
        category, are delineated in AFI 10-206 and appropriate command supplement.
        1.1.4. Reports in this instruction can range from the unclassified level up to the Secret
        level. Units should be aware that the CP is capable of receiving, storing and/or
        transmitting information up to the Secret level. Classification is not an impediment to
        reporting. Ensure all material submitted via the NIPRNET to the CP is unclassified.
        Classified inputs will be coordinated via secure means with CP personnel and then
        transmitted by secure means.
2. Operational Reporting (OPREP-3).
     2.1. General. Provide HQ USAF and intermediate commands the information necessary for
     timely operational decisions during events/incidents that may attract international, national,
     US Air Force or significant news and media interest.
        2.1.1. Unit commanders, first sergeants, tenant units and appropriate staff agencies are
        required to be trained semi-annually by the CP in OPREP-3 procedures.
     2.2. Responsibilities.
        2.2.1. The 45 SW/CC, or designated alternate (O-6 or higher), will be the final authority
        for determining whether an OPREP-3 report will be submitted for all 45 SW units and
        tenant units, not under a separate MAJCOM.
        2.2.2. Tenant commanders assigned under a different MAJCOM have the sole
        responsibility to approve/release all OPREP-3 reports affecting their assets. All tenant
        units must report through the Patrick Command Post to ensure 45 SW/CC is informed.
        2.2.3. The CP is the focal point for all OPREP-3 reporting for 45 SW and tenant units.
        The CP will develop procedures, checklists and preformatted message templates to
        ensure immediate response to OPREP-3 reportable events/incidents.               Once an
        event/incident is determined to be reportable, the CP will gather information from the
        reporting agency/unit, generate the appropriate OPREP-3 report, obtain 45 SW/CC or
        appropriate tenant commander approval, and transmit the report. The CP will continue to
        monitor the situation to ensure any additional reporting requirements are met until a final
        report is transmitted.
     2.3. When Submitted.
        2.3.1. The predominant guideline for units or agencies deciding whether an event/
        incident is reportable is: when in doubt – report it. All units will report such an
        event/incident to the CP in a timely manner with enough information to accurately
        describe the event/incident and any potential impact.
45SWI10-203 13 MAY 2013                                                                          3


      2.3.2. Immediately following a mission launch or cancellation, 1 ROPS will submit a
      voice report/FAX (Job Aid 1, Launch Report or Job Aid 2, Scrub Launch Report) to CP.
      CP is authorized to use the data from the voice report template to format and transmit the
      appropriate OPREP-3 report.
   2.4. How submitted.
      2.4.1. All 45 SW and tenant units will call the CP immediately with the potential
      OPREP-3 reportable information (see AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting, and
      appropriate command supplement quick reference matrices). Expedient reporting is
      crucial to the OPREP-3 reporting process and units should continue to report information
      about the event/incident until termination.
      2.4.2. The CP consolidates all of the available information into an OPREP-3 template
      and prepares an initial voice report. Upon 45 SW/CC or appropriate tenant commander
      approval, the voice report will be relayed via SIPRNET DCO chat (JABBER) in the
      applicable conference rooms and posted to SKIWeb for higher headquarters review. An
      initial hard copy report will be transmitted within 1-hour of completing the voice report.
      2.4.3. The CP will inform the 45 SW/CC whenever a tenant unit OPREP-3 is submitted.
   2.5. Specific Instructions.
      2.5.1. The unit reporting an event/incident should include as much information as
      possible in their initial report, but as a minimum, the nature of the event/incident, time of
      the event/incident and location of the event/incident. If available, also include the
      personnel involvement, actual or potential mission impact (if any), and estimated cost-
      basically answer who, what, when, where, why and how.
      2.5.2. The 1 ROPS will submit launch or scrub reports as follows: immediately
      following a launch or scrub, the Range Operations Commander (ROC) for the mission
      will format the voice report/FAX (Job Aid 1, Launch Report or Job Aid 2, Scrub Launch
      Report) and have the Launch Decision Authority (LDA) approve the message. The ROC
      will then forward the message, via e-mail to the CP. CP is authorized to use the data
      from the voice report/FAX (Job Aid 1, Launch Report or Job Aid 2, Scrub Launch
      Report) template to format and transmit the appropriate OPREP-3 report.
      2.5.3. Do not delay reporting procedures just to obtain more information. Units should
      relay as much information as possible in their initial report of event/incidents as quickly
      as possible to the CP.
3. Launch Information Support Network (LISN).
   3.1. General. The LISN provides processing status and major milestones of all major
   launch systems and associated payloads. The LISN also reports significant events occurring
   at the space launch squadrons and the range squadrons such as pad maintenance activity and
   events.
   3.2. Responsibilities.
      3.2.1. LISN-reporting units are responsible for preparation and input of LISN data for
      their      respective     missions.           The      LISN       is     located    at
      https://lisn.peterson.af.mil/Web/Pages/Home.aspx.
 4                                                                    45SWI10-203 13 MAY 2013


        3.2.2. LISN-reporting units.
            3.2.2.1. The 1 ROPS for all non Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle (EELV)
            missions.
            3.2.2.2. The 5 SLS for EELV missions.
3.3. When Submitted.
        3.3.1. All LISN reporting will be executed IAW AFSPCI 10-1213, Launch Scheduling
        and Forecasting Procedures, Sections 5 and 6.5.
     3.4. LISN update/Format.
        3.4.1. User Privileges. All 45 SW personnel are authorized “user” privileges. This
        allows the user to view the current manifest and view specific mission details.
        3.4.2. Login to the LISN database. The LISN database is accessible from .mil computers
        at https://lisn.peterson.af.mil/Web/Pages/Home.aspx. Users are required to request a
        password when first visiting the web site.
        3.4.3. Launch Information. Only 1 ROPS/DOUS is authorized to change the proposed
        launch date in the LISN.
4. Commander’s Situation Report (SITREP).
     4.1. Subject and Purpose. To keep the MAJCOMs, Services, Joint Staff and SECDEF
     apprised of existing political, military and operational situations/plans and to keep
     commanders advised of a unit’s ability to meet requirements outlined in approved plans. The
     SITREP is a narrative report that informs and enables higher levels of command to evaluate
     resources and prepare for potential effects of ongoing situations. The commander or
     designated alternate is responsible for timely and accurate SITREP reporting. Situation
     reporting will be accomplished for, but not limited to, the following:
        4.1.1. Involvement in critical national or international situations.
        4.1.2. Involvement in natural or manmade disasters and/or emergency relief efforts.
        4.1.3. Significant operational deficiencies that affect mission readiness.
        4.1.4. Other activities or ongoing operations to include Defense Support to Civil
        Authorities (DSCA). All DSCA events should be reported as described IAW AFI 10-206,
        Chapter 6.
        4.1.5. Units receiving aircraft or personnel due              to   natural   disasters   (i.e.,
        HURCON/Typhoon Condition Change) evacuations.
     4.2. Submitted By. Commanders at all levels of command report as required by operations
     plans and directives or higher headquarters or when ongoing events warrant SITREP
     reporting.
        4.2.1. Each group is responsible for the preparation and submission of SITREP inputs to
        45 OSS. OSS will compile the report, check for accuracy and forward the report to the
        CP for submission to HHQ. Each group will also designate primary and alternate
        SITREP points of contact.
45SWI10-203 13 MAY 2013                                                                      5


  4.3. Submitted To. SITREPs will be uploaded by the CP as an attachment in SKIWeb in
  non-USMTF format and the Air Force Service Watch Cell (AFSWC) will be checked as an
  “Affected Area.”
  4.4. Submission Timing. Reports will be submitted daily (or more frequently if directed by
  AF/A3O-OA) for the duration of the activity or operation. Unless specified otherwise by a
  combatant commander directive, submit reports no later than 0200Z, reflecting data current
  as of 2359Z.
  4.5. Submission. The primary means for transmitting a SITREP is via SKIWeb. When
  primary means is unavailable, transmit reports by the fastest means available consistent with
  security constraints, (i.e., SIPR e-mail). Continue to report during MINIMIZE unless
  directed otherwise by the implementing authority.
  4.6. General Reporting Instructions.
     4.6.1. Any higher headquarters level in the reporting chain may direct additional
     reporting requirements. AF/A3O-OA is authorized to request any additional/amplifying
     information on past events, current operations or planned actions.
     4.6.2. Out-of-sequence SITREPs will not be used for daily operations. If an event or
     incident requires up channeling, then use of the OPREP-3 reporting method is
     appropriate. Out-of-cycle SITREPs will only be submitted in support of joint operations
     as requested by the HQ AFSPC Command Center on behalf of AFSPC/CC or AFSPC
     battle staff.
  4.7. Report Content. Air Force SITREPs will report significant factors relating primarily to
  readiness, mobilization personnel, force protection and logistics. Report content should
  highlight key activities and build on previous reports. Brevity is paramount. The following
  is a list of subparagraphs from MIL-STD-6040 and will be used as applicable.
     4.7.1. General. Report any pertinent general information (commander’s own situation,
     disposition and/or status of forces), to include a summary of significant unit mission
     readiness degradation, current deployments, and projected deployments and
     requirements. If there is no information to report, then enter the phrase: Nothing
     Significant to Report (NSTR).
     4.7.2. Situation. Report assessments of the situation to include circumstances or
     conditions that increase or materially detract from the capability and readiness of forces
     assigned or under operational control of the command or service. If there is no
     information to report, then enter the phrase: Nothing Significant to Report (NSTR).
     4.7.3. Operations. Report a description and results of offensive and/or defensive
     operations carried out by major combatant elements, information on allied forces’
     operations, summary of plans for combat operations during the next 24 hours and
     deviations or variations from previously reported intentions and plans.
         4.7.3.1. Include as a minimum: incidents or issues that significantly impact range or
         airfield operations. Examples include: major range instrumentation outages; tropical
         storm/hurricane expected to threaten 45 SW assets and any critical range or airfield
         outage.
6                                                                45SWI10-203 13 MAY 2013


       4.7.3.2. Degradation to range or airfield equipment that seriously impacts
       launch/flying operations or other units/agencies outside the 45 SW. Examples
       include: Loss of MOC range holdfire; failure of Ascension Spacetrack capability;
       ILS outage for entire PAFB runway.
       4.7.3.3. Provide tropical storm/hurricane updates when expected to/actually threaten
       45 SW assets.
       4.7.3.4. Any other items required by AF/A3O-OA. If there is no information to
       report, then enter the phrase: Nothing Significant to Report (NSTR).
    4.7.4. Intelligence-Reconnaissance. A brief overview of the situation in terms of
    operations, order of battle, capabilities and threat changes. Reference any Spot
    Intelligence reports submitted in the past 24 hours. Report changes in Force Protection
    Conditions (FPCON), details of significant incidents with FPCON implications, security
    deficiencies and vulnerabilities, mitigation measures, significant criminal activity, etc. If
    there is no information to report, then enter the phrase: Nothing Significant to Report
    (NSTR).
    4.7.5. Logistics. Identify significant deficiencies affecting support for planned
    operations and problem areas beyond the commander’s or service’s capability to
    overcome or alleviate in a timely manner. If there is no information to report, then enter
    the phrase: Nothing Significant to Report (NSTR).
    4.7.6. Communications Connectivity. Report significant communication outages,
    incompatibilities, quantitative equipment deficiencies, traffic volume, etc. If there is no
    information to report, then enter the phrase: Nothing Significant to Report (NSTR).
    4.7.7. Personnel. Report factors affecting readiness of forces or units; mobilization
    status; daily battle casualties (e.g., killed in action, wounded in action and missing in
    action) and the impact of all casualties sustained upon the command’s mission capability.
    If there is no information to report, then enter the phrase: Nothing Significant to Report
    (NSTR).
    4.7.8. Significant Political-Military-Diplomatic Events. Report events not reported by
    OPREP-3 PINNACLE, BEELINE but which could result in local, national or
    international public reaction; civil unrest or indications of civil defense measures
    contemplated or implemented; and events affecting the attitudes, emotions or behavior of
    the populous that could be used in developing psychological operations campaigns. If
    there is no information to report, then enter the phrase: Nothing Significant to Report
    (NSTR).
    4.7.9. Commander’s Evaluation. Provide the commander’s evaluation of the situation.
    Comments will provide an overall assessment and any individual comments keyed to
    forces as outlined in approved execute order/deployment order and modifications to those
    orders. If there is no information to report, then enter the phrase: Nothing Significant to
    Report (NSTR).
       4.7.9.1. In the final SITREP, the commander’s evaluation will include:
           4.7.9.1.1. An assessment of the operations and their effectiveness, a
           chronological summary of USAF and Civil Air Patrol actions and a summary of
45SWI10-203 13 MAY 2013                                                                              7


              relief operations expenses requiring reimbursement.
                  4.7.9.1.1.1. Summary of employment of forces and throughout relief
                  operations to include type forces, equipment and supplies used, together with
                  aircraft operations.
                  4.7.9.1.1.2. Summary of number and type aircraft, number of sorties, number
                  of passengers and short tons moved, hours flown and any other items
                  requested by AF/A3O-OA.
              4.7.9.1.2. Highlight of relief operations, identify outstanding performers and
              address unusual actions or occurrences, or other events of interest for CSAF.
              4.7.9.1.3. Specific problem areas encountered and actions recommended
              precluding recurrence in the future.
              4.7.9.1.4. Display photographs and links to video of military operations.
              4.7.9.1.5. All AF, combatant commanders and Federal Emergency Management
              Agency (FEMA) mission designators assigned.
              4.7.9.1.6. Sources of requests for military assistance to include mailing addresses.
              4.7.9.1.7. Location and suspected cause of the disaster/emergency.
   4.8. Termination of SITREP reporting. SITREP reporting can be terminated when the
   situation no longer warrants Higher Headquarters’ attention as determined by:
       4.8.1. AF/A3O-OA.
       4.8.2. AF Crisis Action Team (CAT) Director.
5. Cyber Incident Reporting.
5.1. Used to report any Cyber Incident meeting CJCSM 6510. 01A, Information Assurance
and Computer Network Defense Vol 1 (Incident Handling Program), reporting requirements that
warrant Air Force or Joint level attention. Incidents are not limited to NIPRNet-connected
computers; other stand-alone systems could be affected. While the Air Force’s formal incident
Handling Program is centralized within 24 AF, as the Air Force’s Computer Network Defense
Service Provider (CNDSP), this does not preclude a commander’s authority to release AF
OPREP-3s for activity affecting their command or causing operational impact prior to 24 AF’s
formal declaration that an event or activity is an incident IAW CJCSM 6510.01A.
   5.2. AFCYBER (24 AF). Responsible for the operation and defense of the Air Force-
   provisioned portion of the Global Information Grid (AF-GIG). They will normally be the
   first to detect or be the first to be notified by external entities of cyber intrusions, attacks, or
   outages through the 624th Operations Center (OC). 624 OC has the responsibility, on behalf
   of 24 AF, to telephonically notify all affected installations of cyber intrusions or attacks.
       5.2.1. If 624 OC first discovers or is first notified of cyber intrusion/attack or an incident
       affecting multiple installations, MAJCOMs or the AF-GIG, the 624 OC/CC will notify
       the AFSPC Command Center of a potential AF OPREP-3 requirement and provide them
       with pertinent information.
8                                                             45SWI10-203 13 MAY 2013


    5.2.2. If an installation is notified by 24 AF/CC or the 624 OC of a confirmed outage,
    intrusion, attack or incident, the affected unit will notify the 45 SW/CC, 45 SW
    Communications Focal Point (CFP) and the CP. The 45 SW/CC will make a
    determination if the incident meets AF OPREP-3 criteria.
    5.2.3. If an installation is the first to discover a cyber outage, intrusion, attack or
    incident, the affected unit will notify the 45 SW/CC, 45 SW CFP, CP and report the event
    IAW AFI 33-138, Enterprise Network Operations Notification and Tracking, Chapter 5.
    The 45 SW/CC will make a determination if the incident meets AF OPREP-3 criteria.




                                        ANTHONY J. COTTON, Brigadier General, USAF
                                        Commander
45SWI10-203 13 MAY 2013                                                                 9


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-2, Readiness, 6 November 2012
AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting, 6 September 2011
AFI 33-138, Enterprise Network Operations Notification and Tracking, 28 November 2005
AFSPCI 10-1213, Launch Scheduling and Forecasting Procedures, 29 November 2012
CJCSM 6510.01A, Information Assurance and Computer Network Defense Vol 1 (Incident
Handling Program), 24 June 2009
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—GIG – Air Force Global Information Grid
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AFSWC—Air Force Service Watch Cell
CAT—Crisis Action Team
CFP—Communications Focal Point
CNDSP—Air Force’s Computer Network Defense Service Provider
CP—Patrick Command Post
DSCA—Defense Support to Civil Authorities
FEMA—Federal Emergency Management Agency
FPCON—Force Protection Conditions
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
LDA—Launch Decision Authority
NSTR—Nothing Significant to Report
OC—Operations Center
OPREP—3- Operational Reporting
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RSA—Range Standardization and Automation
ROC—Range Operations Commander
 10                                             45SWI10-203 13 MAY 2013


SITREP—Situation Report
SORTS—Status of Resources and Training System
LISN—Launch Information Support Network
