BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        45TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 21-101
45TH SPACE WING
                                                                            30 JANUARY 2014

                                                                                  Maintenance

                                                        AIRFIELD TOOL CONTROL FOR
                                                   AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE AGENCIES


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available online at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no release restrictions on this publication


OPR: 45 OG/CC                                                          Certified by: 45 OG/CC
                                                                  (Colonel Douglas A. Schiess)
                                                                                      Pages: 10




This publication implements AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, and fulfills the AFI 21-
101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, requirement. This supplement provides
policy, additional guidance, and establishes tool and equipment management procedures. It is
applicable to 45 SW Aircraft Maintenance Agencies that support the Patrick AFB and Cape
Canaveral AFS flight lines. For non-aircraft maintenance tool control activities, applicable
agencies will refer to governing AFIs/regulations. This publication does not apply to State
Department or Air Force Reserve Command units. This AFI may be supplemented at any level,
but all supplements that directly implement this publication must be routed to SAF/AAII Policy
Branch for coordination prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command. The authorities to waive wing/unit level
requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number
following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management,
Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests
for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or
alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS).
 2                                                            45SWI21-101 30 JANUARY 2014




1. General This instruction provides positive tool control and accountability procedures.
Airfield Services, to include the 45 Operational Support Squadron (OSS) Contracting Officer
Representatives (COR) and its contractor, maintain safe and reliable tool control for all Patrick
Air Force Base (PAFB) and Cape Canaveral Air Force Station (CCAFS) airfields. The 45 Range
Management Squadron (RMS) COR and its contractor oversee tool control aspects related to
Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratory (PMEL). Adhering to this instruction aids in
reducing and deterring Foreign Object Damage (FOD) to aircraft, engines, aircrew training
devices, and support equipment. This instruction is not all inclusive; but rather supplements
responsibilities in AFI 21-101 through a reliable tool control program.
2. Consolidated Tool Kit (CTK) Identification (markings)
     2.1. The 45 SW COR and its contractors will mark all tools and equipment used to support
     aircraft maintenance operations with the most current 9-digit Equipment Identification (EID)
     marking guidance. 45 SW entities will remove or mark out previous markings, with the
     exception of PMEL markings. An EID marking uses exactly 9 digits. The EID will include
     a combination of upper case letters and numbers, without spaces or special characters. The
     first 4 digits of the EID are assigned using the base World Wide Identifier (WWID) number.
     The contractor’s unit tool custodian will assign the remaining 5 digits (any combination of
     numbers/letters) for all CTKs, tools, and dispatch equipment that are of sufficient size. For
     example: PF4T00001. Responsible parties can mark tools located inside a kit or “parent”
     CTK with less than 9 digits, but these subordinate EIDs always contain the assigned 4-digit
     WWID and identifying character that ties that tool (children) back to its “parent” CTK. For
     example, one can mark subordinate tools as PF4T1, located inside CTK: PF4T00001.
     2.2. Units may affix non-metallic bar code labels on tools to prevent re-etching as long as
     the use of the tool and its work environment does not result in excessive damage to the label
     making it unreadable. Bar codes without the EID annotated on the label are not considered
     properly marked. Note: Do not etch hacksaw blades. Unit tool custodians make all 9-digit
     EID markings clear, legible, and easy to read.
     2.3. The 45 SW COR and its contractors will mark or etch Personnel Protective Equipment
     (PPE) with EID markings and load into TCMAX (or other tool management software) for
     proper tracking. Each organization will store PPE in designated storage location per facility.
     2.4. The unit tool custodian will identify dispatched Custodian Authorization/Custody
     Receipt Listing (CA/CRL) equipment items using assigned 9-digit EIDs.
     2.5. The 45 SW COR and its contractors will properly mark, etch, stamp, or barcode various
     tools too small or unfit for fixing an EID by using the Master Inventory List (MIL) and/or
     TCMAX (or other software) exclusively in these cases. The contractors will use visual
     identifiers (VID) -“foam cut-outs” or “shadowing” as an additional aid for tool identification
     that cannot receive proper EID markings.
     2.6. The 45 SW COR and its contractors will place small tools in a suitable container
     (holder, pouch, bag, etc.) and identified using the MIL. The contractors will identify the tool
     name, quantity, container, and type of item(s) in the MIL and/or TCMAX (or other software)
     consistently. For example: apex container: 8 ea apex’s, + container + lid = 10 pieces, etc.
45SWI21-101 30 JANUARY 2014                                                                    3


   The contractors will mark small tool containers, holders, pouches, bags, etc. with an EID
   according to para. 2.1., and have a tag, placard, label, or equivalent list placed within the
   CTK (either attached to the item, written on the case or identified on the MIL) to allow
   inventory by the user. For Example: 2ea #10 hex apex, 3ea #8 TT apex + container + lid = 7
   pieces, etc. The 45 SW COR and its contractors will account for the total number of
   contents, including the container, on the MIL and/or TCMAX (or other software).
   2.7. The 45 SW and its contractors will mark safety wire as part of a CTK, according to
   paragraph 2.1. The unit tool custodian will add the diameter of the wire to the label (exempt:
   if the wire diameter is already identified on the spool). The contractors will identify the
   spool and wire diameter on the MIL and record in TCMAX (or other software) as a
   consumable. The contractors will return empty/broken spools to the owning support
   section/shop for replacement.
   2.8. The 45 SW and its contractors will place consumables (grease, dye, cleaners, etc.) in a
   suitable container properly placed/marked inside the CTK. Once empty, contractors will
   return the consumable containers to the owning support section/shop for proper disposal,
   replacement or refill.
   2.9. Calibrated tools: if part of a CTK, shall have the inspection status loaded into TCMAX
   (or other software) against the CTK to which the tool is installed. Test, Measurement and
   Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE) items may have additional TMDE number(s) different from
   the EID. If the item TMDE number differs from the CTK EID, then the unit tool custodian
   will annotate the TMDE number on the MIL and/or TCMAX (or other software) as part of
   the CTK.
   2.10. CDDAR: 45 SW Transient Alert (TA)/Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) shall
   inspect and document the tools and equipment inside the Crash Damaged or Disabled
   Aircraft Recovery (CDDAR) trailer as a CTK on a monthly basis or as required by
   manufactured technical data provided to AGE. The COR and the contractor will inspect the
   lifting bags and document discrepancies on the appropriate AFTO Form 244 (annually). In
   the event of an aircraft crash, the CDDAR Team Chief shall designate a CTK custodian
   responsible for the issue, control, and accountability of all tools and equipment assigned to
   the crash trailer.
   2.11. The 45 SW COR and its contractors will etch or mark grease guns with the military
   specification (MIL-SPEC) with a 9-digit EID.
3. Master CTK Program Book (binder): At a minimum, the work center shall maintain CTK
binders containing the following:
   3.1. Tab A - appointment letter for CTK Custodian and, if applicable, a letter of
   memorandum signed by the section and/or flight chief (or equivalent) approving the CTK
   MIL.
   3.2. Tab B - 45 SWI 21-101.
   3.3. Tab C - a printed copy of the MIL (The contractor can keep the MIL in a separate
   binder).
   3.4. Tab D - applicable CTK inspection log (for tools that are not tracked in TCMAX).
   3.5. Tab E - blank Form 174, Lost Tool/Object Report.
 4                                                              45SWI21-101 30 JANUARY 2014


     3.6. Tab F - completed lost tool reports.
     3.7. Tab G - local written shop policies and procedures (if applicable).
4. Inventory and Inspection Procedures:
     4.1. CTK binders shall contain an accurate MIL that identifies the total amount of tools and
     status.
     4.2. Personnel shall conduct a visual inventory and notify the CTK custodian of any foreign
     objects or missing/damaged tools, before signing out any tools, equipment or CTK. The unit
     tool custodian or their management, will enter missing, removed and damaged tools into
     TCMAX (or other software) and annotate the finding using the broken/removed/missing tool
     report and on the hard copy MIL.
     4.3. When CTK tools or equipment are returned to the work center/tool room, the CTK
     custodians or work center personnel shall conduct a visual inventory checking for foreign
     objects and missing/damaged items before transferring accountability back to the tool
     room/work center. The unit tool custodian or management will enter missing, removed and
     damaged tools into TCMAX (or other software) and annotate the findings using the
     broken/removed/missing tool report and within the MIL.
     4.4. The COR and/or contractor management will authorize on-site transfer of a CTK or
     equipment, only when there is a significant increase in operations. Both individuals involved
     in the transfer will conduct a CTK inventory together prior to transferring ownership. If
     TCMAX (or other software) is not available during the transfer of ownership, then the
     individual who is assuming responsibility shall sign for the CTK or equipment using an AF
     Form 1297. The recipient of the CTK will take the AF Form 1297 to the work center for
     accountability.
     4.5. The CTK custodians shall conduct and document a comprehensive inventory annually
     and/or when there is a change of custodian to account for all tools and equipment.
     4.6. The CTK custodians shall account for all tools and equipment at the beginning and end
     of each shift.
     4.7. Centralized tool rooms shall conduct and document a comprehensive tool inspection of
     each CTK every 60 days (minimum). This prevents co-mingled tools and enhances
     inventory requirements by ensuring correct locations, serviceability, and removal of all FOD.
     4.8. Each tool room shall indicate in writing the interval for when CTK inspections are
     conducted (i.e. 30, 45 or 60 days). During CTK inspections, the COR and contractor will:
        4.8.1. Properly shadow, inlay, silhouette, or outline all tools.
        4.8.2. Clearly mark or etch all tools or equipment with the current EID. Remove any
        legacy etchings.
        4.8.3. Ensure all tools are free of corrosion.
        4.8.4. Account for all tools on the CTK MIL and/or the broken/removed tool list.
        4.8.5. Ensure tools and/or CTKs are free of FOD.
45SWI21-101 30 JANUARY 2014                                                                       5


      4.8.6. Ensure all tools remain in serviceable condition IAW TO 32-1-101. Ensure all
      Test Measurement Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE) is not overdue calibration and limited
      calibration stickers are initialed IAW AFI 21-101, Table 14.1, line 31.
      4.8.7. Use AFTO Form 244 to document equipment scheduled inspections, not including
      calibration. Examples include TMDE, AGE, training equipment, industrial plant
      equipment, shop equipment, PPE harnesses, and special tools such as engine slings, floor
      jacks, cradles and cranes. Automated AFTO Form 244s are authorized however, a hard
      copy AFTO 244 must accompany all equipment during a “prior use inspection.”
5. Composite Tool Kit (CTK) Custodian:
   5.1. The unit flight chief (or shop equivalent) shall appoint a primary and alternate CTK
   custodian in writing for all areas of responsibility with tools assigned.
   5.2. The CTK custodian shall maintain a continuity binder to include at a minimum: current
   appointment letters, CTK approval documentation, approved local or commercial off the
   shelf (COTS) manufactured tool letters, and any other applicable items such as waivers,
   documentation for permanently removed tools, etc., as required by AFI 21-101 and this OI.
   The contractor can file the documents in a location other than the continuity binder, as long
   as a DD Form 2861 references the alternate filing location.
   5.3. The CTK custodian is responsible for Warranty and Replacement Tool Management,
   Local Manufactured and Modified Tool Program, and Lost Tool Item Programs within their
   section. The support section supervisor or shop chief (or equivalent) shall delegate by letter
   additional personnel to assist in this responsibility (i.e., shift leads can have access to spare
   tool bins). If delegated, the contractor will maintain a file of the appropriate letters that
   demonstrate authority delegation if appropriate. The CTK custodian’s continuity binder will
   have a copy of this authority delegation letter. The CTK custodian remains ultimately
   responsible for overall compliance with tool control programs.
   5.4. The CTK custodian shall ensure procedures are in place to control access to tool rooms
   or limit the number of personnel authorized to procure tools. Only authorized personnel are
   allowed access to the tool room to check out tools. Tools are checked out through the use of
   TCMAX (or other software). The contractor will request an item/tool from the tool room
   monitor, the tool room monitor will then scan employee’s name and employee number (if
   applicable), then scan the bar code of the tool they wish to check out. Once the employee has
   finished using the item/tool, they will return the item/tool back to the tool room monitor to be
   checked/scanned back into the TCMAX tracking database, thus adding it back into the tool
   room inventory.
6. Control, Inventory, and Security Procedures:
   6.1. The same person cannot check-out and return the same item to the tool room/inventory.
   The person who signs for a CTK, equipment, or shop tool must have a different authorized
   person sign the item(s) back in to the tool room/inventory. This guidance also applies to
   CTKs affixed inside of vehicles.
   6.2. The contractor will remove detachable pieces from parent equipment to minimize FOD
   potential (i.e., rubber switch covers from Flashlights). The contractor will annotate the
   detached item within TCMAX (or other software) and on the MIL.
 6                                                                45SWI21-101 30 JANUARY 2014


     6.3. Section supervisors/shift leads are authorized to perform job site (on-site) transfers of
     tools and equipment (ref paragraph 4.4). Section supervisors or shift leads cannot delegate
     this authority. Individuals performing the transfer are personally responsible for the
     inventory and ensuring that tool control documentation is immediately updated. Prior to
     CTK use, ensure the applicable support data in TCMAX (or other software) is updated to
     reflect the change in responsibility.
     6.4. All CTKs with lockable wheels shall have the wheels locked after repositioning. The
     contractors will secure CTKs with un-lockable wheels to prevent rolling or tipping hazards.
     Do not secure to aircraft, AGE, or vehicles.
     6.5. Contractors will lock dispatched CTKs to prevent unauthorized or cross contamination
     of tools whenever the CTK is not in use. Contractors are also required to secure equipment
     designated as TMDE, large special purpose tools, fixtures and jigs. If these items are too
     large to be stored in a CTK, then contractors must secure the items in some way to prevent
     unauthorized access.
     6.6. If the contractor is unable to lock up special CTKs, unique tools, Technical Orders
     (TOs), or other support equipment items, they will make every effort to secure or close the
     item(s) when not in use.
7. Unique/Special Tools and Equipment:
     7.1. The contractor will designate special tools or equipment (i.e., Johnson bars, jacking pad
     set, etc.) or small tool sets issued in COTS containers (i.e., jack pad kits, tire inflator kits, job
     guide boxes, hex driver sets) as a CTK and issue independent EIDs to them. The contractor
     can issue some kits as a sub-item to a CTK and the name/number of separate pieces and
     include them on the appropriate MIL.
     7.2. The contractor will tag, label, or mark special tools not designated or assigned to a CTK
     with a current EID. They will attach an inventory list to the special equipment (typically
     attached to the item or written on the case) to allow inventory by the user at the job site (i.e.,
     torque wrench with case).
     7.3. Special tools with multiple pieces that remain assembled during storage and usage (i.e.,
     inventories, flashlights, headsets, and communication cords) do not require attached
     inventory lists. The contractor will also list dust caps, even if attached by lanyards.
     7.4. The contractor will assign an EID to Electronic devices (e-tools, multi-meters, test
     equipment etc.) and control the items using TCMAX (or other software).
     7.5. Radio/laptop batteries are considered consumable. The contractor will mark batteries
     not tracked in TCMAX (or other software) as part of the original unit assigned to the
     section/work center.
     7.6. The contractor will store maintenance computers (TCMAX, technical order, portable
     computers, palm pilots, etc.) utilizing a method that ensures access to software updates.
     Units with more computers than update stations must ensure a rotation cycle is established to
     ensure they receive updates. Computers shall not remain out of the rotation cycle more than
     2 duty days. The contractor will store these computers without anyone logged in. The 45
     SW COR and its contractors will ensure these computers remain connected to the local area
     network to ensure software updates are accomplished by network administrators.
45SWI21-101 30 JANUARY 2014                                                                     7


8. Lost Tool/Object Procedures:
   8.1. TCMAX (or other software) generated reports or AFRC Form 174, Lost Tool/Object
   Report will be completed for each lost tool or object unless the item is recovered within one
   hour. The CTK custodian shall maintain a hard copy of the AFRC Form 174. Destroy the
   report after one year. File “recovered” and “not recovered” copies of paperwork separately.
   8.2. If an item is lost, the person to whom the tool or object was issued to must search the
   immediate work area for the item. After a thorough search, initiate an AFRC Form 174. The
   FOD Prevention Program Manager will issue a control number for the lost tool/object report.
   The section supervisors/shift leads shall ensure a thorough search is conducted to include
   utilizing x-ray, bore scope, and other state-of-the-art equipment to locate tools or objects in
   inaccessible areas if required.
   8.3. If a lost tool report is generated, the contractor shall notify the 45 OSS COR. The COR
   will in-turn notify the 45 OSS/CC. If the lost tool impacts the mission, such as a departure
   delay, immediately notify the 45 OG/CC (MXG/CC equivalent).
   8.4. Quality Assurance (QA) shall ensure that an AFRC Form 174 tracking log is maintained
   to control and track all lost tool reports.
   8.5. If the contractor cannot recover a lost item after search, immediately place a Red X in
   the aircraft or equipment forms with a description of the lost tool and last known location. A
   copy of the completed report is given to QA and the wing FOD Prevention Program
   Manager. The contractor will complete the forms to declare the missing tool (Ref: AFI 21-
   101, paragraph 10.8).
   8.6. QA shall segregate completed AFRC Form 174s, “recovered” and “not recovered.” The
   contractor and the COR will maintain these forms on file for 1 year.
   8.7. Limit authorization to clear red Xs for lost tools to no lower than Operations Officer/
   Maintenance superintendent or equivalent.
9. Lost Tool/Object Procedures for Taxied Aircraft:
   9.1. The Maintenance Flight Chief (or equivalent contractor supervisor) shall ensure an
   AFRC Form 174 is accomplished and shall maintain on file for trend history.
   9.2. If a tool or object is discovered missing and the affected aircraft has taxied, the
   following procedures to hold or recall the aircraft are followed:
      9.2.1. The person making the discovery shall immediately notify 45 OSS Airfield
      Management Operations through the most expedient means possible. Additional
      notifications are made to the work center supervisor, and 45 OSS COR.
      9.2.2. 45 OSS Airfield Management Operations shall notify the Command Post and
      Control Tower. The Control Tower shall instruct the aircrew to hold or return to the
      designated parking ramp. If the aircraft is airborne at the time of notification, the air
      traffic controllers will direct the aircraft to return to base with minimal maneuvering.
      9.2.3. Once the aircraft lands, initiate the Lost Tool/Object investigation report.
8                                                           45SWI21-101 30 JANUARY 2014


10. Procedures for the Replacement of Expendable, Consumable, Common and
Warranted Hand Tools, HAZMATs, and Other Items Contained in CTKs:
    10.1. Storing expendable, consumable, bench stock, and replacement tools can potentially
    weaken the FOD prevention aspect of the CTK program. CTK custodians must manage
    these items to ensure positive control. The contractor will keep replacement expendables,
    consumables, and bench stock in a separate cabinet labeled “expendables/consumables or
    bench stock.” Inventory and Lost Tool procedures shall apply to consumable/expendable
    items as they do for tools and equipment.
    10.2. The contractor shall replace all consumed expendables, consumables, common
    warranted tools, and hazmat items. The contractor will identify the replacement items with
    proper etching or marking, as appropriate. If the replacement item is not available, tool
    custodians shall annotate the item as ‘removed’ on the MIL.
    10.3. The contractor will label HAZMAT containers according to directives in AFOSH
    Standard 161-21, Hazard Communication, paragraphs d(1), d(3) and 8(a).
    10.4. The contractor will replace all tools under warranty with another like warranted tool.
    Tool custodians shall follow the warranted tool replacement procedures IAW vendor
    requirements.
    10.5. CTK custodians shall establish controls to ensure damaged/unserviceable tools are de-
    etched, secured, and accounted for until processed for disposal or turn-in.




                                            NINA M. ARMAGNO, Brigadier General, USAF
                                            Commander
45SWI21-101 30 JANUARY 2014                                                                    9


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-403, USAF Mobility Planning, 20 Sep 2012
AFI 21-101, Maintenance Management of Aircraft, 26 Jul 2010
AFI 21-101, AMCSUP1, MAF Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management, 14 Feb 2011
AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey For Air Force Property, 1 Jul 1996
AFI 24-302, Vehicle Management, 26 Jun 2012
AFMAN 91-201, Explosive Safety Standard, 12 Jan 2011
AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, 27 Jan 2014,
TO 32-1-101, Maintenance and Care of Hand Tools, 9 Aug 2010,
TO 34-1-3, Inspection and Maintenance of Machinery and Shop Equipment, 11 Sep 2006,
TO 00-20-1, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Inspection, Documentation, 15 Jun 2013,,
Policies and Procedures
TO 00-25-245, Operating Instructions, Testing and Inspection Procedures for Personnel Safety
and Rescue Equipment, 10 Aug 2013

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFTO—Air Force Technical Order
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety & Health
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
CA/CRL—Assigned/Controlled Equipment Account List
CDDAR—Crash Damaged or Disabled Aircraft Recovery
COR—Contracting Officer Representative
CTK—Consolidated Tool Kits
EID—Equipment Identification Number
FOD—Foreign Object Damage
HAZMAT—Hazardous Materials
MIL—Master Inventory List
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
NCO—Non Commissioned Officer
OI—Operating Instruction
 10                                           45SWI21-101 30 JANUARY 2014


QA—Quality Assurance
SW—45th Space Wing
TA—Transient Alert
TAS—Tool Accountability System
TCMAX—Tool Control System/Software
T.O.—Technical Orders/COTS Manuals
TMDE—Test Measure and Diagnostics Equipment
VID—Visual Identifier
WWID—World Wide Identification Designator
