BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  45TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 48-102
45TH SPACE WING                                                                         1 OCTOBER 2005

                                                                                      Aerospace Medicine

                                                                     ZOONOTIC DISEASE CONTROL
                                                                     AND HUMANE CARE PROGRAM



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 45 MDG/SGV (Major Astrid J. Miranda)                                        Certified by: 45 SVS/CC
                                                                              (Lt Col Mark C. McCullohs)
Supersedes 45SWI48-102, 3 December 1995                                                            Pages: 3
                                                                                            Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program. It sets forth the procedures for the
control of animal diseases transmissible to humans (zoonosis) and the humane care of privately-owned
animals maintained on Patrick AFB. It applies to all domestic pet owners and to persons bringing any ani-
mals onto Patrick AFB.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision aligns this instruction with AFJI 48-131, Veterinary Health Services. It also clarifies proce-
dures and provides more detailed guidance for all domestic pet owners and to persons bringing any ani-
mals onto Patrick AFB. A bar (|) indicates revision from the previous edition.


1. General.
   1.1. All animals maintained on the installation will be treated in a humane manner.
   1.2. All animals belonging to individuals residing on Patrick AFB are subject to examination and reg-
   istration with the base veterinarian within 10 days of arrival or by 4 months of age. Owners will show
   proof of current vaccination or will have their animals vaccinated at that time.
   1.3. Privately-owned domestic pets (cats, dogs, caged birds, fish) may be maintained on base. The
   45th Mission Support Group Commander must approve species other than cats, dogs, caged birds, or
   fish.
   1.4. Medical Services personnel will immediately notify the Public Health Flight of any diagnosed
   condition suspected of being of a zoonotic origin.
   1.5. During the annual pet examination, animals will be checked for evidence of infectious or conta-
   gious disease transmissible to humans or other animals. On completion of examination and required
2                                                                     45SWI48-102 1 OCTOBER 2005


    immunizations, a current rabies vaccination certificate will be issued if the pet was vaccinated for
    rabies.

2. Animals on Base.
    2.1. All dogs and cats residing on Patrick AFB are required to have rabies vaccinations in accordance
    with county requirements.
    2.2. Dogs are required to be vaccinated in accordance with current guidelines against distemper,
    parvo, adenovirus 2, parainfluenza, bordetella, and leptospirosis. Dogs must be tested for heartworm
    infection annually and placed on heartworm prevention medication if the dog tested positive for heart-
    worms.
    2.3. Cats are required to be vaccinated in accordance with current guidelines against distemper, upper
    respiratory infections, and feline leukemia (if outside cats).
    2.4. If a civilian veterinarian vaccinates an animal belonging to a person residing on Patrick AFB for
    rabies, the owner must present proof of vaccination to the base veterinarian within 10 days to register
    the animal on base.

3. Environmental Sanitation.
    3.1. The feces of all pets will be picked up daily and removed from the premises by either flushing
    down the toilet, or being placed in a closed container inside the trash. The feces will not be dissolved
    into the soil by hosing with water.
    3.2. It is the responsibility of the owner to pick up and dispose of all pet feces, which are eliminated
    while the animal is being exercised.

4. Medical Procedures.
    4.1. All animals diagnosed by the attending veterinarian as having a zoonotic disease will be reported,
    if deemed necessary, to the owner's family physician or, in their absence, to the Chief, Flight Medi-
    cine. The physician will advise the owner of the affected animal if any human treatment is appropriate
    for the owner or family members.
    4.2. The attending veterinarian will instruct the owner in procedures necessary to prevent transmis-
    sion of the disease to humans.

5. Isolation of Animals Infected With Zoonotic Diseases.
    5.1. If necessary, the attending veterinarian will direct an animal be quarantined while it has a
    zoonotic disease. The attending veterinarian determines the duration, place, and conditions of the
    quarantine.
    5.2. Ineffective home quarantine may cause the installation commander, on the recommendation of
    the attending veterinarian, to order the affected animal be removed from Patrick AFB.

6. Disease Surveys. The base veterinarian will conduct necessary surveys to detect disease in domestic
and wild animals.
45SWI48-102 1 OCTOBER 2005                                                                               3


7. Eradication Procedures. The control of animals, disease reservoirs, and disease vectors will be coor-
dinated and directed by the installation commander and accomplished by the security police, the base
medical services, local and county public health departments, or state and federal agencies. Coordination
with these specific agencies will be prior to the implementation of any special eradication program.

8. Humane Care of Animals.
   8.1. All privately-owned pets will be maintained and treated in a humane manner. It is the responsi-
   bility of the owner to adequately house, feed, water and care for the pets.
   8.2. The security police will investigate dog bites or dog attacks; the Brevard County Animal Control
   division will investigate all other instances involving animal mistreatment. Brevard County Animal
   Control may require an owner to have an animal immediately evaluated for mistreatment by the veter-
   inarian of the owner’s choice. The owner is responsible for retaining and paying the veterinarian.
   Brevard County Animal Control may cite the owner for mistreating their animal or may refer cases of
   criminal abuse to the State Attorney’s office for prosecution.
       8.2.1. An owner will be given one opportunity to correct the care or treatment of the animal if they
       were cited for mistreatment of an animal. The owner will schedule the animal for a follow-up visit
       with the attending veterinarian. The follow-up appointment will be completed within 10 days after
       the original complaint. If improvement is not noted due to owner negligence, the Army veterinar-
       ian assigned to Patrick AFB will recommend to the installation commander that the animal be
       removed from Patrick AFB to one of the Brevard County shelters and the owner be prohibited
       from keeping any animal on Patrick AFB. Failure to bring the animal in for the scheduled appoint-
       ment will be considered sufficient grounds for the same action.
   8.3. Animals will not be left unattended in a vehicle for any reason. As deemed necessary, a DD Form
   1569, Incident Report, will be completed on the incident and forwarded for proper disposition. A
   second citation will call for appropriate action by the installation commander. Vehicles used as tempo-
   rary living facilities (recreation vehicles) are an exception, as long as the animal is maintained in a
   humane manner.
   8.4. Personnel departing on leave or TDY will ensure that proper arrangements are made for the
   humane care of pets during their periods of absence. This will include the proper exercising of pets
   and ensuring they do not create a nuisance.

9. Animal Population Density.
   9.1. Due to the size and closeness of family housing, no military member will keep more than two
   pets (dogs, cats, birds) in government quarters. In the case of fish, each tank, with as many fish as it
   can maintain in a healthy condition, will be considered one pet.
   9.2. No person will maintain or operate a commercial (for profit) kennel or boarding facility on base.
   9.3. Female animals with litters will be an exception to paragraph 9.1. for a period of 3 months after
   giving birth. After that date, paragraph 9.1. will apply.



                                               MARK H. OWEN, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander
