BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         45TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 10-601
45TH SPACE WING
                                                                                   1 JULY 2014

                                                                                     Operations

                                                      ACCEPTANCE OF NEW WORKLOADS



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing web site at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 45 SW/XPR                                                           Certified by: 45 SW/XP
                                                                           (Mr. Thomas A. Eye)
Supersedes:   45 SWI 10-601,                                                            Pages: 10
              15 November 2004


This instruction establishes 45th Space Wing (45 SW) policies, assigns responsibilities, and
describes procedures for review and acceptance of new workloads. It applies to all organizations
of the 45 SW providing support to users. All records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records Disposition Schedule

(RDS) . Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision updates organizational titles, office symbols, and other references; adds Launch
Site Integration Manager (LSIM) responsibilities; revises several definitions and deletes others;
revises 45 SW Plans and Programs (45 SW/XP) signature authority to accept new workloads;
adds Range Support policy guidance for 45 SW Users; updates the 45 Comptroller Squadron (45
CPTS) responsibilities, and adds sections on 45 SW/XP’s interaction with the State of Florida
and on the requirement for commercial Range requesters to sign a Commercial Space Operations
Support Agreement (CSOSA) and CSOSA Annex.
 2                                                                   45SWI10-601 1 JULY 2014



1. Definitions.
     1.1. New Workload.
        1.1.1. Any activity not previously accepted by the 45 SW which requires wing support
        and commitment or expenditure of 45 SW resources.
        1.1.2. Any activity changing a previously accepted workload to require a $500,000
        increase in resources or a significant reevaluation of the 45 SW wing support effort.
     1.2. Range Workload. An Eastern Range (ER) support workload that is normally
     documented in the Universal Documentation System (UDS) using the appropriate structure
     outlined in 45 SW Instruction (45 SWI) 99-101, 45th Space Wing Mission Program
     Documents. This includes those workloads primarily associated with launch vehicles,
     spacecraft, or other programs that must interface with range operational assets.
     1.3. Non-Range Workload. A workload that is not typically documented in the UDS and
     either has no or very minimal direct interface with range operational assets.
     1.4. 45th Space Wing (45 SW) User. Any Department of Defense (DoD) organization;
     other federal agency; or non-federal agency (state or local government agency; civic, private,
     or commercial organization; or foreign government) program approved by 45 SW/CC, or a
     designated representative, who uses wing facilities or resources. Range-specific support is
     recorded via the UDS or other wing-accepted method such as a mission or support
     agreement. A 45 SW User using range resources is termed a Range User. Related
     reimbursement policies are contained in DoD 7000.14-R, Volume 11A, DoD Financial
     Management Regulation, Reimbursable Operations Policy and Procedures, Chapter 12,
     Major Range and Test Facilities, Chapter 13, DoD Support to United States Commercial
     Space Activities and 45 SWI 65-601, Reimbursement Policy.
     1.5. Range User. Any Department of Defense (DoD) organization; other federal agency; or
     non-federal agency (state or local government agency; civic, private, or commercial
     organization; or foreign government) program approved by 45 SW/CC, or a designated
     representative, who uses Range facilities or resources. Range-specific support is recorded
     via the UDS or other wing-accepted method such as a mission or support agreement. Related
     reimbursement policies are contained in DoD 7000.14-R, Volume 11A, DoD Financial
     Management Regulation, Reimbursable Operations Policy and Procedures, Chapter 12,
     Major Range and Test Facilities, Chapter 13, DoD Support to United States Commercial
     Space Activities and 45 SWI 65-601, Reimbursement Policy.
     1.6. Requester. There are two types of requesters. One type is a potential 45 SW User who
     is in the process of soliciting initial wing support but has not been formally approved yet.
     The other type is a current 45 SW User who is requesting additional support meeting the
     criteria of a “new workload” that hasn’t been approved yet. Once a Statement of Capability
     (SC) or other approval letter is awarded by the wing, the Requester can be considered a User
     for the workload in question.
     1.7. Transient Operations. 45 SW Users with operations requirements that are brief in
     duration and require only minimal process applications and short periods of wing support.
     An example would be transient air operations or military units staging from the base.
45SWI10-601 1 JULY 2014                                                                        3


  1.8. Tenant. A unit using 45 SW base support services, facilities, or logistic services from
  the 45 SW for a year or longer. 45 SW/XP is the wing OPR for potential tenants and will
  normally work these requests via the Air Force strategic basing process, per AFI 10-503,
  Strategic Basing, and document support provided in a support agreement.
  1.9. Wing Planning Specialist (WPS). The WPS is the Requester’s initial point of contact
  at the 45 SW’s Eastern Range for new Range workloads and/or other assigned programs.
  The WPS is the wing lead for facilitating all the Requesters’ initial planning support, ensures
  Requesters’ awareness of applicable Air Force guidance/policies, receives their initial
  requirements, and assists Requesters in accessing 45 SW resources until accepted as a Range
  User.
  1.10. Launch Site Integration Manager (LSIM). The 45th Launch Group in accordance
  with Air Force Space Command Instruction (AFSPCI) 10-1215 shall designate a LSIM who
  will serve as the User’s primary interface for Space Vehicle (SV) and Launch Vehicle (LV)
  processing and SV facility requirements. The LSIM provides and coordinates mission
  planning, ER and wing operational support planning, and interacts with the WPS and
  Program Support Manager (PSM) during the Program Introduction (PI) phase and is the
  User’s primary SV and LV processing interface after issuance of the Statement of Capability
  (SC). The LSIM ensures User’s questions are answered and requirements are met in a timely
  manner, provides the User efficient and effective options for utilizing 45 SW and supporting
  commercial processing facility utilization, and monitors planning and execution of User
  activities to include site activation, flight hardware receipt, vehicle processing and launch
  activities. In addition, the LSIM performs SV and LV mission assurance as requested by the
  User, and performs risk-based assessments of vehicle processing activities and launch
  readiness to both the User and 45 SW leadership – including potential impacts to 45 SW
  facilities and infrastructure.
  1.11. Program Support Manager (PSM). The 45th Operations Group, in accordance with
  AFSPCI 10-1215, shall designate a PSM who will serve as the User’s primary interface for
  Range requirements. The PSM participates in mission planning, oversees ER and operational
  support planning for range requirements, and interacts with WPS and LSIM during the PI
  Phase. The 1 ROPS will manage and facilitate the User through the UDS process, to include
  User training and assistance. The 1 ROPS ensures User requirements accurately translate into
  UDS requirements, ensures the User develops an effective and executable schedule, de-
  conflicts range operations with other 45 SW users, ensures proper scheduling of processing
  and launch range activities, coordinates the employment of Range instrumentation and
  facilities, and coordinates the acquisition, modifications and deployment of Range systems in
  support of User requirements.
  1.12. Program Analyst. Serves as the primary customer point of contact (POC) and acts as
  liaison between the customer and 45th SW for all financial issues/questions/concerns.
  1.13. Program Introduction (PI). The PI is the UDS initial statement of program support
  requirements and is the official document prepared by the Requester to introduce a new
  Range workload. This document will include the Requester’s initial understanding of
  support requirements including test and evaluation of specific systems, sub-systems, and
  equipment. For programs requiring limited support, a simple letter PI may serve as the initial
  statement of support requirements.
 4                                                                   45SWI10-601 1 JULY 2014


     1.14. Statement of Capability (SC). The SC is the UDS response to the PI and is the 45
     SW’s conditional acceptance of a new Range workload subject to working through future
     requirement approvals. The SC may also provide the User with a preliminary cost estimate
     or rough order of magnitude (ROM) cost, identify second- or third-level documentation
     which must be provided, and lay out conditions that further wing support is contingent upon.
     For programs that submitted a letter PI, a letter SC will document the acceptance rather than
     the usual UDS SC.
     1.15. Job Order Number (JON). A cost accumulation number is issued by the 45 SW to
     track reimbursable costs to be billed to Users. JONs are also used to track selected non-
     reimbursable costs by program.
     1.16. Job Order Manager (JOM). The JOM is the budget analyst that is assigned to
     manage and track expenses for the assigned JON. The JOM will interface with the Users to
     ensure their JON is appropriately funded each year to cover reimbursable expenses and will
     provide the User with an accounting of their expenses.
     1.17. Federal Agency. Any agency of the federal government (DoD, Department of
     Homeland Security (DHS), Department of State (DoS), NASA, etc.).
     1.18. Non-Federal Agency. Any state or local government, foreign government, civic,
     private or commercial entity.
     1.19. Range Support. Any service and/or support provided by the space wing to Range
     Users, including federal and non-federal Range Users.
2. Policy.
     2.1. New workload requests will be initially referred to the Wing Plans and Programs Office
     (45 SW/XP) as the “Front Door” of the wing (Figure 1). Because of their operational
     authorities day-to-day, the following organizations will normally oversee transient
     operations. However, 45 SW/XP should be notified if transient operations grow to require
     significant wing support
        2.1.1. The 45 Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS) will be the initial POC and
        coordinating agency within the 45 SW for transient operations at Patrick AFB (PAFB).
        2.1.2. 45 SW/XP will coordinate CCAFS transient operation requests with appropriate
        CCAFS units, with coordination from 45 Mission Support Group, Detachment
        Commander (45 MSG, Det 1).
        2.1.3. 45 Operations Support Squadron (OSS) will be the initial POC and coordinating
        agency within the 45 SW for transient aircraft operations at PAFB or CCAFS or utilizing
        our airspace.
     2.2. 45 SW/XP will perform an initial review of new workload requests to determine the
     need for drafting new wing agreements, updating current agreements, or initiating the Air
     Force strategic basing process if the Requester may also be considered a potential tenant. For
     more information on tenants and the basing process, reference AFI 10-503, Strategic Basing.
     Further information on base support agreements for tenants can be found in 45 SWI 25-203,
     45 Space Wing Support Agreements Program.
45SWI10-601 1 JULY 2014                                                                        5


  2.3. 45 SW/XP will validate the 45 SW’s authority to provide support and determine the
  applicability and impacts of policies, treaties, or international agreements on new workload
  requests.
  2.4. After initial review, if 45 SW/XP believes that a new workload falls predominately
  within the area of responsibility of another organization, then 45 SW/XP will request senior
  leadership assign responsibility to the appropriate group. 45 SW/XP will request an
  organization point of contact from the group that will be responsible for initial planning,
  coordination, and implementation and ensure the new workload is transitioned orderly. The
  responsible organization is typically the organization that will provide the majority of
  support. Examples of new workloads that would fall outside of 45 SW/XP’s responsibility
  are those associated with transient operations, most airfield activities, community support,
  morale and welfare, private organizations, public affairs, or protocol events.
  2.5. 45 SW/XP will serve as the initial wing point of contact for all new Range workloads
  (generally those associated with launch programs, spacecraft programs, Range technology
  programs, weapons technology programs, etc), and also for most other test and evaluation
  (T&E) workloads that do not require much interface with Range operational assets. 45
  SW/XP will normally appoint a WPS as a POC to be the single interface with the Requestor
  of these workloads.
     2.5.1. For large, complex, or unique programs requiring substantial interface with Range
     operational assets, a concise Program Introduction (PI) will be required from the
     Requester. The PI serves as this Requester’s initial formal request to the wing.
     2.5.2. For other programs requiring minimal interface with Range operational assets, or
     T&E workloads requiring little to no Range interface, a one to two page letter PI will
     suffice.
     2.5.3. For either a PI or letter PI, the wing will have one of three responses: A full SC, a
     letter SC, or a letter stating the wing cannot support the request.
  2.6. Prior to acceptance, all requests for support of new Range workloads will be staffed by
  45 SW/XP, reviewed by applicable 45 SW offices, and evaluated by the affected wing
  organizations for their ability to support. The cost of the review and evaluation effort will
  normally be tracked for reimbursement and charged to a JON established for the Requestor.
  Some preliminary meetings with prospective Users may not be charged. 45 SW/XP will
  identify these events as chargeable to wing overhead JONs.
  2.7. The 45 SW will not provide support for a new workload prior to the receipt of funding,
  except as follows:
     2.7.1. Community support, morale and welfare, private organizations, public affairs, or
     protocol events.
     2.7.2. Higher headquarters-directed support for which billing instructions have been
     issued.
     2.7.3. Initial discussions and pre-PI meetings with potential Range Users for the purpose
     of determining if the wing will consider supporting the new workload.
     2.7.4. Range Safety feasibility meetings.
6                                                                   45SWI10-601 1 JULY 2014


       2.7.5. Activities already covered by existing agreements that do not require commitment
       of new or additional wing resources.
       2.7.6. On an individual case-by-case basis, when approved by 45 SW/CC or 45 SW/XP.
    2.8. Acceptance of new workloads must be approved by 45 SW/CC, with the exception that
    the Director of Wing Plans and Programs (45 SW/XP), can accept new workloads that do not
    require significant unreimbursed commitment of resources for periods not to exceed one year
    and $250,000 in estimated cost. New workloads accepted by 45 SW/XP must be
    appropriately coordinated with other affected wing organizations. 45 SW/XP will keep wing
    leadership advised on new workload commitments or issues.
    2.9. Range Support.
       2.9.1. Range Support policy will be managed by 45 SW/XP.
       2.9.2. Range Support requested by 45 SW Users must comply with the following:
           2.9.2.1. Mandatory Wing Support. The 45 SW shall be the exclusive source of
           support when:
              2.9.2.1.1. Required by statute, regulation, or instruction.
              2.9.2.1.2. Impacting public safety or neighboring personnel, unless the 45 SW
              agrees to non-wing sources (e.g., pressure vessel certification for storage of
              hypergols).
              2.9.2.1.3. Armed security is required.
              2.9.2.1.4. Emergency response services are required.
              2.9.2.1.5. Common-user infrastructure (e.g., water, communications, timing)
              under the 45 SW's ownership and configuration control is required.
              2.9.2.1.6. Federal Range Users. The 45 SW will make its current support service
              capabilities (e.g., airfield services, fire protection, facility maintenance,
              communications network, etc.) available to Range Users and can entertain
              increases in scope of contracted capabilities to meet Range User needs. However,
              the 45 SW cannot provide support where prohibited or in conflict with lease
              agreements or other higher-level guidance or documents taking precedence over
              this instruction.
              2.9.2.1.7. Other services determined as mandatory at the direction of 45
              SW/CC or authority as delegated by 45 SW/CC.
           2.9.2.2. Non-Federal Range Users. The 45 SW can only provide range support
           where non-federal Range Users certify that substantially equivalent support is not
           available from domestic commercial/spaceport sources on reasonable terms. Factors
           such as price, quality, availability, and schedule may be considered when determining
           whether a service is substantially equivalent. Further, the 45 SW can only provide
           support to non-federal Users if excess capacity exists at the wing.
              2.9.2.2.1. Domestic sources of support may include 45 SW contractors providing
              support outside the terms of a 45 SW contract (e.g., through a separate contract
              arrangement with range customers). However, when the 45 SW contractor, as a
45SWI10-601 1 JULY 2014                                                                          7


             domestic source, is going to use government-furnished property/equipment in
             providing support, government Contracting Officer (CO) approval is required.
             Obtaining CO approval is the responsibility of the government contractor.
             2.9.2.2.2. Any support to non-federal Range Users will be provided from space
             wing capabilities maintained to support DoD missions and will only be made
             available on a reimbursable basis and if the particular service/property is not
             otherwise needed to support the DoD mission. The wing shall not maintain any
             capabilities solely to meet the requirements of non-federal Range Users.
             2.9.2.2.3. Support requests from non-federal users must first be submitted to and
             approved by 45 SW/XP to ensure compliance with this policy before other wing
             offices commit to providing such support.

Figure 1. Wing “Front Door” Process




3. Responsibilities and Procedures.
   3.1. The 45 SW/XP Office will:
      3.1.1. Be the initial point of contact for new workloads except for workloads described in
      paragraphs 2.1.1-3.
      3.1.2. Appoint a WPS for launch programs, spacecraft programs, Range technology
      programs, weapons technology programs, and/or related T&E program workloads.
      3.1.3. Ensure a non-federal Range Requester has a Commercial Space Operations
      Support Agreement (CSOSA) with HQ AFSPC/A3, submits a copy to 45 SW/XP, and
      signs a CSOSA Annex with 45 SW/CC.
      3.1.4. In addition, ensure Range Requesters provide initial funding or a letter of credit, in
      an amount as determined by 45 SW/XP to 45 CPTS for planning and processing the new
      workload.
8                                                             45SWI10-601 1 JULY 2014


    3.1.5. For federal Range Requesters, ensure they initiate UDS process or sign a
    Memorandum of Agreement, Support Agreement or similar mission agreement with the
    45 SW/CC or designee for support.
    3.1.6. Ensure that a non-federal Requester submits a PI to 45 SW/XP, if applicable, and
    also provides a written statement that no domestic source can reasonably provide
    substantially equivalent support.
    3.1.7. Request establishment of a Job Order Number (JON) from 45 CPTS to track
    reimbursable costs, and assign a Job Order Manager (JOM). Institutional (non-
    reimbursable) JONs can be requested to support tracking of 45 SW costs, as desired, and
    for site surveys pertaining to basing actions conducted under AFI 10-503, Strategic
    Basing.
    3.1.8. Request assignment of a POC to support new programs, after a SC is published. It
    will be a PSM from 45 Operations Group (OG) and/or a LSIM from 45 Launch Group
    (LCG) for operations activation and execution, depending on the type of program
    supported.
    3.1.9. Ensure completeness and compatibility of wing organizations’ responses to
    Requester’s initial requirements.
    3.1.10. Staff the PI, consolidate wing organizations’ responses to the Requester’s
    requirements; obtain a rough order of magnitude (ROM) cost range for the SC when
    feasible; prepare, coordinate, and submit the SC or Letter SC, as appropriate, for
    signature to 45 SW/CC or the 45 SW/XP Director, as delegated.
    3.1.11. Provide program transition assistance and copies of all pertinent documents to
    either the 45 MSG Det 1 POC, PSM, LSIM and/or other office of primary responsibility
    (OPR) and JOM. These documents may include, but are not limited to, a copy of the
    JON funding document, the most current cost estimate for the JON, copies of the PI and
    SC (or other requirements and support documents), and User points of contact for
    technical and financial support coordination.
    3.1.12. Serve as the primary wing point of contact with State of Florida space advocacy
    organizations by performing the following:
       3.1.12.1. Upon appropriate determination, refer new commercial space Requesters
       desiring support from the ER to the State early in the pre-PI process. The State
       provides prospective Range Users information on the training, technical support,
       possible financial incentives, and other assistance the State may make available.
       3.1.12.2. As appropriate, the State may perform, and show evidence of, a
       comprehensive due diligence vetting of each new commercial User before that
       program approaches the wing with a formal program briefing or PI.
       3.1.12.3. Along with the 45 LCG and 45 MSG, ensure the State performs their
       responsibilities, as the responsible party, for all prospective commercial Users that
       intend to operate on the State’s AF-leased or licensed properties.
       3.1.12.4. Coordinate with 45 LCG to create a new Annex to the customers
       Commercial Space Operations Support Agreement (CSOSA) or a new appendix to
       the State’s Space Operations Support Agreement (SOSA) Annex for each new
45SWI10-601 1 JULY 2014                                                                       9


        commercial launch vehicle operating at CCAFS. The Annex/appendix formalizes the
        customers’ legal responsibility to the AF with each customer’s launch vehicle
        program operating on CCAFS property.
  3.2. The 45 SW organizational elements and wing contractors within their area of
  responsibility will:
     3.2.1. Upon receipt of an inquiry by a Requester desiring to use or survey 45 SW
     services, facilities, or sites, refer the inquirer to 45 SW/XP for processing in accordance
     with this instruction and AFI 10-503, Strategic Basing. 45 SW/XP will determine if
     exceptions apply.
     3.2.2. Evaluate PIs or letter PIs and provide 45 SW/XP with definitive comments for
     preparation of the SC or Letter SC. Comments should include, at a minimum, a
     statement regarding ability to support. As feasible, organizations may also submit a
     work-hour and services estimate, and a material cost estimate by fiscal year. Include
     comments on deficiencies of support with proposed solutions for each alternative.
     3.2.3. Evaluate all changes in Range Support requirements and refer all increases that
     meet the definition of a new workload to 45 SW/XP.
     3.2.4. Ensure all costs to review and evaluate Range User requirements are identified to
     the applicable JON.
  3.3. 45 CPTS will:
     3.3.1. Provide guidance on the use of User funds to ensure compliance with applicable
     laws, policies and regulatory requirements per 45 SWI 65-601, Reimbursement Policy.
     For UDS Programs managed by 1 ROPS, the Program Analyst will provide guidance to
     their respective customers.
     3.3.2. Provide reimbursement policy, funding procedures, statement of financial
     limitations or funding requirements, if required.
     3.3.3. Upon request from 45 SW/XPR, for new workloads, assign a JON to charge
     planning activities.
     3.3.4. Upon request from 45 SW/XPR, with coordination of the receiving office, reflect
     JOM changes in Comptroller Financial Information System (CFIS) for the activation and
     operations program phases after publication of the SC. UDS workloads are assigned to a
     Program Analyst within the 45 OG, 1 ROPS. Non-UDS workloads are assigned within
     the organization expected to provide the majority of the support.
     3.3.5. Activate JONs when funding is received. The JOM ensures the User’s estimated
     annual support costs are updated at least annually and fully funded prior to the start of a
     new fiscal year.




                                          NINA M. ARMAGNO, Brigadier General, UASF
                                          Commander
 10                                                           45SWI10-601 1 JULY 2014


                                          Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
45 SWI 99-101, 45th Space Wing Mission Program Documents, 20 Apr 12
DoDI 7000.14-R, Department of Defense Financial Management Policy and Procedures, 3 Mar
2006
45 SWI 65-601, Reimbursement Policy, 19 Mar 10
AFI 10-503, Strategic Basing, 27 Sep 10
AFSPCI 10-1215, Support to FAA-Licensed Space Launch Activities, 15 Jun 07
45 SWI 25-203, 45TH Space Wing Support Agreements Program, 16 Dec 11

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CCAFS—Cape Canaveral Air Force Station
CFIS—Comptroller Financial Information System
CO—Contracting Officer
CSOSA—Commercial Space Operations Support Agreement
ER—Eastern Range
JON—Job Order Number
LSIM—Launch Site Integration Manager
LV—Launch Vehicle
PAFB—Patrick Air Force Base
PI—Program Introduction
POC—Point of Contact
PSM—Program Support Manager
ROM—Rough order of magnitude
SC—Statement of Capability
SV—Space Vehicle
T&E—Test and evaluation
UDS—Universal Documentation System
WPS—Wing Planning Specialist
