BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                45TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 38-203
                                                                                  1 SEPTEMBER 2007

                                                                           Manpower and Organization

                                                                MOST EFFICIENT ORGANIZATION
                                                                                MANAGEMENT



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 45 MSS/MOF                                       Certified by: 45MSS/MOF (Mr. Thomas Andler)
                                                                                       Pages: 14

This instruction prescribes responsibilities, and procedures for changing a Statement of Work (SOW)/Per-
formance Work Statement (PWS), Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP), MEO Management
Plan(MP)/Technical Performance Plan (TPP), for improving a Most Efficient Organization (MEO); and
documenting growth/reductions of an MEO. The governing directives are OMB Circular A-76 (Perfor-
mance of Commercial Activities) and AFI 38-203, Commercial Activities Program. These publications
take precedence over this instruction.


1. Roles and Responsibilities. The following is a list of responsibilities for personnel involved with an
MEO.
   1.1. Wing Leadership.
       1.1.1. Must ensure the MEO is provided with the resources and support necessary for successful
       accomplishment of the workload in the SOW/PWS.
       1.1.2. The MEO must be treated like a contractor. If an increase in service above the current
       SOW/PWS is requested, manpower and/or dollars must be provided to the MEO to offset the
       increase in workload prior to the change being implemented/approved. If resources are not pro-
       vided, the change cannot be implemented and must be disapproved. The resources may come from
       within the MEO if a corresponding change to lessen workload in another area of the MEO results
       in sufficient resources to offset the increased requirement.
   1.2. Functional Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR ). This role is normally held by the Unit
   Commander or appointed official.
       1.2.1. Must ensure the MEO is provided with the resources and support necessary for successful
       accomplishment of workload in the SOW/PWS.
       1.2.2. The MEO must be treated like a contractor. If an increase in service above the current
       SOW/PWS is requested, manpower and/or dollars must be provided to the MEO to offset the
2                                                                 45SWI38-203 1 SEPTEMBER 2007


       increase in workload prior to the change being implemented/approved. If resources are not pro-
       vided, the change cannot be implemented and must be disapproved. The resources may come from
       within the MEO if a corresponding change to lessen workload in another area of the MEO results
       in sufficient resources to offset the increased requirement.
       1.2.3. Shall track, coordinate and document all SOW/PWS MEO changes.
       1.2.4. The Functional OPR and 45 MSS/MOF may create a steering group to oversee and advise
       on complex MEO issues. If created, the steering group chaired by 45 MSS/MOF, will consist of,
       but not limited to, MEO manager, Functional OPR, Comptroller Flight (CPTF), Civilian Person-
       nel (DPC), Contracting (LGC), Quality Assurance Evaluator (QAE), and Judge Advocate (JA).
    1.3. MEO Manager.
       1.3.1. Track, coordinate and document all SOW/PWS/MP/TPP changes.
       1.3.2. Request assistance from CPTF and MOF for costing changes and/or advisory services.
       1.3.3. Check feasibility of implementing changes with DPC, CPTF and MOF as appropriate prior
       to implementing the changes.
       1.3.4. Track MEO internal Quality Plan (QP) self-inspections of the MEO and maintain QP doc-
       umentation.
       1.3.5. Brief Functional OPR and QAE monthly (more often as needed) on MEO issues pertaining
       to the contract.
       1.3.6. Maintain all MEO documentation for the life of the MEO and any additional extensions.
       Documentation includes, but is not limited to, QP inspections and reports, functional OPR
       monthly briefing slides with agenda and record of attendance, all SOW/PWS change documenta-
       tion, and all MEO MP/TPP change requests.
       1.3.7. The MEO manager shall provide to the MOF actual dollars expended on the MEO each
       quarter, complete the spreadsheets in the MEO tracking Tool provided by HQ AFSPC/A1M out-
       lining the costs (personnel, supplies, equipment), generate reports from the data. These reports are
       due to the MOF on the 10th of the month following the quarter.
       1.3.8. The MEO manager shall track all manpower; personnel and dollars utilized by the MEO to
       ensure all expenditures are within MEO limits.
    1.4. Quality Assurance Evaluator (QAE).
       1.4.1. Conduct QASP inspections on the MEO and maintain documentation on corrective
       actions..
       1.4.2. Initiate, track, coordinate and document all QASP changes.
       1.4.3. Use ACTT v1.1 tool dated 31 May 2006 or latest release to track MEO performance, and
       provide 45 MSS/MOF a quarterly report.
       1.4.4. Provide costing assistance to the MEO manager if needed.
    1.5. MEO Customer.
       1.5.1. The MEO must be treated like a contractor. If an increase in service above the current
       SOW/PWS is requested, manpower and/or dollars must be provided to the MEO to offset the
45SWI38-203 1 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                                          3


      increase in workload prior to the change being implemented. If resources are not provided, the
      change cannot be implemented. The resources may come from within the MEO if a corresponding
      change will lessen workload in another area of the MEO. Results must be in sufficient resources to
      offset the increased requirement.
      1.5.2. Requirements beyond the scope of current SOW/PWS will be submitted electronically to
      45 MSS/MOF.
   1.6. Manpower and Organization Flight 45 MSS/MOF).
      1.6.1. Advocate for Air Force funded training quotas’ on A-76 process.
      1.6.2. Provide initial training to key MEO staff and functional OPR on this instruction, A-76
      guidelines, SOW/PWS, and MP/TPP MEO changes and responsibilities. Also provide training for
      key positions upon replacement of personnel. (See Attachment 2 – Training Plan).
      1.6.3. Provide consultant advisory services to the MEO and functional OPR.
      1.6.4. Evaluate SOW/PWS/MP/TPP MEO changes for manpower impacts and compliance with
      AFI 38-203, Commercial Activities Program, and this instruction.
      1.6.5. Maintain a copy of the costing and SOW/PWS/MP/TPP change documentation.
      1.6.6. Update cost changes in COMPARE.
   1.7. Comptroller Flight (CPTF).
      1.7.1. Track MEO costs by performance period and provide reports to MEO manager.
      1.7.2. Provide costing assistance to the Unit Commander, MEO manager, the MOF and the Wing/
      CC in pricing increases/decreases in workload due to potential SOW/PWS changes.
   1.8. Contracting Office (LGC).
      1.8.1. Review SOW/PWS changes for consistency with solicitation. Verify change is within the
      scope of the original solicitation.
      1.8.2. Provide writing assistance on SOW/PWS changes.
   1.9. Judge Advocate (JA).
      1.9.1. Review SOW/PWS changes to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
   1.10. Civilian Personnel (DPC).
      1.10.1. Work with the Unit Commander, MEO manager to resolve personnel issues.
      1.10.2. Assist the MEO in obtaining qualified personnel to staff the MEO.

2. Changes to the SOW/PWS/MP/TPP/QASP. The following outlines requirements to document and
obtain coordination and approval for SOW/PWS/MP/TPP/QASP changes.
   2.1. Identify a potential change. The requirement for a SOW/PWS/MP/TPP change may be identi-
   fied by the functional OPR, the MEO, or by MEO customers and QASP changes may be identified by
   the functional OPR or the QAE.
4                                                                45SWI38-203 1 SEPTEMBER 2007


    2.2. Determine if the proposed change is warranted. The functional OPR and MEO manager (and
    QAE if applicable) must jointly determine if the proposed change is warranted, and complies with
    applicable instructions.
    2.3. Obtain a cost/benefit analysis from MOF and CPTF for the proposed change. MOF and CPTF
    validate any impact on resources (i.e. manpower, dollars, etc). MOF may outline numerous options
    including whether the MEO or the residual organization should perform the proposed work, or not at
    all.
    2.4. The functional OPR must determine where the manpower or dollars will come from in order to
    offset any increases generated by the proposed change. The resources may come from within the
    MEO if a corresponding change to lessen workload in another area of the MEO results in sufficient
    resources to offset the increased requirement. The proposed change will not be approved without
    resources being provided to offset increased workload/cost.
    2.5. The MEO manager submits a staff summary sheet (SSS) for official coordination and approval of
    the proposed change. The SSS requesting the change must be coordinated, as a minimum, through
    CONS, MOF, JA and CPTF with the appropriate functional OPR, 45 SW/CC/CV as the approving
    authority. More functions may be added for coordination as necessary. A courtesy copy of the com-
    pleted SSS will be provided to the applicable QAE. The following information must be included:
       2.5.1. Purpose: Obtain functional OPR approval for change to SOW/PWS and/or MP/TPP (or
       QASP if applicable) and funding.
       2.5.2. Background: Provide an overview of the SOW/PWS and/or MP/TPP (or QASP if applica-
       ble) change. Provide full SOW/PWS and/or MP/TPP (or QASP if applicable) change including
       page, paragraph, and specific wording change on document change request (DCR) as an attach-
       ment. (See Attachment 3 – SOW/PWS change examples)
       2.5.3. Authority Driving Change : Provide change justification/authority (Air Staff, local
       requirement, etc.). New requirements, workload left out of the SOW/PWS and/or MP/TPP (or
       QASP if applicable), work no longer required, and more efficient use of resources are examples of
       additional justification. Identify potential workload and resource impacts. (Note: New require-
       ments levied by Air Staff should include appropriate resources to support workload).
       2.5.4. Resource Impact : The functional OPR must verify the proposed change is warranted,
       complies with applicable instructions, impact on resources and proposes where resources will be
       obtained. Additional resources must correspond to an increase in the SOW/PWS and/or MP/TPP
       (or QASP if applicable) workload. Any increases in manpower or dollars are the responsibility of
       the functional OPR. The functional OPR approves resources to be realigned. Additional resources
       must be identified prior to SOW/PWS and/or MP/TPP (or QASP if applicable) change approval.
       If the functional OPR must obtain approval from a higher authority for realignment of resources,
       the functional OPR will be listed on the SSS as a coordinator and the higher authority will be the
       approver.
       2.5.5. Recommendation: Functional OPR (or higher authority as required) approves proposed
       change to the SOW/PWS and/or MP/TPP (or QASP if applicable) and realignment of resources.
       2.5.6. Tabs: As a minimum, provide a Qualified Adjustment Request (QAR) (at Attachment 3),
       the Document Change Request (at Attachment 3) and all supporting documentation for the
       change as attachments.
45SWI38-203 1 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                                              5


   2.6. Obtain approval. Once approval is obtained from the functional OPR or higher authority, the
   SSS will be returned to MOF, CONS/LGC and CPTF for action. The MOF will update cost changes
   in COMPARE. CPTF will update and track the MEO costs.
   2.7. Realignment of resources. MOF and CPTF will realign resources identified by the functional
   OPR.
   2.8. Modification of the SOW/PWS and/or MP/TPP (or QASP if applicable). The MEO man-
   ager and/or the functional OPR will make the approved changes to the SOW/PWS and/or MP/TPP (or
   QASP if applicable) and provide copies to MOF.
   2.9. The MEO manager will adjust the MEO operations to comply with the updated SOW/PWS and/
   or MP/TPP (or QASP if applicable) and maintain all supporting documentation and provide copies of
   the documentation to MOF, CONS/LGC and CPTF.

3. Improving an MEO. Like any other organization in the Air Force, MEO management is required to
find ways to improve customer service, operations efficiency, and resource utilization. Keep in mind the
MEO in most cases must re-compete at the end of five years. If the MEO finds efficiencies that reduce
required resources, the MEO is authorized to realign those resources to other areas of the MEO that may
not have enough or turn-in the excess resources to the Wing for redistribution to higher priority areas. Any
improvements must be documented with justification for the change explaining the old system, the new
system and savings. These changes must meet union approval and follow all personnel regulations. The
MEO manager and 45 MSS/MOF must maintain copies of the improvement documentation. All improve-
ments must be briefed to the functional OPR and QAE.

4. MEO Growth/Reductions. The following outlines the requirements to document and obtain coordi-
nation and approval for MEO growth and reduction changes.
   4.1. MEO Growth. The MEO may experience a growth in requirements based on level of service or
   changes to an AFI. If a growth in the MEO is required, the following procedures must be accom-
   plished.
       4.1.1. Follow the procedures for making a SOW/PWS/MP/TPP/QASP change identified in para-
       graph 2. of this instruction.
       4.1.2. If growth of the MEO exceeds prescribed limitations identified in AFI 38-203, the MEO
       will be re-competed.
   4.2. MEO Reductions. An MEO is still subject to the same resource constraints as any Air Force
   organization. If a mandatory reduction in manpower or dollars is received for 45th Space Wing, the
   leadership may choose to take a portion of the reduction from an MEO. If a reduction in the MEO is
   required, the following procedures must be accomplished.
       4.2.1. Follow the procedures for making a SOW/PWS/MP/TPP/QASP change identified in para-
       graph 2. of this instruction.
       4.2.2. Identify what services will no longer be accomplished due to the reduction.
       4.2.3. If reductions of the MEO exceeds prescribed limitations identified in AFI 38-203, the MEO
       will be re-competed.
6                                                                   45SWI38-203 1 SEPTEMBER 2007


5. Temporary Increases to the MEO. Temporary increases to the MEO could occur for a variety of
reasons, such as moving the MEO operation temporarily for building renovations. Support of the MEO
for this type of unforeseen circumstance requires less documentation and does not require a change to the
SOW/PWS/MP/TPP. However, documentation is required for audit purposes.
    5.1. State the following minimum requirements in a memorandum:
       5.1.1. Describe the work to be performed and why.
       5.1.2. Identify the resources necessary to accomplish the temporary workload.
       5.1.3. State that it is a one-time requirement and the residual organization is funding the require-
       ment as Government Furnished resources to the MEO.
       5.1.4. Identify from where the resources are to be realigned.
    5.2. The MEO manager, MOF and the functional OPR must maintain copies of the letter. Courtesy
    copies should be forwarded to CPTF and DPC.

6. MEO Termination.
    6.1. MEO Default.
       6.1.1. Default Determination. The MEO will be in default when the cost of the MEO exceeds
       the original MEO cost plus the minimum conversion differential. To determine if the MEO is in
       default, the Post-MEO review authority will use the original final decision CCF, taking into con-
       sideration allowable adjustments, and add the conversion differential to the MEO cost. If the cur-
       rent MEO cost exceeds the result of that calculation, the MEO is in default.
       6.1.2. A-76 Waiver. If the MEO is in default, the default determination will be the basis for an
       A-76 cost comparison waiver. The waiver documentation will be sent to the 9a Authority for
       approval (refer to Attachment 1 paragraph 1.1.). Upon approval of the waiver the contracting
       officer will release a solicitation for private sector competition. Since the MEO is in default, there
       will be no MEO or government in-house cost estimate developed. The functional OPR and the
       contracting officer will immediately design a transition plan to ensure an orderly transition to con-
       tractor performance.
    6.2. Decision to Re-compete. The Wing Commander may choose to re-compete an MEO at any
    time.
       6.2.1. The Wing Commander must have documentation explaining the reasons for re-competing
       early. The MEO manager and the wing MOF must maintain this documentation.
       6.2.2. The Wing Commander can choose to increase the resources allocated to the MEO prior to
       the announcement of the competition if there is sufficient justification. Examples of appropriate
       justification are; the MEO was bid incorrectly or the MEO is no longer believed to be competitive.
       The MEO manager and the MOF must maintain all documentation and back-up.
45SWI38-203 1 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                               7


     6.2.3. The Manpower and Organization Flight, MEO Management, and the Functional OPR must
     begin preliminary planning for strategic sourcing.



                                        SUSAN J. HELMS, Brigadier General, USAF
                                        Commander
8                                                               45SWI38-203 1 SEPTEMBER 2007


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Terms
A1.1. Definitions.—The following are terms used within this instruction.
A1.1.1. 9a Authority.—The authority granted to the Office of the Secretary of Defense in OMB Circular
A-76, section 9a (for DoD).
A1.1.2. CAMIS—Commercial Activities Management Information System
A1.1.3. CCF—Cost Comparison Form
A1.1.4. DPC—Civilian Personnel Office
A1.1.5. DCR—Document Change Request
A1.1.6. FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
A1.1.7. CPTF—Comptroller Flight Commander
A1.1.8. Functional OPR—Functional designated to oversee SOW/PWS.
A1.1.9. JA—Judge Advocate
A1.1.10. MOF—Manpower and Organization Flight
A1.1.11. MEO Manager—Most Efficient Organization Manager/Supervisor
A1.1.12. MEO—Most Efficient Organization.
A1.1.13. MP—Management Plan
A1.1.14. PWS—Performance Work Statement.
A1.1.15. QA—Quality Assurance
A1.1.16. QAE—Quality Assurance Evaluator
A1.1.17. QAR—Qualified Adjustment Request
A1.1.18. QASP—Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan
A1.1.19. SSS—AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet
A1.1.20. SOW—Statement of Work
A1.1.21. COMPARE—DoD Cost Comparison Software.
45SWI38-203 1 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                                      9


                                           Attachment 2

                                     MEO TRAINING PLAN

A2.1. Personnel Requiring Training. As a minimum, the following personnel require MEO training:
   A2.1.1. The 45 SW Leadership.
   A2.1.2. Functional OPR.
   A2.1.3. MEO manager and Key MEO Staff.

A2.2. When Training is Required. MEO training is required when a new MEO is implemented or when
key personnel are replaced.

A2.3. What Training is Required. The minimum training required is as follows:
   A2.3.1. Training on this instruction emphasizing responsibilities, making SOW/PWS changes and
   maintaining documentation.
   A2.3.2. The basic MEO structure and an overview of the SOW/PWS requirements.
   A2.3.3. The MEO QASP inspection and documentation requirements.
   A2.3.4. What services are available through MOF.
   A2.3.5. Emphasize that all documentation must stand up to an Air Force Audit.
10                                                             45SWI38-203 1 SEPTEMBER 2007


                                           Attachment 3

                          SOW/PWS/MP/TPP/QASP CHANGE PROCESS


Staff Summary Sheet
     To          Action    Signature (Surname),     To                   Action     Signature (Surname),
                           Grade, Date                                              Grade, Date
1 45             COORD                            5 45 SW/CC             APPR
2 45 SW/JA       COORD                            6 45 MSS/MOF           ACTION
3 45 CPTS        COORD                            7 45 CPTS              ACTION
4 45 MSS/MOF COORD


Grade and Surname of Action Officer         Symbol             Phone                      Suspense Date
MEO Manager                                 MEO
Subject                                                                                   SSS Date
Requested Change to SOW/PWS                                                               XX MON XXXX
Summary


1. Purpose. Obtain approval for change to PWS and funding.
2. Background. Provide overview of SOW/PWS change. Provide full PWS change including page, para-
   graph and specific wording change on document change request (DCR) as attachment. (See example)
3. Authority Driving Change. Change justification (Air Staff, local requirement, etc). New requirement, left
   out of SOW/PWS, work no longer required, more efficient use of resources, etc. Identify potential workload
   and resource impact.
4. Resource Impact. Functional manager verifies the proposed change is warranted, complies with applicable
   instructions, evaluates impact on resources and proposed where resources will come from. Additional
   resources must correspond to an increase in the SOW/PWS workload. Any increases in manpower or dol-
   lar’s are the responsibility of the wing. Wing CC approves resources to be realigned. Additional resources
   must be identified prior to SOW/PWS change approval.
5. Recommendation. 45 SW/CC approve proposed change to SOW/PWS and realignment of resources.


MEO Manager                                       Tabs
MEO Manager Title                                 1. Qualified Adjustment Request
                                                  2. Document Change Request
                                                  3. Supporting Documentation
45SWI38-203 1 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                                        11


Figure TAB 1. Qualified Adjustment Request.


QUALIFIED ADJUSTMENT REQUEST                       1. QAR Number                  2. Date
                                                   F1SACJP002A-1                  Today
Part 1 - Originator
3. Originator Name             4. Org/Off          5. Email                       6. Phone
Mr. John Smith                 Symbol              john.smith@newboston.af.mil
7. Document                                        8. QAR Title                9. WBS
[ X] Performance Requirement Document       [ ]    Remove … from PWS/PRS          3.1.2.
Transition Plan
[ ] Quality Assurance Plan [X] MEO
Management Plan (TPP)
10. Current Operations/Deficiency
Enter the exact wording of the current documents. For more space, attach a printed copy of the
information. When changing more than one document – ensure you specify which document you are
referring to. For Example:
PRS – 3.1.2. Service Provider shall accomplish…
TPP – 2.1. The MEO shall accomplish…
11. Recommended Change
Enter the exact wording of the change. For more space, attach a printed copy of the information.
When changing more than one document – ensure you specify which document you are referring to.
For Example:
PRS – 3.1.2. Service Provider shall not accomplish…
TPP – 2.1. The MEO shall not accomplish…
12. Rationale/Justification for Change
Explain in detail the reasons for the change. Include if directed by AFSPC or HQ USAF. Attach all
relevant back-up documentation. For more space, attach a printed copy of the information.

13. Resource Impact [ ] Manpower         [ ] Funding
14. Resource Re-Alignment
Explain where the resources will be re-aligned from to fund the change. Include AFSPC or HQ USAF
if the changes were directed by higher headquarters. Include both manpower and dollars if necessary.

Part 2 – Manpower and Organization Flight Action
15. Name/Title                             16. Email                              17. Phone
12                                                                45SWI38-203 1 SEPTEMBER 2007


18. Comments/Recommendations
MOF will comment and make recommendations on the information provided. If the form is
incomplete or requires additional information, the MOF will return the form to the Originator
requesting additional information.
Part 3 – Wing/Installation/Activity Commander Approval/Disapproval
[ ]                19. Wing/Installation/Activity 20. Signature                         21. Date
APPROVED           Commander
[ ]
DISAPPROVED
Part 4 – MAJCOM Approval/Disapproval
[ ] INFO ONLY        22. MAJCOM A1M                                                      23. Date
[ ] APPROVED
[ ] DISAPPROVED
Part 5 – Implementation
24. Date Sent to             25. Date Implemented                 26. MO Official Initials
Originator



QUALIFIED ADJUSTMENT REQUEST FORM INSTRUCTIONS
1. QAR Number: The DCAMIS record number plus the request number (in sequential order). For
example, if the DCAMIS number is F1SACJP002A, and a QAR is submitted, the QAR number would
be F1SACJP002A-1; if another (different) QAR for the same MEO is submitted, the number would be
F1SACJP002A-2; and so forth.
2. Date: Enter the current date.


Part 1 – Completed by the Originator
3. Originator Name: Enter the full name (Last, First Middle Initial) and title of the originator. This
can be the MEO Manager or the Functional OPR.
4. Org/Off Symbol: Enter the squadron and office symbol of the originator. Example: 45
CONS/LGC
5. Email: Enter originator’s email address.
6. Phone: Enter both DSN and COM phone numbers for the originator.
7. Document: Select the appropriate document change box. (More than one may apply)
8. QAR Title: Enter a short title to identify the purpose of the request.
9. WBS: Enter the WBS (Work Breakdown Structure) number. This is a paragraph number that the
change applies to.
10. Current Operations/Deficiency: Provide what the current document states.
45SWI38-203 1 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                                          13


11. Recommended Change: Provide the requested change information.
12. Rationale/Justification for Change: Provide details of why the change is required. Add if directed
by higher headquarters. Attach backup documentation.
13. Resource Impact: Select the appropriate resource block. (Both may apply)
14. Resource Re-Alignment: Indicate where the resources are to be re-aligned from to pay for the
change and explain why. Include if the resources should come from higher headquarters if the change
was directed by them.


Part 2 – Completed by Manpower and Organization Flight
15. Name/Title: Enter the full name (Last, First Middle Initial) and title of the Manpower official
reviewing the request.
16. Email: Enter the Manpower Official’s email address.
17. Phone: Enter both DSN and COM phone numbers for the Manpower Official.
18. Comments/Recommendations: Enter additional details. Include a list of all affected documents.
Enter comments or recommendations on changes to the request. Recommend approval or disapproval
and rationale.


Part 3 – Completed by Wing/Installation/Activity Commander
Approved/Disapproved: Check the appropriate box.
19. Wing/Installation/Activity Commander: Enter signature block.
20. Signature: Self explanatory.
21. Date: Enter date signed by commander.


Part 4 – Completed by MAJCOM A1M
Info Only/Approved/Disapproved: Check the appropriate box.
22. MAJCOM A1M: Print and sign name.
23. Date: Enter date request was approved/disapproved.

Part 5 – Completed by the Originator
24. Date Sent to Originator: Enter date returned from MOF.
25. Date Implemented: Enter the date the change was implemented.
26. MOF Official Initials: Enter the MOF Official initials once the change has been implemented and
the MOF notified complete.
14                                       45SWI38-203 1 SEPTEMBER 2007


Figure TAB 2. Document Change Request.
