BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         45TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 10-204
45TH SPACE WING
                                                                          20 NOVEMBER 2013

                                                                                     Operations

                                                                     AUGMENTATION DUTY




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 45 FSS/CC                                                          Certified by: 45 FSS/CC
                                                                                         Pages: 9
Supersedes:   45SWI10-204,
              1 September 2004


This instruction implements AFPAM 10-243, Augmentation Duty and AFPD 10-2, Readiness,
and outlines the purpose, procedures, and responsibilities for using the augmentation program. It
applies to all personnel assigned to Patrick AFB, Cape Canaveral AFS, and tenant units. Ensure
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the      Air      Force      Records      Disposition     Schedule       (RDS)     located     at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve or Air National Guard units and members.

This instruction requires collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy
Act of 1974. The authority to collect and maintain the data prescribed in this instruction is
10 U.S.C 8013, Secretary of the Air Force, and EO 9397. Requests to release Privacy Act
information, to persons or agencies outside the DOD must be in accordance with AFI 33-
332, Air Force Privacy Program. Privacy Act System of Records Notice numbers “F036 AF
PC C – Military Personnel Records System” and F036 AF PC Q – Personnel Data System
(PDS)” apply.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms
 2                                                         45SWI10-204 20 NOVEMBER 2013


managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been revised and must be completely reviewed. This version has the
following, but not limited to, changes: the layout to be more user/reader friendly, updates office
symbols throughout, defines the fair share pool from assigned verses authorized, identifies what
constitutes as exceptions, gives augmentation validation to Base Manpower Office, inserts
equipment requirements, and deletes the reclama procedures and the sample training status
update letter.
1. Program Mission. The Augmentation Program identifies, places and trains people to meet
augmentation needs for installation-level exercises, contingencies, wartime or emergency
situations and scenarios.
2. Definitions:
     2.1. User: Unit that identifies/requests Augmentation Program support.
     2.2. Unit Augmentation Coordinator (UAC): Unit Point of Contact (POC) for the
     Augmentation Program.
     2.3. Augmentee: Individual filling valid Augmentation Program requirement. These duties
     must be outside of the individual’s Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) and daily duties.
     Augmentees will remain assigned in the program for a minimum of 1-year after being trained
     in their duties.
     2.4. Base Augmentation Manager (BAM): The overall base POC for the administration of
     the Base Augmentation Program.
     2.5. Augmentation Review Board (ARB): Voting members consist of Installation Vice
     Commander (45 SW/CV), all Group Commanders (or designee), tasked tenant unit
     Commanders (or designee) and Wing Command Chief (45 SW/CCC). 45 SW/CV will be
     the board chairman. Advisory members to the board consist of representatives from the
     Manpower Office (45 FSS/FSMM) and BAM (45 FSS/CC or designee). Board will convene
     bi-annually or when requested by 45 SW/CV.
     2.6. Augmentee Eligible Ranks: The assigned (not authorized) officer ranks of O-3 and
     below and enlisted ranks of E-6 and below, will be used to determine the manning numbers
     available to develop the “fair share” for supporting organizations.
     2.7. Exceptions: Are personnel with a valid Air Force Instruction (AFI) exemption
     prohibiting participation in augmentation duties, shift work personnel, Chaplains &
     assistants, and the Flights/Sections being augmented. These exceptions shall be subtracted
     from the total eligible population before determining “fair share”. Any deviation to the “fair
     share” process beyond this must be approved in writing by the ARB.
45SWI10-204 20 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                   3


3. Responsibilities:
   3.1. Base Augmentation Manager (BAM): The BAM position is normally filled by the
   Force Support Squadron Commander (or designee). The BAM will be responsible for
   scheduling annual ARB meetings, providing agenda and preparing minutes as necessary.
   The BAM will also calculate a unit’s “fair share” using the method approved by the ARB.
   3.2. Commanders:
       3.2.1. Releases the number of augmentees per the ARBs “fair share” tasking.
       3.2.2. Ensures tasked personnel are made available for training and augmentation duty
       when required.
       3.2.3. Ensures that back-up personnel are trained to fulfill the unit’s augmentation “fair
       share” taskings.
       3.2.4. Ensures personnel released for augmentation duty are under the operational
       control of the augmented program user while performing augmentation duties, and are
       not scheduled for leave, temporary duty (TDY), or training during their augmentation
       duty period.
       3.2.5. Will not reassign augmentees for a period of 1-year after being appointed to
       augmentation duty unless augmentee is reassigned/PCS’d/Separated/Retired. Requests
       for exception to this rule will be routed from the Unit Commander to the BAM for
       approval.
       3.2.6. Appoint a UAC (Atch 1) to manage the unit’s program.
   3.3. Group Superintendents:
       3.3.1. Validate “fair share” numbers provided by the Base Manpower Office on a
       quarterly basis.
   3.4. User:
       3.4.1. New requirements will be submitted to the ARB after review/validation by the
       Base Manpower Office (45 FSS/FSMM). Units must make every attempt at filling their
       own augmentation requirements from within their own organization utilizing military
       assets before requesting support from the ARB.
       3.4.2. Users will submit changes to existing augmentation requirements through the Base
       Manpower Office (45 FSS/FSMM) to the BAM.            Manpower will validate requested
       change and forward to the BAM for presentation to the ARB for approval/disapproval.
       3.4.3. Maintains listing of personnel augmenting program, documenting date assigned to
       augmentation duty, training dates and all training documentation, and provide to the
       BAM for presentation at the ARB.
       3.4.4. Plans/schedules training for augmentees. Reports no-shows back to the UAC.
   3.5. Unit Augmentee Coordinator (UAC):
       3.5.1. Identify specific names (Atch 2) of augmentees to Users in support of augmentee
       program.
       3.5.2. Ensures augmentees attend training provided by users.
 4                                                        45SWI10-204 20 NOVEMBER 2013


        3.5.3. Notifies users in writing (Atch 3) when tasked personnel are selected for
        reassignment, separation, retirement or when personnel have satisfied their 1-year
        requirement and are going to be replaced.
     3.6. Augmentee:
        3.6.1. Will notify UAC of changes to their availability to perform augmentation duties.
        3.6.2. Will attend all scheduled augmentation training.
     3.7. Augmentation Review Board (ARB):
        3.7.1. Approve/Disapprove requests for establishment or changes to augmentation
        requirements as presented by Users through the BAM.
        3.7.2. Approve methodology for computation of unit’s “fair share” requirements.
        3.7.3. Meet on an annual basis or as directed by the ARB chairman.
4. Using the Augmentation Program:
     4.1. Any unit that determines they cannot accomplish mission requirements with existing
     personnel may request assistance through this program (Figure 1).
        4.1.1. New requests will be submitted in memorandum format and include the following
        information: number of augmentees requested, rationale for augmentation, special
        requirements, expected duration of augmentation duties and summary of training
        requirements.

Figure 1. The Augmentation Program
45SWI10-204 20 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                  5


   4.2. Changing Augmentation Requirements:
      4.2.1. Changes to the number of augmentees requested will be submitted to the Base
      Manpower Office and routed to the BAM for presentation to the ARB for
      approval/disapproval.
   4.3. Deletion of Augmentation Requirements:
      4.3.1. Deletion of augmentation requirements will be submitted via memorandum
      directly to the BAM for presentation to the ARB.
5. Training Requirements:
   5.1. Users:
      5.1.1. Users will provide training and maintain training documentation for all
      augmentees in their program.
          5.1.1.1. Users will provide written notification of training to the augmentee’s UAC to
          ensure training is also documented in the augmentees electronic training record.
6. Equipment Requirements:
   6.1. Users:
      6.1.1. Provides all equipment necessary for augmentee to perform augmentation.
      6.1.2. Retrieves equipment from augmentee when relieved of augmentation.
   6.2. Commanders:
      6.2.1. If an individual is voluntarily (not due to PCS/separation/retirement/extended
      TDY/deployment) removed from the Augmentation Program prior to serving 1-year, the
      unit will reimburse the user for cost of non-transferrable gear and replace the member
      immediately. Exceptions to this policy will be approved by 45 SW/CV.
7. Activation of the Augmentation Program:
   7.1. Users will submit requests to activate the augmentation support program through
   appropriate command channels to the 45 SW/CC or 45 SW/CV. This program will not be
   initiated basewide without 45 SW/CC or 45 SW/CV approval.
   7.2. 45 SW/CC or 45 SW/CV will notify the BAM to activate the program.
   7.3. The BAM will notify the users, who will notify the UAC and provide the when/where
   augmentees are needed. The UAC will notify the augmentees.




                                           NINA M ARMAGNO, Brigadier General, USAF
                                           Commander
 6                                                     45SWI10-204 20 NOVEMBER 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPAM 10-243, Augmentation Duty
AFPD 10-2, Readiness
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Program
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
ARB—Augmentation Review Board
BAM—Base Augmentation Manager
MAJCOM—Major Command
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PDS—Personnel Data System
POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TDY—Temporary Duty
UAC—Unit Augmentation Coordinator
45SWI10-204 20 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                 7


                                          Attachment 2
    SAMPLE UNIT AUGMENTATION COORDINATOR APPOINTMENT LETTER

Figure A2.1. Sample Unit Augmentation Coordinator Appointment Letter
                (To be completed by the Augmentee Providing Commander)

MEMORANDUM FOR: 45 FSS/CC (Base Augmentee Manager)

FROM: Unit Commander

SUBJECT: Appointment of Unit Augmentation Coordinator

1. The following individuals are appointed as Unit Augmentation Coordinators:

PRIMARY:
RANK/NAME                     UNIT/OFFICE                    DUTY PHONE

ALTERNATE:
RANK/NAME                     UNIT/OFFICE                    DUTY PHONE

2. This letter supersedes letter dated _____ and will remain in effect until superseded or
rescinded.




                                                     Signature, USAF
                                                     Commander

cc: All User Coordinators
 8                                                         45SWI10-204 20 NOVEMBER 2013


                                          Attachment 3
                     SAMPLE AUGMENTEE APPOINTMENT LETTER

Figure A3.1. Sample Augmentee Appointment Letter
                     (To be completed by the Augmentee’s Commander)

MEMORANDUM FOR: Augmentee User

FROM: Augmentee’s Commander

SUBJECT: Appointment as Augmentee for (Insert Program Name)


1. The following individuals are appointed as Augmentees for (Insert Program Name). They
will be made available as directed by the Augmentation Review Board for augmentation duty
and training.

PRIMARY:
RANK/NAME                     UNIT/OFFICE                    DUTY PHONE

ALTERNATE: (Appointment and training of alternates is HIGHLY encouraged)
RANK/NAME            UNIT/OFFICE                  DUTY PHONE

2. This letter supersedes letter dated _____ and will remain in effect until superseded or
rescinded.




                                                     Signature, USAF
                                                     Commander

cc: individual (s)
45SWI10-204 20 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                   9


                                        Attachment 4
            SAMPLE AUGMENTEE REMOVAL/REPLACEMENT LETTER

Figure A4.1. Sample Augmentee Removal/Replacement Letter
                    (To be completed by the Augmentee’s Commander)

MEMORANDUM FOR: Augmentee User

FROM: Augmentee’s Commander

SUBJECT: Removal of Augmentee for (Insert Program Name)


1. The following has been identified for (PCS/Separation/Retirement), or has completed
minimum of 1-year as an augmentee, and will need to be removed from the augmentation
program.

RANK/NAME                    UNIT/OFFICE                  DUTY PHONE

2. Member will turn-in all issued gear/items associated with the augmentation program.
(Note: If unit is voluntarily replacing individual prior to completion of 1-year on program,
unit is responsible for replacement of any equipment that is not turned back in).




                                                   Signature, USAF
                                                   Commander

cc: individual
