BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         45TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 24-301
45TH SPACE WING
                                                                                   13 MAY 2013

                                                                                  Transportation

                                                                      VEHICLE OPERATIONS



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 45 LRS/LGRD                                                        Certified by: 45 LRS/CC
                                                                           (Maj Paul R. Barthel)
Supersedes:    45SWI 24-301, 4 April 2010
                                                                                         Pages: 7


This instruction implements AFPD 24-3, Operation and Use of Ground Transportation Vehicles,
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management, and AFMAN 23-220,
Reports of Survey for Air Force Property. It provides general guidelines for Government Motor
Vehicles (GMVs), including vehicles owned or leased from the General Services Administration
(GSA), and implements local procedures and policies from 45 LRS Vehicle Operations. It
applies to all personnel (military, DoD civilian and contractor) TDY to Patrick AFB (PAFB) or
Cape Canaveral Air Force Station (CCAFS) and those assigned to the 45th Space Wing,
including tenant units, Antigua AS and Ascension Island AAF. Title 40 U.S.C., Subchapter 4,
Motor Vehicle Pools & Transportation Systems, provides penalties for the willful use or
authorization of any government-owned, government-leased, or government-rented motor
vehicle for other than official purposes. Civilian employees who misuse government vehicles
will have action taken in accordance with the Civilian Personnel Manual. Failure to observe
prohibitions and mandatory provisions of this directive in paragraphs 1, 3.3, 4, 5, 8 and 9 by
military personnel, including the Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard, is a violation of
Article 92, Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). Violations may result in administrative
disciplinary action without regard to otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for
violations of related laws. Penalties for military personnel are prescribed in the Uniform Code of
Military Justice. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office
of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s to the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).
 2                                                                  45SWI24-301 13 MAY 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been completely revised and updated to reflect changes in regulatory
references, phone numbers and organizational changes. Additionally, it provides instructions on
the use of AF Forms 1800, Operator’s Inspection Guide and Trouble Report, and 1807,
Operator’s Inspection Guide and Trouble Report (Fuel Servicing). The use of the name or mark
of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication
does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
1. Official Use of GMVs. All travel is limited to official purposes, as defined by the Joint
Travel Regulations and AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations. The unauthorized or willful misuse of
a GMV as described in this paragraph is a violation of Article 92 of the UCMJ. When
determining official use of GMVs, ask these questions: "Is the purpose of my trip in support of
the mission? Can the use of the vehicle be interpreted as misuse or the appearance of misuse?"
     1.1. The 45 SW Director of Staff is designated as the competent authority for approval and
     disapproval of transportation requests that may require competent authority action, such as
     providing government transportation to civilian agencies or organizations.
        1.1.1. Unauthorized use/vehicle misuse is defined as using a GMV for personal business,
        pleasure, or other use not being for official government reasons.
        1.1.2. Transportation to, or parking at, the commissary, any AAFES facilities (including
        all concessions), Riverside dining facility, bowling center, and Tides Club, Class VI
        (package store), Burger King®, post office, credit union, bank, ATMs, fitness center,
        recreational sports fields, golf course, marina, or beach areas, ITT, or any other use of
        vehicles to visit facilities not required for official government reasons are unauthorized
        and will be considered misuse. Exceptions are authorized for personnel performing
        official government duties at these locations. Emergency and rapid response vehicles
        may be driven to any base facility listed above if the occupant(s) are subject to
        emergency response. Emergency and rapid response vehicles are defined as security
        forces, fire-fighting vehicles, Base Fire Marshall, 45 MSG/CC, and others as approved in
        writing by the installation commander.
            1.1.2.1. Suspected cases of vehicle misuse will be reported to Vehicle Operations
            Dispatch at 494-7247. Vehicle Operations Dispatch will forward the suspected
            misuse report to the applicable unit’s Vehicle Control Officer, who will investigate
            the case and respond to the allegation (in writing or via e-mail) to Vehicle Operations
            Dispatch within 5 duty days.
            1.1.2.2. Vehicle misuse allegations will include the circumstances surrounding the
            allegation (where and when the vehicle was suspected of being misused).
            1.1.2.3. Forward all substantiated allegations along with the technical assessment to
            the 45 LRS commander who will then forward the substantiated misuse case to the
            operator's unit commander. The Unit commander has 15-calendar days to respond to
            the 45 LRS commander. Vehicle misuse allegation responses will include the
            circumstances surrounding the allegation, a determination if the misuse was
            substantiated, and what, if any, actions were taken to preclude similar misuse in the
            future.
45SWI24-301 13 MAY 2013                                                                         3


       1.1.3. An example of unauthorized use/vehicle misuse is transportation between domicile
       and duty; dormitories, military housing and off-base private residences. This includes
       travel between PAFB and CCAFS when such travel is a leg of the total domicile to duty
       or duty to domicile journey, unless the vehicle has been designated a command and
       control vehicle (CACV) by AFSPC/CC.
       1.1.4. Permissible Operating Distance (POD) is defined as 75 miles north, 150 miles
       south and 75 miles west, without prior approval or authorization from the Vehicle
       Operations Supervisor (VOS). The POD is that distance from the installation that GMVs
       can travel without competing with commercial carriers (Ref. DOD Directive 4500.9).
       POD authorization is not required for emergency response, prisoner transfer, notification
       of next of kin, Explosive Ordnance Disposal or specialized vehicles and equipment
       performing official business. Vehicles traveling for official purposes of evacuation,
       natural disaster, or contingency responses require POD authorization from the Vehicle
       Operations Control Center (VOCC) Supervisor.
       1.1.5. Within the 25 mile radius of the installation, off-base refueling is not authorized
       except in emergency situations. Alternative fuel or bi-fueled vehicles will be fueled and
       operated on the alternative fuel to the maximum extent possible. Flex-Fuel E-85 vehicles
       may only purchase enough unleaded gasoline off base to safely return to PAFB or
       CCAFS.
       1.1.6. All vehicles assigned a Vehicle Integrated Link (VIL) key will refuel at the PAFB
       or CCAFS fuel storage facility and not at the AAFES service station.
2. PAFB Military Taxi Service. The PAFB taxi operates 0730-1630 hours Monday through
Friday. This service is authorized for active duty, reserve, national guard, DoD and approved
contractor personnel on official government business IAW AFI 24-301, Attachments 8 and 9.
Services may be obtained by calling Vehicle Operations Dispatch at 494-7247. The taxi
provides a quick-response, point-to-point service to requesters requiring official transportation.
The requester must provide specific information for the dispatcher to process a request and be
available at the specific location, date and time the service is requested. If a return trip is
required, a second request is required. (Note: Taxi drivers are not permitted to leave the
vehicle, except for emergencies).
   2.1. Military taxi off-base for personnel on TDY orders:
       2.1.1. Transportation may be permitted to off-base government contract quarters or
       commercial lodging.
       2.1.2. Passengers must show an approved temporary lodging expense slip to the driver.
       2.1.3. Passengers must have confirmed reservations at such lodging. Transportation for
       the purpose of looking for vacancies is not authorized.
       2.1.4. Taxi service will not provide personnel in a TDY status transportation to or from
       transportation terminals (airports, bus stops, rail stations). Members in a TDY status can
       self-transport, reserve commercial taxi or bus service or units can utilize assigned or U-
       Drive-It (UDI) government motor vehicles to support these requirements.
 4                                                                45SWI24-301 13 MAY 2013


3. UDI Services. UDI services are authorized, pending asset availability, for active duty, DoD
and authorized contractor personnel performing official government business who are either
permanently assigned or in a TDY status for PAFB. UDI services are available for CCAFS;
however, vehicles must be picked up from and returned to PAFB during normal business hours.
Hours of operation are 0730-1630 hours, Monday through Friday. Limited UDI resources are
available to support organizations not having assigned vehicles and to augment units with
assigned vehicles in meeting infrequent peak requirements for short-term use (72 hours or less).
UDI vehicles are not dispatched to any organizations on a recurring (long-term or day-after-day)
basis. To ensure effective planning, scheduling and dispatching for fair-share usage, requesters
and operators must pick up vehicles not earlier than the time requested and return vehicles not
later than the termination time for the period of requested use.
     3.1. All UDI requests will be coordinated through 45 LRS Vehicle Operations, 494-7247
     (PAFB).
        3.1.1. A written request is mandatory for vehicle use of over 72 hours. To ensure
        effective planning and scheduling of UDI resources, the request must be submitted as
        soon as the requirement is known. The request must contain:
           3.1.1.1. The signature of the organizational commander and Vehicle Control Officer
           (VCO) or Vehicle Control NCO (VCNCO).
           3.1.1.2. Date of request.
           3.1.1.3. Name, rank, office symbol and duty phone of requester.
           3.1.1.4. Detailed purpose of requirement.
           3.1.1.5. Destination. (Note: If destination is outside the POD, approval or
           authorization must be obtained prior to commencement of travel).
           3.1.1.6. Date and time vehicle is to be picked up.
           3.1.1.7. Date and time vehicle is to be returned.
           3.1.1.8. Name, rank, office symbol and duty phone of designated vehicle operator.
     3.2. UDI Vehicles:
        3.2.1. Customer and Operator Responsibilities. Acceptance of a UDI vehicle is with a
        clear understanding the operator acknowledges receipt for a government-owned/leased
        vehicle, and will be held responsible for its safeguarding and proper use. The operator
        must understand they may be held financially liable for damage caused to the vehicle
        through gross negligence or willful misconduct, and may face disciplinary action for
        negligent operation or improper use.         Failure to obey mandatory provisions or
        prohibitions must state that a failure to obey is a violation of Article 92 of the UCMJ.
        UDI users will:
           3.2.1.1. Be licensed IAW AFI 24-301.
           3.2.1.2. Perform operator safety and serviceability checks. Prior to acceptance, the
           fuel level should be 3/4 full, or more, and the exterior and interior should be clean.
           Any discrepancies will be immediately reported to the on-duty dispatcher.
45SWI24-301 13 MAY 2013                                                                         5


           3.2.1.3. Return vehicles in the same fueled, clean and serviceable condition as when
           accepted.
       3.2.2. If the vehicle should require maintenance prior to being returned, refer to the
       instructions attached to the key chain.
       3.2.3. If vehicles are not picked up within 2 hours of requested time, the request will be
       canceled unless prior arrangements have been made.
       3.2.4. All UDI dispatched vehicles are subject to recall in support of contingency plans,
       exercises or higher priority mission requirements.
4. Procedures for Temporary Duty (TDY) Personnel. Below are mandatory provisions for
TDY personnel using GMVs. Failure to obey the provisions outlined in this paragraph is a
violation of Article 92 of the UCMJ.
   4.1. TDY personnel may use DoD-owned, rented or leased vehicles for transportation
   between duty station and lodging, eating establishments, barbershops, and places of worship
   and other places required for the comfort or health of the member. Use of DoD-owned,
   rented or leased vehicles to and from entertainment or recreational facilities except on-base
   bowling center, officer and non-commissioned officer clubs, fitness center, golf course and
   other NAF activities is prohibited. Use of DoD-owned, rented or leased vehicles off-base is
   restricted to reputable eating establishments in reasonable proximity vicinity to the
   installation. Reputable is defined as an establishment whose primary purpose is food service
   and not providing alcohol (establishments with Bar in the name will be avoided). GMVs will
   also not be taken to adult-oriented establishments).
   4.2. Vicinity travel is limited to a radius of 15 miles of the installation. Extensions are
   authorized if approved by the Vehicle Operations Manager. Vicinity travel is that distance
   which personnel on temporary duty orders may use a government vehicle to travel between
   places of work or lodging and places to obtain suitable meals, drugstores, barber shops,
   places of worship, cleaning establishments and similar places required for the sustenance,
   comfort or health of the member.
   4.3. Permanently assigned personnel who are authorized official use of GMVs and who are
   conducting official business off base may drive GMVs to off-base restaurants only when the
   mission or fuel considerations make returning to the base or originating point impractical.
   These off-base restaurants must be along the route of primary travel. The restaurant must not
   give the appearance of or bring discredit to the Air Force.
5. Vehicle Inspection and Serviceability. Using the proper Operator’s Inspection Guide and
Trouble Report is essential to the overall serviceability and life expectancy of your assigned Air
Force owned or leased vehicle(s). All vehicles must be inspected each day of operation. If the
vehicle is not used for a 7-day period, it must be inspected to ensure serviceability. Use the AF
Form 1800, Operator’s Inspection Guide and Trouble Report, for all except fuel-dispensing
vehicles. Use the AF Form 1807, Operator’s Inspection Guide and Trouble Report (Fuel
Servicing), for fuel-dispensing vehicles. For government-owned vehicles, report discrepancies to
Vehicle Management for repair. For GSA vehicles, take the vehicle to a GSA-approved
maintenance repair vendor or dealership for repairs. Tire and battery purchases must be
authorized by the Maintenance Control Center prior to work being performed, regardless of cost.
At the end of the month, change out the AF Forms 18xx and file the previous month. AF Forms
 6                                                                 45SWI24-301 13 MAY 2013


18xx must be retained for 1 year by the unit’s VCO/VCNCO. Failure to obey the following
mandatory provisions is a violation of Article 92 of the UCMJ.
     5.1. Using tobacco products and consuming alcohol is prohibited while riding in or operating
     government-owned or leased vehicles/equipment.
     5.2. The use of cellular telephones without a hands-free device is prohibited by all vehicle
     operators while operating government-owned or leased vehicles/equipment.
     5.3. The use of seatbelts is mandatory for the operator and passengers while operating or
     riding in government-owned vehicles/equipment.




                                             ANTHONY J. COTTON, Brigadier General, USAF
                                             Commander
45SWI24-301 13 MAY 2013                                                              7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 24-3, Operation Management and Use of Transportation Vehicles, 7 July 2010
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, 1 November 2008, Incorporating Change, 11 May 2012
AFI 24-302, Vehicle Management, 26 June 2012
AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, 1 July 1996
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1800, Operator’s Inspection Guide and Trouble Report
AF Form 1807, Operator’s Inspection Guide and Trouble Report (Fuel Servicing)
AF Form 1823-1, Vehicle and Equipment Work Order
DD Form 518, Accident Identification Card
SF 91, Motor Vehicle Accident Report

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army & Air Force Exchange Service
CCAFS—Cape Canaveral AFS
GMV—Government Motor Vehicle
GSA—General Services Administration
PAFB—Patrick AFB
POD—Permissible Operating Distance
POV—Privately Owned Vehicle
UDI—U-Drive-It
VCO—Vehicle Control Officer
VOMS—Vehicle Operations and Maintenance Services
VOS—Vehicle Operations Supervisor
