BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         45TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 34-219
45TH SPACE WING
                                                                                   13 MAY 2013

                                                                                         Services

                                                        ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE PROGRAM



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 45 FSS/FSC                                                          Certified by: 45 SW/CC
                                                           (Brigadier General Anthony J. Cotton)
                                                                                         Pages: 5


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 34-219, Alcoholic Beverage Program.
Any conflict between this document and formally promulgated instructions, regulations, or other
such orders is to be resolved in favor of the instruction, regulation, or order. Commanders at all
levels are responsible for the application of and compliance with this instruction. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the OPR listed above using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field
through the appropriate chain of command. Requests for waivers must be submitted to the OPR
listed above, or as otherwise stipulated within this publication, for consideration and approval.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). The use of the name or mark of any specific
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force.

This is a new instruction which encompasses all Force Support Squadron activities at Patrick Air
Force Base and Cape Canaveral Air Force Station. It replaces individual 45 FSS activity
operating instructions. This publication requires the collection and or maintenance of information
protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by [set forth the legal authority such as the
federal statute, executive order, or regulation]. Forms affected by the PA have an appropriate
PA statement. The applicable Privacy Act System Notice(s) is available online at:
http://www.defenselink.mil/privacy/notices/usaf.
 2                                                                   45SWI34-219 13 MAY 2013


1. Scope. The provisions of this SWI are applicable to all personnel assigned to Patrick AFB
and Cape Canaveral AFS.
2. Responsibilities. The 45 FSS Chief, Community Services Flight, ensures compliance with
this Space Wing Instruction. Employees and volunteers are responsible for compliance with all
policies and procedures outlined in this instruction. The 45 FSS Activity Managers are
responsible for training all appropriate members on the Alcoholic Beverage Program policy and
reviewing the policy with the staff on an annual basis. All new staff members will be trained
prior to their first shift.
3. Policies. For the purpose of this SWI, “staff member” is defined as any staff member or
volunteer working for 45 FSS.
     3.1. The "Dram Shop" theory is a legal theory of liability, created either by statute or court
     decision, which imposes upon the owner, operator, and/or employees of an establishment
     serving alcoholic beverages the duty to refuse to serve additional alcoholic beverages to a
     customer who reaches or appears to be reaching the point of intoxication. When an
     establishment continues to sell alcoholic beverages to such customers and the customers
     subsequently depart and cause harm to themselves or to others, the owner, operator, and/or
     employees of the establishment can be held liable for damages. Also, a person who buys a
     drink for an already intoxicated person may be held liable. Air Force Services facilities
     selling beverages are subject to liability claims under this theory. Each responsible person
     must comply with the intent of the “Dram Shop” theory, not only to prevent a claim against
     the Air Force and themselves, but more importantly, to prevent unnecessary injury or loss of
     life.
     3.2. All personnel involved with the control and serving of alcoholic beverages must receive
     annual “Dram Shop” training to be familiar with Air Force drinking policies and will
     acknowledge the reading and understanding of this SWI and sign the following statement on
     their AF Form 971 (Supervisor's Record of Employee): "I understand my responsibility
     under the “Dram Shop” theory not to sell or serve alcoholic beverages to persons that appear
     to be intoxicated and not in complete control of their faculties." In addition, the following
     will be complied with:
        3.2.1. All personnel employed by 45 FSS activities that sell or serve alcoholic beverages
        must be in compliance with the state law concerning age requirements.
        3.2.2. Under no circumstances will any liquor be sold for take-out, with the exception of
        Space Coast Inn lodging sundry sales. 45 FSS activities may not set up any display and
        sell liquor for off-premise consumption.
4. Rules Governing Serving of Alcoholic Beverages.
     4.1. All members, family members and guests consuming alcoholic beverages must be at
     least 21 years of age (consistent with law of overseas countries). This age limit is consistent
     with local law, which requires a 21-year age limit for establishments of this type. If in doubt
     as to the correct age of a customer, the manager on duty, prior to serving a customer, will
     require full identification.
     4.2. At no time will any individual be permitted to become intoxicated to a point of loss of
     self control. 45 FSS personnel have a direct and important obligation to the individual and
45SWI34-219 13 MAY 2013                                                                        3


   the Air Force to ensure proper conduct and atmosphere in the facility. If a patron appears to
   be intoxicated or approaching intoxication, it is the management's responsibility to refuse
   further service of alcoholic beverages. If necessary, the manager on duty will contact the law
   enforcement desk as circumstances dictate.
   4.3. Strict compliance of scheduled social hours is to be followed. Designated periods must
   be limited to 10 hours or fewer per week and no more than two hours per day.
   4.4. Food must be served at all times alcoholic beverages are served.
   4.5. No drinking contests are permitted and no "last calls" or any other type of countdown is
   permitted by facility personnel or customers.
   4.6. Two-for-one drink sales are not permitted.
   4.7. Alcoholic beverage price points may not be reduced more than 50 percent except for
   beverages offered as complimentary with a meal.
5. Safeguards for Intoxicated Persons.
   5.1. The 45 FSS personnel will immediately stop serving anyone who is, or appears to be,
   reaching the state of intoxication.
   5.2. The 45 FSS staff will do everything possible to assist the intoxicated patron to regain
   their faculties (e.g., serve coffee, soft drinks, food, etc.).
   5.3. The 45 FSS staff will insist that the patron remain at the facility until someone can
   escort them to their quarters. At no time will a patron be allowed to drive if they are
   intoxicated.
   5.4. The 45 FSS staff will encourage the use of the Airmen Against Drunk Driving Program
   in all facilities where alcohol is sold.
6. Incidents and Reporting.
   6.1. Any member, family member or guest who creates an incident that is considered
   unfavorable in nature as a result of being intoxicated will be immediately reported to the
   activity manager.
   6.2. If the incident cannot be handled quietly and diplomatically or could cause harm to
   other patrons, the law enforcement desk will be called. The appropriate activity manager will
   be notified immediately anytime the police are called. If and when this occurs the server
   must promptly make a record of the incident in the “Events Log” and notify the manager.
   6.3. Activity managers will promptly report any incident that may result in a claim, and any
   actual claim based on the “Dram Shop” theory (for any type of liability claim) to the 45 FSS
   commander.
7. Locations Where Alcoholic Beverages May Be Sold, Served and Consumed.
   7.1. On Patrick Air Force Base, the following facilities have been approved for alcohol
   consumption and sale of beer, wine and spirits:
      7.1.1. The Commons.
      7.1.2. Lodging (for on premise consumption in all lodging facilities).
4                                                                 45SWI34-219 13 MAY 2013


       7.1.3. Beach House and attached Beach Property.
       7.1.4. Manatee Cove Marina.
       7.1.5. Manatee Cove Golf Course.
       7.1.6. Tides Club and attached Beach Property.
       7.1.7. Outdoor Recreation (Dockside Deck, FAMCAMP, Picnic Pavilions).
       7.1.8. Pelican Coast Sports Complex (Football, Soccer and Softball Fields).
       7.1.9. Library Annex.
       7.1.10. Other locations used by FSS to host events.
    7.2. On Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, the following facilities have been approved for
    alcohol consumption and sale of beer, wine and spirits:
       7.2.1. The 45 FSS Leisure & Recreation Program Locations.
       7.2.2. Navy Club.
       7.2.3. Lighthouse.
       7.2.4. Museum.
       7.2.5. Other locations used by FSS to host events.
    7.3. Locations Where Alcoholic Beverages May Not Be Sold, Served and Consumed:
       7.3.1. T-ball Field.
       7.3.2. Adams Field.
       7.3.3. Major League Field.
       7.3.4. During youth soccer games, in the sports complex.
       7.3.5. In any youth program building and outdoor youth program area or at any function
       sponsored by or for the youth program.
    7.4. Waivers to Serve Alcohol.
       7.4.1. For Patrick Air Force Base, 45 MSG/CC, has the authority to waive where alcohol
       may be served on a case-by-case basis.
       7.4.2. For Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, 45 MSG, Det 1/CC, has the authority to
       waive where alcohol may be served on a case-by-case basis.




                                            ANTHONY J. COTTON, Brigadier General, USAF
                                            Commander
45SWI34-219 13 MAY 2013                                      5


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 34-219, Alcoholic Beverage Program, 17 October 2007
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFS—Air Force Station
FAMCAMP—Family Camp Grounds
FSS—Force Support Squadron
MSG—Mission Support Group
