BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                45TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 65-201
45TH SPACE WING                                                                     1 NOVEMBER 2002

                                                                                  Financial Management

                                                                         MANAGEMENT CONTROL




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 45 SW/FMAP (Ms. Marjean M. Hull)                                          Certified by: 45 SW/FM
                                                                             (Lt Col Michael A. Young)
                                                                                                Pages: 8
                                                                                         Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFI65-201, Management Control. It provides the 45th Space Wing (45 SW)
and its customers a broad understanding of the various statutory requirements of the Air Force Manage-
ment Control Program. For a more indepth understanding, refer to the instructions or directives cited.


1. Goals and Responsibilities.
   1.1. Introduction. To meet the Federal Managers’ Financial Integrity Act (FMFIA) requirements, all
   government agencies must establish, evaluate, and report on management controls, and submit an
   annual Statement of Assurance (SOA) to the President and Congress. The 45th Space Wing Comptrol-
   ler Squadron is the local office of primary responsibility for ensuring Wing compliance of the FMFIA.
   The 45 SW SOA, as well as those issued by fellow AFSPC Wings and Numbered Air Forces, serve as
   the basis for the AFSPC/CC’s Statement of Assurance to the Chief of Staff of the Air Force.
   1.2. FMAP Responsibilities. FMAP serves as the office of primary responsibility (OPR) for the
   Management Control (MC) program and as such:
       1.2.1. Prepares and maintains the 45 SW Management Control Plan (MCP).
       1.2.2. Ensures that management evaluations meet required documentation standards.
       1.2.3. Instructs functional OPRs on the concept of management control evaluations and provides
       training on the MC program goals, policies and procedures.
       1.2.4. Monitors functional OPR management control program activity, provides appropriate feed-
       back, and reports program status as required.
       1.2.5. Ensures that corrective actions are taken on material weaknesses.
       1.2.6. Consolidates SOAs from functional OPRs and prepares the wing SOA for the commander.
       1.2.7. Performs periodic quality control assessments of the MC program and reporting process.
2                                                                  45SWI65-201 1 NOVEMBER 2002


    1.3. Functional OPR Responsibility. Functional OPRs manage the MC program within their func-
    tion. A functional OPR:
       1.3.1. Ensures that MC program evaluations are performed completely, accurately and adequately
       support the objectives of the FMFIA.
           1.3.1.1. At a minimum, each Assessable Unit (AU) must submit an annual SOA to 45 SW/CC
           to satisfy evaluation requirements.
       1.3.2. Reports MC program activity to FMAP as required.
       1.3.3. Actively seeks to identify and correct management control weaknesses identified by the
       MC program.
       1.3.4. Closely coordinates with the FMAP on all aspects of the function’s MC program and
       reports on improvements and weaknesses.
       1.3.5. Establishes and maintains Corrective Action Plans (CAP) on material weaknesses until the
       weakness is corrected and closed.

2. Implementation.
    2.1. Introduction. No aspect of Air Force worldwide operations is exempt from FMFIA require-
    ments (Reference AFI 65-201, paragraph 2.2.1.). A common misperception is that MC responsibilities
    apply only to accounting or financial areas when, in fact, MC principles apply to all Air Force organi-
    zations (Reference AFI 65-201, paragraph 2.4.3.).
    2.2. Management Control Plan (MCP).
       2.2.1. The Management Control Plan is an inventory of all Assessable Units (AU) within the
       wing. The MCP is maintained by FMAP and is updated throughout the year. In general, assessable
       units normally consist of groups and wing staff offices that have functional responsibility for a
       MC reporting category.
       2.2.2. All management control reporting categories applicable within the Wing must be addressed
       by at least one assessable unit. There are 15 management control categories:
           2.2.2.1. Research, Development, Test and Evaluation. Covers the basic project definition,
           approval, and transition from basic research through development, test and evaluation as well
           as all DoD Contractor operations involved in accomplishing the project work. Excludes the
           support functions covered in separate reporting categories such as Procurement and Contract
           Administration.
           2.2.2.2. Major Systems Acquisition. Covers items designated as major systems and that are
           subject to the procedures of the Defense Acquisition Board (DAB), the Military Services
           acquisition review councils or the Selected Acquisition Reporting System. DoD Directive
           5000.1 may be helpful when evaluating a weakness for inclusion in this category.
           2.2.2.3. Procurement. Covers the decisions to purchase items and services together with cer-
           tain actions to award and amend contracts, e.g., contractual provisions, type of contract, invi-
           tation to bid, independent government cost estimate, technical specifications, evaluation and
           selection process, pricing and reporting.
           2.2.2.4. Contract Administration. Covers the fulfillment of contractual requirements including
45SWI65-201 1 NOVEMBER 2002                                                                          3


       performance and delivery, quality control and testing to meet specifications, performance
       acceptance, billing and payment controls, justification for contractual amendments and actions
       to protect the best interests of the government.
       2.2.2.5. Force Readiness. Includes the operational readiness capability of combat and combat
       support (both Active and Reserve) forces, based on analyses of the use of resources to attain
       required combat capability or readiness levels.
       2.2.2.6. Manufacturing, Maintenance and Repair. Covers the management and operation of
       in-house and contractor-operated facilities performing maintenance and repair of, and/or
       installation of modifications to, materiel, equipment and supplies. Includes depot and arse-
       nal-type facilities as well as intermediate and unit levels of military organizations.
       2.2.2.7. Supply Operations. Encompasses the supply operations at the wholesale (depot and
       inventory control point) level from the initial determination of material requirements through
       receipt, storage, issue reporting and inventory control (excluding the procurement of materials
       and supplies). Also covers all supply operations at retail (customer level), including the
       accountability and control for supplies and equipment of all commodities in the supply
       accounts of all units and organizations (excluding the procurement of material, equipment and
       supplies).
       2.2.2.8. Property Management. Covers construction, rehabilitation, modernization, expan-
       sion, improvement, management and control over real and installed property and facilities
       (both military and civil works construction). Includes all phases of property life-cycle manage-
       ment from determination of need through disposition. Also covers disposal actions for all
       materiel, equipment, and supplies, including the Defense Reutilization and Marketing System.
       2.2.2.9. Communications, Intelligence or Security. Covers the plans, programs, operations,
       systems, and management activities for accomplishing the communications and intelligence
       missions. Includes safeguarding classified resources but not peripheral assets and support
       functions covered by other reporting categories. Also covers the DoD programs for protection
       of classified information.
       2.2.2.10. Information Technology. Covers the design, development, testing, approval, deploy-
       ment, use and security of electronic data processing systems, computers and other technolo-
       gies for processing management information. Includes requirements justification for
       equipment and software.
       2.2.2.11. Personnel or Organization Management. Covers authorizations, recruitment, train-
       ing, assignment, use, development and management of military and civilian personnel of the
       Department of Defense. Also includes the operations of headquarters organizations. Contract
       personnel are not covered by this category.
       2.2.2.12. Comptroller and/or Resource Management. Covers the budget process, finance and
       accounting, cost analysis, productivity and management improvement and the general alloca-
       tion and continuing evaluation of available resources to accomplish mission objectives.
       Includes pay and allowances for all DoD personnel and all financial management areas not
       covered by other reporting categories, including those in connection with OMB Circular A-76.
       2.2.2.13. Support Services. Includes all support services functions financed from appropriated
       funds not covered by the other reporting categories, such as health care, veterinary care, and
4                                                                   45SWI65-201 1 NOVEMBER 2002


           legal and public affairs services. All non-appropriated fund activities are also covered by this
           category.
           2.2.2.14. Security Assistance. Covers management of DoD Foreign Military Sales, Grant Aid,
           and International Military Education and Training Programs.
           2.2.2.15. Other (Primarily Transportation). All functional responsibilities not constrained in
           the previously noted categories, including management and use of land, sea and air transporta-
           tion for movement of personnel, materiel, supplies and equipment using both military and
           civilian sources.
    2.3. Management Control Evaluation (MCE). A MCE must be conducted at least once per fiscal year
    to satisfy statutory requirements. More frequent evaluations are encouraged.
       2.3.1. The MCE commences upon AFSPC’s receipt of a tasking letter from SAF/FMP. Upon
       receiving tasking from AFSPC/FM, 45 SW/FMAP, on behalf of 45 SW/CC, tasks each AU com-
       mander to conduct a MCE and issue a signed SOA to the wing commander.
           2.3.1.1. SOAs should identify any material weaknesses that were discovered during the MCE.
           If no material weaknesses exist, the SOA should indicate that the system of internal account-
           ing and administrative control in place during the current fiscal year, provides reasonable
           assurance that the objectives of the FMFIA have been achieved.
       2.3.2. To aid in accomplishing the MCE, a comprehensive self assessment checklist will be pro-
       vided by FMAP. The completed checklist should be returned as Attachment 1 to the AU’s signed
       SOA.

3. Material Weaknesses.
    3.1. Concept of Material Weakness. A determination by management that a condition exists in
    which designated control procedures--or lack thereof--do not provide reasonable assurance that MC
    Program objectives are being met and correction of the situation requires participation of more senior
    management.
       3.1.1. Weaknesses in management controls must be reported if they are deemed to be material.
       Noncompliance with vital management controls or ineffective vital management controls should
       be reported by the responsible assessable unit manager to more senior management. Management
       controls may be considered vital at one organizational level but not at another or more senior level.
       Classification of management controls as vital or non-vital is a management judgment, though
       each AU has management controls that should be classified as vital for that specific unit.
       3.1.2. Management judges whether a weakness is material enough to warrant reporting to a level
       higher than that at which it was discovered. Managers should consider reporting a weakness to the
       next higher level if the manager requires participation of management at a higher level to help
       resolve the problem or, although they could resolve the problem at the lower level, it is serious
       enough, in the judgment of the manager, to bring to higher-level management’s attention as a point
       of information.
       3.1.3. Material weaknesses have the potential to:
           3.1.3.1. Impair fulfillment of essential operations or mission.
           3.1.3.2. Violate statutory or regulatory requirements.
45SWI65-201 1 NOVEMBER 2002                                                                            5


          3.1.3.3. Deprive the public of needed government services.
          3.1.3.4. Endanger national security.
          3.1.3.5. Cause adverse publicity or embarrassment.
          3.1.3.6. Diminish credibility or reputation.
          3.1.3.7. Lead to waste or loss of funds, property or other resources.
          3.1.3.8. Allow fraud or other criminal activity to go undetected.
          3.1.3.9. Cause harm, even though minor individually, because it can be extensive in the aggre-
          gate.
          3.1.3.10. Cause loss of control over a significant amount of the resources for which an organi-
          zation is responsible (including resources other than money; i.e., personnel, equipment, etc.).
      3.1.4. The decision tree in Figure 1. can be used to determine if a weakness is material and
      requires reporting to the next higher level of management:

Figure 1. Material Weakness Decision Tree.




   3.2. Corrective Action Plans. The status of corrective actions on all material weaknesses from their
   first reporting until their resolution should be documented in a corrective action plan. A material
   weakness is considered resolved when corrective actions have been verified to be effective and the
   condition is no longer considered material for reporting purposes.
      3.2.1. At a minimum, a corrective action plan identifies specific actions and completion dates for
      correcting the weakness. The plan lists the tasks, called milestones, together with interim target
      dates for accomplishment of each task. The final milestone should be one of verifying that the cor-
      rective actions achieved the desired results.
6                                                                    45SWI65-201 1 NOVEMBER 2002


       3.2.2. The correction of management control weaknesses is an integral part of management
       accountability. It makes no difference if the weakness is systemic or the weakness is merely a fail-
       ure to follow established procedure. In both cases, the weakness must be corrected.
       3.2.3. Recommendations for corrective action should correlate with the risk. In some cases exist-
       ing controls should be strengthened, and in other cases, new controls should be established.
       3.2.4. Strengthened controls or new controls should be selected on the basis of cost effectiveness
       versus their ability to provide reasonable, but not absolute assurance against loss, errors, irregular-
       ities, operational or mission impairment. The costs of management controls should not outweigh
       the benefits derived from them.
           3.2.4.1. When determining the most desirable and alternative corrective actions, consider the
           way in which budget constraints or staff limitations affect the achievement of the control
           objectives. Managers must always consider the materiality of the weakness and the cost impli-
           cations of actions to correct it.

4. Special Considerations.
    4.1. Training.
       4.1.1. FMAP will provide training to all AUs at least annually. AUs requiring training in addition
       to that regularly scheduled should contact FMAP.
       4.1.2. Ultimately, AU commanders are responsible for the continuous monitoring and improving
       of vital management controls. They should be knowledgeable and diligent in using the range of
       tools at their disposal to meet the requirements of this instruction.
    4.2. Host Tenant Relationships. Responsibilities of the MC program follow the chain of command.
       4.2.1. Tenant units on other MAJCOM bases must perform management control evaluations at the
       direction of the tenant unit's parent command.
       4.2.2. FMAP will make a recommendation to the commander where functions overlap between
       the host and tenant, or where functional OPRs disagree over who has responsibility for a certain
       action.



                                                      MICHAEL F. LEHNERTZ, Colonel, USAF
                                                      Vice Commander
45SWI65-201 1 NOVEMBER 2002                                                                             7


                                             Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Public Law 97-255, Federal Managers’ Financial Integrity Act
OMB Circular A-123, Management Accountability and Control
OMB Circular A-76, Performance of Commercial Activities
DODD 5000.1, The Defense Acquisition System
DODD 5010.38, Management Control Program
DODI 5010.40, Management Control Program Procedures
AFPD 65-2, Management Control Program
AFI 65-201, Management Control

Abbreviations and Acronyms
45SW—45th Space Wing
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AU—Assessable Unit
CAP—Corrective Action Plans
DAB—Defense Acquisition Board
DoD—Department of Defense
FMFIA—Federal Managers’ Financial Integrity Act
MAJCOM—Major Command
MC—Management Control
MCE—Management Control Evaluation
MCP—Management Control Plan
OMB—Office of Management and Budget
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
SOA—Statement of Assurance

Terms
Assessable Unit—The basic segment for which management controls are evaluated. An assessable unit
may be an organization, program, function, system or any other applicable division of Air Force activities
capable of being evaluated by management control assessment procedures. An assessable unit shall be of
an appropriate size to assure that a reasonable span of management control will allow for adequate control
analysis.
8                                                                45SWI65-201 1 NOVEMBER 2002


Management Control—A system of guidance, instructions, regulations, procedures, rules or other
organization instructions intended to determine the methods to be employed to carry out mission or
operational actions or objectives, and ensure that programs achieve intended results. The term
"management control" applies to all Air Force activities.
Management Control Evaluation—A review performed of an assessable unit to determine whether
management control techniques exist and are effectively implemented to accomplish administrative,
operational and mission objectives.
Management Control Program—The formal effort of an organization to ensure that MC systems are
working effectively through assignment of responsibilities at the policy level, issuance and
implementation of guidance, conduct of management control evaluations and reporting to senior
management.
Management Control Plan—A written plan (updated as mission evolves) that details the inventory of
assessable units throughout the organization along with the progress toward accomplishment of scheduled
management control evaluations. It need not be lengthy and any format may be used so long as it conveys,
with a reasonable certainty, the completion of required program activity.
Material Weakness—A determination by management that a condition exists (of sufficient importance
to be reported to the next higher level of command) in which the designated control procedures or the
degree of operational compliance therewith does not provide reasonable assurance that the objectives of
the MC program are being accomplished.
Reasonable Assurance—A judgment, based upon an evaluation of all available information, that the
organization’s systems of management control are operating in a manner that achieves the objectives of
the FMFIA.
Vital Management Controls—Those management controls most important to the accomplishment of the
mission, and for which noncompliance would require disclosure to more senior management.
