BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 45TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 10-602
45TH SPACE WING                                                                     25 JANUARY 2008

                                                                                             Operations

                                                              45TH SPACE WING EASTERN RANGE
                                                                         ACCEPTANCE PROCESS



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 45 RMS/RMR                                                               Certified by: 45RMS/CC
                                                                             (Lt Col Andrew W. Lester)
Supersedes 45 SWI21-102, 20 August 1997                                                       Pages: 8

This instruction implements AFSPCI 10-601, Declaration of Initial Operational Capability (IOC) and Full
Operational Capability (FOC), and AFSPCI 21-104, Systems Requirements and Implementation
Approval Process. It establishes a uniform process to Operationally Accept or Rescind Acceptance for
Eastern Range Instrumentation Systems (ERIS). It also establishes configuration control guidance for
hardware, software, and firmware modifications to ERIS. It applies to personnel and agencies of the 45th
Space Wing (45 SW) involved in the acquisition, installation, integration, test and evaluation, logistics
support, operation, and maintenance of new or modified instrumentation systems on the Eastern Range
(ER).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This Instruction replaces 45SWI 21-102 and reflects the changes to the Acceptance and Configuration
Control process. This Instruction deletes the Systems Operational Acceptance Board (SOAB), adds the
Operational Acceptance Board, and adds the Operational Acceptance process. This Instruction reflects
the processes that are to be used in accepting and controlling the configuration changes to the ERIS.


1. References, Terms, Abbreviations, and Acronyms. See Attachment 1.

2. Objectives.
   2.1. To provide the Eastern Range an operationally accepted configuration to conduct Wing missions,
   including safety critical and mission critical operations.
   2.2. To ensure each new or modified ERIS:
       2.2.1. Is adequately documented as to its operational capabilities.
       2.2.2. Satisfies mission support requirements.
2                                                                    45SWI10-602 25 JANUARY 2008


    2.3. To ensure that logistics support including facilities, material, spares, documentation, mainte-
    nance, and training are properly addressed.
    2.4. To ensure the system interfaces, performance capabilities, and design limitations are documented
    prior to scheduling and committing a system for operational support.
    2.5. To provide a uniform process to: identify, validate, control, and status all ERIS modifications.
    2.6. To minimize delays in acquiring new or modified ERIS for operational use.
    2.7. To provide a process that identifies operational limitations and required improvements.

3. Applicability.
    3.1. This instruction establishes guidelines for the documentation, operational acceptance of new or
    modified ERIS, and acceptance rescission for ERIS components for which the Wing exercises opera-
    tional configuration control responsibility.
    3.2. This instruction applies to personnel and agencies of the Wing involved in the acquisition, instal-
    lation, integration, test and evaluation, logistics support, operation, and maintenance of ERIS.

4. Organizational Responsibilities.
    4.1. This details the responsibilities for the Eastern Range Instrumentation Operational Acceptance
    Process.
    4.2. The 45 RMS.
       4.2.1. Chairs and is the approval authority for the Operational Acceptance Board (OAB), and
       manages the Operational Acceptance Process. Authority will not be delegated below the flight
       chief level.
       4.2.2. Responsible for operating and maintaining all new and modified ERIS.
       4.2.3. Responsible for configuration control of all ERIS.
       4.2.4. Ensures adequate spares are provided for all new or modified systems.
       4.2.5. Ensures adequate documentation and training are provided for all new or modified systems.
       4.2.6. Insures all new or modified systems are adequately tested.
       4.2.7. Issues the Operational Acceptance Memorandum for operational use of new or modified
       ERIS.
    4.3. The 45 SCS.
       4.3.1. Serves as an OAB member as required to ensure that new range communication systems
       and modifications are coordinated with administrative communication systems.
    4.4. The 45 SW/SE.
       4.4.1. Serves as an OAB member for acceptance to insure that Range safety requirements are
       addressed in new or modified ERIS.
    4.5. The 1 ROPS.
45SWI10-602 25 JANUARY 2008                                                                               3


      4.5.1. Serves as an OAB member to ensure that UDS requirements are addressed in new or mod-
      ified ERIS.
   4.6. The 45 WS.
      4.6.1. Serves as an OAB member as required to ensure that Weather requirements are addressed
      in new or modified ERIS.
   4.7. SMC/LRRP.
      4.7.1. Serves as OAB member to address any issues regarding new or modified ERIS.

5. Operational Acceptance Process.
   5.1. The 45 SW Standard Operational Acceptance Process (Figure 1.), as defined in the following
   paragraphs, is the process for accepting new or modified ERIS. The 45 SW Rescind Acceptance Pro-
   cess, as defined in Paragraph 5.3., is the process for rendering systems unavailable for operational use.
   Process and timelines are implemented using an electronic tool, accessed via the following link:
   https://imis.rc.patrick.af.mil/vrvhome/
      5.1.1. The development agency recommends acceptance of a new or modified ERIS after success-
      ful completion of Developmental Test and Evaluation (DT&E) and approval at the Readiness
      Review Board (RRB).
      5.1.2. On emergency changes requiring short turnaround to support launch activities, an Engi-
      neering Change Proposal Message (ECPM) can be used as the entry instrument for the operational
      acceptance process, as defined in Paragraph 5.2. of this instruction.
      5.1.3. Operational Acceptance Testing (OAT) is accomplished by the 45 RMS. At the direction of
      HQ AFSPC/A3T, Force Development Evaluation (FDE) may be accomplished by the 17th Test
      Squadron (17 TS). It is not the intention for OAT to duplicate FDE, if FDE accomplishes all
      required testing.
      5.1.4. The O&M contractor reviews the test results and documentation for the new or modified
      ERIS and submits an analysis of suitability, effectiveness, and limitations to the Operational
      Acceptance Board (OAB) with a recommendation for operational acceptance.
      5.1.5. The OAB members review the analysis and make an operational acceptance recommenda-
      tion to the Chair. The Chair makes a decision for acceptance, rejection, or conditional acceptance.
      5.1.6. If the OAB grants acceptance, 45 RMS issues an Operational Acceptance Memorandum
      with or without operational user restrictions. 45 RMS will insure that the operational assets and
      any restrictions are entered into the System Configuration Acceptance Database (SCAD).
      5.1.7. If the OAB rejects acceptance, 45 RMS issues a Non-Acceptance Memorandum to the
      development agency for corrective action. Additional development may be accomplished, DT&E
      performed, and/or data supplied. When complete, the development agency continues the opera-
      tional acceptance process as defined in Paragraph 5.1.1. of this instruction.
      5.1.8. The 45 OG/CC or 45 SW/CC may elect to make the acceptance decision in selected
      instances. In theses cases 45 RMS will forward the decision package and recommendation to the
      decision authority.
4                                                                     45SWI10-602 25 JANUARY 2008


       5.1.9. If the OAB grants conditional operational acceptance, 45 RMS issues a Conditional Accep-
       tance Memorandum. Reasons for Conditional Acceptance include but are not limited to the fol-
       lowing: corrections of known deficiencies, shadow operations, additional operational testing, and/
       or logistics issues. Conditional acceptance assumes that additional work will be performed to cor-
       rect conditional acceptance issues. When corrections are made, the development agency continues
       the operational acceptance process as defined in Paragraph 5.1.1. of this instruction.

Figure 1. Standard Operational Acceptance Process.




    5.2. The 45 SW ECPM Acceptance Process (Figure 2.) is the process for accepting emergency
    changes to ERIS to support launch operations. Criteria for the use of ECPM’s are that they will be:
       5.2.1. used only when there are no other alternatives to satisfying mission requirements
       5.2.2. used only for urgent situations where there's a real or potentially significant impact to oper-
       ations or personal safety
       5.2.3. used only when the proposed fix does not introduce new problems, and is the minimum
       necessary action to correct the problem or modify the system.
       5.2.4. The O&M contractor develops an ECPM to meet short notice changes to the ER to support
       a specific mission. The ECPM is submitted to the 45 RMS Range Engineer (RE) for that mission.
       5.2.5. The RE reviews the ECPM and after consultation on Range Safety issues with the STA and
       MFCO, makes a decision to approve or reject the proposed change.
       5.2.6. If the RE requires additional information before approving the requested changes, the
       ECPM is returned to the O&M contractor for further refinement. After making any necessary
       changes, the O&M contractor resubmits the ECPM.
       5.2.7. If the RE approves the ECPM, the O&M contractor initiates the System Access Authoriza-
       tion (SAA) to obtain the authorization to break configuration and sends a copy of the ECPM to the
       Configuration Manager for the ER, SMC/RNP.
45SWI10-602 25 JANUARY 2008                                                                                  5


      5.2.8. The O&M contractor makes the required changes to the designated system, performs the
      required test activities to validate that installation is complete and correct, and provides test results
      to RE.
      5.2.9. The RE evaluates the test results and after consultation on Range Safety issues with the
      STA and MFCO, determines whether all ECPM actions are complete and submits the ECPM to
      the OAB Chair for approval.
      5.2.10. If the OAB Chair determines all actions are complete, the OAB issues an Operational
      Acceptance Memorandum and the system is available for operational use.
      5.2.11. If the OAB Chair determines that all actions are not complete, the system is unavailable
      for operational use until the system is returned to an accepted configuration. After the O&M con-
      tractor has resolved any identified issues the process continues as defined in Paragraph 5.2.5.
      5.2.12. If the OAB Chair approves as a permanent modification, then an RS will be submitted
      after the operation.
      5.2.13. If the OAB Chair approves as Conditional and is a temporary modification, then the mod-
      ification will be removed per ECPM

Figure 2. 45 SW ECPM Acceptance Process.




   5.3. The 45 SW Rescind Acceptance Process (Figure 3.) is the process for removing ERIS compo-
   nents from operational use.
      5.3.1. The developer or other agency recommends removal of an ERIS component from opera-
      tional use.
      5.3.2. The O&M contractor reviews the submitted recommendation. Following review, O&M
      contractor forwards their recommendation to the OAB.
6                                                                45SWI10-602 25 JANUARY 2008


      5.3.3. The OAB members review the recommendation and make an operational rescind accep-
      tance recommendation to the Chair. The Chair makes a decision to rescind acceptance or to retain
      the current operational acceptance status.
         5.3.3.1. If the OAB rescinds acceptance, 45 RMS issues a Rescind Operational Acceptance
         Memorandum. 45 RMS will insure that the operational asset’s status is entered into the SCAD
         and properly dispositioned.
         5.3.3.2. If the OAB retains current operational acceptance status, 45 RMS issues a memoran-
         dum to the developer or other agency that made the rescission request.

Figure 3. 45 SW Rescind Acceptance Process.




                                            SUSAN J. HELMS, Brigadier General, USAF
                                            Commander
45SWI10-602 25 JANUARY 2008                                                                            7


                                             Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
45 SWI 21-104, 45 SW Eastern Range Instrumentation Requirements Process.
45SWI 99-102, Test, Evaluation, Documentation,and Operational Acceptance of Eastern Range Sys-
tems
AFSPCI10-601, Declaration of Initial Operating Capability (IOC) and Full Operational Capability
(FOC).
AFSPCI21-104, Systems Requirements and Implementation Approval Process.
NOTE: The user of this instruction is responsible for verifying the currency of the cited documents.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
17 TS—17th Test Squadron
45 RMS—45th Range Management Squadron
45 SW—45th Space Wing
ADM—Acceptance Decision Memorandum
DT&E—Developmental Test and Evaluation
ECPM—Engineering Change Proposal Message
ER—Eastern Range
ERIS—Eastern Range Instrumentation System
FDE—Force Development Evaluation
GPS—Global Positioning System
IAW—In Accordance With
IRR—Installation Readiness Review
LTRS—Launch and Test Range System
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OAT—Operational Acceptance Test
OAB—Operational Acceptance Board
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PWRR—Project, Workflow, Requirement, and Resource
RRB—Readiness Review Board
RS—Requirement Statement
SAA—System Access Authorization
8                                                                    45SWI10-602 25 JANUARY 2008


SCAD—System Configuration Acceptance Database
SLRS—Spacelift Range System
SMC—Space and Missile Center
SWI—Space Wing Instruction
UDS—Universal Documentation System

Terms
Conditional Acceptance—The new or modified system meets some, but not all, current and valid
requirements and provides the ER with a beneficial operational capability that is more significant than any
operational risk.
Development Agency—The Space and Missile Center (SMC) office that has responsibility for all ERIS
development efforts for the future Spacelift Range System (SLRS).
Eastern Range (ER)—The designated area of responsibility for the Air Force Space Command (AFSPC)
managed Launch and Test Range System (LTRS) activity for tracking and command/control of missiles,
launch vehicles, and specific spacecraft from the Eastern United States.
Eastern Range Instrumentation Systems (ERIS)—Range instrumentation systems are the combination
of software, firmware, and hardware required to perform the 45 SW ER mission. This includes, but is not
limited to, radar, telemetry, optics, Global Positioning System (GPS), weather, data processing,
telecommunications, command and control, display, closed circuit television, monitoring and
surveillance, and simulation in implementation with automated information systems to acquire, display,
and analyze data collected as an instrumentation network in support of ballistic missiles, space shuttle,
and other launch systems, aircraft fly-bys, and orbital satellites.
Shadow Operations—A period of time in which a new or modified ERIS is put into operational
configuration and used to “shadow” in parallel with an existing system. During this time, additional
information is collected and thoroughly analyzed for purposes of determining whether the new or
modified system should be operationally accepted. Operational effectiveness and suitability will be
included in the information collected.
Unconditional Acceptance—The new or modified system meets all current and valid requirements and
provides the ER with a beneficial operational capability that is more significant than any operational risk.
