BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  45TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 65-603
45TH SPACE WING                                                                     15 DECEMBER 2002

                                                                                  Financial Management

                                                          JOB ORDER COST ACCOUNTING SYSTEM
                                                                                 OPERATION



                   COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:          This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
                 http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 45 SW/FMAS (Ms. Lois A. Wolfe)                                              Certified by: 45 SW/FM
                                                                               (Lt Col Michael A. Young)
                                                                                                Pages: 14
                                                                                           Distribution: F

This instruction is applicable to all units assigned to the 45 Space Wing (45 SW). It establishes procedures
and responsibilities for all military and civilian government employees assigned to the 45 SW on Patrick
AFB, Cape Canaveral AFS, off-base sites and for those who desire or are required to perform cost
accounting activities using the Job Order Cost Accounting System (JOCAS II). The following local poli-
cies are not all-inclusive and supplemental guidance may be issued.

Section A—Objective and Purpose

1. Objectives.
   1.1. Provide organizational managers at all levels accurate cost information as to the resources con-
   sumed by their organization and the purpose for which the resources were used in order to assist them
   in:
       1.1.1. Improving the financial management of their organization.
       1.1.2. Estimating the resources needed to perform a specific task.
       1.1.3. Justifying their annual requirement for resources.
   1.2. Provide the project manager with accurate cost data to assist in the financial management of his/
   her job orders.
   1.3. Promote an awareness of the need for financial management at all levels.
   1.4. Provide collection of cost for billing of reimbursements earned.
   1.5. Provide for the extraction of raw data from JOCAS II tables to support local Management Infor-
   mation System (MIS) applications; Comptroller Financial Information System (CFIS), Work Informa-
   tion System (WIS) and other report requirements.
2                                                                  45SWI65-603 15 DECEMBER 2002


2. Purpose. This instruction prescribes a uniform cost accounting structure and system for recording and
reporting cost requirements, tracking and reimbursable purposes, as determined by management. It pro-
vides guidance to accomplish the following:
    2.1. Assist management by providing useful and meaningful financial information to meet require-
    ments for recurring reports, special requirements, inquiries from higher headquarters, budget informa-
    tion, programming data, manpower requirements, trend analysis, workload analysis, etc.
    2.2. Provide operational-level management a tool to instill awareness of total costs of individual seg-
    ments of the overall mission, better management of resources and financial data for decision making.
    2.3. Provide a method of identifying cost by job order (cost objective) to identify cost reimbursable
    transactions in support of reimbursement policy, as stated in DODD 3200.11, Major Range and Test
    Facilities Base, and DODD 7220.9, DOD Accounting Policy.

Section B—JOCAS II System Functionality’s

3. JOCAS II Functionality’s.
    3.1. System. JOCAS II is a standard cost accounting system developed and maintained by the Pro-
    grams Management Office (PMO) located at Wright-Patterson AFB (HQ AFMC/FMFS). It is an
    expense accumulation system designed to identify total resources expended in the completion of a job
    order by type of resource Element of Expense Investment Code (EEIC), by performing organization
    Responsibility Center/Cost Center (RC/CC) and by source of financing Fund Code (FC). JOCAS II is
    an extension of the General Accounting and Finance System (GAFS), which accumulates expenses by
    RC/CC and EEIC. Features of JOCAS II are:
       3.1.1. All costs in JOCAS II are accumulated by Job Order Number (JON) and are identified by
       the specific accounting classification.
       3.1.2. JOCAS II allows direct on-line access to detailed transaction data at the working level
       (prior to approval), detail transaction data at the history level (after approval) and at the cumula-
       tive level (summary level to support reporting/journal voucher billings).
       3.1.3. Detailed features of JOCAS II are contained in the JOCAS II Users Guide (on-line).
    3.2. Patrick AFB JOCAS II Structure. JOCAS II is an on-line processing system that provides for
    different stages of data entry, data approval and database (table) maintenance. All transactions pro-
    cessed on-line (cost and labor) are recorded in working tables and can be modified by the responsible
    organization or personnel until approved by that organization or the Cost Accounting Office (CAO).
    The transactions are then moved to history tables (individual transactions maintained with the same
    level of detail as originally processed) and can only be modified through standard JOCAS II correc-
    tion procedures as documented in the JOCAS II Users Guide (on-line). Transactions from standard
    interfacing systems (GAFS, Workorder Information Management System (WIMS)) and contractor
    data (when approved by Audit Agency certification) are loaded directly into history tables, skipping
    working tables and the approval process. The CAO, on a daily basis, executes consolidation process-
    ing to move transactions to a cumulative table (transactions are consolidated at this stage but details
    are still maintained in the history tables), maintained by month (first day of each month) for the pur-
    pose of supporting report and billing processes.
45SWI65-603 15 DECEMBER 2002                                                                            3


Section C—Data and System Administration/45 SW Organization Positions

4. Data.
   4.1. JOCAS II is dependent upon functions and responsibilities being performed by the 45 SW staff,
   groups, squadrons and detachments’ representatives. CAO, 45 SW/FMAS, has the lead responsibility
   to ensure that all organizations understand their roles and functions, and that JOCAS II meets user
   requirements. Major areas performed by the CAO include JOCAS II System Administration (JSA),
   Functional Data Base Administration (FDBA), Chief Cost Accounting Officer (CCAO), Reimburs-
   able Accounts Technician and Reimbursable Cost Technician. The 45 SW/FMAP, Training, Plans and
   Programs Office, is responsible for the policies and guidance regarding charging and reimbursement
   requirements as set forth in 45 SW Instruction 65-601, Reimbursement Policy. Wing staff, groups,
   squadrons and detachments’ functional representatives perform vital functions that ensure the success
   of Patrick business practices while complying with established directives and JOCAS II operating
   requirements. The functional representatives are the Job Order Number (JON) manager, the organiza-
   tion’s focal point and the data entry approvers, supervisors and users.
   4.2. System Administration Positions.
      4.2.1. The 45 SW/FMAS.
           4.2.1.1. JOCAS II System Administrator (JSA). Provides computer operations, system admin-
           istration and various other computer services to the JOCAS II office. This includes the loading
           of JOCAS II version releases.
           4.2.1.2. Functional Data Base Administrator (FDBA). Controls system access, data accuracy
           and timeliness, loading accounting tables/files and their accuracy, coordination with JSA,
           training, documenting system deficiencies, performing the consolidation and subsequent cost
           funding processes and the successful daily operations of other JOCAS II processes. Provides
           assistance, training and interpretation of cost accounting requirements to the users.
           4.2.1.3. Chief of Cost Accounting Office (CCAO). Interfaces/coordinates with the using com-
           munity to ensure user needs are met. Determines the effectiveness and efficiency of JOCAS II.
           Identifies changes and new requirements for JOCAS II. Ensures compliance with established
           directives and that JOCAS II’s design and operating requirements are met. Forwards the gen-
           erated SF 1080 billings to the DFAS operating location. Processes the billing consolidations in
           JOCAS II. Provides assistance, training and interpretation of cost accounting requirements to
           the users.
           4.2.1.4. Reimbursable Accounts Technician. Loads Reimbursable Order Numbers (RONs)
           into JOCAS II. Forwards RON information to Accounting Liaison for subsequent loading into
           GAFS. Processes all funding documentation in JOCAS II. Coordinates with JON managers to
           properly link RON and JON. Ensures proper reimbursable codes for customers. Makes proper
           funding allocations.
           4.2.1.5. Reimbursable Cost Technician. Researches out-of-balance conditions between
           JOCAS II and GAFS. Establishes JONs. Assists with labor entry and inquiries.
   4.3. The 45 SW Organization Positions.
      4.3.1. Job Order Manager (JOM). Located within 45 SW organizations. Establishes JONs, and
      maintains JONs’ existence and migration through various work phases. The JOM is not responsi-
4                                                                 45SWI65-603 15 DECEMBER 2002


       ble for work performance associated with the JON. For further details of a JOM, please refer to 45
       SW Instruction 65-601, Reimbursement Policy.
       4.3.2. Organizational Focal Point. Responsible for coordinating JOCAS II requirements with the
       CAO, ensuring that their organizational structure and business practices meet established direc-
       tives and optimizes JOCAS II concepts and processes to best serve their organization. Assists the
       CAO to ensure data tables reflect their organizational needs and that their users have the need and
       proper access and capabilities with JOCAS II. Provides information, training and other assistance
       to the organization’s management and users. Assists with identification of system deficiencies and
       implementation of JOCAS II procedures within their organizations.
       4.3.3. Data Entry Users and Approving Supervisors. Users enter labor/labor adjustments. Super-
       visors approve labor/labor adjustments on-line in JOCAS II for all military and civilian wing per-
       sonnel. Inputs must be entered in a timely manner to meet the Defense Civilian Payroll System
       (DCPS) schedule to assure civilian pay actions. Prints mandatory timesheets, obtains signatures
       and maintains them (6 years and 3 months) for audit purposes. Coordinates with their unit focal
       point concerning new, departing, retiring and transferred users. Reports system deficiencies to the
       unit focal point and to the CAO as directed by their focal point.

Section D—Responsibilities

5. Responsibilities. The following organizations have key responsibilities to ensure JOCAS II data is
accurate and up to date.
    5.1. Cost Accounting Office (CAO) (45 SW/FMAS):
       5.1.1. Serves as the wing OPR for all matters related to cost accounting, status of cost data and
       standard JOCAS II reports.
       5.1.2. Uses internal controls to detect improper data input.
       5.1.3. Arranges for required system computer support and resolves connectivity issues.
       5.1.4. Schedules, executes and validates all standard JOCAS II processes, all Financial Manage-
       ment (FM) locally developed processes and all interfaces with standard Air Force systems.
       5.1.5. Focal point for identifying and correcting reported program deficiencies to the JOCAS II
       program office.
       5.1.6. Ensures that all JOCAS II tables are current and accurate.
       5.1.7. Periodically and as needed, provides technical guidance, training and indoctrination to all
       wing JOCAS II users.
       5.1.8. Analyzes cost accounting information and presents or makes reports available, as applica-
       ble, to users and various levels of management for consideration and evaluation. Provides JOCAS
       II data extracts to support local management information systems.
       5.1.9. Develops, computes, validates and updates, all indirect and overhead rates; participates in
       the development of product service rates (when requested); reviews and inputs rates into JOCAS
       II.
45SWI65-603 15 DECEMBER 2002                                                                       5


     5.1.10. Grants access to users, as needed, upon request of the wing-appointed focal points to
     JOCAS II.
     5.1.11. Assists in loading and resolving JOCAS II software issues.
     5.1.12. Resolves cost accounting questions that may surface in daily operations.
     5.1.13. Formulates local cost accounting procedures to meet local requirements with guidelines
     set by Headquarters Air Force Space Command, 45 SW/FM and DFAS-Orlando.
     5.1.14. Builds JONs (selects the appropriate eight digits for the JON) for new programs based on
     guidelines established within the wing.
     5.1.15. Accepts, reviews and records reimbursable and direct cite customer funding documents
     from the requester; ensures adequacy of budget authorization and forwards copies of reimbursable
     documents to the initiator and DFAS-Orlando.
     5.1.16. Assigns JON. There are two basic types of JONs: Reimbursable Budget Authority (RBA)
     and Direct Budget Authority (DBA) (non-reimbursable). The formatting of each of these of JONs
     differs only by the form of funding; RBA will have an Air Force approved funding document and
     DBA does not require a document. The following data is required for JON assignment:
        5.1.16.1. Name of the customer.
        5.1.16.2. Billing address of the customer.
        5.1.16.3. Work/Mission covered by JON.
        5.1.16.4. Proposed JON title.
        5.1.16.5. Proposed JON number.
        5.1.16.6. Indication of “new” or “supplemental” work.
        5.1.16.7. Form of Funding:
            5.1.16.7.1. AF Form 185, Project Order.
            5.1.16.7.2. DD Form 448, Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request.
            5.1.16.7.3. Purchase requests from other government agencies.
            5.1.16.7.4. DD Form 1149, Requisition and Invoice/Shipping Document.
            5.1.16.7.5. Cash or Letter of Credit.
            5.1.16.7.6. Surety Bond.
            5.1.16.7.7. Other funding documents may be accepted ONLY with prior approval from 45
            SW/FM.
            5.1.16.7.8. Agreement number (if applicable).
        5.1.16.8. Range scheduling number (Y or N).
        5.1.16.9. Fixed Price (Y or N).
        5.1.16.10. JOM name, office symbol, RC/CC, PEC and phone number.
        5.1.16.11. Funding documents must contain the following statement: "This order is placed per
6                                                                45SWI65-603 15 DECEMBER 2002


          41 U.S.C. 23, and Department of Defense Instruction 7220.1, Fiscal Year End Certification of
          Appropriation and Fund Balances,” to be accepted as a project order.
          5.1.16.12. The JOM must initial that they concur with the funding document’s amount,
          accounting classification and work being performed.
          5.1.16.13. Request accepted electronically and mailed.
       5.1.17. Send copies of accepted customer funding documents indicating the local CSN and JON
       numbers to DFAS-Orlando/DAO and the JOM who provide copies to the ordering activity.
       5.1.18. Add supplemental funding, carry forward prior-year funds or withdraw funding to close
       JONs based on direction and concurrence with the JOM.
       5.1.19. May accept support requests from outside organizations/agencies under certain conditions
       and the support may or may not be reimbursable.
       5.1.20. Payroll is processed on the second Friday of each pay period. Contact any organization
       with missing or incorrect data. Processing of the payroll file for transmission to Pensacola will
       begin the following Monday.
       5.1.21. Creates SF1080s and summary bill details.
    5.2. Training, Programs and Policy (45 SW/FMAP).
       5.2.1. Per 45 SW Instruction 65-601, Reimbursement Policy, the following rules apply to deficit
       JONs:
          5.2.1.1. If costs exceed available funding for over 30 days, FMAP will officially notify the
          JOM via a deficit letter, with a courtesy copy to the deficit unit’s squadron commander.
          5.2.1.2. After the JON is deficit for 60 days and no action has been taken to clear the deficit,
          the squadron commander will be notified, with a courtesy copy to the JOM.
          5.2.1.3. After 90 days the squadron commander will be notified that Direct Budget Authority
          (DBA) funds will be used to offset the deficit, with a courtesy copy to the group commander
          and JOM.
          5.2.1.4. 45 SW/FMAS will be notified to update the system to reflect the entire deficit as
          being paid with the group’s direct funding.
          5.2.1.5. Maintain the Job Order Master List (JOML) and 45 SW/FMAS will update the
          changes in JOCAS II as required.
          5.2.1.6. Ensure work phase codes of JONs are properly input and updated as required. Coor-
          dinate with all performing organizations to ensure all charges have been processed and there
          are no commitments or obligations outstanding prior to moving to “Z” phase. Normally 60
          days are allowed after notification, before changing a JON to “Y” or “Z” phase, so all costs are
          received and processed by the JOCAS II office.
    5.3. DFAS-Orlando/DAO:
       5.3.1. Maintain the record of accepted customer funding documents for Patrick AFB.
       5.3.2. Process end-of-month bills in GAFS to reimbursable customers using data provided by
       JOCAS.
45SWI65-603 15 DECEMBER 2002                                                                           7


     5.3.3. Office of primary responsibility for customer billing inquiries.
  5.4. Wing Staff Functions, Groups, Squadrons and Detachments:
     5.4.1. Each wing staff function, group, squadron or detachment will appoint a focal point to be the
     primary contact between themselves and the JOCAS CAO for all JOCAS cost accounting require-
     ments.
        5.4.1.1. Focal points will:
            5.4.1.1.1. Upon arrival, all new wing personnel are input into the JOCAS II “Personnel
            Master” and in their working Labor Group in the “Labor/Approval Master” menu as soon
            as possible.
            5.4.1.1.2. Upon notification of data changes make corrections to all individuals’ data in
            the “Personnel Master.”
            5.4.1.1.3. Request “Entry” rights be established to allow individuals to do their own data
            entry or for data entry personnel to enter others’ data. Request “Supervisor” rights to allow
            supervisors to enter or approve labor for those they are responsible for. Computer security
            regulations require a printed and signed “JOCAS Request” or E-mail be provided to the
            CAO by or through the unit focal point.
            5.4.1.1.4. Establish “Labor Groups” in the “Labor/Approval Master” menu to allow super-
            visors and timekeepers access to personnel within their wing’s function or unit for entry/
            approval of labor data. Authorization to enter labor or to approve labor transactions for
            personnel is controlled by assigning individuals within a specific labor group an approval
            level and approval type in the “Labor/Approval Master” menu areas “Labor Group/Labor
            Group Approvers” screen areas.
            5.4.1.1.5. Assure that personnel transferred between wing functions/units are properly
            processed between losing and gaining unit focal points or supervisors. This will guarantee
            the recording of labor for civilians and military. Close coordination between the two units
            is a must.
            5.4.1.1.6. The losing unit must assure the labor for the last pay period the member is in the
            unit is “entered and approved” and the member must be removed from the losing unit’s
            labor group. Then the losing unit must inform the gaining unit’s focal point the member’s
            time is “in and approved” and give the unit the member’s “user-ID number.” Using the
            member’s “user-ID number,” the gaining unit can add the member to one of the gaining
            unit’s labor groups to afford the unit access to the member.
            5.4.1.1.7. The gaining unit must first add the new member to a labor group, then update all
            necessary information in the “Personnel Master” (phone number, RC/CC, auto populate
            (Y/N), comp-time allowed (Y/N), and the proper work-schedule). Lastly, the gaining unit
            must go to “Labor/Entry” and correct the “Frequently Used JONs” for charging the proper
            unit JONs or to auto populate.
            5.4.1.1.8. Members who retire, PCS or transfer to a tenant unit must be made “inactive” in
            the “Personnel Master” and deleted from the unit’s labor group after entering and approv-
            ing labor in the last appropriate pay period. (Patrick AFB tenants are not costed in JOCAS;
            therefore, no hand-off is required between wing units and tenants.)
8                                                                  45SWI65-603 15 DECEMBER 2002


              5.4.1.1.9. Train all unit supervisors and/or individuals required to enter data in JOCAS.
              5.4.1.1.10. Assure the unit establishes a policy to print and maintain suitable timesheets
              that contain both JOCAS JON data and labor hour data for 6 years and 3 months for audit
              purposes.
    5.5. Supervisors.
       5.5.1. Supervisors will:
           5.5.1.1. Coordinate with the focal point to assure all personnel in his/her charge are loaded/
           input into the JOCAS “Personnel Master,” and added/deleted as a member of the functional
           area labor group as appropriate.
           5.5.1.2. Assure military and civilian labor is entered and approved accurately and timely.
           5.5.1.3. All JOCAS II entries must be input, certified and approved by close of business on the
           second Thursday of each pay period.
           5.5.1.4. Payroll is processed on the second Friday of each pay period. Before final labor
           approval/certification of JOCAS II entries, timekeepers may change time and attendance data.
           Once data has been approved in JOCAS II, only “Labor Adjustments” to those entries can be
           processed in JOCAS II.
           5.5.1.5. Changes to approved data passed to Pensacola that impact pay must be made in DCPS
           as well as JOCAS II, as soon as possible.
           5.5.1.6. Assure that timesheets for both military and civilians are printed, reviewed, signed
           and maintained for 6 years and 3 months for audit purposes.
           5.5.1.7. Assure alternate approvers (minimum of two) are appointed in each labor group.
           Alternate approvers are required as members cannot approve their own data and in the absence
           of the supervisor one alternate can approve the other’s data.
           5.5.1.8. Make “Labor Adjustments” in the “Labor/Adjusting” menus if changes occur to any
           aspect of reported data (wrong JON reported, hour code or hours reported) after labor has been
           approved. Then assure “Labor Adjustments” are approved.
           5.5.1.9. Assure that members who PCS, retire or resign (civilians) from Civil Service are
           made “inactive” in the “Personnel Master.”
           5.5.1.10. Input appropriate “Frequently Used JONs” and indicate “Y” to have members auto
           populated in the “Labor/Entry” screen for each member.
           5.5.1.11. Report all problems inputting or approving directly to the unit focal point or directly
           to the CAO.
    5.6. Individual Users.
       5.6.1. Individual users will:
           5.6.1.1. As directed by your unit, input labor data directly in JOCAS.
           5.6.1.2. All civilians and military must, as directed by your unit, print and turn-in timesheets
           to supervisors. Locally developed timesheets that meet the JOCAS and DCPS requirements
           are acceptable. JOCAS timesheets can be viewed and printed by all users who have entry
45SWI65-603 15 DECEMBER 2002                                                                  9


       rights.
       5.6.1.3. Problems inputting or adjusting data into JOCAS II should be reported to/through
       supervisors/unit focal point.



                                              MICHAEL F. LENHERTZ, Colonel, USAF
                                              Vice Commander
10                                                            45SWI65-603 15 DECEMBER 2002


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DODD 3200.11, Major Range and Test Facilities Base
DODD 7220.9, DOD Accounting Policy
DOD Instruction 7220.1, Fiscal Year End Certification of Appropriation and Fund Balances
45 SW Instruction 65-601, Reimbursement Policy

Abbreviations and Acronyms
45 SW—45 Space Wing
ADSN—Accounting and Disbursing Station Number
AID—Account Identity Code
AEP—Accrued Expenditures Paid
AEU—Accrued Expenditures Unpaid
BID—Balance Identifier
CBAR—Civilian Benefit Acceleration Rate
CCAO—Chief Cost Accounting Office
CSN—Control Serial Number
CAO—Cost Accounting Office
DCPS—Defense Civilian Payroll System
DCAA—Defense Contract Audit Agency
DBA—Direct Budget Authority
EEIC—Element of Expense/Investment Code
FTP—File Transfer Protocol
FCOC—Filled Customer Orders-Collected
FCOU—Filled Customer Orders-Uncollected
FM—Financial Management
FDBA—Functional Data Base Administration
FC—Fund Code
JOM—Job Order Manager
JOML—Job Order Master List
JON—Job Order Number
45SWI65-603 15 DECEMBER 2002                                                                          11


JSA—JOCAS II System Administration
MIS—Management Information System
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OBAN—Operating Budget Account Number
PE—Program Element
PEC—Program Element Code
PMO—Program Management Office
PDO—Publishing Distribution Office
RBA—Reimbursable Budget Authority
RON—Reimbursable Order Number
RC/CC—Responsibility Center/Cost Center Code
SBSS—Standard Base Supply System
UOO—Undelivered Orders Outstanding
UFCO—Unfilled Customer Orders
WIS—Work Information System
WIMS—Workorder Information Management System

Terms
Accounting and Disbursing Station Number—Six digit code used in all accounting classifications
denoting the specific accountable station.
Account Identity Code—A two-digit code used in JOCAS II to separate one organization’s cost records
from another. Each AID functions independently from other AIDs. Patrick AFB only has one: AID A5 -
Patrick AFB.
Accrual Accounting—A method of accounting for revenues or expenses when earned, even though not
collected or paid. Operating costs are accounted for in the fiscal period during which the benefits are
received.
Accrued Expenditures Paid—The dollar value of goods delivered or services performed for which
payment has been made.
Accrued Expenditures Unpaid—The dollar value of goods delivered or services accrued but not paid.
JOCAS II expenses include accrued expenditures unpaid.
Applied Costs—The cost of goods and services placed in use or consumed. Direct applied costs are the
amounts recognized in the time period associated with the consumption of labor, material and other direct
resources without regard to the date of commitment or the date of payment.
Balance Identifier—Used to specify the stages of accountability as shown below:
12                                                                45SWI65-603 15 DECEMBER 2002


Table A1.1. Balance Identifier.
BID      Commitment/Obligation Accounting                BID       Reimbursement Accounting
C        Commitments
O        Undelivered Orders Outstanding (UOO             D         Unfilled Customer Orders
                                                                   (UFCO)
U         Accrued Expenditures Unpaid (AEU)              F         Filled Customer Orders-
                                                                   Uncollected (FCOU)
E         Accrued Expenditures Paid (AEP)                R         Filled Customer Orders-
                                                                   Collected (FCOC)
Civilian Benefit Acceleration Rate—An acceleration rate applied in JOCAS II to all actual civilian
hourly wage rates to recover the difference between total Government civilian pay costs (gross salaries
plus funded and unfunded Government contributions plus accrued annual leave carry over) and straight
time salary costs of hours worked (gross annual salaries less the cost of leave taken).
Direct Cost—Any items of cost incurred by a cost center, which can be readily and specifically identified
to any final cost objective such as product service, program or JON. Direct costs include, but are not
limited to, labor and related fringe benefits, material, travel and per diem, transportation, dedicated
equipment and contractual services.
Disbursement—In the collective appropriation sense, the amount of expenditure (checks issued, cash
payments made and net of refunds received) including all advances. It excludes amounts on
non-expenditure documents issued to accomplish a transfer.
Element of Expense/Investment Code—Used to identify the nature of services and items acquired for
the immediate consumption (expense) or capitalization (investment).
Fund Code—A two-digit code used to designate the appropriation symbol, which represents the source
of financing of the expenses appearing in JOCAS II. Examples are:

Table A1.2. Fund Code.
FUND CODE            APPROPRIATION
30                   3400 (Operations and Maintenance)
9A                   3500 (Military Personnel Expense)
Indirect Costs—Any item of cost which is incurred by a direct mission element for joint objectives, and
therefore, cannot be identified specifically with a single final cost objective, product service or JON.
Indirect costs may be incurred by a direct or indirect cost center. EEIC 59913 identifies the management
support appropriation and EEIC 59914 identifies the military personnel appropriation. Indirect costs are
distributed to all direct labor hours expended by a direct cost center.
Job Order Master—Identifies approved JONs for each AID and descriptive data elements related to
each job order.
Job Order Number—An eight digit alpha-numeric code, which identifies a specific workload effort. (1)
Direct Job Order. An approved authorization to expend resources on Operation and Maintenance or other
services in response to an accepted customer’s order. (2) Indirect Job Order. A job order used to identify
various categories of indirect work or to validate standard rates.
45SWI65-603 15 DECEMBER 2002                                                                               13


Local Agency Code—A locally determined code used to indicate the agency requiring support from
Patrick AFB.
Obligation—A legal requirement for disbursement of funds based on orders placed, contracts awarded
and services received.
Operating Agency Code—A code identifying major air commands or special activities.
Operating Budget—An approved plan, at any level, such as a military department, operating agency,
intermediate operating agency, installation or activity, which is the basis of funding and financial control
of obligations, costs and expenditures.
Operating Budget Account Number—A number assigned by the operating agency (usually a major
command) to identify a specific operating budget. The term is synonymous with allotment serial number.
Overhead Cost—Costs incurred by support cost centers, which are not directly incurred or readily
identifiable with any specific direct job. Overhead costs are distributed to all direct jobs by applying an
overhead rate to direct labor hours.
Overtime Amount—The dollar value of overtime performed in excess of the normal 40-hour workweek.
Overtime Hours—Hours worked beyond the normal 40-hour workweek.
Program Element—A description of the mission by the identification of the organizational entities and
resources needed to perform the assigned mission. Resources consist of forces, manpower, material and
funds. The program element is the basic building block of the Future Year Defense Program.
Program Element Code—A code that is applicable to the specific JON. Every effort should be made to
identify the job order to the program element. If there is no related program element, then an appropriate
system program or project (SYS/PROG/PROJ) number will be used. If there is no PE/SYS/PROG/PROJ
number, then use 6 zeroes on this data element in the JON master. The DOD program element code should
always match the customer.
Regular Labor Amount—The dollar value of the labor costs accelerated in JOCAS II by the current
CBAR.
Regular Labor Hours—The number of labor hours recorded during a normal working period.
Regular Rate—The normal hourly rate of pay established for each civilian grade/step and military rank
listed in the JOCAS II personnel master and JOCAS II personnel master audit (previous periods).
Reimbursement Code—A standard code based upon the type of customer used to indicate the rule of
reimbursements to be applied.
Reimbursements—Amounts received, or to be received, by an agency or an activity for the cost of
material, work or services furnished or to be furnished to other, for credit to an appropriation or other fund
account (or subdivision thereof).
Responsibility Center/Cost Center Code—The lowest organizational unit or activity for which costs
are accumulated. A cost center in normally a subdivision of a responsibility center where the supervisor
has a degree of control over resources consumed. RC/CCs are identified as direct or overhead. (1) Direct
Cost Center. An organizational unit whose principal function is to perform test missions or produces end
products. (2) Support (Overhead) Cost Center. A support entity whose principal function is to support
direct activities in their performance of mission or production of products. Normally a part of the direct
organizations serving in a management or administrative capacity.
14                                                             45SWI65-603 15 DECEMBER 2002


Supporting Systems—All systems affecting the JOCAS II concept but not specifically included in the
operating system. This includes systems established for specialized management requirements (Civil
Engineering, GAFs, etc.), as well as, application techniques to achieve some administrative objective
(civilian pay, military personnel, supply system, etc.).
Work Phase Code—A locally assigned code used to designate the status of a job order.

Table A1.3. Work Phase Code.
Work Phase Code Status of a Job Order
P                  Planning phase
A                  Active phase (includes reporting).
Y                  Indicates job orders that have been completed within the scope of the intended
                   technical goal and to which no new direct costs may be obligated or assigned but
                   has unliquidated obligations outstanding. This work phase code will not accept
                   labor hour transactions. Also use for suspended work, which indicates an
                   interruption in work, usually of 30 days or more. No new charges are accepted
                   during this phase. Work may proceed to any other phase upon proper notification
                   by the OPR.
Z                  Indicates job orders have been completely closed out without any remaining
                   unliquidated obligations. Additional costs may be accepted.
