BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           45TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 13-201
45TH SPACE WING
                                                                                       28 MAY 2014

                                                  Nuclear, Space, Missile, Command and Control

                                                                  EASTERN RANGE AIRSPACE




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 1 ROPS/DOUS                                                            Certified by: 45 OG/CC
                                                                           (Col Douglas A. Schiess)
                                                                                           Pages: 20
Supersedes:    45 SWI 13-201,
               12 April 2012


This instruction implements AFPD 13-2, Air Traffic Control, Airspace, Airfield and Range
Management.        It provides guidance and procedures for the safe operation of all airspace
operations supporting launch and other scheduled operations on the Eastern Range (ER). It
applies to all participating 45 SW units, organizations providing support aircraft, ER agencies
and users. A coordinated effort is required by range and flight personnel, range users and
participating staff agencies to ensure safety of operations, mission accomplishment, conservation
of resources, and to prevent violations of diplomatic agreements. Aircraft providing support will
operate IAW pertinent technical orders, parent directives and the provisions of this instruction.
All 45 SW staff support agencies will provide any required assistance to ensure safe aircraft
operations and will fulfill the provisions of this instruction and the tasking set forth in applicable
Operations Directives (OD). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate
functional chain of command. Requests for waivers must be submitted to the OPR listed above
for consideration and approval. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
Systems (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                                                                   45SWI13-201 28 MAY 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been revised to show changes in Military Radar Unit responsible organization
due to contact descope. It clarifies Cape Control MRU duties and responsibilities, updates office
symbols and publication references, and corrects definitions and acronyms while consolidating
unwritten local guidance into one document. There are also minor editorial changes throughout
the document.


        1.      General. ..................................................................................................................    2
        2.      Supporting Aircraft/Aircrew Operations. ..............................................................                         2
        3.      General Responsibilities. .......................................................................................              3
        4.      Aircraft In-Flight Emergency (IFE): ......................................................................                     8

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                 9

Attachment 2—EASTERN RANGE AIRSPACE ACTIVATION/DEACTIVATION
             SUMMARY                                                                                                                          14

Attachment 3—LAUNCH AIRCRAFT MODE – 3 CODES (REFERENCE MIAMI LOA)                                                                             15

Attachment 4—EASTERN RANGE SPECIAL USE AIRSPACE                                                                                               16


1. General.
     1.1. The ER is responsible for the authorization, scheduling, control and safety of all aircraft
     operations on the ER and within ER Special Use Airspace (SUA). The ER exercises control
     through the 1st Range Operations Squadron Commander (1 ROPS/CC) by authority of the
     Commander, 45th Space Wing (45 SW/CC). The 45 SW is the using agency for the airspace
     defined herein.
     1.2. Restricted and Warning Areas, as defined in DoD Flight Information Publications, are
     operated as outlined in that publication. When these areas are open, Air Traffic Control
     (ATC) is authorized to approve Instrument Flight Rules (IFR) flights without prior approval
     from the ER. These and other areas used for special activities and mission operations are
     specified in the scheduled Operations Directive (OD). Special ER areas and impact areas
     used during launch operations are determined and requested individually for each mission.
     1.3. Range Surveillance is accomplished IAW the scheduled OD, special support
     instructions or remarks in the published operations schedule.
     1.4. Control of mission support aircraft by 45 SW agencies is terminated after completion of
     all mission requirements and release of the support aircraft.
2. Supporting Aircraft/Aircrew Operations.
     2.1. Aircraft/Aircrews supporting Launch Operations will:
45SWI13-201 28 MAY 2014                                                                        3


       2.1.1. Attend the mission aircrew briefing to review mission support procedures,
       positions, times, call signs, assigned MODE-3 codes, operating frequencies, weather
       forecast and special instructions.
       2.1.2. Review all Notices to Airmen (NOTAMs).
       2.1.3. Prior to entering Restricted Airspace/ER SUA, contact CAPE CONTROL
       on133.8 / 264.8 and advise of intentions.
       2.1.4. Squawk assigned Mode-3 code when operating in ER assigned airspace.
       2.1.5. Provide CAPE CONTROL with departure time, remaining fuel on board (in
       hours), number of persons on board and aircraft tail number.
       2.1.6. Monitor assigned frequencies and maintain radio contact with CAPE CONTROL
       while operating in ER assigned airspace.
       2.1.7. Report any unidentified aircraft within ER assigned airspace to CAPE CONTROL.
       2.1.8. Report Return to Base (RTB) at mission completion to CAPE CONTROL.
   2.2. Aircraft/Aircrew supporting Daily Operations will:
       2.2.1. Coordinate approval and receive Prior Permission Required (PPR) with 1
       ROPS/DOUS for operations in ER SUA.
       2.2.2. Contact CAPE ADVISORY prior to entering ER SUA.
       2.2.3. Maintain radio contact with CAPE ADVISORY while operating in ER SUA.
       2.2.4. Report Return to Base (RTB) at mission completion to CAPE ADVISORY.
       2.2.5. When Cape Advisory is not operational aircraft shall contact Orlando Approach
       for entry into and departure from Eastern Range Restricted Areas. Orlando is authorized
       to monitor aircraft in Eastern Range Restricted Areas that have been prior coordinated
       and issued a PPR as well as emergency aircraft missions such as Police and Life support
       flights.
3. General Responsibilities.
   3.1. The 1st Range Operations Squadron (1 ROPS):
       3.1.1. The 1ROPS Commander: The 1 ROPS/CC has overall responsibility for
       processing, coordinating and approving requests for operations, scheduling and control of
       all aircraft operating on the ER, as well as monitoring all activities within the scope of
       this instruction to ensure compliance with its provisions.
       3.1.2. The 1 ROPS Operations Officer (1 ROPS/DO): The 1 ROPS/DO is responsible
       for processing, coordinating, and approving requests for operations involving aircraft on
       the ER.
       3.1.3. Range Scheduling (1 ROPS/DOUS):
          3.1.3.1. Publishes the ER 90-Day Forecast Schedule and provides adequate
          notification of any changes to affected agencies.
          3.1.3.2. Sends Altitude Reservation (ALTRV) Approval Request (APREQ) for
          Launch Hazard Areas to FAA Central Altitude Reservation Facility (CARF).
4                                                            45SWI13-201 28 MAY 2014


       3.1.3.3. Sends NOTAM APREQ to FAA Miami Air Route Traffic Control Center
       (ARTCC), Military Operations Specialist (MOS) and other agencies as appropriate.
       3.1.3.4. Sends Notice to Mariner (NOTMAR) APREQ to National Geospatial
       Agency (NGA) and other agencies as appropriate.
    3.1.4. Program Support Manager (PSM):
       3.1.4.1. Performs as the coordinating function that identifies all aeronautical
       requirements requiring ER support.
       3.1.4.2. Reviews the Program Requirements Document (PRD), Operations
       Requirement (OR), Schedule Request and Operations Directive (OD) for aircraft
       requirements.
       3.1.4.3. Briefs range users on the requirements of this instruction and Intended
       Support Plans (IAW EWR 127-1, Chapter 2, paragraph 2.4.2 or AFSPCMAN 91-710,
       Vol 4, Airborne Flight Safety System Design, Test, and Documentation Requirements,
       paragraph 2.3) when they have requested aircraft support or are conducting aircraft
       operations.
       3.1.4.4. Will monitor Eastern Range Restricted Area airspace and provide traffic
       advisories during non-launch operation periods using call sign CAPE ADVISORY.
    3.1.5. Surveillance Control Officer (SCO):
       3.1.5.1. Performs launch area surveillance ensuring hazard areas are clear of
       unauthorized boats, ships and aircraft prior to giving the Launch Area Surveillance
       “Go/No-Go” determination to the Mission Flight Control Officer (MFCO) based on
       current hit-probability criteria per AFSPCMAN 91-710, Volume 2, Flight Safety
       Requirements, for ships/boats and for aircraft.
       3.1.5.2. Conducts aircrew briefings in support of launch and aerospace operations as
       required.
       3.1.5.3. Directs the ACO and SSO to have the Range Safety surveillance aircraft
       leave their Mission Support Position (MSP) to re-scan the launch danger zone during
       countdown holds as required.
       3.1.5.4. Authorizes alternate MSPs for support aircraft with assistance from the
       Surveillance Risk Analyst (SRA) as required.
       3.1.5.5. Directs the ACO and MRU to release support aircraft and SUA IAW 45
       SW/SEL Hazardous Area letter or when authorized by the MFCO.
       3.1.5.6. Directs the ACO and MRU to issue breakaway instructions to supporting
       aircraft when directed by the MFCO.
    3.1.6. Aerospace Control Officer (ACO):
       3.1.6.1. ACO Call sign is CAPE LEADER.
       3.1.6.2. Focal point for the coordination of all aircraft support requirements
       documented in the PRD, OR and OD. The ACO will review these documents for
       aircraft requirements.
45SWI13-201 28 MAY 2014                                                                          5


        3.1.6.3. Schedules and conducts aircrew briefings in support of launch and aerospace
        operations as required.
        3.1.6.4. Monitors SUA, notifies SCO of any violations of the airspace and/or the
        aircraft hit-probability contour and coordinates with MRU Controller to ensure that
        intruder aircraft departs ER airspace and the aircraft flight path is tracked and
        reported to FAA.
        3.1.6.5. Monitors support aircraft status including:
            3.1.6.5.1. Mode-3 codes, aircraft track status and mission frequencies.
            3.1.6.5.2. Coordinating support aircraft actions with other positions and agencies
            and reporting status to the SCO.
            3.1.6.5.3. Ensuring all support aircraft are clear of the support aircraft hit-
            probability contour and are at, or will be at, their assigned MSP prior to T-0.
            3.1.6.5.4. Coordinates any requests for, or assignment of, alternate MSP(s) with
            the SCO. Unless previously evaluated, SEL must assess risks to support aircraft
            at alternate MSP(s) prior to SCO approval.
        3.1.6.6. Performs contingency notifications to the MRU Controller and the support
        aircraft to include severe weather, holds/hold extensions, countdown recycles, new T-
        0s, hangfire/misfire events and anomalous vehicle flight. Coordinates or relays
        notifications to support aircraft through other support positions as required.
        3.1.6.7. Performs terminal countdown notifications to the support aircraft.
        3.1.6.8. Performs countdown status, contingency, and mission completion
        notifications to Patrick Tower to de-conflict aircraft operations and launch vehicle
        tracking operations at PAFB.
        3.1.6.9. Verifies with the MRU Controller that ATC contingency notifications with
        Miami ARTCC are made.
        3.1.6.10. Verifies balloon release notifications to support aircraft are accomplished.
        3.1.6.11. Upon authorization by the SCO, the ACO directs the MRU Controller to
        release airspace and support aircraft after a launch or scrub. Airspace will normally
        be released IAW instruction provided in the 45 SW/SELR Hazardous Areas Letter for
        each launch. Notification of launch time, if releasing airspace, should be provided
        ASAP. However, if not releasing airspace, notification should be made within four
        (4) minutes of launch with the reason for delay. Airspace may be held longer if
        necessary to safe the missile.
        3.1.6.12. When directed by the SCO, the ACO directs the MRU Controller to issue
        breakaway instructions to support aircraft.
     3.1.7. Sea Surveillance Officer (SSO):
        3.1.7.1. SSO Call sign is VARIETY ONE.
        3.1.7.2. Provides supporting aircraft units with the sea surveillance requirements for
        the launch danger zone.
6                                                                45SWI13-201 28 MAY 2014


          3.1.7.3. Monitors and controls movement and positions of Range Safety surveillance
          aircraft.
          3.1.7.4. Relays contingency countdown notifications to Range Safety surveillance
          aircraft for the ACO as required.
    3.2. Military Radar Unit (MRU) Call Sign, CAPE CONTROL.
       3.2.1. MRU Shall;
       3.2.2. Provide command and control instructions and monitor mission support aircraft
       during launch operations to ensure the safe, expeditious and timely movement of
       participating aircraft.
       3.2.3. Assist participating aircraft in avoiding observed aircraft by issuance of traffic
       advisories and/or control instructions and altitude assignments.
       3.2.4. Coordinate aircraft movement with SCO/ACO/SSO, as required.
       3.2.5. Inform ACO when support aircraft reach assigned Mission Support Point (MSP).
       3.2.6. Coordinate aircraft movement with Air Traffic Control, as required.
       3.2.7. Make balloon launch notifications.
       3.2.8. Ensure MRU position is operational when airspace activation for launch begins;
       normally three (3) hours prior to launch (T-180).
       3.2.9. Notify Miami ARTCC when ER launch operations have been completed or
       cancelled and airspace can be returned to Miami ARTCC IAW the 45 SW/SEL
       Hazardous Areas Letter.
       3.2.10. Attend launch aircrew briefings.
    3.3. MRU Training and Evaluation
       3.3.1. MRU training will be conducted by 1 ROPS/DOUS, 45 Space Wing Airspace
       Manager.
       3.3.2. MRU training materials are maintained by 1 ROPS/DOUS, 45 Space Wing
       Airspace Manager.
    3.3.3. MRU evaluations will be conducted by 1 ROPS/DOUS, 45 Space Wing Airspace
    Manager.
    3.3.4. MRU evaluations will be maintained by 1 ROPS/DOUS, 45 Space Wing Airspace
    Manager.
    3.4. Miami ARTCC (Miami ARTCC has agreed to the following IAW 45 SW/Miami Letter
    of Agreement):
       3.4.1. Miami ARTCC MOS will NOTAM airspace, as requested by 1 ROPS/DOUS, for
       ER launch operations. NOTAM notification includes, but is not limited to, Boston
       ARTCC, New York ARTCC, Washington ARTCC, Jacksonville ARTCC, San Juan
       CERAP, NASSAU and other agencies and countries affected by ER airspace closures.
       3.4.2. Permits normal flow of air traffic within the Warning Areas for flights that will
       clear the area at least 5 minutes before closure as determined by the latest count
45SWI13-201 28 MAY 2014                                                                         7


     forwarded by the ER. Due to uncertainty in launch schedules, the Miami ARTCC will
     not begin re-routing air traffic prior to receipt of the L-90 count from the ER. Aircraft
     that will not clear active airspace by required times will be re-routed.
     3.4.3. Immediately notifies ER and provides flight details to the MRU when, for any
     reason, diversion cannot be or has not been accomplished.
     3.4.4. Advises all Air Traffic Control agencies when ER operations have been
     completed, altitude blocks terminated and normal routing of air traffic can be resumed.
     3.4.5. Upon request, activates ER-published Special Use airspace for use on a real-time
     basis. Such requests will be made at least three (3) hours prior to the anticipated use by
     the ER.
  3.5. Range Users:
     3.5.1. Documents requirements for supporting aircraft in the appropriate PRD and OR.
     3.5.2. Documents in the PRD and OR all requirements for equipment, storage and
     maintenance support of all aircraft intending to stage from or use ER facilities during the
     course of the operation.
     3.5.3. Ensures only mission-essential personnel are scheduled aboard the aircraft.
     3.5.4. Provides 45 SW/SEL and 1 ROPS/DOUF with the designation, type and number
     of support aircraft and a mission itinerary and ISP at least 21 working days prior to
     launch. All ISPs will be finalized and coordinated through required agencies NLT 5
     working days prior to the operation. The ER user may require additional coordination
     with 45 SW/SE to modify the ISPs in the case of an unacceptable risk to the support
     aircraft. This information may be supplied by an agency other than the specified range
     user (i.e., lead range, aircraft operator, etc.).
     3.5.5. ISPs are not required for any aircraft in support of routine surveillance, security or
     weather reconnaissance that are not a designated launch support aircraft.
  3.6. Launch Safety (45 SW/SEL):
     3.6.1. Provides written ISP approval to 1 ROPS/DO within 5 working days prior to a
     scheduled operation (provided the ISP is received 21 working days prior to the launch).
     3.6.2. Provides 1 ROPS personnel with applicable files in the required SCDS ICD format
     that represent SEA/AIR Surveillance hit-probability contours for a specific mission on F-
     10 day to include mission support aircraft contours for specific support aircraft. This
     delivery includes a printable file that contains all required Sea/Air Surveillance hit-
     probability contours for a specific mission.
     3.6.3. Reviews and approves aircraft ISPs to ensure maximum operational flexibility
     with current safety constraints.
     3.6.4. Provides 1ROPS personnel with NOTAM/NOTMAR information contained in
     Hazardous Area Letter for a specific mission NLT F-10 day.
     3.6.5. Establishes time constraints for hazardous areas and approves any aircraft entering
     these areas.
 8                                                                 45SWI13-201 28 MAY 2014


        3.6.6. Establishes aircraft breakaway procedures in the event of anomalous launch
        vehicle performance that could endanger supporting aircraft.
     3.7. Flight Safety: Reviews, for approval, all drone and Remotely Piloted Vehicle (RPV)
     flights to ensure compliance of acceptable standards.
     3.8. The 45th Weather Squadron:
        3.8.1. Provides weather forecast for supporting aircrews as required.
        3.8.2. Coordinates and provides required weather support requested by UDS OPLAN.
     3.9. The 45 OG Detachments 1 and 2: Downrange Station Commanders at Antigua (Det 1,
     45 OG) and Ascension (Det 2, 45 OG) are responsible for providing normal base support to
     range support aircraft/aircrews staging and recovering at their stations.
     3.10. Radiation Protection Officer (45 AMDS/SGPB) ensures all appropriate controls are
     employed to protect the health of both military and civilian aircrew personnel when range
     atmospheric laser operations are conducted.
4. Aircraft In-Flight Emergency (IFE): Aircraft experiencing an IFE will, when able, advise
the MRU of the IFE and provide nature of emergency, number of persons on board and pilot’s
intentions. MRU will provide assistance as requested by the pilot, provide flight following and
record all applicable information. ACO will relay applicable information to 45 SW Command
Post and ensure that SCO is apprised of developments.




                                             ROBERT J. PAVELKO, Colonel, USAF
                                             Vice Commander
45SWI13-201 28 MAY 2014                                            9


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Acronyms
ACO—Aerospace Control Officer (CAPE LEADER)
ALTRV—Altitude Reservation
ARTCC—Air Route Traffic Control Center (FAA)
ATCAA—Air Traffic Control Assigned Airspace
ATC—Air Traffic Control
CARF—Central Altitude Reservation Facility (FAA)
CCAFS—Cape Canaveral Air Force Station
COF—Patrick AFB Airfield
DoD—Department of Defense
EOM—End of Mission
ER—Eastern Range
FAA—Federal Aviation Administration
FCO—Flight Control Officer
FHA—Flight Hazard Area
IFE—In-Flight Emergency
IFR—Instrument Flight Rules
ILL—Impact Limit Line
ISP—Intended Support Plan
LDZ—Launch Danger Zone
LOA—Letter of Agreement
LWO—Launch Weather Officer
MARSA—Military Assumes Responsibility for Separation of Aircraft
MFCO—Mission Flight Control Officer
MRU—Military Radar Unit (CAPE CONTROL)
MSP—Mission Support Position
NOTAM—Notice to Airmen
NOTMAR—Notice to Mariners
OD—Operations Directive
OPLAN—Operational Plan
 10                                                                  45SWI13-201 28 MAY 2014


OR—Operations Requirement
PAFB—Patrick Air Force Base
PRD—Program Requirements Document
PSM—Program Support Manager
RCO—Range Control Officer
RPV—Remotely Piloted Vehicle
RTB—Return to Base
SCO—Surveillance Officer
SSO—Sea Surveillance Officer (VARIETY ONE)
SUA—Special Use Airspace
UAS—Unmanned Aerial System
UAV—Unmanned Aircraft
UDS—Universal Documentation System
VFR—Visual Flight Rules
WX—Weather
XMR—CCAFS Airfield

Terms
Aerospace Control Officer (ACO): An Air Force member who supervises mission—related
aircraft operations conducted on the range during launch operations and coordinates to ensure
designated airspace is clear of unauthorized encroachments.
Aircrew Mission Support Briefing:—Briefing provided to representatives of all aircrews
participating in a scheduled launch operation. This briefing is accomplished prior to a scheduled
launch.
Bingo:—Term used to state an aircraft’s fuel capacity in reference to time (i.e., time aircraft
would have to RTB for refueling).
Breakaway: Term used to direct an aircraft to break away from current position to a new
position away from danger.        Breakaway instructions are pre—briefed to specify the
conditions under which to make breakaway calls, the heading the aircraft follows and the landing
location.
Eastern Range (ER):—An area extending into the Atlantic Ocean within the boundaries of 037
and 114 degrees designated for the launch of space vehicles. It includes all stations, sites, ocean
areas, launch hazard areas and airspace necessary to conduct missile and space launch
operations. The management and operational control of ER airspace and aircraft are placed
under the jurisdiction of the 1 ROPS/CC by the 45 SW/CC.
Emergency:—A distress or an urgency condition (FAA definition for aircraft).
45SWI13-201 28 MAY 2014                                                                          11


Flight Hazard Area (FHA): A hazardous launch area, the controlled surface area and
airspace surrounding the launch pad and flight azimuth where individual risk from a
malfunction during the early phase of flight exceeds 1 x 10—5. Because the risk of serious
injury or death from blast overpressure or debris is so significant, only launch-essential personnel
in approved blast—hardened structures with adequate breathing protection are permitted in this
area during launch.
Handoff:—Action taken to transfer the radar identification of an aircraft from one controller to
another if that aircraft will enter the receiving controller’s airspace and radio communication
with the aircraft will be transferred.
In—Flight Emergency: A distress or an urgency condition affecting an aircraft while in flight.
Impact Areas:—Defined area where jettisoned parts, stages or payload will impact ocean or
earth surface.
Impact Limit Line (ILL): A hazardous launch area; the boundary within trajectory
constraints and flight termination systems are used to contain an errant launch vehicle
and/or vehicle debris. Launch—essential and neighboring operations personnel are permitted
within the impact limit lines. With 45th Space Wing Commander approval, non-essential
personnel may be permitted within this area. However, the collective risk will not exceed
acceptable standards for the general public.
Instrument Flight Rules (IFR):—Rules governing the conduct of aircraft operating under
instrument flight conditions.
Intended Support Plan (ISP):— A detailed description of a support aircraft’s flight profile to
and from its MSP. The aircraft ISP includes aircraft designation and type, number of aircraft,
staging location, all planned checkpoints, holding patterns, altitudes, speeds and headings during
ingress, egress and assigned mission support positions. For downrange support, the ISP will
depict all activities within 200 nautical miles of the MSP. All MSPs are identified in latitude and
longitude. All times are relative to the time of the first scheduled launch (see EWR 127-1, para
2.4.2 or AFSPCMAN 97-710, Vol 4, Airborne Flight Safety System Design, Test, and
Documentation Requirements, para 2.3 for all ISP requirements).
Intruder Aircraft:—An unauthorized aircraft that has penetrated active Restricted/Special Use
Airspace during a manned or unmanned missile launch operation.
Launch Danger Zone (LDZ):—A combination of the sea surface area and air space measured
from the launch point and extending downrange along the intended flight azimuth. The size of
the launch danger zone is based on the potential hazard to ships and aircraft.
Military Radar Unit (MRU):—A facility which provides military command and control
functions to include traffic advisories to participating and nonparticipating aircraft operating
within Eastern Range airspace which has been released to the unit by an appropriate ATC
facility. MRU Controllers coordinate with the ACO and SCO on all aircraft activity in assigned
special use airspace.
Mission Flight Control Officer (MFCO):—The individual responsible for maintaining positive
control of launched vehicles and initiating range ―command destruct” functions for an errant
vehicle (liquid rocket booster, solid rocket motor/solid rocket booster and/or upper stage
vehicle).
 12                                                                   45SWI13-201 28 MAY 2014


Mission Support Position (MSP):—A designated location and time that a mission support
aircraft must be in position to support an expendable or manned launch operation.
Mode III Code:—An aircraft’s transponder generates a numbered code used for air traffic
control purposes received by a ground station and displayed on a surveillance control display
system.
Non—participating Aircraft: An aircraft operating within Eastern Range airspace but not
supporting Eastern Range launch operations and not receiving separation services from either
airspace boundaries or participating aircraft.
Operation:—A scheduled activity where range assets are necessary to support Range User
requirements for a specified time period.
Operations Directive (OD):—The ER response to the OR.            It is the detailed plan for
implementation of support functions for a program, mission, specific operation or a series of
operations.
Operations Requirements (OR): User—prepared document that describes, in detail, the
requirements for each program, mission, specific operation or series of operations.
Participating Aircraft:—Includes aircraft scheduled to support Eastern Range operations and
authorized to operate at the Cape Canaveral Skid Strip (XMR).
Program Requirements Document (PRD):—A detailed statement of needs submitted by a
range user to provide a full overview of the program. It describes specific flight vehicle
characteristics, objectives, technical data, proposed flight and operational configurations,
logistical support and any other requirements for support of the program.
Program Support Plan (PSP): Range—prepared document in response to requirements stated
in the PRD; the PSP is the official answer from the ER to the user for support of the program. It
is a plan of action to be followed by the ER and its supporting elements in their respective areas
of responsibility.
Program Support Manager (PSM):—The Range Squadron individual who has primary
responsibility for Eastern Range support to the range user. The PSM is the primary point of
contact for all range users for requirements definition, documentation and resolution during the
planning and execution phase for any operation.
Radar Hand Off:—Action taken to transfer radar identification of an aircraft from one
controller to another if that aircraft will enter the receiving controller’s airspace and radio
communication with the aircraft will be transferred.
Radar Point Out—: An action taken by a controller to transfer the radar identification of an
aircraft to another controller if the aircraft will or may enter the airspace or protected airspace of
another controller and radio communications will not be transferred.
Range User/Customer:—Any Department of Defense organization, other US Government
agency, state or local Government, civic, private or commercial organization or foreign
government with authority to use range resources.
Sea Surveillance Mission: Combined efforts of various controlling agencies, surface vessels
and airborne aircraft to ensure non—participating surface vessels and aircraft remain well
clear of the established LDZ and FHA during Eastern Range launch operations.
45SWI13-201 28 MAY 2014                                                                        13


Sea Surveillance Officer (SSO): An AF member who coordinates the movement of vessels
through surveillance control aircraft, supporting radars and the United States Coast
Guard (USCG). The SSO predicts the location of vessels at T—0 and diverts targets to a safe
location prior to launch.
Special Use Airspace (SUA):—Airspace of defined dimensions identified by an area on the
surface of the earth wherein activities must be confined because of their nature and/or wherein
limitations may be imposed upon aircraft operations that are not a part of those activities. Types
of SUA that make up Eastern Range airspace are:
Air Traffic Control Assigned Airspace (ATCAA):—Airspace of defined vertical/lateral limits
assigned by ATC for the purpose of providing air traffic segregation between the specified
activities being conducted within the assigned airspace and other IFR air traffic.
Restricted Area:—Airspace designated under 14 CFR Part 73 within which the flight of
aircraft, while not wholly prohibited, is subject to restriction. Most restricted areas are
designated -joint use‖ and IFR/VFR operations in the area may be authorized by the controlling
ATC facility when it is not being utilized by the using agency.
Temporary Flight Restriction—(TFR): An airspace prohibition implemented for a specified
airspace area on a temporary basis to provide protections for persons or property in the air or on
the ground.
Warning Area:— A warning area is airspace of defined dimensions extending 3 nautical miles
outward from the coast of the United States that contains activities that may be hazardous to non-
participating aircraft. The purpose of a Warning Area is to warn non- participating pilots of the
potential danger. A warning area may be located over domestic or international waters or both.
Surveillance Control Officer (SCO):—An Air Force member who performs launch area
surveillance which encompasses air and sea areas designated as the FHA and the LDZ. The
SCO directs activities in the Surveillance Control room and coordinates actions between the
ACO and the SSO. The SCO ensures hazard areas are clear of unauthorized aircraft, ships, boats
and people prior to giving a final "Go" call for launch.
Surveillance Risk Analyst (SRA):—A 45 SW/SELR analyst who assists the SCO in ensuring
surface vessels and aircraft are not violating acceptable risk levels.
Visual Flight Rules (VFR):—Rules governing the conduct of aircraft operating under visual
flight conditions.
 14                                                         45SWI13-201 28 MAY 2014


                                      Attachment 2
      EASTERN RANGE AIRSPACE ACTIVATION/DEACTIVATION SUMMARY

Table A2.1. Eastern Range Airspace Activation/Deactivation Summary
                                                                                      HOW
OFFICE          NOTIFICATION                  GIVEN TO      TIME GIVEN                GIVEN

                NOTAM APREQ ALTRV FAA MIAMI FAA 10 DAYS PRIOR TO                      EMAIL &
                                  CARF          LAUNCH                                FAX
1 ROPS/DOUS


45 SW/MRU       L-90 count                    Miami ARTCC   L-90 minutes              Landline
                L-60 count                    Miami ARTCC   L-60 minutes              Landline
                L-30 count                    Miami ARTCC   L-30 minutes              Landline

                                                            At time of unscheduled
                                                            hold
                Unscheduled Hold              Miami ARTCC                             Landline


                NOTAM Cancellation            Miami ARTCC   At time of cancellation   Landline


                Airspace no longer required                 When airspace is released
                                              Miami ARTCC   by SCO                    Landline
                Any hold of 15 minutes or
                more between L-90 & L-30

                                              Miami ARTCC   As required               Landline


                When Op complete              Miami ARTCC   When Op complete          Landline




                Verify that above tasks
ACO             have been completed                         As Required               Verbal
45SWI13-201 28 MAY 2014                                          15


                                  Attachment 3
        LAUNCH AIRCRAFT MODE – 3 CODES (REFERENCE MIAMI LOA)

Table A3.1. Launch Aircraft Mode-3 codes (Reference Miami LOA)
 * 5030     Search-1             UH-1
 *   5031   Search-2             UH-1
 *   5032   Search-3             UH-1
 *   5033
 *   5034
     5035   NASA                 T-38
     5036
     5037
     5040
 *   5041   Jolly-1              H-60
 *   5042   Jolly-2              H-60
 *   5043   Jolly-3              H-60
 *   5044   Jolly-4              H-60
 *   5045   Jolly-5              H-60
     5046
     5047
     5050   King-1               C-130
     5051   King-2               C-130
     5053   King-3               C-130
     5052   Hawkeye              WX-01
     5054   Bloodhound-1         VVBH01
     5055   Bloodhound-2         VVBH02
     5056   Relay-1
     5057   Press/VIP
 16                                                         45SWI13-201 28 MAY 2014


                                     Attachment 4
                    EASTERN RANGE SPECIAL USE AIRSPACE

Table A4.1. Restricted Area (Reference Figure A4.1
 R-2932                       Surface – 4999 MSL          Active continuously
 R-2933                       5000 MSL – Unlimited        Active by NOTAM
 R-2934                       Surface – Unlimited         Active by NOTAM
 R-2935                       11000 MSL – Unlimited       Active by NOTAM

Table A4.2. Warning Area (Reference Figure A4.2)
 W-497A                       Surface – Unlimited         Active by NOTAM
 W-497B                       Surface – Unlimited         Active by NOTAM

Table A4.3. Air Traffic Control Assigned Airspace (ATCAA) (Reference Figure A4.3)
 CAPE ATCAA           Surface – FL 180    Active by NOTAM


Table A4.4. Space Launch Area Temporary Flight Restriction (TFR) (Reference Figure
A4.4).
 CFR 91.143    Surface – Unlimited Active by NOTAM
45SWI13-201 28 MAY 2014        17


Figure A4.1. Restricted Area
 18                         45SWI13-201 28 MAY 2014


Figure A4.2. Warning Area
45SWI13-201 28 MAY 2014                                             19


Figure A4.3. Space Launch Area Temporary Flight Restriction (TFR)
 20                                                     45SWI13-201 28 MAY 2014


Figure A4.4. Cape Air Traffic Controlled Airspace (CAPE ATCAA)
