BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          45TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 16-201
45TH SPACE WING
                                                                               12 OCTOBER 2012

                                                                                Operations Support

                                                     FOREIGN DISCLOSURE AND FOREIGN
                                                     VISITOR ACCESS TO THE 45TH SPACE
                                                                                 WING

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 45 SW/FDO                                              Certified by: 45 SW/IP (Mr. Steven M.
                                                                                        Martinez)
Supersedes:    45SWI 16-201, 15 July 1999                                               Pages: 15


This instruction is established to specify requirements, duties, responsibilities and procedures for
granting official and unofficial foreign visitor’s access to Patrick AFB (PAFB) and Cape
Canaveral Air Force Station (CCAFS). This instruction is applicable to foreign visitors who
desire to visit, utilize resources, participate in the commercial operations, tour facilities, or for
any other official or non-official reason. No authorization to disclose military information
should be inferred. Release of USAF information requires approval through the foreign
disclosure process which is also covered AFI 16-201. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at “https://www.myaf.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/ rims.cfm”.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This instruction
incorporates present local policy and is not intended to take the place of any AFI or DoDI that
implements foreign disclosure policy, nor is it meant to be a comprehensive guide to specific
decision-making. Rather the purpose is to explain and clarify 45 SW base access and disclosure
procedures to assist supervisors, managers and commanders in their normal duties.
 2                                                                  45SWI16-201 12 October 2012


1. Introduction. The basic guidance governing official visits by foreign nationals and Foreign
Disclosure is AFI 16-201, Air Force Foreign Disclosure and Technology Transfer Program.
Additional guidance is DoD 5220.22M, National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual
(NISPOM); and Air Force, Air Force Space Command (AFSPC), and 45th Space Wing (45SW)
instructions and operations plans (O-Plans).
2. Responsibility. The Foreign Disclosure Point of Contact FD/POC falls under the 45 SW/IP
Office. The 45 SW/IP Office is the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for this instruction
and is responsible for its currency. The 45 SW/IP Office also ensures this instruction does not
conflict with other directives. In the event of conflict, instructions from higher levels of
command take precedence.
3. Official/Unofficial Foreign Visitors.
     3.1. When addressing the subject of official foreign visitors, it is necessary to determine
     what constitutes an official foreign visitor; and it is imperative to determine the purpose of
     the visit, be it official or unofficial prior to the beginning of any process for gaining access to
     PAFB or CCAFS.
        3.1.1. Foreign visitors may fall into one of the following categories:
        3.1.2. Foreign Representative. Anyone, regardless of nationality, acting as an agent,
        representative, official, or employee of a foreign government, firm, or corporation.
        3.1.3. Foreign Nationals. Any person not a citizen or national of the US unless lawfully
        admitted to the US for permanent residence under the Immigration and Nationality Act.
        Most foreign nationals affected by this instruction represent foreign interests; however,
        some work for US-owned companies and have been cleared by the US State Department
     3.2. Official Foreign Visitors. Are foreign representatives or foreign nationals representing a
     foreign government who are requesting access to USAF installations, organizations or
     contractor facilities, and have been identified by a foreign government or international
     organization as its official representative. These official visit requests are sent through
     SAF/IAPD and HQ AFSPC/A8IF to the 45 SW FD/POC. All Official Foreign Visits are the
     responsibility of the 45 SW/IP Office FD/POC and will be coordinated by utilizing the
     Foreign Visitor Request process IAW AFI 16-201. (See Attachment 2/Foreign Visitor
     Request (FVR) Instructions) There are three types of official authorized visits:
        3.2.1. One-Time. Permits contact by foreign nationals with a United States Air Force
        organization or contractor facility for a single, short-term occasion (normally less than 30
        days) for a specified purpose.
        3.2.2. Recurring. Permits intermittent visits by a foreign national to a United States Air
        Force organization or contractor facility over a specified period of time in accordance
        with a government-approved license, contract or agreement, or other program. Recurring
        visits are approved when the information to be disclosed has been defined and approved
        for disclosure in advance by the US Government.
        3.2.3. Extended. Permits a single visit by a foreign national for an extended period of
        time. Extended visit authorizations are used when a foreign national is required to be in
        continuous contact with a United States Air Force organization or a contractor facility.
45SWI16-201 12 October 2012                                                                      3


   3.3. Unofficial Foreign Visits are foreign representatives or foreign nationals who are not
   representing their government or officially sponsored by their government and request access
   to CCAFS or PAFB for contractor site visits, transiting aircrew, utilization of base facilities,
   training and education, personal visits, base tours etc. Unofficial Foreign Visits will fall
   under the following categories:
      3.3.1. Contractor Site Visits. Are visits from foreign representatives or foreign nationals
      not officially sponsored by their government requesting access to commercial facilities
      housed on Air Force installations. They may require access to AF restricted or controlled
      areas to perform commercial launch related activities or sensitive military operations. It
      is the responsibility of the sponsor to ensure these visitors are escorted at all times which
      is outlined in paragraph 4.1 to 4.4 of this instruction. These unofficial foreign visits are
      required to use the FVR process to ensure proper security oversight. These specific
      unofficial foreign visits are the responsibility of the FD/POC to coordinate and process.
      (See Attachment 2/FVR Instructions) Any requests for foreign visitor unescorted access
      to USAF restricted or controlled areas must comply with established access procedures
      and must be approved by the 45 SW/CC or designated representative. Forward the
      request to 45 SW/FD/POC for action.
      3.3.2. Installation visits. Foreign nationals not officially sponsored by their government
      who request access to CCAFS or PAFB for utilization of base facilities, education and
      training, transiting foreign aircrews, awaiting transportation, base tours, or personal
      reasons will be required to process through the normal installation entry control
      procedures outlined in 45 SW IDP 31-1, Integrated Defense Plan, Appendix 5 to Annex
      C. For tracking purposes, the names and pertinent info of all foreign representatives or
      foreign nationals requesting installation access will be added in the Foreign Visitor
      Tracking Data Base located on the 45 SW/IP SharePoint website under the FD/POC
      folder by the responsible agency.
      3.3.3. Transiting Foreign Aircrews which are in transition through PAFB or CCAFS are
      sponsored by Base Operations, 45 OSS/OSAB, and will notify the 45 Security Forces
      Squadron Base Defense Operations Center 45 SFS/BDOC, (45 SFS/S3), and the Wing
      Command Post, (45 SW/CP), upon arrival and departure of foreign aircraft transiting
      PAFB/CCAFS. Foreign military aircrew members will be granted unescorted access to
      AAFES and/or NAF Services related activities during the servicing of their aircraft. Base
      Operations will call Vehicle Operations, SGS/LGTV, and if available, transportation will
      be provided to/from base services activities via the aircrew van. As an exception, the
      Department of State (DoS) will be responsible for escorting their foreign visitors during
      transient aircraft servicing. For tracking purposes the names and pertinent info of all
      foreign representatives or foreign nationals transiting PAFB/CCAFS will be added in the
      Foreign Visitor Tracking Data Base located on the 45 SW/IP SharePoint website under
      the FD/POC folder by the responsible agency.
          3.3.3.1. Foreign aircrews, staying overnight, will be transported to/from off base
          lodging by Vehicle Operations. A list of names of those taken off base will be
          matched against those returning to PAFB. Any unaccounted for personnel will be
          reported to Base Operations who will notify 45 SFS/SFO.
 4                                                                 45SWI16-201 12 October 2012


            3.3.3.2. Foreign aircrews, staying overnight on base with their aircraft, will be
            allowed unescorted access as described in 3.4.3.
        3.3.4. Non-DoD-Affiliated foreign students are foreign students attending classes at
        Patrick AFB Education Center or Institutions.         The Education Center/DEOMI will
        ensure these students and their escort officials are processed, badged, and escorted IAW
        45 SW IDP 31-1, Appendix 5 to Annex C, Installation Entry Control Procedures and
        must display a green “FOREIGN NATIONAL” photographic identification badge on
        his/her outer garment issued by 45 SFS.
        3.3.5. Public Affairs visits or activities are defined as base tours, launch viewing,
        commemorations, etc., conducted to improve community relations. These tours or
        activities can include both foreign nationals and U.S. civilians. All tours and activities are
        coordinated IAW AFI 35-105, Section 5, Public Affairs Community Relations, and are
        the responsibility of the 45 SW/PA office to coordinate and process through the 45
        SFS/BDOC, (45 SFS/S3), and the 45 SW Command Post. For tracking purposes the
        names and pertinent info of all foreign representatives or foreign nationals transiting
        PAFB/CCAFS will be added in the Foreign Visitor Tracking Data Base located on the 45
        SW/IP SharePoint website under the FD/POC folder by the responsible agency.
        3.3.6. Foreign press visit requests are usually processed through Air Force Public Affairs
        channels to the 45 SW/PA and require special handling, as they are not authorized to visit
        DoD installations without prior authorization. These visits will be coordinated directly
        with 45 SW/PA to determine the appropriate time for media to arrive at PAFB/CCAFS to
        document a commercial space launch. The 45 SW/PA will be responsible to process and
        coordinate transportation, provide escort, and work the logistics of these visits and
        process through the 45 SFS/BDOC, 45 SFS/S3, and the Wing Command Post. For
        tracking purposes the names and pertinent info of all foreign representatives or foreign
        nationals transiting PAFB will be added in the Foreign Visitor Tracking Data Base
        located on the 45 SW/IP SharePoint website under the FD/POC folder by the responsible
        agency.
     3.4. Photography and Videography. The photography and videography policy for CCAFS is
     outlined in 45 SW IDP 31-1, 45 Space Wing Integrated Defense Plan, Annex C, Appendix 7.
     All recorded media is subject to review by PA, OPSEC, AFOSI, and/or FDO at their
     discretion. Photos taken in contractor facilities will be reviewed by their appropriate security
     personnel to ensure that no International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) violations have
     occurred. No panoramic photography is authorized.
4. Escort Procedures
4.1. All foreign visitors must be properly registered at the Security Forces Visitor Control
Center (VCC) in accordance with 45th Security Forces Squadron’s established procedures.
        4.1.1. It is the responsibility of the sponsor to meet and register visitor(s) at the VCC
        during each visit.
        4.1.2. The escort official will maintain control of the foreign visitor(s) base passes during
        each visit.
45SWI16-201 12 October 2012                                                                      5


   4.2. Foreign visitors that fall under Official Foreign Visits and Contractor Site Visits must be
   escorted at all times. These foreign visitors are not allowed to operate motor vehicles
   without an escort official physically present in the vehicle. Normally, foreign visitors will
   not be issued base vehicle passes.
   4.3. Unescorted privileges and base vehicle passes for Official Foreign Visitors and
   Contractor Site visits may be considered based on mission requirements, unique
   circumstances and/or higher headquarters written approval. This must have 45 SW/CC or
   designated representative approval.
      4.3.1. If approved, the sponsoring organization must ensure:
          4.3.1.1. Security measures are in place to actively control access to sensitive
          information and controlled/restricted areas.
          4.3.1.2. When commercial firms request unescorted base access, a contractual
          agreement (justifying unescorted access) must be approved in writing by higher
          headquarters.
          4.3.1.3. Escort Officials are familiar with 45 SW rules and regulations, especially
          those related to safety and security.
          4.3.1.4. Escort Officials must brief foreign visitors on security and safety
          requirements prior to access.
   4.4. Foreign Visitor Escort Procedures Pocket guide must be on the Escort Person at all
   times when conducting escorts. This product is maintained on the 45 SW/IP SharePoint
   Website under the FD/POC Folder.
5. Approval Authority
   5.1. All foreign visitors to PAFB and/or CCAFS outlined in Para 3.1 thru 3.5 require a
   positive approval process. The positive approval process requires a conscious decision on
   whether a foreign national will be allowed access to the installation. This decision is based on
   their reason for the visit, security indicators, and other criteria as outlined in Para 3.1 thru
   3.5. FVR requests for official and unofficial contractor site visits will be submitted to 45 SW
   FD/POC 30 days prior to the visit. FVRs requested with less than 30 days will be approved
   as an exception on a case by case basis. FVR requested with less than 10 days will be
   disapproved as it will not provide adequate time to perform security checks and or necessary
   coordination.
   5.2. The 45 SW/CC or designated representative is the final approval authority for the
   45th Space Wing Official/Unofficial FVRs. The exceptions to this are for Ascension,
   Antigua, AFTAC, and Naval Ordinance Test Unit (NOTU) who have been delegated partial
   or full approval authority from the 45 SW/CC.
   5.3. The USAF Commanders at Antigua and Ascension are/have been delegated approval
   authority for foreign visitors coming to their individual downrange facilities. An FVR will
   be processed through the FD/POC for official visitor request and an unofficial visitor request
   as outlined in Para 3.2 and 3.3.1 and approved/disapproved by the respective Commander.
   The commander is responsible for ensuring security of individual facilities and controlled
   areas.
 6                                                              45SWI16-201 12 October 2012


     5.4. Approvals (or denials) of FVRs will be electronically copied to:           45 SFS/S3,
     45 SW FD/POC, AFOSI Det 802.
6. Foreign Disclosure
     6.1. Responsibilities. The 45 SW/FD POC does not have disclosure authority but acts as a
     liaison for the HQ AFSPC/A8IF to assist in implementing basic foreign disclosure policy
     used to release information, hardware, or software to foreign nationals, governments, or
     contractors. FD/POC support extends to all areas of the 45 SW as needed with the exception
     of the Air Force Technical Applications Center (AFTAC) who has International Affairs and
     Foreign Disclosure Offices for processing release decisions.
     6.2. Release of Information to Foreign Visitors
        6.2.1. United States Policy. It is the policy of the United States Air Force to treat
        classified and unclassified military information as a national asset, which must be
        conserved and protected. Information can be shared with foreigners only where there is a
        clearly defined advantage to the United States.
        6.2.2. Information. For disclosure purposes, information can be a piece of paper, a
        briefing script, book, pamphlet, videotape, film, hard copy viewgraphs/slides or any other
        verbal/written information to include handwritten notes, software and/or hardware
        exchange.
        6.2.3. Release of Classified Military Information (CMI) and Controlled Unclassified
        Military Information (CUMI). Do not release CMI or CUMI to foreign nationals without
        coordination from the 45 SW FD/POC and written permission from HQ AFSPC/A8IF
        foreign disclosure authorities. Commercial/contractor proprietary cannot be released
        without the owning commercial/contractor approval.
        6.2.4. Release of Unclassified Information (not CUMI). Before disclosing any
        information to foreign nationals, government organizations should request guidance from
        their respective agency, group or major command. Refer to AFI 16-201, paragraph 4.7.,
        for specific guidance on disclosures of unclassified information not requiring FDO
        authorization.
        6.2.5. Commercial firms should adhere to their export licenses (if any). Otherwise, only
        public domain information may be disclosed. Firms should contact their Security Officer
        for guidance.
        6.2.6. Requests for release of CMI and CUMI sent to FD/POC must be accompanied by
        a release recommendation letter. Normally, the office responsible for the information
        will submit requests to release the information to a foreign government or foreign
        contractor. Any release of information owned by other services/agencies must be
        approved by their designated disclosure authority.




                                             RORY D. WELCH, Colonel, USAF
                                             Vice Commander
45SWI16-201 12 October 2012                                                                       7


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Executive Order 12958, Classified National Security Information, April 20, 1995
National Security Decision Memorandum (NSDM)-119, Disclosure of Classified United States
Information to Foreign Governments and International Organizations, July 20, 1971
NDP-1, National Policy and Procedures for the Disclosure of Classified Military Information to
Foreign Governments and International Organizations, 2 October 2000
Title 5, United States Code, Section 552, Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)
Title 15, Code of Federal Regulations, Parts 730-799, Export Administration Regulations (EAR)
Title 22, Code of Federal Regulations, Parts 120-130, International Traffic in Arms Regulations
(ITAR)
DoD Directive 2040.2, International Transfers of Technology, Goods, Services and Munitions,
5 July 1985
DoD Regulation 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, January, 1997
DoD Directive 5230.11, Disclosure of Classified Military Information to Foreign Governments
and International Organizations, June 16, 1992
DoD Instruction 5230.18, The DoD Foreign Disclosure and Technical Information System
(FORDTIS), November 6, 1984
DoD Directive 5230.20, Visits, Assignments, and Exchanges of Foreign Nationals, August 12,
1998
AFPD 16-2, Disclosure of Military Information to Foreign Governments and International
Organizations, 10 September 1993
AFI 16-201, Air Force Foreign Disclosure and Technology Transfer Program, 1 December 2004
AFI 16-201_AFSPCSUP_I, Air Force Disclosure and Technology Transfer Program, 1
November 2007
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 November 2001
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AFTAC—Air Force Technical Applications Center
 8                                                              45SWI16-201 12 October 2012


CMI—Classified Military Information
CUMI—Controlled Unclassified Military Information
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
FDO—Foreign Disclosure Office
FOIA—Freedom of Information Act
FVR—Foreign Visitor Request
HQ—Headquarters
ITAR—International Traffic in Arms Regulations
MAJCOM—Major Command
NDP—National Disclosure Policy
NDPC—National Disclosure Policy Committee
NISPOM—National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual
NOTU—Naval Ordnance Test Unit
PA—Public Affairs
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
US—United States
USAF—United States Air Force
USC—United States Code

Terms
Classified Information—Information that has been determined pursuant to Executive Order
12958 or any predecessor order to require protection against unauthorized disclosure and is
marked to indicate its classified status when in documentary form.
Classified Military Information (CMI)—Information originated by or for, or under the
jurisdiction or control of, the Department of Defense or its Agencies which requires protection in
the interest of national security. CMI is designated TOP SECRET, SECRET or
CONFIDENTIAL as described in Executive Order 12958 or subsequent order. CMI includes
information in tangible (e.g., equipment, documents, software, etc.) and in intangible (e.g.,
knowledge, know-how, expertise, etc.) form.
Contractor—Any industrial, educational, commercial, or other entity which has executed a
contract or a DD Form 441, DoD Security Agreement, with a DoD activity.
Controlled Unclassified Military Information (CUMI)/Controlled Unclassified Information
(CUI)—Unclassified information, including technical data (see explanation of term) to which
access or distribution limitations have been applied in accordance with US laws, policies, and
regulations. It includes information that is determined to be exempt from public disclosure in
accordance with DoD Directives 5320.25 and 5400.7 or that is subject to export controls in
45SWI16-201 12 October 2012                                                                      9


accordance with the ITAR or the EAR. Not all controlled unclassified information is owned by
the military. For example, defense contractors control company confidential or proprietary
information. Unclassified export controlled technical data, as defined by the ITAR, is CUI.
CUMI and CUI include information in tangible (e.g., equipment, documents, software, etc.) and
intangible (e.g., knowledge, know-how, expertise, etc.) form.
Designated Disclosure Authority—An official, at subordinate component level, designated by
the Head of a DoD Component or the Component’s Principal Disclosure Authority to control
disclosures of CMI by his or her organization.
Disclosure—The permanent or temporary transfer of classified or controlled unclassified
military information to an authorized representative of a foreign government or international
organization. The act of permitting access to classified or controlled unclassified military
information by an authorized representative of a foreign government or international
organization. There are three disclosure methods: oral (verbal disclosure), visual (disclosure by
sight) and documentary (disclosure of tangible/recorded information or equipment).
Foreign Disclosure Officer (FDO)—A US Government official designated in writing whose
primary responsibilities are to authorize disclosure of CMI or CUMI and manage and implement
a disclosure program for their command or organization. Only FDOs trained by SAF/IAPD may
authorize disclosures of CMI.
Foreign Interest—Any foreign government, agency of a foreign government, or representative
of a foreign government or international organization; any form of business enterprise or legal
entity organized, chartered or incorporated under the laws of any country other than the United
States or its possessions and trust territories; and any person who is not a citizen or national of
the United States.
Security Assistance—A foreign government representative who is assigned to a DoD
Component or contractor facility pursuant to a requirement that is described in a Foreign Military
Sales Letter of Offer and Acceptance.
Operational—A foreign government representative who is assigned to a DoD Component
pursuant to a documented requirement to coordinate operational matters, such as combined
planning or training and education.
National Representative—A foreign government representative who is assigned to his or her
national embassy or legation in Washington DC (e.g., an attache) to conduct liaison activities
with the Department of Defense and the DoD Components.
Foreign National—A person who is not a citizen or national of the United States unless that
person has been lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States under the
Immigration and Naturalization Act (Title 8, United States Code, Section 1101 et seq.).
Foreign Ownership, Control or Influence (FOCI)—A situation in which a foreign national,
firm or government is assumed to possess dominance of, or authority over, a US firm to such a
degree that the foreign national, firm, or government may gain unauthorized access to US
classified military information.
Foreign Representative—Any representative of a foreign interest or foreign national.
International Visits Program (IVP)—A program established to process visits by and
assignments of authorized representatives to DoD Components and DoD contractor facilities.
 10                                                              45SWI16-201 12 October 2012


This program is designed to ensure that CMI and CUMI to be disclosed to authorized
representatives has been properly authorized for disclosure to their governments.
National Disclosure Policy—This policy promulgates national policy and procedures in the
form of specific disclosure criteria and limitations, definitions of terms, release arrangements and
other guidance required by US departments and agencies having occasion to release classified
US military information to foreign governments and international organizations. In addition, it
establishes and provides for the management of an inter-agenc y mechanism and procedures
which are required for the effective implementation of the policy.
Public Domain Information—Unclassified information that has undergone a security and
policy review to ensure the material proposed for public release does not contain classified
information; does not conflict with established US Government policy; and has been cleared by a
competent public affairs authority within the public affairs office.
45SWI16-201 12 October 2012                                                                        11


                                           Attachment 2
                               FVR REQUEST INSTRUCTIONS

The following general instructions are provided to assist the customer in completing the FVR.

HOST COMPANY/ORG: This is the company or military organization sponsoring the
Official/Unofficial visitor(s).

ADDRESS: The address for the above.

POINT OF CONTACT: The person at the company or organization who completes the FVR
and can be contacted for additional information.

PHONE/E-MAIL: The phone number the Point of Contact can be reached and the e-mail to
send the completed FVR back to.

DATE(S) OF VISIT: The dates the visitor is visiting the 45th Space Wing.

LOCATION & BUILDING TO BE VISITED: This will include the area (PAFB, CCAFS,
etc.) along with building name and number.

VISITORS INFORMATION: All visitors need to be listed on the FVR. All blocks are to be
completed to include Name, Passport, Passport Expiration Date, Nationality, Place of Birth, Date
of Birth, and Visitor Organization/Company. Use additional page, Page 2 if needed. If all
blocks are not completed, it will not be processed and returned to sender.

PURPOSE OF VISIT: The reason the visitor(s) are coming to the 45th Space Wing. Provide
details in this section as this is the only place on the form that provides rationale to approve the
visit.

IMPACT IF DISAPPROVED: If the visit does not take place, what effect will it have on the
government, contractor, and/or the visitor(s)?

ESCORT/ORGANIZATION/PHONE NBR: All visitors, with a few exceptions, require an
Escort while visiting PAFB or CCAFS. The escort must have the Foreign Visitor Escort
Procedure Guide in their possession for reference in case they have any questions or issues.
Escort procedures are outlined in Paragraph 4 of the instruction. This guide is located on the IP
SharePoint under the FD POC folder. If you do not have access to 45 SW SharePoint please
contact the FD/POC at (321) 494-8563/5574.

STATEMENT OF AGREEMENT: Most visitors will be escorted. If requesting unescorted
access, indicate in this block.

NAME/TITLE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL: For military, this will be the Commanding
Officer of your organization. For contractors, this will be the security manager or highest
 12                                                              45SWI16-201 12 October 2012


supervisor or designated representative at your local facility. If different than the POC, provide
a phone number where the person can be reached. Use the DSN number for military numbers.

Note: Upon completion provide a copy to our e-mail address. Once processed it will be
added to the Foreign Visitor Database a copy will be sent back to the POC via e-mail.
45SWI16-201 12 October 2012                                                                   13


                                        Attachment 3
            FOREIGN VISITOR ESCORT PROCEDURES POCKET GUIDE

This product is located at the following URL:

https://eis.afspc.af.mil/unit/45sw/home/IP/FDPOC/Forms/AllItems.aspx?RootFolder=%2fu
nit%2f45sw%2fhome%2fIP%2fFDPOC%2fForeign%20Disclosure%20Training&Folder
CTID=&View=%7b5BCF74B8%2dB554%2d4119%2d80BF%2d1ABE28B6EBBC%7d.

Copy link, add to browser, hit return and it will bring you directly to the correct folder.

NOTE: If you do not have access to 45 SW SharePoint, contact the FD/POC at (321) 494-5574.
 14                                                     45SWI16-201 12 October 2012


                                     Attachment 4
                 45 SW FOREIGN VISITOR DATABASE EXAMPLE

Table A4.1. 45SW Foreign Visitor Database Example.
NOTE: Database is located on the 45 SW/IP SharePoint under the FD/POC folder.




                         PASSPORT                                      AREAS OF
 NAME     PASSPORT #     EXP. DATE    NATIONALITY    DATES   SPONSOR     VISIT
45SWI16-201 12 October 2012                                                                     15


                                          Attachment 5
        OVERVIEW OF NATIONAL DISCLOSURE POLICY (NDP) CRITERIA

A5.1. Standard security requirements of "Personal Clearances" and "Need to Know."
A5.2. In order for the information to be eligible for FD release it MUST BE:
   A5.2.1. Consistent with US foreign policy.
   A5.2.2. Compatible with US military security release criteria.
   A5.2.3. Protected by the foreign nation to the same degree as USG protects it.
   A5.2.4. Consistent with current reciprocity/cooperative arrangements with the USG.
   A5.2.5. Limited to the necessary information only.
   A5.2.6. Lowest possible level of classification.
   A5.2.7. Clearly benefit the USG for each FD case.
A5.3. FD justification is best established by obtaining the following information:
A5.3.1. l. Who? (Recipient nation(s), international organization(s), visitors by name, receiving
audience/forum, etc.).
   A5.3.2. What? (Proposed material for foreign access and controlling sources of the
   information).
   A5.3.3. Why? (Rationale for foreign access, purpose of briefing, visit, TDY etc.).
   A5.3.4. Where? (Agenda, facility visited, offices involved, etc. Include all locations with
   specific OPRs and POCs).
   A5.3.5. When? (Itinerary, briefing dates/times, alternate dates/times).
   A5.3.6. How? (Plans/forum, hand-off to other authorities, etc.).
A5.4. Add details that may affect the status of the case, i.e., oral/visual/documentary disclosure,
command/program direction and/or precedents/denials, similar policies or situations, and
anything that may establish direct benefit to the US.
