BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         45TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 91-206
45TH SPACE WING
                                                                          18 DECEMBER 2012

                                                                                          Safety

                                                     DANGER AREA INFORMATION PLAN




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability instructions on this publication.


OPR: 45 SW/SELR                                                          Certified by: 45 SW/SE
                                                                           (Col Edward Rivera)
                                                                                        Pages: 13
Supersedes:   45 SWI 91-206,
              1 October 2007


This instruction provides information and guidance for activating the Blast Danger Area (BDA),
Flight Hazard Area (FHA), Flight Caution Area (FCA), and the Impact Limit Line (ILL) for each
active complex on Cape Canaveral Air Force Station (CCAFS) and launch activities originating
from Kennedy Space Center (KSC). It also establishes a timeline for the development of these
danger areas, including the submittal of population numbers while providing guidelines for
requesting authorization to remain within these areas. All provisions of Eastern and Western
Range 127-1, Range Safety Requirements, and Air Force Space Command Manual 91-710
Volume 6, Range Safety User Requirements Manual, are applicable to this plan unless
specifically modified or supplemented by appropriate authority. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The reporting of mission-specific population data and associated responsibilities has been
substantially revised. The entire document should be reviewed.
 2                                                                                      45SWI91-206 18 DECEMBER 2012




        1.      Purpose. ..................................................................................................................     2
        2.      Policy. ....................................................................................................................    2
        3.      Authority. ...............................................................................................................      2
        4.      Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................         3
        5.      Procedures. .............................................................................................................       5
        6.      Information. ...........................................................................................................        8

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                  9

Attachment 2—AURAL WARNING ZONE LOCATION MAP                                                                                                   12

Attachment 3—EXAMPLE POPULATION REPORTING SPREADSHEET                                                                                          13


1. Purpose.
     1.1. The Danger Area Information Plan assigns responsibilities and outlines procedures for
     clearing non-essential personnel (General Public, GP) from the BDA, FHA, FCA, ILLs and
     if necessary, Special Control Areas (SCAs) for active launch programs on CCAFS. It further
     assigns responsibilities and outlines procedures for clearing GP from SCAs during certain
     pre-launch hazardous operations and on launch days, and provides similar guidance to ensure
     the evacuation and sheltering of personnel as necessary. This plan also provides guidelines
     for requesting authorization to remain within these danger areas, describes launch day
     guidance for operational requirements, and provides guidance for establishing Vehicle Clear
     Contour (VCC). Finally, it outlines the CCAFS population reporting process which is
     required for accurate launch day risk analyses.
2. Policy.
     2.1. All GP will be evacuated from danger areas as defined in this plan or as published by
     the 45th Space Wing Safety office (45 SW/SE). Both launch essential personnel (LEP) and
     GP will be directed to either seek shelter in an approved launch shelter or evacuate affected
     areas based on forecast toxic dispersion modeling. Personnel may also be asked to move
     away from windows in certain facilities based on real-time distant focusing overpressure
     (DFO) modeling and/or to relocate based on forecast debris modeling. It is intended that this
     plan be accomplished with a minimum loss of man-hours as a result of personnel exclusion
     from hazardous areas. Additional mitigating actions may be required based on the launch
     operation.
3. Authority.
     3.1. The 45 SW/SE or its designee will develop, publish and implement procedures
     necessary to carry out this plan in compliance with Eastern and Western Range 127-1, Air
     Force Space Command Manual 91-710, 45th Space Wing Instruction 91-204, 45 SW
     Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan 10-2, and Hazardous Material Emergency
     Response Plan.
45SWI91-206 18 DECEMBER 2012                                                                 3


4. Responsibilities.
   4.1. The 45 SW/SE or its designee will:
       4.1.1. Determine BDAs, SCAs, FHAs, FCAs, ILLs and VCCs.
       4.1.2. Three weeks prior to a scheduled launch develop BDA, FHA, FCA and VCC clear
       areas and provide this information for use in a mission-specific Population Reporting
       Spreadsheet as outlined in this Space Wing Instruction (SWI).
       4.1.3. Three weeks prior to a scheduled launch, request mission-specific population data
       using a Population Reporting Spreadsheet to all applicable organizations, as a means to
       consolidate a listing of LEP, neighboring operations personnel (NOP), and on-base GP
       regardless of their location.
       4.1.4. Three weeks prior to a scheduled launch, provide Det 1, 45 MSG a mission-
       specific Visitor Reporting Spreadsheet for visitor population.
       4.1.5. Two weeks prior to a scheduled launch, based on submittals, begin to assess the
       risk to all personnel (LEP/NOP/GP) and off-base populations both in Brevard County and
       downrange to ensure the risk remains under launch commit criteria (LCC) as defined in
       AFI 91-217.
       4.1.6. On launch day provide real-time debris, DFO and toxic dispersion risk analyses;
       direct Cape Support to make applicable scripted announcements over the Cape Aural
       Warning System (CAWS) per 45 SWI 91-204, Launch Vehicle Toxic Plume/Distant
       Focusing Overpressure Instruction For On-Base Personnel.
       4.1.7. Define potential hazard corridors based on forecast weather conditions under
       which probable hazards might occur during hazardous operations.
       4.1.8. Define emission hazard corridors based on forecast conditions to be expected as a
       result of planned toxic emissions.
       4.1.9. Receive phone calls on console (321-853-8440) from all launch day visitor POCs
       and provide final approval for populating these locations. (NOTE: Does not apply to
       launches originating from NASA property unless viewing site is located on CCAFS).
       4.1.10. Refine operational hazard corridors after an accident has occurred to minimize
       casualties.
       4.1.11. Develop Population Reporting training material and provide training to all 45 SW
       Group Commanders, their personnel and their mission partners if requested.
       4.1.12. Assist the control authority in activation of all aural and visual equipment to
       notify personnel inside a BDA, FCA, FHA, SCA, or VCC at the time evacuation is
       required.
       4.1.13. Assist the control authority in prompt evacuation of all personnel from a BDA,
       FCA, FHA, SCA or VCC when notification is given.
       4.1.14. Ensure controls into the BDA, FCA, FHA, SCA, or VCC such as roadblocks and
       barriers are established.
4                                                          45SWI91-206 18 DECEMBER 2012


       4.1.15. Confirm on-land portions of the BDA, FCA, FHA, SCA, or VCC are clear and
       report status to the Launch Conductor and 45 SW/SEA console at a pre-established point
       in the launch countdown.
       4.1.16. Provide notification to the control authority when restrictions regarding BDA,
       FCA, FHA, SCA, or VCC are removed and people may re-enter the area.
    4.2. The Det 1, 45 MSG Commander will:
       4.2.1. Establish personnel access controls utilizing range support contractor services to
       ensure that entry into the FHA and FCA is restricted to only approved LEP and NOP
       during launch operations.
       4.2.2. Three weeks prior to a scheduled launch consolidate all approved visitor requests
       for launch viewing from CCAFS/KSC, for a specific mission, using the 45 SW/SE
       provided Visitor Reporting Spreadsheet.
       4.2.3. Two weeks prior to a scheduled launch provide 45 SW/SE personnel with a
       consolidated listing of CCAFS/KSC launch day visitor requests and locations using the
       Visitor Reporting Spreadsheet.
    4.3. The 45 CES will:
       4.3.1. Maintain floor plans for most Air Force real property at CCAFS.
           4.3.1.1. Provide 45 SW/SE electronic access to this information.
    4.4. The 45 MDG Commander will:
       4.4.1. Provide consultation to Det 1, 45 MSG/CC and 45 SW/SE on chemical and
       radiological effects, exposure standards, personnel protective equipment, and certification
       of approved launch shelters.
    4.5. All organizations will:
       4.5.1. Receive the 45 SW/SE provided mission-specific               Population   Reporting
       Spreadsheet 3 weeks prior to a scheduled launch.
       4.5.2. Update the Population Reporting Spreadsheet and provide it back to 45 SW/SE or
       its designee 2 weeks prior to a scheduled launch.
           4.5.2.1. The update shall include the total number of personnel per organization in
           facilities throughout CCAFS/KSC along with their population classification of LEP,
           NOP, or GP. Failure to do so may result in a launch delay, violation of criteria, or
           disapproval of the submitted request.
           4.5.2.2. Updates/changes should include movement of GP to non-duty day facilities
           on launch day and all LEP and NOP numbers and locations.
       4.5.3. Submit all visitor requests, to include number of visitors, locations, and points of
       contact, to Det 1, 45 MSG no later than 2 weeks prior to the scheduled launch date.
       Failure to do so may result in disapproval of the submitted request. If any foreign visitors
       are present for launch activities, ensure all escort members have received Foreign Visitor
       Escort training.
45SWI91-206 18 DECEMBER 2012                                                                   5


          4.5.3.1. Visitors and media will only be permitted to view launches from approved
          launch viewing sites as identified in the 45 SW/SE provided Visitor Reporting
          Spreadsheet, and must be accompanied by a sponsor from the hosting organization.
          The sponsor will maintain launch day communications with Cape Support (321-853-
          5211) and the Risk Assessment Center (RAC) (321-853-8440) and brief
          visitors/media on evacuation and sheltering requirements in the event that
          environmental conditions create toxic concerns.
          4.5.3.2. Each visitor sponsor shall call the RAC (321-853-8440) prior to departing
          for the viewing site to obtain final approval and/or sheltering/relocation details.
          (NOTE: Visitors include, but are not limited to: press, dignitaries and family
          members brought onto CCAFS/KSC property to view a launch).
      4.5.4. Submit all VCC waiver requests to 45 SW/SE 2 weeks prior to the scheduled
      launch.
      4.5.5. Inform all affected personnel within their organization, to include Mission Partners
      and persons with a CCAFS entry badge (temporary or permanent) sponsored by their
      organization, of the contents of this plan.
      4.5.6. Notify personnel, to include Mission Partners and persons with a CCAFS entry
      badge (temporary or permanent) sponsored by their organization, of increased risk levels
      and appropriate response actions for those required to be within the FCA, FHA, or
      downwind of a toxic hazard corridor.
      4.5.7. Provide appropriate clear area information to personnel within their organization,
      to include Mission Partners and persons with a CCAFS entry badge (temporary or
      permanent) sponsored by their organization, who may be affected by exclusion or
      evacuation from a danger area.
      4.5.8. Educate all persons with a CCAFS entry badge (temporary or permanent)
      sponsored by their organization of AF policy regarding Cape access.
      4.5.9. Ensure prompt evacuation of their personnel from danger areas.
      4.5.10. Ensure all of their employees are aware of their responsibilities per 45 SWI 91-
      204.
5. Procedures.
   5.1. Resubmitting evolving launch day population data:
      5.1.1. Appropriate justification is required for all population changes/updates, including
      visitors, after the L-2 week submittal deadline. The requesting organization must submit
      justification to their Group Commander. Once verified, the Group Commander will
      contact 45 SW/SE in writing to request the population change. This will be
      accomplished in the most time efficient manner to avoid major impact to published
      launch products.
   5.2. Calculating launch day risk.
      5.2.1. The 45 SW/SE personnel will evaluate the risk associated with all population
      categories, including visitors. If risk is determined to be within acceptable levels, an
6                                                           45SWI91-206 18 DECEMBER 2012


       approved FCA/FHA Roadblock Access letter will be forwarded by 45 SW/SE or its
       designee at L-7 days.
       5.2.2. If risk criteria are exceeded for LEP and NOP, 45 SW/SE will notify the
       organization(s) whose location/classification are violating criteria and recommend
       mitigating actions to bring the risk within criteria. If mitigating actions cannot bring the
       risk within criteria, the violating organization(s) will be required to submit a waiver to
       45 SW/SE for Range User and 45 SW/CC approval/disapproval.
       5.2.3. If risk criteria are exceeded for GP, (i.e., non-essential personnel, visitors and off-
       base personnel to include Brevard County and down range overflight population),
       45 SW/SE will attempt to reduce the overall risk to this population group by
       recommending relocation of personnel who are able to move. If criteria are still being
       violated, 45 SW/SE will submit a Range User-initiated waiver to 45 SW/CC for
       approval/disapproval. (NOTE: Waivers for these criteria do not apply to FAA licensed
       launches).
       5.2.4. A consolidated clear area requirements document (FCA/FHA Roadblock Access
       letter) will be prepared and submitted by 45 SW/SE or its designee at L-7 days. A
       mission-specific Operational Plan shall be included which incorporates the 45 SW/SE
       defined BDA, ILL, FCA, and FHA as well as the number and location of all LEP/NOP
       permitted to be inside danger area roadblocks, positioning of other launch support assets,
       location of roadblocks and barricades and the VCC.
          5.2.4.1. The 45 SW/SE approved FCA/FHA Roadblock Access letter and launch-
          specific Operational Plan will be distributed and posted on the 45 SW/SE Sharepoint
          site not later than L-5 days.
       5.2.5. Real-time launch day modeling will be performed to assess the risk associated
       with debris, DFO and toxic dispersion hazards. Debris mitigating actions may be
       required, which include relocation of groups/individuals and not populating certain
       areas/locations on launch day. Based on model output products, 45 SW/SE may require
       DFO and/or toxic dispersion mitigating actions IAW 45 SWI 91-204.
          5.2.5.1. A launch area debris risk assessment, when required, will begin at L-84
          hours. Results will be posted on the 45 SW Launch Risk Forecast website.
          5.2.5.2. A DFO risk assessment, when required, will begin at L-6 hours. Results will
          be posted on the 45 SW Launch Risk Forecast website.
          5.2.5.3. A toxic dispersion risk assessment, when required, will begin at L-48 hours.
          Results will be posted on the 45 SW Launch Risk Forecast website.
    5.3. Pre-Launch/Pre-Operational Requirements.
       5.3.1. The 45 SW/SE or its designee will notify Cape Support by 1500L the preceding
       day when a specific BDA or SCA is to be closed.
       5.3.2. Cape Support will make scripted announcements over the CAWS reminding
       personnel of an upcoming launch or operations affecting significant areas of the Cape.
       When Phillips Parkway is to be closed, public service announcements will be made over
       the CAWS at least 1 day prior to the scheduled operation, as allowable. If toxic
       dispersion modeling forecasts toxic concentrations that exceed known exposure standards
45SWI91-206 18 DECEMBER 2012                                                                   7


     and/or real-time DFO modeling shows significant risk levels, Cape Support will make
     scripted announcements, as directed by 45 SW/SE personnel and IAW 45SWI91-204. In
     the affected Aural Warning Zones (AWZs), these announcements will direct personnel to
     either seek shelter in an approved launch shelter or relocate to a non-affected area.
     5.3.3. LEP who are in a potential downwind toxic hazard corridor must have appropriate
     breathing protection, currently a Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus (SCBA) as
     approved by 45 SW Bioenvironmental Engineering, or access to an approved launch
     shelter IAW 45SWI 91-204.
  5.4. Evacuation.
     5.4.1. If personnel are located in buildings that are not approved launch shelters (i.e., do
     not have a brown triangular sign stating that the building is a launch shelter) and scripted
     toxic announcements are made in their AWZ(s), they will have to evacuate to an
     approved launch shelter or a non-affected AWZ. If real-time toxic modeling forecasts
     dwell time and concentrations which exceed the approved launch shelters capabilities in
     the affected area, personnel will be directed to evacuate the area in question. This
     information will be provided via the CAWS and is in compliance with 45SWI91-204.
     5.4.2. Because of potential danger from a launch catastrophe or structural failure of the
     roof, personnel will not be allowed to view launches from rooftops, except for authorized
     rooftop viewing areas. A listing of authorized rooftop viewing locations is available from
     Det 1, 45 MSG. Personnel desiring to view a launch from one of these locations or to
     have their facility designated as a viewing area should contact Det 1, 45 MSG.
     5.4.3. When evacuation notification is given, flashing red beacons in the vicinity of the
     launch pad will be turned on and warning horns located in the danger area will be
     sounded by 45 SW/SE or its designee. 45th Security Forces Squadron (45 SFS) will
     establish Danger Area roadblocks and ensure all personnel leave the applicable danger
     area, except those authorized to remain as shown on the 45 SW/SE approved FCA/FHA
     Roadblock Access letter for the operation.
     5.4.4. The 45 SFS will inform 45 MSG/DET 1 – LIO Console and 45 SW/SE or its
     designee when the BDA, FCA/FHA, and/or SCA roadblocks have been established.
     Once Danger Area roadblocks have been established ("Hard Down"), no vehicles will be
     allowed inside roadblocks without specific approval of 45 SW/SE. These changes to the
     roadblock access must be coordinated real-time through 45 SW/SE or its designee.
     Increases to the approved FCA/FHA Roadblock Access letter from the field will be
     requested through 45 SFS to 45 SW/SE or its designee. 45 SW/SE or its designee will
     coordinate technical approval through the Range Control Officer (RCO) and safety
     approval through the RAC. Approval will flow back through 45 SFS to the requestor.
     Requests originating internally with the RCO will be coordinated for safety approval
     directly with the RAC by the RCO. If technical and safety approval is obtained, the RCO
     will notify 45 SW/SE or its designee who will coordinate access provisions with 45 SFS.
  5.5. Roadblock Control.
     5.5.1. The 45 SFS will maintain control over traffic at roadblocks as designated in the
     applicable FCA/FHA Roadblock Access letter. Vehicles and GP will not be allowed to
     proceed unless specifically authorized by 45 SW/SE or its designee.
 8                                                          45SWI91-206 18 DECEMBER 2012


        5.5.2. Personnel whose official duties are inside ILLs but outside the danger area
        roadblocks may enter or remain inside the ILL, unless calculations performed by RAC
        personnel indicate a violation of AFI91-217 criteria. 45 SFS will appropriately direct
        personnel when mitigating actions are initiated by RAC personnel.
        5.5.3. The 45 SFS at screening roadblocks and/or on roving patrols will query
        individuals to ensure that entry is for official business only and that LEP have appropriate
        PPE, if required based on analysis performed by RAC personnel.
        5.5.4. Vehicles and personnel necessary at fallback will require permission to enter from
        45 SW/SE or its designee, through 45 SFS.
     5.6. Missile Destruct or Explosion.
        5.6.1. If a missile destruct or vehicle malfunction occurs within approximately the first
        60 seconds of flight, the RCO will implement the CAWS procedures for areas indicated
        in the Operational Plan, and Cape Support will make scripted announcements over the
        CAWS as directed by RAC personnel IAW 45SWI91-204.
        5.6.2. Roadblocks will be lifted as soon as practical after mission/accident termination,
        as approved by the EOC Director and directed by 45 SW/SE.
            5.6.2.1. Flashing red beacons in the launch pad area will be turned off.
            5.6.2.2. The 45 SFS will remove barricades.
        5.6.3. Appropriate announcements will be made on the Range Countdown net by the
        RCO.
6. Information.
     6.1. Questions concerning this plan should be directed to the Eastern Range Launch Safety
     Risk Analysis Group (45 SW/SELR) at 321-494-3287.




                                              ANTHONY J. COTTON, Brigadier General, USAF
                                              Commander
45SWI91-206 18 DECEMBER 2012                                                        9


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Eastern and Western Range 127-1, Range Safety Requirements, 31 Oct 1997
Air Force Space Command Manual 91-710 Volume 6, Range Safety User Requirements Manual
– Ground and Launch Personnel, Equipment, Systems, and Material Operationis Safety
Requirement, 1 July 2004
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
45th Space Wing Instruction 91-204, Launch Vehicle Toxic Plume/Distant Focusing
Overpressure Instruction For On-Base Personnel, 1 October 2005
45 SW Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan 10-2, 1 June 2009
Hazardous Material Emergency Response Plan, June 2011
AFI 91-217, Space Safety and Mishap Prevention Program, 27 October 2011
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AWZ—Aural Warning Zone
BDA—Blast Danger Area
CAWS—Cape Aural Warning System
CCAFS—Cape Canaveral Air Force Station
DFO—Distant Focusing Overpressure
EOC—Emergency Operations Center
FCA—Flight Caution Area
FHA—Flight Hazard Area
GP—General Public
ILL—Impact Limit Line
KSC—Kennedy Space Center
LEP—Launch Essential Personnel
NOP—Neighboring Operations Personnel
RAC—Risk Assessment Center
RCO—Range Control Officer
SCBA—Self Contained Breathing Apparatus
 10                                                         45SWI91-206 18 DECEMBER 2012


SWI—Space Wing Instruction
VCC—Vehicle Clear Contour

Terms
Blast Danger Area (BDA)—a hazardous clear area; clearance prior to establishment of a major
explosive hazard such as vehicle fuel/oxidizer load and pressurization; the area subject to
fragment and direct overpressure resulting from the explosion of the booster/payload.
Danger Areas—safety clearance zones during certain pre-launch hazardous operations with a
well-defined Special Control Area and launch operations with defined mishap probabilities,
including the Impact Limit Line, Flight Hazard Area and Flight Caution Area.
Flight Caution Area (FCA)—a hazardous launch area; the controlled surface area and airspace
outside the flight hazard area (FHA) where individual risk from a launch vehicle malfunction
during the early phase of flight exceeds 1 x 10-6; when activated, only personnel essential to the
launch operation (launch essential) with adequate breathing protection are permitted in this area.
Flight Hazard Area (FHA)—a hazardous launch area; the controlled surface area and airspace
about the launch pad and flight azimuth where individual risk from a malfunction during the
early phase of flight exceeds 1 x 10-5; because the risk of serious injury or death from blast
overpressure or debris is so significant, only launch-essential personnel with adequate breathing
protection are permitted in this area
General Public (GP)—all persons who are not in the launch-essential personnel or neighboring
operations personnel categories; for a specific launch, the general public includes visitors, media,
and other non-operations personnel at the launch site as well as persons located outside the
boundaries of the launch site who are not associated with the specified launch.
Impact Limit Line (ILL)—a hazardous launch area; the boundary within which trajectory
constraints and flight termination systems are used to contain an errant launch vehicle and
vehicle debris with a ballistic coefficient of three or more. Launch essential and neighboring
operations personnel are permitted within the impact limit lines. With space wing commander
approval, non-essential personnel may be permitted within this area; however, the collective risk
shall not exceed acceptable standards for the general public.
Launch—Essential Personnel—the minimum number of persons necessary to successfully and
safely complete a hazardous or launch operation whose absence would jeopardize the completion
of the operation. This designation also includes people required to perform emergency actions
according to authorized directives, persons specifically authorized by the space wing
Commanders to perform scheduled activities and personnel in training. The Range Users and
space wing commanders jointly determine, with Range Safety concurrence, the number of launch
essential personnel allowed within safety clearance zones or hazardous launch areas.
Launch Vehicle—a vehicle that carries and/or delivers a payload to a desired location; a generic
term that applies to all vehicles that may be launched from the Eastern Range, including but not
limited to airplanes; all types of space launch vehicles, manned space vehicles, missiles and
rockets and their stages; probes; aerostats and balloons; drones, remotely piloted vehicles;
projectiles; torpedoes and air-dropped bodies.
45SWI91-206 18 DECEMBER 2012                                                                   11


Launch Emergency Operations Center (LEOC)—an Eastern Range team responsible for
responding to launch emergencies. The primary mission is to save lives, protect property, prevent
adverse public relations and return to normal launch operations as soon as possible after flight
termination.
Neighboring Operations Personnel—those individuals, not associated with the specific/current
operation or launch currently under consideration, who are required to perform safety, security or
critical tasks at the launch base and who are aware of the launch mission risks and trained in
mitigation tasks or accompanied by properly trained escorts.
Non—essential Personnel—See General Public.
Safety Clearance Zones—the restricted areas designated for day-to-day prelaunch processing
and launch operations to protect the public, launch area and launch complex personnel; these
zones are established for each launch vehicle and payload at specific processing facilities,
including launch complexes; includes hazard clearance area and hazardous launch area.
SCA—Special Control Area; safety clearance zone established for certain pre-launch hazardous
operations to protect launch complex personnel and the public from hazards which could spread
over a large area due to potential toxic material release or explosive propagation. Often
associated with transportation routes.
Vehicle Clear Contour (VCC)—area determined to have increased risk of damage to vehicles
from debris and blast effects. All vehicles (private, government or contractor) are prohibited
from parking within the Vehicle Clear Contour. This includes cars, trucks, trailers and tankers
not directly supporting launch operations. Once activated all personnel needing access to this
area shall be dropped off and picked up. NOTE: The only exceptions to this policy are vehicles
belonging to individuals with specific mission support functions, such as camera/video/tracking
operations, weather support and sky screen personnel.
 12                                                     45SWI91-206 18 DECEMBER 2012


                                        Attachment 2
                      AURAL WARNING ZONE LOCATION MAP

ILLs and mission-specific Danger Areas will be published for all launch programs when this
information is known on a per-mission basis.

Figure A2.1. Aural Warning Zone Location Map.
45SWI91-206 18 DECEMBER 2012                                                                                                      13


                                                          Attachment 3
                       EXAMPLE POPULATION REPORTING SPREADSHEET

Mission-specific population data will be gathered using the below spreadsheet and will be used
by 45 SW/SE for launch day risk analysis.

Table A3.1. Example Population Reporting Spreadsheet.
Launch Vehicle / Mission, Operation Number XXXXX
Launch Complex
Launch Window

Revision X: Launch Essential, Neighboring Operations. and General Public Personnel:
                                   T-0
                                   Facility                           Day      Evenin
                                                                                        Locat    Risk
                                   Mannin     Launch                  Time     gs/
                                                          Launch                        ion      Categor
                         T-0       g          Essenti                 Facili   Weeke                              POC
Facil           Facil                                     Essential                     Withi    y (LEP,
        Alter            Facili    Outside    al                      ty       nds                                Phon
ity             ity                                       Require                       n        NOP,       PO
        nate             ty        FCA        Justific                Mann Facilit                                e      POC Email
Nam             Num                                       ments (if                     Liste    GP –       C
        Name             Mann Requirin ation (if                      ing      y                                  Num
e               ber                                       Applicab                      d        See
                         ing       g          Applica                 (By      Manni                              ber
                                                          le)                           Facili   Definiti
                                   Security   ble)                    Floor    ng (By
                                                                                        ty       ons)
                                   Coordin                            )        Floor)
                                   ation
E                                                                                                           Joh
and                                                                                                         n     853-   John.Smith@u
        E&L     1704     4                                                                       GP
L                                                                                                           Smi   1234   s.af.mil
Bldg                                                                                                        th
                                              45          STA,                                              Jan
MO              8190                          SW/SE       RAC,                                              e     494-   Jane.Smith@u
                         19                                                                      LEP
C               0                             personn     SELF,                                             Smi   1234   s.af.mil
                                              el          SEA                                               th
