BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         45TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 33-113
45TH SPACE WING
                                                                               19 MARCH 2010

                                                             Communications and Information

                                                           COMMUNICATIONS ROOM AND
                                                               ENCLOSURE STANDARDS



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 45 SCS/SCXPX                                                       Certified by: 45 SCS/CC
                                                                        (Lt Col Daniel L. Steele)
                                                                                        Pages: 10


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-1, Information Management.
This instruction sets forth design guidelines for communications rooms and enclosures for the
security of the 45th Space Wing data, voice and video network infrastructure. It establishes
standards for all new communications pre-construction and renovation design. It also outlines the
security procedures for physical access to these locations. By adhering to the standards in this
instruction, maintainers can optimize communications equipment lifecycle performance, protect
the integrity of the network and manage the premise communications cable distribution system
and network demarcation points in government facilities under the jurisdiction of the 45th Space
Wing. The intent of this instruction is to set standards for all new construction and facility
refurbishments. Existing facilities will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Where applicable,
deviations from this instruction for facility refurbishments and/or renovations may be waived
with the approval from the base commander. Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through Major
Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

1. Room Specifications and Design.
   1.1. Communications Rooms and Enclosures.
2                                                               45SWI33-113 19 MARCH 2010


       1.1.1. Communications rooms and enclosures shall                 be   dedicated    to   the
       telecommunications function and related support functions.
       1.1.2. Equipment not related to the support of the communications rooms and enclosures
       (e.g., piping, duct work and distribution of building power) shall not be located in or pass
       through communications rooms or enclosures.
       1.1.3. Communications rooms and enclosures shall not be shared with building or
       custodial services. For example, slop sinks and cleaning materials (e.g., mops, buckets or
       solvents) or storage of any type will not be located or stored in communications rooms or
       enclosures, to include any objects restricting access to them.
    1.2. Location.
       1.2.1. Communications rooms and enclosures shall be placed on the same floor as the
       area it is intended to serve to minimize the horizontal twisted pair cable lengths with a
       maximum of 328 ft in length.
       1.2.2. Communications rooms and enclosures location shall also be determined by the
       maximum cabling distances possible to end user’s equipment throughout the servicing
       area.
       1.2.3. Communications rooms or enclosures shall be accessible from a hallway or other
       common area. Communications rooms or enclosures that serve multiple tenants must be
       accessible from a public hallway or other common area that serves the same tenants as
       the communications rooms or enclosures.
       1.2.4. Communications rooms and enclosures in multi-floor buildings will be stacked
       vertically, as needed, with sufficient conduits between them.
       1.2.5. The base communications commander or their appointed representative(s) is the
       approval authority for all communications rooms and enclosures design and design
       variances.
    1.3. Flood Prevention.
       1.3.1. Communications rooms and enclosures shall be located above any threat of
       flooding and away from areas of potential water hazard (e.g., restrooms and kitchens).
    1.4. Communications Rooms per Square Footage.
       1.4.1. There shall be at least one communications room and/or enclosure per floor.
       1.4.2. Multiple communications rooms are required if the usable floor space to be served
       exceeds 10,000 sq ft or 20,000 sq ft in multi-floor facilities or the cable length between
       the horizontal cross-connects (floor distribution) and the telecommunications outlet
       location, including slack, exceeds 328 feet.
    1.5. Room Dimension Specifications.
       1.5.1. Size requirements shall be based on distributing communications service to one
       individual work area per 100 sq ft of usable floor space.
       1.5.2. Communications enclosures servicing less than 1,000 sq ft shall have an enclosed
       self-contained cabinet.
45SWI33-113 19 MARCH 2010                                                                     3


     1.5.3. Communications rooms servicing an area of 5,000 sq ft or less shall have an
     interior room dimension of 10 ft x 8 ft to allow for center-rack configuration.
     1.5.4. Communications rooms servicing an area of 5,001 sq ft to 8,000 sq ft shall have an
     interior room dimension of 10 ft x 9 ft.
     1.5.5. Communications rooms serving an area of 8,001 sq ft to 10,000 sq ft shall have an
     interior room dimension of 10 ft x 11 ft . When the area served exceeds 20,000 sq ft, one
     or more communications room or enclosure shall be provided.
     1.5.6. The minimum ceiling height shall be at least 8 feet above finished floor (AFF).
     1.5.7. Communications enclosures must be listed and marked in accordance with
     applicable electrical codes.
     1.5.8. Size requirements/specifications for communications rooms and enclosures will be
     specified andvalidated by the Base communication commander or appointed
     communications distribution design representative.
  1.6. Design.
     1.6.1. The communications distribution designer shall properly design communications
     rooms and enclosures and horizontal cross-connects (floor distribution) to provide a
     floor-serving distribution facility for horizontal cabling. The cross-connect must be
     capable of providing horizontal cable connections to floor-serving telecommunication
     equipment and backbone cables from other communications rooms, enclosures,
     equipment rooms and equipment farms.
     1.6.2. Communications rooms and enclosures shall be provisioned to house
     telecommunications equipment in both single and multi-level buildings.
     1.6.3. The design shall provide both shared or separate communications rooms and
     enclosures to serve the structured cabling needs of all building occupants.
     1.6.4. The design should provide separate communications rooms and enclosures located
     in or directly accessible to each tenant’s leased space.
     1.6.5. The design may combine the building and floor-serving functions of the
     equipment room and communications rooms and enclosures in one room. Instances
     where the two may be combined include smaller buildings (less than 5000 sq ft) and
     those with limited space for distribution facilities.
  1.7. Floor Loading.
     1.7.1. ANSI/TIA/EIA-569-B, Commercial Building Standard for Telecommunication
     Pathways and Spaces, specifies a minimum floor loading of 50 lb/ft 2. The
     communications engineer shall determine floor loading for equipment and coordinate
     with the building architect for actual floor loading rating. If rated floor loading is less
     than the actual determined requirement, the communications engineer shall obtain the
     services of a licensed structural engineer.
  1.8. Wall Linings.
     1.8.1. A minimum of two walls shall be lined with AC grade or better, void-free
     plywood, 8-ft high with a minimum thickness of 3/4 inch trade size. The plywood shall
4                                                              45SWI33-113 19 MARCH 2010


       be installed with the grade “C” surface facing the wall and securely fastened to wall-
       framing members to ensure that it can support attached equipment. The plywood shall be
       either fire-rated or treated on all sides with at least two coats of fire-resistant paint.
       1.8.2. Plywood shall cover the entire area on which connecting hardware and cable
       management hardware is to be mounted, including sides (desired).
       1.8.3. Flush hardware shall be used to mount plywood at a minimum of every 6 inches to
       ensure sufficient strength to handle the total anticipated load (static and dynamic) and
       mounting of cabling components.
2. Electrical and Environmental.
    2.1. Power.
       2.1.1. Communications rooms and enclosures shall be equipped to provide adequate
       electrical power. US requirements are as follows:
          2.1.1.1. Branch circuits for equipment power will be protected and cabled for 20 A
          capacity for equipment and 30 A capacity for rack-mounted battery backup systems.
          2.1.1.2. Each planned rack shall have a minimum of two dedicated non-switched 3-
          cable, 120 volt (V), alternating current (AC), duplex electrical outlets for equipment
          power, each on separate branch circuits. The circuits will be mounted temporarily to
          the ceiling over the planed rack with sufficient cable to extend into the rack when the
          rack is installed.
          2.1.1.3. Separate duplex 120 V AC convenience electrical outlets (for tools, field test
          instruments, etc.) which are:
              2.1.1.3.1. Located at least 6 inches AFF. Electrical outlet heights of less than 18
              inches are allowed because communications rooms and enclosures are not
              considered a public space.
              2.1.1.3.2. Placed at 6-ft intervals around perimeter walls.
          2.1.1.4. Coordinate light switch locations for easy access upon entry.
          2.1.1.5. All electrical outlets must be on non-switched circuits (electrical outlet
          power must not be controlled by a wall switch or other device that may lead to
          inadvertent loss of service).
          2.1.1.6. Convenience electrical outlets shall be identified with labels.
          2.1.1.7. Additional electrical outlets or power strips may be required, depending on
          the amount and type of equipment planned for communications rooms and
          enclosures.
          2.1.1.8. Emergency power to communications rooms and enclosures with automatic
          switchover capability shall be identified as needed (such as server farm areas).
          2.1.1.9. Dedicated power panels shall be installed to serve communications rooms
          and enclosures as needed.
          2.1.1.10. Distribution panels that serve communications equipment shall be separate
          from those that serve lighting fixtures.
45SWI33-113 19 MARCH 2010                                                                     5


         2.1.1.11. At least one electrical outlet shall be on normal power and one electrical
         outlet shall be on emergency power as needed.
  2.2. Grounding Requirements.
     2.2.1. All equipment and cable shields must be properly grounded according to
     applicable electrical codes.
     2.2.2. In addition to the general grounding requirements, the following requirements
     shall apply:
         2.2.2.1. When multiple equipment grounding or intersystem grounding is necessary,
         a copper ground bar shall be provided and sized applicable to the communication
         room and enclosure design and servicing equipment.
     2.2.3. If backbone cable is furnished by a service provider, the service provider must be
     consulted to determine any special grounding requirements that may apply.
  2.3. Fire Protection.
     2.3.1. Provide fire protection for Communications rooms and enclosures as required by
     applicable codes.
     2.3.2. Where sprinkler heads are provided, install wire cages to prevent accidental
     operation as required.
     2.3.3. Provide drainage for wet pipe systems to protect equipment from any leakage that
     may occur.
     2.3.4. Install “dry pipe” sprinkler systems to prevent water damage as required.
     2.3.5. Cover pipes with two coats of fire-retardant white paint (or other light-colored
     finish) if required by applicable codes.
  2.4. Environmental Controls.
     2.4.1. Provide HVAC that will:
         2.4.1.1. Provide continuous and dedicated environmental control (24 hours per day,
         365 days per year).
         2.4.1.2. Uninterrupted power connecting HVAC               system   that   serves   the
         communication rooms and enclosures as required.
         2.4.1.3. Maintain positive pressure with a minimum of one air change per hour in the
         communication rooms and or enclosures as needed.
         2.4.1.4. Dissipate the heat generated by active devices.
         2.4.1.5. Provide 300 cubic ft of 54ºF conditioned air per 20 ampere (A) dedicated
         electrical outlet.
         2.4.1.6. Satisfy applicable building codes.
     2.4.2. Communications rooms and enclosures that house active equipment shall maintain
     a temperature of 64°F to 75°F. The humidity range should be 30% to 55% relative
     humidity.
6                                                               45SWI33-113 19 MARCH 2010


    2.5. Lighting.
       2.5.1. Provide a minimum equivalent of 50-foot candles measured 3 feet AFF.
       2.5.2. The use of dimmer switches is not allowed.
       2.5.3. Locate light fixtures a minimum of 8 feet AFF.
       2.5.4. Place emergency lighting in large communications rooms to ensure that the loss of
       power to normal lights will not hamper an emergency exit.
       2.5.5. Power for lighting should not come from the power panel inside communication
       rooms or enclosures. A minimum of one light shall be on normal power and one light on
       emergency power as needed.
       2.5.6. Lighting will be located both to the front and rear of the planned rack locations.
3. Cable Plant Specification.
    3.1. Data, Voice and Video Cable Distribution System.
       3.1.1. Ceiling distribution system shall have adequate pathways or openings through
       beams and other obstructions into the accessible ceiling space. All structural alterations
       require the approval of a structural engineer.
       3.1.2. Use color-coded cross-connect fields as specified in ANSI/TIA/EIA-606 to
       facilitate cable plant administration.
       3.1.3. The color orange will identify the demarcation point (e.g., central office
       connections) cross- connect fields only and are to be independent of media type and
       telecommunication services (e.g., voice or data) and do not apply to protection apparatus
       or other elements of the cabling system for which other (proprietary) color schemes may
       be used.
       3.1.4. The color green will identify network connections (e.g., network and auxiliary
       equipment) cross-connect fields only and are to be independent of media type and
       telecommunication services (e.g., voice or data) and do not apply to protection apparatus
       or other elements of the cabling system for which other (proprietary) color schemes may
       be used.
       3.1.5. The color purple will identify common equipment (e.g., connections to private
       branch exchange [PBX], local area networks [LANs], mainframe computer, multiplexer)
       cross-connect fields only and are to be independent of media type and telecommunication
       services (e.g., voice or data) and do not apply to protection apparatus or other elements of
       the cabling system for which other (proprietary) color schemes may be used.
       3.1.6. The color white will identify first-level backbone (e.g., termination of building
       backbone cable connecting main cross-connects [construction document] to intermediate
       cross-connects only [building distributors]) and are to be independent of media type and
       telecommunication services (e.g., voice or data) and do not apply to protection apparatus
       or other elements of the cabling system for which other (proprietary) color schemes may
       be used.
       3.1.7. The color gray will identify second-level backbone (e.g., termination of building
       backbone cable connecting intermediate cross-connects [building distributors] to
45SWI33-113 19 MARCH 2010                                                                      7


     horizontal cross-connects only [floor distributions]) and are to be independent of media
     type and telecommunication services (e.g., voice or data) and do not apply to protection
     apparatus or other elements of the cabling system for which other (proprietary) color
     schemes may be used.
     3.1.8. The color blue will identify horizontal cable (e.g., horizontal connections to
     telecommunications outlet connectors) cross-connect fields only and are to be
     independent of media type and telecommunications services (e.g., voice or data) and do
     not apply to protection apparatus or other elements of the cabling system for which other
     (proprietary) color schemes may be used.
     3.1.9. The color brown will identify intra-building backbone (base cable terminations)
     cross-connect fields only and are to be independent of media type and telecommunication
     services (e.g., voice or data) and do not apply to protection apparatus or other elements of
     the cabling system for which other (proprietary) color schemes may be used and should
     take precedence over white or gray for inter-building runs.
     3.1.10. The color yellow will identify miscellaneous (e.g., auxiliary, alarms, security)
     cross-connect fields only and are to be independent of media type and telecommunication
     services (e.g., voice or data) and do not apply to protection apparatus or other elements of
     the cabling system for which other (proprietary) color schemes may be used.
     3.1.11. The color red will identify reserves for future use (also, key telephone systems)
     cross-connect fields only and are to be independent of media type and telecommunication
     services (e.g., voice or data) and do not apply to protection apparatus or other elements of
     the cabling system for which other (proprietary) color schemes may be used.
     3.1.12. Conduits, trays, slots, sleeves and ducts shall be located where pulling and
     termination is assessable.
     3.1.13. Service loop bend radius for vertical and horizontal offsets shall be used as
     required.
     3.1.14. Fire stop all sleeves and slots in accordance with applicable building codes.
     3.1.15. The size and number of conduits or sleeves used for backbone pathways shall be
     proportional to the floor space served by the cable distribution system to include multiple
     interconnected communication rooms and enclosures.
     3.1.16. The Space Communications Squadron commander or appointed representative(s)
     shall be the approval authority for all horizontal pathways, conduits, trays and duct
     designs to include wired and wireless access points for communication distribution
     systems.
  3.2. Conduits, Trays, Slots, Sleeves, and Duct Requirements/Specification.
     3.2.1. Conduits, trays, slots, sleeves, and ducts shall be used to distribute backbone
     cabling to each communication room and enclosure.
     3.2.2. Sleeves, slots and/or conduits will be located on the side of the room that enhances
     the use of wall space.
8                                                             45SWI33-113 19 MARCH 2010


       3.2.3. Trays and conduits located within the ceiling shall protrude into the room a
       distance of 1 to 2 inches without a bend and above 8 feet high. Type and location of the
       cross-connect fields may influence the optimal placement of pathways.
    3.3. Wall and Rack Space for Terminations.
       3.3.1. Location and space allocation for terminations of each type of cable should be on
       one continuous wall or rack.
       3.3.2. A clear space of 5 to 6 inches above and below the top and bottom of the
       connecting hardware or cable handling will be reserved.
       3.3.3. Special size considerations and termination space for various cable types shall be
       located in the design specification.
       3.3.4. Mounting connecting hardware and equipment close to corners should not be used
       to avoid servicing problems. Layout side clearance should be located in design
       specification.
       3.3.5. Narrow side walls must be reserved for “splice cases” and miscellaneous items.
       3.3.6. Cross-connect fields patch panels and active equipment in communications rooms
       and enclosures must be placed to allow cross-connections and interconnections.
       Connections can be made via jumpers, patch cords and equipment cables whose lengths
       per channel do not exceed 16 feet for patch cords or jumpers in the horizontal cross-
       connect (floor distribution). Space must also allow for patch cords/jumpers that do not
       exceed 33 feet, equipment cables connected to the horizontal cross-connect (floor
       distribution), plus the work area cord and 66 feet for patch cords or jumpers that serve
       main or intermediate cross-connects (building distributions).
4. Communications Room and Enclosure Security.
    4.1. Physical Access.
       4.1.1. All Communications rooms and enclosures shall be lockable with security devices
       that are exclusive for gaining entry to communications rooms and enclosures.
       4.1.2. Base communication commander or appointed representative(s) shall control all
       communications rooms and enclosures security entry systems to include the distribution
       and retrieval of access authorizations.
       4.1.3. Communications rooms and enclosures access authorization should include, and
       not be limited to the building manager(s) who remain on site throughout their shift. The
       building owner or appointed representative(s) shall obtain authorization approval from
       the base communication commander or their appointed representative for controlling
       access to Communications rooms and enclosures that serve multiple tenants.
       4.1.4. All personnel with authorized entry to communications rooms and enclosures shall
       notify the base Communication commander or appointed representative(s) before
       entering and after exiting communications rooms and enclosures in location where
       communication cross-connections and/or electric communication equipment is shared in
       multiple environments.
5. Administration.
45SWI33-113 19 MARCH 2010                                                                9


  5.1. Requirements and Specifications Administration.
     5.1.1. Base communication commander or their appointed representative must keep
     records and other documentation pertaining to the design, layout and specifications of
     telecommunication pathways, spaces and cabling systems IAW Records Disposition
     Schedule (RDS), AFI 10-404 or the current publication of ANSI/TIA/EIA-606-A.
     5.1.2. Base communication commander or their appointed representative must establish a
     complete and systematic means of tracking static and dynamic elements of the
     telecommunications infrastructure to include procedures for the ongoing administration
     of the telecommunications system.
     5.1.3. Base communication commander or their appointed representative must provide
     all pertinent documentation on administration to on-site personnel, representing the
     building owner or agent to include access authorizations to communications rooms and
     enclosures, when the project is completed.
  5.2. Adopted Forms: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                        EDWARD L. BOLTON JR., Brigadier General,
                                        USAF
                                        Commander
10                                                 45SWI33-113 19 MARCH 2010


                                    Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 33-1, Information Management, 27 June 2006

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACF—Above Finished Floor
HVAC—High Voltage Alternating Current
LAN—Local Area Network
PBX—Private Branch Exchange
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
