BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  45TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 31-213
45TH SPACE WING                                                                     6 SEPTEMBER 2002

                                                                                                   Security

                                                                     ARMED FORCES DISCIPLINARY
                                                                               CONTROL BOARD



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 45 SW/JAL (Capt Kent I. Scott-Smith)                 Certified by: 45 SW/JA (Lt Col Mark R. Land)
                                                                                             Pages: 18
                                                                                        Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force Joint Instruction (AFJI) 31-213, Armed Forces Disciplinary
Control Boards and Off-Installation Liaison and Operations, and prescribes procedures for the estab-
lishment, operation, and coordination of the Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Board (AFDCB). This
instruction does not address the use of off-installation liaison and operations. This instruction applies to
all personnel assigned to the 45th Space Wing (45 SW) and subordinate units, and personnel assigned or
attached to, or supported by, Patrick Air Force Base (PAFB), Cape Canaveral Air Force Station (CCAFS),
and downrange annexes.
Military personnel who violate the specific prohibitions and requirements contained in paragraph 9. and
all of its subparagraphs can be prosecuted under Article 92 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice
(UCMJ), or any other applicable article of the UCMJ, as appropriate.
This instruction is affected by the Privacy Act of 1974. It requires maintenance of a system of records
under the authority of 10 U.S.C. § 8013. All forms contain a Privacy Act statement.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This is the initial publication of this instruction. This publication aligns procedures with Air Force guid-
ance.


1. Authority. The 45 SW Commander is responsible for maintaining the health, safety, morals, welfare,
morale and discipline of 45 SW personnel and their families. To carry out this responsibility, the 45 SW
commander is authorized under AFJI 31-213 to declare establishments, businesses and areas “off-limits”
to 45 SW personnel where there exists sufficient cause to believe that service members may be exposed to
or victimized by crime-conducive conditions.

2. Purpose. The AFDCB is a cross-service organization whose purpose is to assist the 45 SW Com-
mander in eliminating undesirable conditions and situations that may adversely affect the health, safety,
2                                                                   45SWI31-213 6 SEPTEMBER 2002


morals, welfare, morale and discipline of 45 SW personnel and their families. The goal of the AFDCB is
correction of the deficiency by the off-base establishment, business or area. However, when the defi-
ciency is not or cannot be corrected, the AFDCB may recommend to the 45 SW Commander to place the
establishment, business or area “off-limits” to military personnel.

3. Board Composition. The 45th Misson Support Group Deputy Commander (45 MSG/CD) is the
AFDCB president. Duties of the president include scheduling and presiding at all AFDCB meetings. The
following are designated as members of the board:
    3.1. The 45 SFS/CC or designee.
    3.2. AFOSI, Det 802.*
    3.3. The 45 SW/IG.
    3.4. The 45 SW/JA.
    3.5. The 45 MDG/CC or designee.
    3.6. The 45 CES/CC or designee.
    3.7. The 45 SW/PA.
    3.8. The 45 SW/ME.
    3.9. The 45 SW/SE.
    3.10. The 45 SW/HC.
    3.11. First Sergeants Council President.
NOTE: An asterick (*) indicates non-voting member.

4. Responsibilities of the Board.
    4.1. The AFDCB functions under the supervision of a president and serves all military personnel and
    family members at or near PAFB, CCAFS and downrange annexes.
    4.2. The AFDCB studies and takes appropriate action on all reports of conditions considered detri-
    mental to the health, safety, morals, welfare, morale and discipline of Armed Forces personnel and
    families. These activities include, but are not limited to, prostitution, sexually transmitted disease,
    liquor violations, racial and other discriminatory practices, alcohol and drug abuse, drug abuse para-
    phernalia, criminal or illegal activities involving cults or hate groups, illicit gambling and areas sus-
    ceptible to terrorist activity.
    4.3. The board meets as often as determined by the 45 SW Commander or AFDCB president. This
    may be quarterly or as situations dictate, such as an area or establishment being placed in a temporary
    off-limits status. The AFDCB president may specify whether the meetings will be open or closed.
    Normally proceedings are closed, but may be open to the public when circumstances warrant.
       4.3.1. Special meetings may be called by the president of the board.
       4.3.2. A majority of voting members constitutes a quorum for board proceedings.
       4.3.3. AFDCB proceedings are not adversarial in nature.
45SWI31-213 6 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                                               3


   4.4. The AFDCB should coordinate with appropriate civil authorities on problems or adverse condi-
   tions in the board’s area of jurisdiction.
       4.4.1. Participation by civil agencies or individuals is highly encouraged. They may be invited as
       observers or witnesses in accordance with paragraph 7. when they are aware of problem areas
       within the board’s jurisdiction.

5. Complaints.
   5.1. All active duty military personnel and their family members are encouraged to file with the
   AFDCB suitable complaints they may have against off-base establishments and businesses. Persons
   with complaints about off-base establishments or businesses should put the complaint in writing and
   attach any relevant documents.
   5.2. A complaint form is found at Attachment 1.

6. The Legal Advisor.
   6.1. An Assistant Staff Judge Advocate will serve as Legal Advisor to the AFDCB. An enlisted mem-
   ber in the paralegal career field can assist with all duties of the Legal Advisor, except providing advise
   on legal matters.
   6.2. The Legal Advisor will:
       6.2.1. Provide an agenda and any relevant complaints to each voting member at least 72 hours
       prior to the meeting.
       6.2.2. Ensure records, minutes, and correspondence are prepared and distributed to board mem-
       bers and others, as appropriate.
       6.2.3. Maintain records of board proceedings as prescribed by applicable records management
       policies and procedures.

7. Attendance Of Observers Or Witnesses. The board may invite other military or civilian persons or
organization representatives as witnesses or observers if they are necessary or appropriate to the board
proceedings. These visitors may assist in addressing installation or command issues, but will not vote on
any action or procedure. Invited witnesses and observers will be listed in the minutes of the meeting.

8. Minutes.
   8.1. Minutes will be prepared in accordance with Attachment 2. The written minutes of AFDCB
   meetings will constitute the official record of the AFDCB proceedings. Verbatim transcripts of board
   meetings are not required. The reasons for approving or removing an off-limits restriction, to include
   a complete address of the establishment or area involved, should be indicated in the order of business.
   In addition, the AFDCB’s action will be shown in the order of sequence of actions taken. A change in
   the name of an establishment or area in an off-limits restriction will also be included.
   8.2. Distribution of the minutes of AFDCB meetings will be limited to the 45 SW Commander and
   each voting member. Civilian and military observers and witnesses, if deemed appropriate, may also
   receive a copy. Civilian and government agencies that have interest in the functions of the board may
   receive a copy if deemed appropriate.
4                                                                   45SWI31-213 6 SEPTEMBER 2002


    8.3. AFDCB minutes are subject to release and disclosure in accordance with applicable regulations
    and directives.
    8.4. Minutes and recommendations of the board will be forwarded to the 45 SW Commander
    for approval.

9. Off-Limits Establishments and Areas.
    9.1. Service members are prohibited from entering establishments or areas declared off-limits
    in accordance with this instruction. Violations may subject the member to disciplinary action under
    Article 92 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), or any other applicable article of the
    UCMJ, as appropriate. Family members of service members and others associated with the service or
    installation should be made aware of the off-limits restrictions.
    9.2. Off-limits restrictions should be invoked only when there is substantive information indicating
    that an establishment or area frequented by Armed Forces personnel presents conditions that
    adversely affect their health, safety, morals, welfare, morale and discipline. It is essential the board
    does not act arbitrarily. Actions must not be of a punitive nature. The board should work in close
    cooperation with local officials and proprietors of business establishments and seek to accomplish
    their mission through mutually cooperative efforts.
    9.3. When the board concludes that conditions adverse to Armed Forces personnel do exist, the
    AFDCB will send a written notice (Attachment 3), via certified mail-return receipt requested, to the
    individual or business responsible for the alleged condition or situation. The AFDCB will specify a
    reasonable amount of time for the condition or situation to be corrected, along with the opportunity for
    the individual or business to present any relevant information to the board. If subsequent investigation
    reveals the responsible individual or business has failed to take corrective action, the board will rec-
    ommend the imposition of the off-limits restriction.
    9.4. If the proprietor takes remedial action to correct undesirable conditions previously noted, the
    board should send a letter of appreciation (Attachment 4) recognizing this cooperation.
    9.5. If undesirable conditions are not corrected, the proprietor will be invited to appear before the
    AFDCB to explain why the establishment should not be placed off-limits (Attachment 5). Any pro-
    prietor may designate in writing a representative to appear before the board on his or her behalf.
    9.6. In cases where proprietors have been invited to appear before the board, the president of the
    board may perform the following:
       9.6.1. Prior to calling the proprietor, review the findings and decision of the previous meeting, call
       for inspection reports, and allow those present to ask questions and discuss the case.
       9.6.2. When the proprietor or the representative is called before the board, the proprietor will be
       presented a brief summary of the complaint concerning the establishment. Afford the proprietor an
       opportunity to present matters in defense. Invite those present to question the proprietor. After the
       questioning period, allow the proprietor the opportunity to make a final statement before being
       dismissed.
    9.7. Deliberations on recommended actions will be in closed session, attended only by board mem-
    bers and other persons as determined by the 45 SW Commander or the AFDCB president.
    9.8. The board should recommend an off-limits restriction only after the following:
45SWI31-213 6 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                                              5


      9.8.1. The letter of notification has been sent.
      9.8.2. An opportunity for the proprietor to appear before the board has been extended.
      9.8.3. Further investigation indicates improvements have not been made.
   9.9. The minutes will indicate the AFDCB’s action in each case. When a recommendation is made to
   place an establishment off-limits, the minutes will show the procedural steps followed in reaching the
   decision.
   9.10. Recommendations of the AFDCB will be submitted to the 45 SW Commander for approval or
   disapproval. The 45 SW Commander’s final determination on the board’s recommendations will then
   be forwarded to the AFDCB president.
   9.11. Upon approval of the AFDCB’s recommendations, the president will write the proprietor that
   off-limits restriction has been imposed (Attachment 6).
   9.12. Where sufficient cause exists, commanders may temporarily declare establishments and areas
   temporarily off-limits to personnel of their respective commands in emergency situations. Detailed
   justification for this emergency action will be provided to the AFDCB and acted upon as a first prior-
   ity.
   9.13. The 45 SW Commander will cause a list of off-limits establishments and areas to be published
   using command and media channels.

10. Removal Of Off-Limits Restrictions.
   10.1. No time period should be established for how long an off-limits restriction will remain in effect.
   The adequacy of the corrective action taken by the proprietor of the establishment must be the deter-
   mining factor in removing the off-limits restriction. As a matter of policy, a change of ownership,
   management, or name of any off-limits establishment does not, in and of itself, revoke the off-limits
   restriction.
   10.2. Removal of an off-limits restriction requires AFDCB action. Proprietors of establishments
   declared off-limits should be advised that they may submit to the president of the AFDCB at any time
   a petition to remove off-limits restrictions. The petition must be in writing and include a detailed
   report of action taken to eliminate the condition or situation that caused imposition of the restriction.
   The president of the AFDCB may direct an investigation to determine the status of the corrective
   actions noted in the petition. The board will either recommend the removal or continuation of the
   off-limits restriction to the 45 SW Commander based on the results of the investigation. A letter of
   notification for continuance of the off-limits restriction should be sent to the proprietor if the AFDCB
   does not remove the off-limits restriction (Attachment 7). The proprietor may further appeal to the 45
   SW Commander.
   10.3. When the board learns the proprietor has taken adequate corrective measures, the AFDCB will
   take the following actions:
      10.3.1. Discuss the matter at the next meeting and make appropriate recommendations.
      10.3.2. Forward a recommendation for the removal of the off-limits restriction to the 45 SW Com-
      mander. If approved, a letter removing the restriction (Attachment 8 or Attachment 9) will be
      sent to the proprietor.
6                                                                  45SWI31-213 6 SEPTEMBER 2002


       10.3.3. The minutes will reflect action taken.

11. Public Affairs.
    11.1. Due to the sensitive nature of the subject matter, there will not be a media release in connection
    with AFDCB meetings. However, any AFDCB proceeding which is open to the public will also be
    open to representatives of the news media. Representatives of the news media will be considered
    observers, and will not participate in matters considered by AFDCB.
    11.2. News media interviews and releases will be handled through the Public Affairs office according
    to applicable service regulations.



                                           J. GREGORY PAVLOVICH, Brigadier General, USAF
                                           Commander
45SWI31-213 6 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                                             7


                                               Attachment 1

                                         AFDCB COMPLAINT

FROM: ____________________________________________
     (Your Name/Rank)
       ____________________________________________
       (Address)
       Duty Phone ______________ Home Phone ______________

SUBJECT: Complaint - RE: ___________________________________
                         (Name of Establishment)
TO: 45th Space Wing Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Board
    45 MSG/CD
    Patrick AFB FL 32925

1. Name, address and phone number of the establishment, business, organization, club, etc., with which
   you have a complaint.


2. Type of complaint (racial discrimination, consumer, housing, etc.).


3. Date of incident(s).


4. Name(s) and position or title of the individual(s) representing the establishment.


5. Did you enter into a contract with the establishment? _________________.
  If yes, on what date?___________. Please attach a legible photocopy of your contract to your
  complaint.


6. Significant facts (Use separate sheet if necessary).


7. What relief do you want from the establishment and/or what condition do you believe should be
   corrected?



______________________________
Signature/Date
8                                                                 45SWI31-213 6 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                              Attachment 2

                                   SAMPLE OF AFDCB MINUTES


Date


MEMORANDUM FOR (xx)


FROM: (xx)


SUBJECT: Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Board


    1. Pursuant to authority contained in AFJI 31-213, Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Boards and
       Off-Installation Liaison and Operations, the 45th Space Wing Armed Forces Disciplinary Control
       Board convened at (place), (date).
    2. The following voting members were present: (list names, titles, and addresses).
    3. The following military members were present: (list names, titles, and addresses).
    4. The following civilian observers or witnesses were present: (list names, titles, and addresses).
    5. Order of business:
       a. Call to order.
       b. Welcome.
       c. Introduction of members and guests.
       d. Explanation of purpose of board.
       e. Reading of minutes.
       f. Unfinished business.
       g. New business.
       h. Closed deliberations session.
       i. Recommendations.
           (1) List of areas and establishments being placed in an off-limits restriction. Include complete
               name and address (or adequate description of an area) of any establishment.
           (2) List of areas and establishments being removed from off-limits restrictions. Include com-
               plete name and address (or adequate description of an area) of any establishment listed.
           (3) Other matters or problems of concern.
45SWI31-213 6 SEPTEMBER 2002                              9


       j. Time, date, and place for next board meeting.
       k. Adjournment of the board.




(Legal Advisor’s name)
(Rank, branch of service)
Legal Advisor, Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Board




Approved:
(Board President’s name)
(Rank, branch of service)
President, Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Board
10                                                                 45SWI31-213 6 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                              Attachment 3

                          AFDCB LETTER OF NOTIFICATION SAMPLE


(Letterhead)


Date


Lt Col John J. Doe
President, Air Force Disciplinary Control Board
1225 Jupiter Street, Bldg 425
Patrick AFB FL 32925


Mr. Walter J. Jones
1234 Main Street
Melbourne FL 32935


Dear Mr Jones


It has come to the attention of the Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Board (AFDCB) that certain condi-
tions reported at your establishment may adversely affect the health, safety, morals, welfare, morale and
discipline of members of the Armed Forces.


The AFDCB is initiating action to determine whether your establishment (area) should be placed off-lim-
its to members of the Armed Forces if (cite conditions) are not corrected by (date). A representative of the
AFDCB will visit your establishment to determine if steps have been taken to correct the conditions out-
lined above.


Sincerely




JOHN J. DOE, Lt Col, USAF


NOTE: Use certified mail, return receipt requested.
45SWI31-213 6 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                                                11


                                              Attachment 4

                          AFDCB LETTER OF APPRECIATION SAMPLE


(Letterhead)


Date


Lt Col John J. Doe
President, Air Force Disciplinary Control Board
1225 Jupiter Street, Bldg 425
Patrick AFB FL 32925


Mr. Walter J. Jones
1234 Main Street
Melbourne FL 32935


Dear Mr Jones


This is in reference to my letter of (date) concerning the conditions reported at your establishment that
adversely affected the health, safety, morals, welfare, morale and discipline of members of the Armed
Forces.


The Board appreciates your action to correct the condition previously noted and does not contemplate fur-
ther action with respect to this specific matter.


Your continued cooperation is appreciated.


Sincerely




JOHN J. DOE, Lt Col, USAF


NOTE: Use certified mail, return receipt requested.
12                                                                   45SWI31-213 6 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                                Attachment 5

                             AFDCB LETTER OF INVITATION SAMPLE


(Letterhead)


Date


Lt Col John J. Doe
President, Air Force Disciplinary Control Board
1225 Jupiter Street, Bldg 425
Patrick AFB FL 32925


Mr. Walter J. Jones
1234 Main Street
Melbourne FL 32935


Dear Mr Jones


This is in reference to my letter of (date) concerning the conditions reported at your establishment that
adversely affected the health, safety, morals, welfare, morale and discipline of members of the Armed
Forces. Information has been received by the board which indicates you have not taken adequate correc-
tive action to eliminate the reported condition.


Reports presented to the Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Board (AFDCB) indicate (list and describe
conditions).


You are advised that the AFDCB will initiate action to determine whether your establishment should be
declared off-limits to members of the Armed Forces.


You may appear in person, with or without counsel, before the AFDCB at its next scheduled meeting on
(date, time, and place). At that time, you will have the opportunity to refute the allegation, or to inform the
board of any remedial action you have taken or contemplate taking to correct the condition. It is requested
you inform the President of the AFDCB if you plan to attend.
45SWI31-213 6 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                                           13


Any questions regarding this matter may be addressed to Colonel Doe, (address). Every effort will be
made to clarify the matter for you.


Sincerely




JOHN J. DOE, Lt Col, USAF


NOTE: Use certified mail, return receipt requested.
14                                                                 45SWI31-213 6 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                              Attachment 6

                       AFDCB OFF-LIMITS APPROVAL LETTER SAMPLE


(Letterhead)


Date


Lt Col John J. Doe
President, Air Force Disciplinary Control Board
1225 Jupiter Street, Bldg 425
Patrick AFB FL 32925


Mr. Walter J. Jones
1234 Main Street
Melbourne FL 32935


Dear Mr Jones


This letter is to inform you that your establishment has been declared off-limits to members of the Armed
Forces effective (date). Members of the Armed Forces are prohibited from entering your establishment
(premises) as long as this order is in effect. This action is being taken because of (state the conditions)
which are detrimental to the (health, safety, morals, welfare, morale or discipline) of members of the
Armed Forces.


This restriction will remain in effect indefinitely in accordance with established Armed Forces policy.


Removal of the restriction will be considered by the Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Board upon pre-
sentation of information that satisfactory corrective action has been taken.


Correspondence appealing this action may be submitted to the President, Armed Forces Disciplinary Con-
trol Board, 1225 Jupiter Street, Bldg 425, Patrick AFB FL 32925.
45SWI31-213 6 SEPTEMBER 2002                          15


Sincerely




JOHN J. DOE, Lt Col, USAF


NOTE: Use certified mail, return receipt requested.
16                                                              45SWI31-213 6 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                            Attachment 7

        AFDCB LETTER OF NOTIFICATION AND CONTINUANCE OF OFF-LIMITS
         RESTRICTIONS AFTER APPEARANCE BEFORE THE AFDCB SAMPLE

(Letterhead)

Date

Lt Col John J. Doe
President, Air Force Disciplinary Control Board
1225 Jupiter Street, Bldg 425
Patrick AFB FL 32925

Mr. Walter J. Jones
1234 Main Street
Melbourne FL 32935

Dear Mr Jones

The Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Board (AFDCB) did not favorably consider your request for
removal of the off-limits restriction now in effect at your establishment.


This decision does not preclude further appeals or appearances before the AFDCB at any of its scheduled
meetings. Correspondence pertaining to this matter should be addressed to the President, Armed Forces
Disciplinary Control Board, 1225 Jupiter Street, Bldg 425, Patrick AFB FL 32925.


Correspondence appealing this action may be submitted to the President, Armed Forces Disciplinary Con-
trol Board at the above address.


Sincerely




JOHN J. DOE, Lt Col, USAF


NOTE: Use certified mail, return receipt requested.
45SWI31-213 6 SEPTEMBER 2002                                                                               17


                                               Attachment 8

            AFDCB LETTER OF REMOVAL OF OFF-LIMITS RESTRICTION SAMPLE


(Letterhead)


Date


Lt Col John J. Doe
President, Air Force Disciplinary Control Board
1225 Jupiter Street, Bldg 425
Patrick AFB FL 32925


Mr. Walter J. Jones
1234 Main Street
Melbourne FL 32935


Dear Mr Jones


This letter is to inform you that the off-limits restriction against (name of establishment) is removed effec-
tive (date). Members of the Armed Forces are permitted to patronize your establishment as of that date.


The corrective actions taken in response to the concerns of the Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Board
are appreciated.


Sincerely




JOHN J. DOE, Lt Col, USAF


NOTE: Use certified mail, return receipt requested.
18                                                                   45SWI31-213 6 SEPTEMBER 2002


                                               Attachment 9

       AFDCB NOTIFICATION OF REMOVAL OF OFF-LIMITS RESTRICTION SAMPLE


(Letterhead)


Date


Lt Col John J. Doe
President, Air Force Disciplinary Control Board
1225 Jupiter Street, Bldg 425
Patrick AFB FL 32925


Mr. Walter J. Jones
1234 Main Street
Melbourne FL 32935


Dear Mr Jones


This letter is to inform you that your request for removal of the off-limits restriction now in effect at
(name of establishment) was favorably considered by the Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Board
(AFDCB).


This restriction will be removed effective (date). Members of the Armed Forces will be permitted to
patronize your establishment as of that date.


The corrective actions taken in response to the concerns of the AFDCB are appreciated.


Sincerely




JOHN J. DOE, Lt Col, USAF


NOTE: Use certified mail, return receipt requested.
