BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                460TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 90-821
460TH SPACE WING                                                                  28 SEPTEMBER 2006

                                                                                        Command Policy

                                                                WORK CENTER WRITTEN HAZARD
                                                                   COMMUNICATION PROGRAM



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 460 MDG/SGPB                                                            Certified by: 460 MDG/CC
                                                                                (Col Danny G. Seanger)
Supersedes 460ABWI48-121, 23 May 2003                                                         Pages: 17

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-8, Environment, Safety, and Occupa-
tional Health; and applies to Buckley Air Force Base (AFB), collocated operating bases, ranges, tenants,
and geographically separated units supported by Buckley AFB. This instruction implements Department
of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 6055.5, Industrial Hygiene and Occupational Health, Air Force Instruc-
tion (AFI) 90-821, Hazard Communication (HAZCOM), [which supersedes the Air Force Occupational
Safety and Health (AFOSH) Standard 161-21, Hazard Communication] and meets the requirements of
Occupational Safety and Health Administrations (OSHA) Hazard Communication Standard 29 CFR.
1910.1200. This instruction does not apply to products, personnel, and work areas specifically exempted
in the introduction of AFI 90-821. This instruction shall serve as the work center “Written Hazard Com-
munication Program.” It provides a template for work center specific training and standardizes documen-
tation filing requirements for base-wide consistency and simplification of quality control assessments. It
applies to all military, Department of Defense (DoD) civilian personnel, and Tenant Units employed in
areas where respirators are used. This publication applies to the Air National Guard (ANG). This publi-
cation does not apply to the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units. This instruction identifies min-
imum program requirements and requires each work area using respiratory protection to maintain a
respiratory protection program binder. This instruction does not apply to contract personnel. This
instruction does not apply to nuclear, biological and chemical (NBC) warfare situations including NBC
exercises. See Attachment 1 for glossary of references and supporting information. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to 460th Medical Group Bioenvironmental Engineering Ser-
vices, (460 MDG/SGPB) 275 S. Aspen Street, Stop 89, Buckley Air Force Base, CO 80011-9547, using
the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through the base publications/forms manager (460 SCS/SCSAP). Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will
convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/ .
2                                                                460SWI90-821 28 SEPTEMBER 2006



SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision updates the designation from 460th Air Base Wing to 460th Space Wing in accordance with
special order GD-016. In addition, changes were made to the designation, date line, OPR line, records
statement, certifying authority, supersession line and added paragraph 10., Forms (Prescribed and
Adopted).


1. Introduction.
    1.1. Purpose.
       1.1.1. The Air Force Hazard Communication Program (AFHCP) is a DoD directed program con-
       sisting of a written program, hazard determination, Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS), hazard-
       ous materials labeling, employee education and training, and hazardous chemical inventories. The
       basic premise of the AFHCP is that a work force informed of hazardous materials and the neces-
       sary controls will be less prone to injury or illness by these physical or chemical agents. The train-
       ing, labeling, chemical inventory, and the MSDS requirements of this program enhance material
       hazard awareness of workers and supervisors. This in-turn will increase worker productivity and
       will result in decreased worker compensation costs.
       1.1.2. This instruction, combined with the Employee Training Plan, hazardous material list, and
       non-routine task listing, serves as the work center’s written hazard communication program in
       accordance with AFI 90-821, which supersedes AFOSH Std 161-121.

2. Responsibilities.
    2.1. Unit Commanders.
       2.1.1. Ensure supervisors and employees who handle, use, or are potentially exposed to hazardous
       materials in the course of official Air Force duties are trained (reference training requirements of
       paragraph 6.).
       2.1.2. Ensure supervisors comply with the requirements of this instruction.
    2.2. Supervisors.
       2.2.1. Attend Supervisor’s Federal Hazard Communication Training at Buckley AFB. This
       one-time training class will provide supervisors with the knowledge to implement the Federal
       Hazard Communication Program in their work center and the tools to train their employees. This
       training is provided by the 460th Medical Group Public Health office (460 MDG/SGPM).
       2.2.2. Ensure all personnel assigned to the work area receive HAZCOM training for their work
       area before employees handle or are occupationally exposed to hazardous materials. Personnel
       must be trained upon initial work area assignment and whenever a new hazard is introduced into
       the work area. Document all HAZCOM training on AF IMT 55, Employee Safety and Health
       Record.
       2.2.3. Determine whether the type and quantity of a hazardous material used in the work center
       qualifies the item to be exempted as a “consumer use” item, in accordance with Attachment 4.
460SWI90-821 28 SEPTEMBER 2006                                                                        3


     The 460th Medical Group/Bioenvironmental Engineering Section (460 MDG/SGPB) will help
     with this determination.
     2.2.4. Ensure that all material including bypass material is labeled in accordance with paragraph
     5. of this instruction.
     2.2.5. Perform quality assurance reviews as necessary to maintain compliance with this instruc-
     tion. Examples of quality assurance checklist provided at Attachment 2, Hazard Communication
     Program Evaluation.
     2.2.6. Maintain a HAZCOM Binder and MSDS Binder containing all documentation listed
     below. Each binder should be tabbed in the format listed. Contents of tabs may be maintained in
     another location and cross-referenced. Work centers with small chemical inventories may inte-
     grate all information into one binder. The supervisor must ensure the binders are easily accessible
     to all personnel during all work shifts (such as being located on a designated safety board) and
     ensure personnel are aware of the location.
        2.2.6.1. HAZCOM Binder format:
            2.2.6.1.1. Tab A. HAZCOM Trainer Certification (from Public Health).
            2.2.6.1.2. Tab B. AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication.
            2.2.6.1.3. Tab C. 460 SWI 90-821, Work Center Written Hazard Communication.
            2.2.6.1.4. Tab D. Employee Education and Training Plan.
            2.2.6.1.5. Tab E. Non-Routine Task Listing (or statement of no non-routine tasks).
            2.2.6.1.6. Tab F. Bioenvironmental Engineering Section (BES) Survey Reports.
            2.2.6.1.7. Tab G. Additional Information (i.e. Supervisors Quality Control Checklists).
        2.2.6.2. MSDS Binder format:
            2.2.6.2.1. Tab A. Air Force Environmental Management Information System (AF-EMIS)
            Authorization Listing (Hazardous Chemical Inventory).
            2.2.6.2.2. Tab B. List of “Consumer Use” Products Used by the Work center.
            2.2.6.2.3. Tab C. AF IMT 3952, Chemical Hazardous Material Request/Authorization.
            2.2.6.2.4. Tab D. MSDSs.
        2.2.6.3. Develop a supplemental, work area specific employee education and training plan
        which provides detailed information on all areas required in paragraph 6. of this instruction.
        An example plan is provided at Attachment 3, Employee Information and Training Plan.
        2.2.6.4. Establish a list of non-routine tasks performed in the work area for all operations
        which involve the use of hazardous materials. If non-routine tasks are not performed, a signed
        statement such as “Non-routine tasks involving the use of hazardous materials are not pro-
        jected to be performed in this work area” must be filed in the HAZCOM binder. The supervi-
        sor will ensure either work area Operating Instructions (OI) or technical orders describe
        non-routine tasks, associated hazards and controls. Supervisor will ensure workers review
        these procedures before performing non-routine tasks.
4                                                              460SWI90-821 28 SEPTEMBER 2006


          2.2.6.5. Maintain a copy of BES survey reports, annual updates, and other special surveys.
          These reports must be maintained for a minimum of 10 years.
          2.2.6.6. Maintain a current copy of the AF-EMIS User Authorization Listing. This listing will
          serve as the work center hazardous material list and must be updated whenever a new chemical
          is introduced into the work area.
          2.2.6.7. Supervisors will establish a list of items considered consumer use on a separate inven-
          tory list filed in the HAZCOM binder. Consumer use items are exempt from HAZCOM and
          AF-EMIS tracking requirements.
          2.2.6.8. Obtain a current MSDS for each hazardous material used in the work area. The
          MSDS must be specific to the manufacturer and national stock number of the item used, and
          must be obtained prior to requesting authorization for local purchase items. A hardcopy
          MSDS must be maintained in the workcenter MSDS binder.
    2.3. 460th Medical Group Bioenvironmental Engineering Section (460 MDG/SGPB).
       2.3.1. Provide assistance to base personnel, as requested, in obtaining a current MSDS and in
       making “hazardous material” and “consumer use” determinations.
       2.3.2. Advise organizations and base personnel on labeling of containers.
       2.3.3. Provide technical assistance to 460 MDG/SGPM and other formal organizational training
       structures conducting supervisor training on the Federal Hazard Communication Program.
       2.3.4. Provide work area supervisors technical assistance, as requested, in identifying non-routine
       tasks involving hazardous materials and in establishing and maintaining the workplace Hazard
       Communication Program.
       2.3.5. Provide guidance to work center supervisors in determining “consumer use” products.
       2.3.6. Review work area programs with industrial case files during routine industrial hygiene
       assessments.
       2.3.7. Provide health risk assessments for all hazardous materials through work area evaluations
       and advise supervisors on the specific hazards of materials.
    2.4. 460th Medical Group Public Health (460 MDG/SGPM).
       2.4.1. Provide initial Supervisor Federal Hazard Communication Training to all supervisors of
       industrial work centers. Provide written certification for all individuals trained.
       2.4.2. Provide technical assistance to work area supervisors for training employees.
    2.5. 460th Contracting Squadron (460 CONS).
       2.5.1. Comply with paragraph 8. of this instruction.
       2.5.2. Ensure that all contracts for which the Air Force locally procures potentially hazardous
       materials, include “Hazardous Material Identification and Material Safety Data,” of the Federal
       Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 23.303, clause 52.223-3.
       2.5.3. Advise contractors of the hazardous chemicals they may encounter on the base during the
       contract performance. BES can help provide this information.
460SWI90-821 28 SEPTEMBER 2006                                                                            5


      2.5.4. At the pre-performance conference, and subsequently during the contract performance
      period, the requiring activity quality assurance personnel will advise work area supervisors and
      Air Force employees of hazardous chemicals introduced by the contractor. The contractor is
      required to submit information on the use of hazardous materials according to FAR 23.303, clause
      52.223-3.
      2.5.5. Ensure that all contract requirements comply with Title 29, CFR, 1910.1200.

3. Hazard Determination.
   3.1. Health risk assessments for all hazardous materials will be conducted by BES.
   3.2. Work center supervisors are responsible for determining whether the type and quantity of a haz-
   ardous material used in the work center qualifies as a “consumer use” item, in accordance with AFI
   90-821, paragraph 2.2.9. Bioenvironmental Engineering will provide assistance in this determina-
   tion.

4. Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS).
   4.1. The AF-EMIS, in combination with the Hazardous Material Information System (HMIS) will
   serve as the Buckley AFB master MSDS database.
   4.2. The work area MSDS file or database must be readily available to all workers during all shifts.
   4.3. BES will provide guidance in interpreting information contained in an MSDS and provide assis-
   tance in procuring an MSDS for hazardous materials.

5. Labels and Other Forms of Warning.
   5.1. All hazardous material containers brought onto or used within the confines of Buckley AFB will
   be labeled, tagged, or marked with the following information:
      5.1.1. Identity of the hazardous materials (i.e. material name, stock number and or part number).
      5.1.2. Appropriate hazard warnings (i.e. health, fire or reactivity hazards and severity as listed on
      the MSDS and areas of the body to protect such as eyes, skin or respiratory tract).
      5.1.3. Name, address, and phone number of the manufacturer, importer, or other responsible
      party.
   5.2. DD Form 2521, Hazardous Chemical Warning Label (8 1/2x11) or DD Form 2522, Hazardous
   Chemical Warning Label (4x6) when available, will be used as a uniform labeling system to meet the
   labeling requirements for:
      5.2.1. Existing stocks of unlabeled materials.
      5.2.2. Hazardous materials manufactured within the Air Force.
      5.2.3. Transferring, repackaging or distributing of bulk quantities of hazardous materials into
      other containers (breakdown quantities). The exception for this rule is when a material is placed
      in an unmarked container and used or returned to the original container after task completion or
      within one work shift, whichever is sooner.
      5.2.4. Relabeling hazardous material containers in accordance with AFI 90-821, paragraph 2.6.1.
      when labels have been accidentally defaced or lost.
6                                                               460SWI90-821 28 SEPTEMBER 2006


    5.3. The sources for this labeling information are:
       5.3.1. HMIS labeling field.
       5.3.2. Label on bulk or packaged containers.
       5.3.3. Hard copy of the manufacturer’s MSDS.
       5.3.4. Manufacturer, importer, or other responsible party.
    5.4. Label all tanks with the name of the material it contains. This will ensure noncompatible materi-
    als are not accidentally added to the tank or vat.

6. Employee Information and Training.
    6.1. All workers will be trained IAW AFI 90-821. This training must be accomplished before the
    workers handle or are occupationally exposed to hazardous materials. This training may be provided
    by trained supervisors or other formal organization training structures.
    6.2. Supervisors or other designated trainers must be trained and certified by Public Health before
    they are authorized to provide training to workers.
    6.3. Prior to starting work, each newly assigned person will receive a health and safety briefing and
    orientation that includes the following information and training. Example training plan is provided in
    Attachment 3.
       6.3.1. An overview of the requirements contained in the Hazard Communication Standard.
       6.3.2. Location of the HAZCOM Binder and MSDS file or database.
       6.3.3. Hazardous materials present in the work area.
       6.3.4. How to read and review MSDS labels to obtain hazard information.
       6.3.5. Physical and health risks of each hazardous chemical.
       6.3.6. The symptoms of overexposure.
       6.3.7. How to determine the presence and/or release of hazardous chemicals in the work area.
       6.3.8. How to reduce or prevent exposure to hazardous chemicals through use of control proce-
       dures, work practices and personal protective equipment (PPE).
       6.3.9. Steps taken to reduce or prevent exposure to hazardous chemicals.
       6.3.10. Spill response procedures and emergency procedures to follow if employees are exposed
       to hazardous chemicals.

7. Hazardous Chemical Inventory. AF-EMIS User Authorization Listing will be used for the work
center chemical inventory. This listing must be kept current and must reflect a complete and accurate
inventory of all hazardous materials used in the work area.

8. Contractor Operations.
    8.1. Contractors working in areas storing or using hazardous materials will be provided the following
    information:
460SWI90-821 28 SEPTEMBER 2006                                                                        7


      8.1.1. Hazardous chemicals to which they may be exposed while on the job site.
      8.1.2. Measures the contractor can take to lessen the risk of exposure.
      8.1.3. Steps the Air Force has taken to reduce the risks.
      8.1.4. The location of MSDS for the chemicals which are stored or used in the area.
      8.1.5. Information on how the materials are labeled.
   8.2. The contracting officer evaluator will advise work area supervisors and Air Force employees
   monitoring the performance of contractors of hazardous chemicals introduced by the contractor.
      8.2.1. The contractor is required to submit information on the use of hazardous materials accord-
      ing to FAR 23.303 clause 52.223-3.
      8.2.2. Contracting is required to ensure that all contract requirements comply with Title 29, CFR,
      1910.1200.
      8.2.3. The Contracting Office will ensure contractors provide a list of hazardous materials to be
      used during the contract performance to BES before beginning work on Buckley AFB. This task
      will prevent accidental exposure to AF personnel working adjacent to contract personnel.

9. Non-routine Tasks Involving Hazardous Materials.
   9.1. The work area supervisor will list non-routine tasks performed in the work area which involve
   hazardous materials. The supervisor will ensure work area OIs thoroughly describe non-routine tasks,
   associated hazards, and controls. OIs do not need to be prepared if technical orders or other docu-
   ments adequately describe these tasks. Supervisors will ensure workers review these procedures
   before performing a non-routine task.
   9.2. When workers temporarily perform duties outside their normal job, the supervisor of the activity
   will ensure these workers receive the following training prior to beginning the activity:
      9.2.1. Supplemental training, as necessary, on specific chemical hazards which will be used or
      will be at the jobsite.
      9.2.2. Measures the worker must take to reduce the risk of exposure at the jobsite and steps
      already instituted to reduce the risk (e.g., ventilation system).
      9.2.3. Location of the MSDSs for chemicals present.
      9.2.4. Information contained on the labels.

10. Prescribed and Adopted Forms
   10.1. Prescribed Forms: No forms or IMTs are prescribed in this publication.
   10.2. Adopted Forms:
   AF IMT 55, Employee Safety and Health Record.
   AF IMT 3952, Chemical Hazardous Material Request Authorization.
   DD Form 2521, Hazardous Chemical Warning Label (8 1/2x11).
8                                                           460SWI90-821 28 SEPTEMBER 2006


    DD Form 2522, Hazardous Chemical Warning Label (4x6).



                                          DAVID W. ZIEGLER, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
460SWI90-821 28 SEPTEMBER 2006                                                                          9


                                             Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
OSHA Title 29, Code of Federal Regulations, 1910.1200, Hazard Communication, 1 July 2005
AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management, 1 November 2004
AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, 20 March 2005
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), Part 23, Environment, Energy and Water Efficiency
Renewable Energy Technologies, Occupational Safety, and Drug-Free Workplace, 18 December 2001

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF-EMIS—Air Force Environmental Information System
BES—Bioenvironmental Engineering Services
HAZCOM—Hazard Communication
HMIS—Hazardous Material Information System
MSDS—Material Safety Data Sheet
OI—Operating Instruction
PH—Public Health
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment

Terms
Bypass Material—Material going directly to the user rather than to the supply receiving function.
Chemical—Any element, chemical compound or mixture of elements, or compounds in a solid, liquid, or
gaseous form.
Consumer Commodity—Product is used in the work center in the same manner as it would be used for
household use, with similar duration and frequency of exposure.
Consumer Use Product—A product used by a worker in a frequency equal to or less than what a
reasonable person would concede to be “normal consumer use” in a home or household environment.
Products in this category are exempt from the requirements of the Hazard Communication Program. The
work center supervisor, with the help of Bioenvironmental Engineering, is responsible for determining if
a product is used in the same manner as normal consumer use. Examples of typical consumer use items
are provided at Attachment 4, Hazardous Material Authorization/Tracking Exemption List.
Container—Any bag, barrel, bottle, box, can, cylinder, drum, reaction vessel, storage tank, or the like
that contains a hazardous chemical. For purposes of this instruction, pipes or piping systems and engines,
fuel tanks, or other operating systems in a vehicle are not considered to be containers.
10                                                             460SWI90-821 28 SEPTEMBER 2006


Employee—An individual who may be exposed to hazardous chemicals under normal operating
conditions or in foreseeable emergencies. Workers such as office workers or contract custodian personnel
who encounter hazardous chemicals in non-routine, isolated instances are not covered by this instruction.
Exposure or Exposed—An employee who is subjected to a hazardous chemical through any means
(inhalation, ingestion, skin contact or absorption) in the course of employment.
Hazardous Chemical or Hazardous Material—Any material, which is a physical or health hazard and
requires an MSDS as defined in Federal Standard 313, unless excluded. The following items are not
considered hazardous materials and are exempt: 1) Hazardous wastes; 2) Tobacco; 3) Wood products; 4)
Materials packaged for retail sale; 5) Personal food, drugs, or cosmetics brought into the work area; 6)
Consumer products used in small quantities for non-occupational uses; 7) Chemicals used for laboratory
analytical processes; 8) Pharmaceuticals and biological materials, including serums and vaccines in their
final form.
Label—Any written, printed, or graphic material, displayed on or affixed to containers of hazardous
materials.
Material—Same definition as chemical.
Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS)—Information provided by U S manufacturers or importers of
hazardous materials. Information includes physical and chemical data, health risks, fire and reactivity
data, spill provisions, and disposal requirements.
Non-routine Tasks—Those tasks included within a work area’s normal activity but performed
infrequently. For example, tasks performed less than three times per year should be considered
non-routine. Temporary duties outside an individual’s normal Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) or job
series may be considered non-routine.
Standard Use—Normally purchased to service specific equipment.
Use—To package, handle, react, or transfer.
Work Area—A room or defined space in a work center where hazardous materials are produced or used,
and where employees are present.
Work Center—An establishment, jobsite, or project, at one geographical location containing one or
more work areas.
Worker—Same definition as employee.
460SWI90-821 28 SEPTEMBER 2006                             11


                                 Attachment 2

          SAMPLE HAZARD COMMUNICATION PROGRAM EVALUATION
12                                                                 460SWI90-821 28 SEPTEMBER 2006


                                               Attachment 3

                  SAMPLE EMPLOYEE INFORMATION AND TRAINING PLAN

A3.1. This document provides supervisory personnel with the training requirements for the Hazard Com-
munication (HAZCOM) program for all personnel assigned to this work area. Upon completion of this
training, personnel must have their AF IMT 55, Employee Safety and Health Record updated to reflect
such training.

A3.2. Overview:
     A3.2.1. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) issued the Hazard Communica-
     tion Standard, which eventually became Title 29 CFR 1910.1200, Hazard Communication. It states
     that every individual has the right to know what hazards are present on the job, and how to be pro-
     tected against them. AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, outlines the Air Force program.
     A3.2.2. In 1983, OSHA issued the Hazard Communication Standard for manufacturing operations to
     help protect you. In 1987, OSHA revised this standard and expanded it to include all work centers
     where personnel are exposed to hazardous chemicals.
     A3.2.3. The goal of the Hazard Communication Program is to reduce the incidence of occupational
     illness and injury caused by hazardous chemicals in the work center.

A3.3. MSDSs are located with the HAZCOM Program. All documents (including the chemical inven-
tory, non-routine task listing, and written plan) are contained in the HAZCOM binder, located
____________________________________. Work area personnel are trained on how to read material
labels and MSDSs during their technical training and during initial work area orientation.
     A3.3.1. A Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) contains nine major sections. The sections are divided
     as follows: Material Identification, Ingredients and Hazards, Physical Data, Fire and Explosion Data,
     Reactivity Data, Health Hazard Data, Spill and Disposal Methods, Special Protection Information,
     and Comments Section. All companies follow this standard format.
        A3.3.1.1. Section I contains the material identification and general information like company
        name, address, material name with synonyms, and an emergency phone number.
        A3.3.1.2. Section II lists all hazardous ingredients in the chemical mixture. Many chemical mate-
        rials are mixtures. Not only does this section list the ingredients, but also states the percentages of
        each ingredient found in the total mixture. For example, acetic acid may contain two ingredients,
        water and acetic acid, where water makes up 72% of the mixture and 28% is acetic acid. This
        accounts for 100% of the mixture (72 + 28).
        A3.3.1.3. Section III contains physical data. Physical data is characterized by appearance, odor,
        a boiling point, freezing point, vapor pressure, solubility, and specific gravity. The important
        data in this section are vapor pressure, and boiling point. For instance, methylene chloride has a
        boiling point of 39oC (102oF) and has a high vapor pressure. Because of these physical properties,
        an employee should be aware that this material must be stored in a cool, vented, and flame free
        environment.
460SWI90-821 28 SEPTEMBER 2006                                                                              13


       A3.3.1.4. Section IV provides data on fire and explosion information such as what type of fire
       extinguishing media to use and whether or not any toxic vapors are released during a fire. If so, it
       states the personal protective measures fire fighters should use. It is important that this section be
       reviewed prior to using the chemical.
       A3.3.1.5. Section V provides reactivity data. This section simply describes “what can be stored
       with what”. An example is storing acids with bases. You would not want to store sodium hydrox-
       ide (lye) in the same cabinet with sulfuric acid (battery acid). If one of those containers broke, it
       would react vigorously, neutralize your chemicals, and produce hydrogen gas. It could produce a
       dangerous situation.
       A3.3.1.6. Section VI contains health hazard information, emergency and first aid procedures.
       The data found in this section describes the route of entry (e.g., skin, eyes, respiratory) and the tar-
       get organs or systems (e.g., liver, lungs, central nervous system) and first aid procedures.
       A3.3.1.7. Section VII provides information on the proper disposal of the material. This section
       tells you how to neutralize a chemical spill, how to dispose of the material, and who to contact if a
       spill occurs.
       A3.3.1.8. Section VIII provides important information on specific PPE such as respiratory protec-
       tion, rubber boots, or eye goggles. It also provides information on the necessity for engineering
       controls such as a ventilation system.
       A3.3.1.9. Section IX is used for any additional comments the manufacturer deems necessary for
       the user. The key is educating the user on the product to prevent injury or illness.

A3.4. A listing of all hazardous chemicals is provided as part of the HAZCOM Program. The actual
chemicals are stored in ___________________________________________.
   A3.4.1. The HAZCOM program requires the use of warning labels that contain the name and identity
   of the chemical, and appropriate hazard warnings.
   A3.4.2. Labels on containers that leave the work area must contain the name and address of the
   responsible party. The warning label is often your first source of information about chemical hazards.
   The name and identity on the label can be used to find the right MSDS, where you will find additional
   information.

A3.5. Work center HAZCOM Binder MSDSs provide the physical and health risks of each hazardous
chemical along with the signs and symptoms of overexposure and the method of determining the presence
or release of a hazardous material in the work area.

A3.6. Work area personnel reduce or prevent exposure to hazardous chemicals by using appropriate PPE
and by being familiar with the signs and symptoms of exposure to the materials they are working with.
Three basic methods for controlling chemical hazards are engineering controls, PPE, and administrative
controls.
   A3.6.1. Engineering controls include substitution, isolation, general ventilation, and local exhaust
   ventilation. Substitution applies when a chemical, process, or piece of equipment with fewer hazards
   can replace an existing one. Isolation refers to using an enclosure, barrier, or a safe distance to sepa-
   rate workers from the exposure hazard. Common examples of this are machine enclosures, enclosed
   control rooms, and splash guards. General ventilation is mixing an airborne hazard with fresh air to
14                                                               460SWI90-821 28 SEPTEMBER 2006


     reduce exposure levels. This only applies when hazards have low toxicity and mix readily with air.
     Some examples of general ventilation are fans and vents. Local exhaust ventilation captures an air-
     borne hazard as it is released and takes it out of the work area to eliminate the exposure.
     A3.6.2. Prioritizing how we control exposures is accomplished by looking at the source, path and
     receiver. Controlling the receiver is least desirable, but most often used. Personal protective equip-
     ment (PPE) is the most common means of protecting an individual against exposures (physical and
     health hazards). Some examples of PPE include gloves, aprons, eye and face protection, and respira-
     tors. To protect you, the PPE must be matched to the specific hazard. For example, cloth gloves are
     useless for protection against a corrosive liquid. Personal protective equipment is useless unless you
     wear it. Proper fit, correct use, and routine inspection are essential.
     A3.6.3. Administrative controls include documentation, information, and training in safe work prac-
     tices, good housekeeping, and most of all, monitoring. This applies to personnel and equipment. The
     Hazard Communication Program is an effective administrative control to ensure workers are informed
     on the work area hazards.

A3.7. Steps taken to reduce exposure. Steps are described in the BES survey reports, located in Tab F of
the HAZCOM binder. The reports address PPE and administrative controls to reduce the risk of exposure
to all workers. Additionally, all personnel are provided HAZCOM training and are always discussing
potential situations as well as how to best deal with such situations.

A3.8. Work area personnel do/do not (circle appropriate word) use large quantities of hazardous materi-
als. Most spills are cleaned up on the spot by following the Hazardous Material Spill Cleanup Procedures,
which are reviewed prior to working with any chemical. An emergency eyewash is available in
______________________ for accidental contact and a shower is available in
______________________. Immediately after flushing the exposed area for 15 minutes, personnel
involved will be taken to the Emergency Room for further evaluation. Additionally, work area personnel
receive in-service training on responding to hazardous material spills. If, at any time, there is a spill,
which is beyond our capabilities, work area personnel will evacuate the building and call the Fire Depart-
ment for assistance.

A3.9. The work center personnel may perform the following processes which involves the chemicals and
hazards listed:
(Fill in all processes involving hazardous chemicals, list the chemical and hazard associated with each)
460SWI90-821 28 SEPTEMBER 2006                                                                 15


Table A3.1. Emergency Point of Contact.
Ambulance (Through Fire Department)                    911
Bioenvironmental Engineering (460 MDG/SGPB)            847-6351
Civil Engineering Environmental (460 CES/CEV)          847-9218
Fire Department (460 CES/CEF)                          911
Public Health (460 MDG/SGPM)                           847-6454
Safety (460 SW/SE)                                     847-9335
Safety (140 WG/SE)                                     847-9738
Security Police (460 SFS/SFO)                          847-9930

A3.10. The following review questions may be used by supervisors to test workers’ knowledge of the
Hazard Communication Program.

Table A3.2. Workers’ Knowledge of HAZCOM.

QUESTION                                          ANSWER

What chemicals could present a potential health
hazard used by your shop?

What is a MSDS?

Where are the MSDSs for your shop kept?

Where is the Hazardous Material Inventory?

What type of PPE is used in your shop?

Who is your HAZCOM Program Manager?

What procedures do you follow in the event of a
small spill? A large spill? What is the
difference?
16                                                       460SWI90-821 28 SEPTEMBER 2006


                                          Attachment 4



Table A4.1. Hazardous Material Authorization/Tracking Exemption List.
ITEM NAME                           SIZE                       EXCEPTIONS
                                                               Aerosols with Class I ODS
Air Freshener                       Consumer Commodity
                                                               Propellant
Anti-Seize Tape (Teflon Tape)       All                        N/A
Automobile Wax                      Consumer Commodity         N/A
Baking Soda                         Consumer Commodity         N/A
Batteries, Dry Cell/ Alkaline       AAA-D, 9V, 6V              N/A
                                                               Containing 1,1,1
Correction Fluid                    Consumer Commodity
                                                               Trichloroethane
Detergents (Laundry/Dishwasher/etc.) Consumer Commodity        Industrial Concentrations
Dish/Hand Soaps/Compounds           Consumer Commodity         N/A
Duct Board (Used to Construct
                                    Standard Use               N/A
Airhandling Ducts)
Dustmop Treatment Compound          Consumer Commodity         N/A
Eye Wash Additive                   Consumer Commodity         N/A
Floor Finish                        Consumer Commodity         Oil/Solvent Based
Floor Polish Remover                Consumer Commodity         N/A
Floor Sweeping Compound             Consumer Commodity         N/A
Floor Wax                           Consumer Commodity         N/A
Flux                                Standard Use               Acid Containing
Furniture Polish                    Consumer Commodity         N/A
                                                               Aerosols with Class I ODS
General Purpose Deodorant           Consumer Commodity
                                                               Propellant
Glass Cleaner (Windex/Glass Plus/
                                    Consumer Commodity         Industrial Concentrations
etc.)
Glazing Compound                    Consumer Commodity         N/A
Glue Stick                          Consumer Commodity         N/A
Insect Repellent (Off, etc.)        Consumer Commodity         Commercial Concentrations
Insecticide/Herbicide (Raid/Black
                                    Consumer Commodity         Commercial Concentrations
Flag/Diazinon/etc.)
Joint Compound (For Sheetrock Work) Consumer Commodity         N/A
Leak Detector (Soapy Water)         Consumer Commodity         N/A
460SWI90-821 28 SEPTEMBER 2006                                                                    17


ITEM NAME                               SIZE                         EXCEPTIONS
                                                                     Greater Than 9%
Liquid Chlorine Bleach                  Consumer Commodity
                                                                     Concentration
Metal Polish                            Consumer Commodity           Industrial Concentrations
Multi-Purpose Cleaner (409/Spray
                                        Consumer Commodity           N/A
Nine/Simple Green etc.)
Neatsfoot Oil                           Consumer Commodity           N/A
Print Cartridges/Printer Ribbon         Consumer Commodity           N/A
Rug/Upholstery Cleaner                  Consumer Commodity           Industrial Concentrations
Shredder Oil                            Standard Use                 N/A
Soap (Toilet/Pumice/W/WO Lanolin/
                                        Consumer Commodity           N/A
W Lotion
Stamp Pad Ink (All Colors)              Consumer Commodity           N/A
Superglue                               Consumer Commodity           N/A
Talcum Powder                           Consumer Commodity           Asbestos Containing
Technical Bees Wax                      Consumer Commodity           N/A
Tire/Rubber Lubricant                   Standard Use                 N/A
Toilet/Porcelain Cleaner (Soft-Scrub/
                                        Consumer Commodity           Acid Containing
etc.)
Toner (Direct/Indirect/Kits/Print
                                        Standard Use                 N/A
Cartridges)
Urinal Cakes                            Consumer Commodity           N/A
White Out                               Consumer Commodity           N/A

NOTES:


   1. “Consumer Commodity” means product is used in the work center in the same manner as it would
      be used for household use, with similar duration and frequency of exposure; determination is
      made item by item by work center supervisor (Reference AFOSH Std 161-21, Page 2).
   2. Consumer use items are exempt from Hazard Communication program (no MSDS required);
      work centers, however, must identify these items on a separate list in their HAZCOM binder.
   3. List DOES NOT exempt item from separate storage, compatibility and disposal requirements.
   4. Cannot stockpile consumer use items; general guidance is two containers allowed per shop.
   5. Standard Use means normally purchased to service specific equipment.
