BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             46 TEST WING INSTRUCTION 33-104
46TH TEST WING
                                                                                 15 JULY 2011

                                                            Communications and Information

                                                           FAULT BILLING PROCEDURES



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There is no releasibility restrictions on this publication

OPR: 46 TW/XPI                                                         Certified by: 46 TW/CC
                                                                                  (Col Brewer)
                                                                                       Pages: 4


This guide provides standard guidelines to assist 46th Test Wing (46 TW) test and program
engineers in preparing clear and accurate post-mission reports (PMR). The primary purpose of
this guide is to standardize the preparation of 46 TW PMRs by anticipating and answering the
most frequently asked questions regarding billing procedures. The use of this guide should
promote uniformity and facilitate the review process of PMRs. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF 847s from the field through 46
TW publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. The use of the name
or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this
publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

1. Responsibilities.
   1.1. Test Engineer (TE). The TE will submit a PMR upon completion of each mission in the
   Center Scheduling Enterprise System with either a cancellation code or completion code and
   their recommendation of what the fault code should be. A PMR is required for all 46 TW
   test missions. Also, test task missions requiring a 46 TW-maintained aircraft are required to
   submit a PMR. Training missions do not require a PMR. All PMRs are due at 0830 on the
   second business day after mission execution. A determination of who pays for the mission is
   made based on the information provided on the PMR. For that reason, it is very important
   the PMR is accurate and complete. Classified information should not be included in the
   PMR. Test support missions such as setup, cleanup, buildup, test task and Precision
 2                                                                  46TWI33-104 15 JULY 2011


     Measurement Facility are always charged to the customer regardless of whether the mission
     is successfully completed.
     1.2. Process and Information Technology Division (46 TW/XPIT). XPIT is responsible for
     reviewing the PMRs submitted by the TE. Based on the information provided on the PMR,
     XPIT will make a determination of who is responsible for the mission charges and assign a
     fault code to the PMR.
     1.3. Range Operation and Management Contractors. Provides billing information to Job
     Order Cost Accounting System, assigning charges based on fault codes.
     1.4. 46th Test Wing Vice Commander.        Reviews appeals if the TE disagrees with a fault
     code given by XPIT.
2. Fault Billing Charges.
     2.1. If a conducted mission gets less than 10% data productivity, the TW will absorb all
     costs associated with scheduled TW resources incurred during the mission.
     2.2. Cancellations:
        2.2.1. If a mission cancels prior to execution or a mission reverts to nonscheduled status,
        the TW will charge the customer only for the expenses incurred up to the time of
        cancellation or change to nonscheduled. In accordance with the FY03 National Defense
        Authorization Act (NDAA), DoD customer’s charges will be limited to the direct cost
        associated with the cancellation. Non-DoD customers will be charged both the direct and
        indirect costs associated with the cancellation.
        Examples of direct costs incurred include (but are not limited to):
               Direct manpower costs
               Equipment/supply purchases
               Dedicated O&M manpower costs
               Examples of indirect costs incurred include (but are not limited to):
               Overhead
               Scheduled Maintenance
        2.2.2. At the time of cancellation, in accordance with AFMCI 65-602, the Uniform
        Reimbursement and Pricing Procedures, lost “reimbursement” charges will also apply if
        all of the following are true:
               Ops order has been published for this mission
               Cancellation is customer-driven or weather-related
               Resources that cannot be rescheduled to support a different customer
        If a mission cancels for any of the following reasons, then lost “reimbursement” charges
        will not apply:
               TW personnel error
               Problem with TW resource or TW-maintained resource
46TWI33-104 15 JULY 2011                                                                           3


              Nonavailability of TW personnel or resources
       2.2.3. Other organizations such as 96th Civil Engineering Group, 96th Logistics
       Readiness Squadron, and 46th Range Group Technical Support Services may have
       charges the customer will have to absorb that are not covered by this instruction.
3. Appeals Process.
3.1. In the event a TE disagrees with a 46 TW/XPIT fault billing decision, the TE should
submit a formal appeal to 46 TW/XPIT. If upon further review, both the TE and XPIT
determine the wrong cancellation code was used, the TE can submit a new PMR reflecting the
correct cancellation code, and the applicable charges (see para 2) will be reversed. However, if
after further review, XPIT and the TE remain in dispute, the TE can make a formal appeal to 46
TW/CV. 46 TW/CV will make the final determination and forward a decision to 46 TW/XPIT
and the TE. Applicable charges will be adjusted appropriately based on 46 TW/CV’s decision.




                                             MICHAEL T. BREWER, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
 4                                                             46TWI33-104 15 JULY 2011


                                       Attachment 1
           GLOSSARY OF REFENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Forms Adopted
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sept 09
