BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             482D FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION
482D FIGHTER WING                                                             65-201

                                                                             9 OCTOBER 2014

                                                                        Financial Management

                                                GOVERNMENT TRAVEL CARD GUIDANCE

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on e-publishing website at
               www.epublishing af.mil for downloading.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 482 FW/FM                                                         Certified by: 482 FW/DS
                                                                              (Col Gregory Lee)
                                                                                        Pages: 4


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 65-1, Management of Financial
Services. It establishes procedures and duties governing allowances payable to all reservists who
perform active or inactive duty for training assigned or attached to 482d Fighter Wing (482 FW).
This instruction applies to all members assigned to the 482 FW. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF Form 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional's chain of command. Ensure all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force
Records     Disposition     Schedule      (RDS)     located    at    https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

1. Purpose. To outline further guidance on the use of Government Travel Card (GTC). GTC
can only be used for purchases and travel-related expenses for which the cardholder may be
reimbursed on a travel voucher for official government travel and travel-related expenses, or
when the commander has authorized the use of the GTC on a non-reimbursable basis for Inactive
Duty Training (IDT) Department of Defense (DoD) government travel card policy and
procedures travel. Reimbursable expenses include the cost of a rental car when authorized on
orders, local ground transportation in support of government business, lodging and meal
expenses incurred en route to and from and while at a TDY location, registration fees associated
with TDY, and incidental expenses in furtherance of official government travel. Similarly, such
expenses are reimbursable for Permanent Change of Station (PCS) travel. Because home station
Unit Training Assembly (UTA) related expenses are not properly recognized as official travel
 2                                                             482FWI65-201 9 OCTOBER 2014


expenses, members are not authorized to charge such expenses to their GTC. The only exception
to this rule occurs when government-provided lodging is not available.
2. Split disbursement is directed for all personnel incurring GTC charges. The minimum
amount to be designated on a travel voucher as split disbursement is the total of all charges billed
to the GTC. Commanders and civilian supervisors, in addition to the individual, are responsible
for ensuring split disbursement is used and the proper amount is annotated on the travel voucher.
The requirement that all proper charges incurred incident to official travel be annotated on all
travel vouchers, in combination with mandatory split-disbursement, should result in the
elimination of all GTC delinquencies.
3. Guidance for the administration of the 482 FW GTC program addresses each of the
following three categories: account delinquencies (account 31 days past due), GTC misuse,
and GTC abuse (improper, fraudulent, abusive and negligent use of the government travel card)
combined with a delinquent account. These categories will be discussed in that order.
     3.1. A GTC account delinquency exists when a member’s account is 31 days past due.
        3.1.1. In all instances of GTC payment delinquency, the Unit GTC Program Coordinator
        will notify the member and the member’s supervisor of the delinquency.
        3.1.2. In cases of GTC payment delinquency up to 30 days, the member’s supervisor will
        document the member’s GTC delinquency in writing.
        3.1.3. In cases of GTC payment delinquency of 30 – 60 days, the Unit GTC Program
        Coordinator will notify the military member’s Commander or, for civilian employees, the
        employee’s supervisor and the Civilian Personnel Officer (CPO). The military member’s
        Commander or the civilian employee’s supervisor and CPO will consider, in consultation
        with the Staff Judge Advocate (SJA), whether administrative discipline is appropriate.
        Nevertheless, such delinquencies will be documented in writing.
        3.1.4. In cases of GTC payment delinquency greater than 60 days, Citibank suspends the
        card. The Unit GTC Program Coordinator will notify 482 FW/CC with courtesy copies
        to the respective Group CCs for both military and civilian employees’ delinquencies
        greater than 60 days. The military member’s commander or the civilian employee’s
        supervisor and CPO will consider, in consultation with the SJA, whether disciplinary
        action is appropriate. Nevertheless, such delinquencies will be documented in writing.
     3.2. GTC Misuse and/or abuse are use of the GTC in establishments or for a purpose that is
     inconsistent with official business of the DoD. The government travel card is to be used for
     costs incident to official travel orders and includes lodging, transportation, rental cars, meals
     and other reimbursable expenses. The GTC is not for personal use and should not be used for
     anything other than official travel.
        3.2.1. First offense: The Unit GTC Program Coordinator will notify the respective
        Group CCs for both military and civilian employees. The military member’s commander
        or the civilian employee’s supervisor and CPO will consider, in consultation with the
        SJA, whether disciplinary action is appropriate. Nevertheless, such offenses will be
        documented in writing. The member’s GTC privileges may also be suspended.
        3.2.2. Repeat offenses: The Unit GTC Program Coordinator will notify 482 FW/CC with
        courtesy copies to the respective Group CCs for both military and civilian employees.
482FWI65-201 9 OCTOBER 2014                                                                  3


       The military member’s commander or the civilian employee’s supervisor and CPO will
       consider, in consultation with the SJA, whether disciplinary action is appropriate.
       Nevertheless, such offenses will be documented in writing. The member’s GTC
       privileges may also be suspended.
       3.2.3. Misuse Combined with Delinquency on the Debt Wrongfully Incurred.
          3.2.3.1. First offense: The military member’s commander or the civilian employee’s
          supervisor and CPO will consider, in consultation with the SJA, whether disciplinary
          action is appropriate. Nevertheless, such offenses will be documented in writing.
          The member’s GTC privileges may also be suspended.
          3.2.3.2. Repeat offenses: The Unit GTC Program Coordinator will notify the
          respective Group CCs for both military and civilian employees. The Unit GTC
          Program Coordinator will notify 482 FW/CC with courtesy copies to the respective
          Group CCs for both military and civilian employees. The military member’s
          commander or the civilian employee’s supervisor and CPO will consider, in
          consultation with the SJA, whether disciplinary action is appropriate. Nevertheless,
          such offenses will be documented in writing. The member’s GTC privileges may
          also be suspended.
4. As noted above, commanders and civilian supervisors must understand and appreciate that
every instance of GTC abuse, misuse, and delinquency is to be addressed on its own unique facts
and circumstances; there is no one-size-fits-all formula. Commanders and civilian supervisors
are expected to ensure that all GTC holders exercise integrity and good judgment in the
application of the GTC program. Commanders and civilian supervisors are directed to handle
every case on its unique facts while applying an evenhanded, equitable, and consistent approach
to all disciplinary actions. Commanders and civilian supervisors should consult with the CPO
and SJA when considering administrative and disciplinary actions.
5. GTC violations will vary in degree, scope, and circumstance. Every cardholder, as well as
every commander and civilian supervisor, must fully understand that portion of the DoD
Financial Management Regulation governing the GTC program, and this 482d Fighter Wing
Instruction. Cardholders are expected to use the GTC entrusted to them in a manner consistent
with the Air Force Core Values. Those who fail to do so, could subject themselves to
disciplinary action.   Ultimately, commanders and civilian supervisors are charged with the
responsibility of administering this program, and will be held accountable for correcting
problems when they occur.




                                           CHRISTIAN G. FUNK, Colonel, USAFR
                                           Commander, 482d Fighter Wing
 4                                                       482FWI65-201 9 OCTOBER 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 65-201, Manager’s Internal Control Program Procedures, 30 January 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 65-1, Management of Financial Services, 1 July 1996
OUSD Memo 12-29-03 Discipline Guide- Civilians
OUSD Memo 6-10-03 Disciplinary Actions Military
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
FM—Comptroller
GTC—Government Travel Card
IDT—Inactive Duty Training
IAW—In Accordance With
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TDY—Temporary Duty
UTA—Unit Training Assembly
USAFR—United States Air Force Reserve
