BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 FOURTH AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 90-101
FOURTH AIR FORCE                                                                                                          1 MARCH 2004

                                                                                                                         Command Policy

                                                                                                      UNIT ASSISTANCE VISITS




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 604 RSG/XP (Lt Col Todd Keegan)                                                                         Certified by: 4 AF/CC
                                                                                                       (Maj Gen Robert E. Duignan)
Supersedes 4 AF Instruction 90-101, 1 June 2001                                                                           Pages: 33
                                                                                                                     Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force Reserve Command Policy Directive (AFRCPD) 90-1, Assistance
Visits Program. It establishes procedures for conducting and reporting Unit Assistance Visits to Fourth
Air Force units. This instruction applies to Fourth Air Force, 604th Regional Support Group (RSG), and
subordinate units.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.


      1.     General Information: ..................................................................................................        3
      2.     Responsibilities: .........................................................................................................    3
      3.     Staff Assistance Visits: ..............................................................................................        4
Figure 1.    Sample SAV Team Report Format ...........................................................................                     10
Figure 2.    Sample Functional Area Summary ...........................................................................                    11
Figure 3.    Out Of Cycle SAV Letter .........................................................................................             12
Figure 4.    Recommended SAV Team Composition ..................................................................                           13
      4.     READINESS/DEPLOYMENT ASSISTANCE VISITS ...........................................                                            13
Figure 5.    Recommended DAV Team Composition .................................................................                            22
Figure 6.    Recommended RAV Team Composition .................................................................                            22
      5.     FUNCTIONAL ASSISTANCE VISITS ...................................................................                              23
2                                                                                 4AFI90-101 1 MARCH 2004


    6.   SUPPORT REQUIREMENTS ..................................................................................   23

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                    25

Attachment 2— CHECKLIST FOR UNIT ASSISTANCE VISIT REQUIREMENTS                                                     31

Attachment 3— GROUND RULES FOR RAVS/DAVS AND AMC FORM 188                                                          33
4AFI90-101 1 MARCH 2004                                                                               3


1. General Information:
   1.1. Purpose. The primary purpose of a Unit Assistance Visit (UAV) is to provide direct management
   assistance to subordinate units. This will identify problem areas, streamline procedures, enhance
   readiness, and boost combat capability. 4 AF/CVA has overall authority for conducting UAVs. The
   Plans and Programs Division (XP) is the office of primary responsibility (OPR) for UAV planning and
   scheduling.
   1.2. Objectives. The objectives of a UAV are to identify and assist in problem areas affecting the
   unit’s mission readiness and provide guidance to ensure effective long-term solutions. Team members
   provide oral and written guidance/recommendations in order to accomplish these objectives.
   1.3. Planning Guidelines. UAVs consist of Staff Assistance Visit (SAV), Deployment Assistance Visit
   (DAV), Readiness Assistance Visit (RAV) and Functional Assistance Visit (FAV). 4 AF and 604 RSG
   Staff provide units with as much notice as possible before scheduling or conducting a UAV. Normally,
   visits are not conducted within 90 days prior to a MAJCOM Inspection.
   1.4. Scheduling. 4 AF/XP is responsible for scheduling SAVs/DAVs/RAVs for all 4 AF units. FAVs
   are scheduled and conducted between NAF and Wing/Unit based on mission requirements. 4AF/LG
   ensures all Maintenance Standardization and Evaluation Program (MSEP) assistance visits are con-
   ducted in conjunction with the NAF SAVs at unit equipped units if possible. When these are con-
   ducted by LGM, they are conducted in lieu of LGM SAV. For guidance, see AFRCI 21-103, AFRC
   Maintenance Standardization and Evaluation Program (MSEP).

2. Responsibilities:
   2.1. 4 AF/604 RSG:
       2.1.1. 4 AF/604 RSG provides support/assistance to all 4 AF Units. Functional area checklists are
       provided to all units NLT 90 days prior to scheduled visit.
       2.1.2. 4 AF/XP is responsible for scheduling SAVs/RAVs/DAVs for all 4 AF Units. FAVs are
       scheduled and conducted between NAF and Wing/Unit based on mission requirements.
       2.1.3. 4 AF/XP performs the following functions:
          2.1.3.1. Serves as the POC for long-range planning/scheduling.
          2.1.3.2. Provides oversight for 4 AF participation in exercises.
          2.1.3.3. Schedules and records RAV Planning Committee meetings.
          2.1.3.4. Coordinates 4 AF attendance at planning conferences for major exercises.
          2.1.3.5. Collects and distributes lessons learned from contingencies and exercises.
       2.1.4. 4 AF functional area managers help plan, execute, and evaluate RAVs/DAVs. Each 4 AF
       and 604 RSG functional area manager establishes a point of contact (POC) for exercise planning
       and coordination. Include risk management principles to reduce potential for mishap (see AFI
       91-213, Operational Risk Management Program, and AFPAM 91-214, Operational Risk Manage-
       ment Implementation and Execution).
   2.2. Wings and Units:
4                                                                          4AFI90-101 1 MARCH 2004


       2.2.1. Wings and units utilize AFRC’s Self-Inspection Program to conduct a self-inspection prior
       to scheduled staff assistance visits. SAV members validate the self-inspection to determine pro-
       grams and processes require assistance.
       2.2.2. Wing OSS/OSF briefs all wing personnel participating in a RAV/DAV prior to the exercise.
       The briefing includes, but is not limited to, general concept of operations, RAV/DAV objectives,
       schedules, and operating locations.
       2.2.3. Local deployment exercises should identify specific goals and objectives in order to opti-
       mize training. Comply with appropriate regulations and adapt the guidance to individual require-
       ments. Plan and conduct locally generated exercises in which tasked Unit Type Codes (UTC)
       listed in the AFWUS are processed for deployment in accordance with frequency requirements
       outlined in AFRCI 10-101, Wing Plans Procedures, paragraph 6.5.1. and 6.5.2. Participation in
       higher headquarters directed exercises that task AFWUS UTCs may also satisfy this requirement.
       Units should be involved in RAV/DAV exercise scenarios as much as possible.

3. Staff Assistance Visits:
    3.1. Objectives. The objectives of a SAV are to:
       3.1.1. Identify/assist in problem areas affecting the unit’s mission readiness.
       3.1.2. Allow commanders an opportunity to identify specific unit resource deficiencies in man-
       ning, facilities and funding to the team chief. The team chief validates those resource concerns that
       might adversely affect the unit’s capability to perform its mission and separately brief the 4 AF/
       CC on any resource shortfall.
       3.1.3. Provide problem solving assistance to ensure effective long-term solutions. Team members
       provide oral or written guidance and recommendations as required to accomplish tasks during the
       visit.
       3.1.4. Identify and resolve duplication of effort and unnecessary requests levied upon subordinate
       units by this headquarters, other intermediate headquarters, HQ AFRC, and gaining commands.
       3.1.5. Provide guidance in implementing new policies or procedures. The SAV concentrates on
       combat readiness by ensuring unit compliance with AFRC and applicable gaining MAJCOM
       instructions and directives. It also reviews critical items in AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activi-
       ties, core inspection areas in safety, environmental management, intelligence oversight, contract-
       ing and command, control, communications, and computers.
       3.1.6. Assist newly activated units in establishing support agreements, acquisition of facilities and
       the establishment of operational functions.
    3.2. Team Composition : Each major SAV team may include the Commander, CVA, and or Senior
    Enlisted Advisor. The team includes a team chief and the remainder of the team composition depends
    on which functional areas require assistance and is determined jointly by the Unit Commander and
    NAF XP. The team chief coordinates with other 4 AF divisions and special staff agencies to achieve
    the desired team manning. The XP coordinates with AFRC staff agencies for SAV team augmentation
    for those functions not available or which have limited availability at 4 AF. The matrix on page 16
    provides recommended SAV team composition by function.
    3.3. Scheduling:
4AFI90-101 1 MARCH 2004                                                                                   5


     3.3.1. Unless required by Air Force directives, directed by the appropriate commander, or carried
     out for the purpose of correcting known deficiencies, the SAV is conducted only upon request of
     the unit. Major SAVs are normally scheduled by joint agreement between the 4 AF/CC and the
     unit commander approximately 6-15 months prior to a Unit Compliance Inspection (UCI) by
     AFRC/IG.
     3.3.2. The Plans and Programs Division, Operations Plans Branch (XPO) develops a NAF Global
     visit schedule that includes SAVs. The XPO manages airlift requirements for SAVs through the
     allocations conference.
     3.3.3. Out of cycle visits are not scheduled by any agency unless approved by the CVA.
  3.4. Visit Preparation:
     3.4.1. The CVA, in consultation with the XP, appoints a team chief and approve a roster of person-
     nel performing support duties required during SAVs, to include an Assistant Team Chief (as
     required; CVA’s discretion).
     3.4.2. The OPR for each function publishes and distributes copies of travel orders with two copies
     to XP.
     3.4.3. Chiefs of divisions or branches and chiefs of special staff offices will:
         3.4.3.1. Serve as the orders approving official for all TDY orders relative to the visit. Provide
         justification for requests of special authorization listed in AFI 33-328 and determine the
         appropriate orders statement regarding the meal option (a, b, or c).
         3.4.3.2. Provide XP with a list of team members, which includes office symbol, social security
         number, security clearance data, and duty status. XP consolidates replies and provide copies to
         the team chief approximately one month in advance of the SAV to allow time for 4 AF and unit
         SAV planning. If there are personnel changes after the consolidated list is submitted to XP, the
         changes are coordinated through the team chief.
         3.4.3.3. Educate personnel in the methods, techniques, policies, and philosophies to be used in
         the performance of SAVs for the division’s functional specialty.
         3.4.3.4. Prepare functional area checklists for use in the orientation of team members. Special
         Interest Items (SII) and special instructions pertaining to the functions are included.
         3.4.3.5. Provide functional area checklists to the wing POC NLT 90 days prior to the sched-
         uled SAV.
         3.4.3.6. Notify personnel who are scheduled to perform a SAV at least 30 days in advance of
         the departure date if possible.
         3.4.3.7. Be responsible for ensuring team members are capable of performing SAVs within the
         guidelines of this operating instruction and their SAV reports clearly reflect the policy of assis-
         tance.
         3.4.3.8. Ensure team members meet both Air Force fitness and appearance standards.
         3.4.3.9. If team members require entry into restricted areas, each functional area manager
         advises the team coordinator of their requirements NLT 15 days prior to departure. The team
         coordinator ensures entry authority procedures are coordinated with the visit location and team
         members are provided instructions prior to departure. The team coordinator submits a team list
6                                                                        4AFI90-101 1 MARCH 2004


       to 604 RSG/SF NLT 10 days prior to departure for completion of the Entry Authority List
       (EAL). On visits with an SF representative accompanying the team, the SF representative also
       serves as the team security officer.
    3.4.4. The Plans and Programs Division will:
       3.4.4.1. Assist the team chief with all SAV duties. This includes working with unit OPR for
       lodging, rental vehicles, in-brief/out-brief location, team chief and team work areas, phone
       numbers, etc.
       3.4.4.2. Ensure the unit visited is notified at least 90 days prior to the date of the visit and has
       received a checklist from each 4 AF/604 RSG Functional Area. This initial notification
       includes as a minimum the dates of the visit and approximate number of team members.
       3.4.4.3. Ensure a list of team members is forwarded to the unit at least 14 days prior to the
       visit. The list includes names of team members, lodging and transportation requirements, spe-
       cial requirements and instructions for in-briefing.
       3.4.4.4. Ensure LGRT provides reimbursement procedures for vehicle rental to the visited
       unit.
       3.4.4.5. Ensure an AF Form 40, AF Form 40a, or a UTAPS printout is prepared for all person-
       nel performing SAVs in a normally scheduled UTA status. Forms are authenticated by func-
       tional area team chiefs and delivered to DPM upon completion of visit. A listing produced by
       UTAPS can be used as a source document, vice the AF Form 40/40a, and subsequently input
       into UTAPS. Only one source document, either an AF Form 40a or the UTAPS produced
       printout is used on the SAV.
       3.4.4.6. Conduct a SAV pre-briefing for SAV team members prior to departure.
       3.4.4.7. Ensure two copies of each team member’s orders, as well as any change of UTA let-
       ters are available.
       3.4.4.8. Ensure a “Team Information Pamphlet” is prepared, printed and distributed at the
       pre-departure briefing.
       3.4.4.9. Ensure the following documents accompany the SAV team: Previous SAV report, the
       most recent UCI report, and book of current SIIs, EAL, and other items, as required, to include
       support agreements.
       3.4.4.10. If the base visited has no passenger service function, ensure passenger manifest is
       prepared for all personnel traveling to or from the visit on military aircraft. Three copies are
       used for the trip to the unit, and three for the return trip. Of the three copies, one is used to
       check the presence of all personnel aboard the aircraft, one provided to Base Operations at the
       departing base, and the last one given to the loadmaster or boom operator as the airplane is
       boarded. At locations with a functional passenger service section, the following applies: NAF
       personnel arrive at the passenger terminal 90 minutes prior to aircraft departure unless previ-
       ously coordinated with base passenger service. Checked baggage has the individuals’ name
       and rank on each bag (tags). Each individual processes through the passenger service counter
       and produces his/her identification card and be added to the passenger manifest. Once passen-
       gers are processed they remain in the immediate area should early boarding be requested by
       the aircraft commander. Personnel are then transported to the aircraft by passenger service per-
4AFI90-101 1 MARCH 2004                                                                                 7


        sonnel.
        3.4.4.11. Conduct a SAV team pre-departure meeting on the day of departure. Brief team
        members on the purpose of the visit, itinerary, reporting procedures and any problems known
        or suspected to exist in the unit to be visited, instructions and SIIs.
        3.4.4.12. Ensure critique sheets covering SAV adequacy and team performance are prepared,
        distributed, collected and processed.
  3.5. Conducting the SAV:
     3.5.1. The Team Chief will:
        3.5.1.1. Assume overall command for administrative purposes. When more than one team is
        on a trip to the same location, each team has a team chief; however, the senior team chief
        present functions as overall team chief to provide a single point of contact for the parent wing/
        group on matters relating to any of the teams.
        3.5.1.2. Submit changes to team composition to the commander of the unit being visited upon
        arrival.
        3.5.1.3. Supervise, guide, and manage team members conduct in the performance of their
        duties while at the visited unit.
        3.5.1.4. Conduct an in-brief.
        3.5.1.5. Evaluate the unit commander’s implementation of applicable special subject problem
        areas, recommended solutions, follow-up actions, complimentary items and impressions.
        3.5.1.6. Conduct daily “How Goes It” meetings with functional chiefs near the end of each
        day to evaluate and redirect assistance efforts.
        3.5.1.7. Authorize team members to remain at the unit if assistance is required in critical
        areas. The Team Chief notifies the appropriate staff director to amend the individual’s orders,
        if necessary. Reservists are not to have their duty extended unless approved by the appropriate
        staff director and additional funds are allocated.
        3.5.1.8. Notify the 4 AF Operations center, or the staff duty officer (SDO) concerning delays
        in team travel. The DOOC or SDO contacts the appropriate division or branch chief, who noti-
        fies the team member’s dependents.
        3.5.1.9. Prepare a written report IAW paragraph 3.6. and leave a final copy with the unit Wing
        Commander at the out brief. Include comments pertaining to findings, current SIIs, status of
        unit fraud, waste and abuse program, mission limiting problem areas; highlight significant
        assistance accomplishments and any area requiring urgent attention.
        3.5.1.10. Out-brief the visited commander on problem areas and assistance rendered. Attend-
        ees at this out briefing are determined by the unit commander and the team chief. Functional
        area briefings are conducted by the senior functional area representatives. The team chief
        ensures copies of checklists, process guides, etc., are left with unit functional area representa-
        tive. When significant policy or procedural problems exist between the AFRC unit and the
        host base, the appropriate echelon within the host command is briefed by the team chief and
        functional representative
        3.5.1.11. Brief the 4 AF Commander on the highlights of the visit. If the Team Chief or mem-
8                                                                          4AFI90-101 1 MARCH 2004


          ber is not a full time employee, the briefing may be performed by the senior full time member.
       3.5.2. Team members will:
          3.5.2.1. Prior to departure, research functional area files and consult with other staff members
          to identify potential problem areas in the unit to be visited.
          3.5.2.2. Meet the SAV objectives expressed in paragraph 1.2.
          3.5.2.3. Identify present and potential problems with appropriate references that apply to each
          problem area so corrective action can be expedited. The functional area guide or checklist pro-
          vides the team with appropriate references to eliminate the need for unnecessary research dur-
          ing the visit. Copies of checklists, process guides, etc., are left with unit functional area
          representatives. Where suggested, demonstrate corrective action and conduct training on an
          individual or group basis. It is each team member’s responsibility to ensure the unit member
          comprehends the problem, its causes, soundness of the solution, and action required to correct
          the problem.
          3.5.2.4. Evaluate corrective actions from the last IG/SAV report to ensure deficiencies have
          been corrected and will not recur.
          3.5.2.5. Carry publications pertinent to team member’s functional area of responsibility if it is
          likely required publications are not be available at the unit through CD ROM or other means.
          3.5.2.6. Review common core items and SIIs applicable to their functional area.
          3.5.2.7. Debrief the staff counterpart before departing.
          3.5.2.8. Brief the Team Chief of serious deficiencies.
          3.5.2.9. Prepare an input for the team chief’s functional area out-brief to the commander and/
          or staff. This briefing highlights significant areas and the assistance rendered during the SAV.
          Actions to be taken upon return to home station to resolve problem areas should also be iden-
          tified, if appropriate.
    3.6. Writing the Report:
       3.6.1. SAV reports do not include classified information, but is marked FOR OFFICIAL USE
       ONLY (FOUO), to advise individuals the report contains privileged information that must not be
       released to the public.
       3.6.2. Comment on the commander’s awareness of problem areas.
       3.6.3. Reflect the status of unsatisfactory items contained in the last inspection report.
       3.6.4. State action recommended to eliminate problems and to prevent their recurrence, identify
       the OPR or specific position within the visited unit who is responsible for implementation of the
       solution. Items that require solution or further action by higher headquarters are included with the
       appropriate action agency indicated.
       3.6.5. References to prescribing directives are provided to prevent unnecessary research by the
       unit. Problem areas must be sufficiently described so that unit members can take proper corrective
       actions.
       3.6.6. Words implying a grade such as excellent, outstanding or satisfactory, etc., are not used in
       any portion of the SAV Team Report.
4AFI90-101 1 MARCH 2004                                                                                 9


     3.6.7. SAV Team Report: Prepare a team report to include all functional areas by group. A stan-
     dardized copy of the entire SAV team report format is available in the XP division. The SAV team
     report summarizes functional area evaluations, include applicable SIIs, highlight significant assis-
     tance accomplishments, mission limiting problem areas, and areas requiring urgent action.
     3.6.8. SAV Functional Area Executive Summaries: Functional Area Executive Summaries for the
     SAV Team Report are in the format depicted in Figure 3.1. Also, a copy of the Functional Area
     Executive Summary is provided to the visited organization prior to the SAV out brief.
  3.7. Processing Reports: Within seven workdays of visit termination, the team chief forwards the
  headquarters file copy of the report to the 4 AF command section attached to an AF Form 1768, Staff
  Summary Sheet.
  3.8. Out of Cycle SAV Requests:
     3.8.1. All divisions/special staff offices forward requests for out of cycle SAVs to the CVA The
     requesting agency justifies the necessity of the SAV. The CVA exercises approval authority.
     3.8.2. When out of cycle SAVs are authorized, the activity conducting the visits is responsible for
     accomplishing all objectives/tasks identified elsewhere in this instruction and coordinate details of
     the visit with XP.
10                                                                      4AFI90-101 1 MARCH 2004


Figure 1. Sample SAV Team Report Format


                                        SAV TEAM REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Executive Summary
- Written by SAV Team Chief
Wing Staff Functions
  FM
  SE
  JA
  PA
  CP
  HC
  HO
  MEO
Operations Group
  Squadrons
  Units
Maintenance Group
  Squadrons
  Units
Mission Support Group
  Squadrons
  Units
Medical Group
  Squadrons
  Units
Reply Instructions
A finding requires a reply by the OPR through command channels to 4 AF/XP 60 days after issuance of
the final report and every 60 days thereafter for open observation. Note: The Table of Contents reflects
only the Wing Staff/Group Headings and not all of the subordinate staff agencies and squadrons/units
included in the team report
4AFI90-101 1 MARCH 2004                                                                                   11


Figure 2. Sample Functional Area Summary
WING STAFF FUNCTIONS
FUNCTIONAL AREA SUMMMARY: This summary should be an overview of both good points and
areas requiring attention and should be thorough but concise. Laudatory achievements or limiting factors
may also be highlighted. Ideal length is no longer than one page. Include Findings and SIIs, if applicable,
to your functional area. If observations on previous reports are not corrected, it is appropriate to provide
the status of those observations. Observations that are deemed not answerable (not sourced from the
AFRC Unit Compliance Guide) will not be included in this report but will be provided to the appropriate
functional area as part of the 4 AF functional area report or SAV Checklist.
FINDING: Findings must be approved by the team chief before they are published in the report and are
reflected below each functional area summary identifying the appropriate OPR and applicable references.
Findings identified in this report are core problems identified using AFRC’s Self Inspection Checklists. A
Finding requires a reply by the OPR through command channels to 4 AF/XP 60 days after issuance of the
final report and every 60 days thereafter for open observations. (Reference Figure 3.)
12                                                                      4AFI90-101 1 MARCH 2004


Figure 3. Out Of Cycle SAV Letter
FROM: (OPR)
SUBJECT: Out of Cycle SAV to Subordinate Unit
TO: 4 AF/CVA
1. Request authority for the following personnel to perform “section” SAV as outlined:
NAME                   SECTION        DATES OF VISIT UNIT         LOCATION
2. Purpose of visit:
3. Justification as to why SAV is requested at this time:
4. Proposed method of travel:
SIGNATURE BLOCK
1st Ind CVA
TO:
Approved/disapproved.
SIGNATURE BLOCK
cc:XP
4AFI90-101 1 MARCH 2004                                                                                 13


Figure 4. Recommended SAV Team Composition

 Function     GSU  MS/CLINIC AW/ARW AW/ARW               AW     AMW           AMW       AG         APS
            HICKAM ASTS/CH (ASSOC) (AFRC B)           (TENANT) (ASSOC)      (AFRC B) (TENANT)
   TC          1          1          1         1          1          1         1          1         1
  ATC          1          1          1         1          1          1         1          1
    T          1          1          1         1          1          1         1          1         1
 COORD
  DO**         1                    15         15         15        15         15         15        5
  LG*          3                     9         11          9        10         11          6        1
   SC          3                     7          7          7         7          7          6
  SEG          1          1          1          2          2         1          2          1        1
  SEF                                1          1          1         1          1          1
  CEV          1          1          1          1          1         1          2          1        1
   SD          1                     1          1          1         1          1          1
   SF                                3          7          3         3          7          2        1
   JA                                2          2          2         2          2          2
   PA                                1          2          1         1          1          1
   XP          4                     5          5          5         5          5          5
   HC                                2          2          2         2          2          2
   HO                                1          1          1         1          1          1
   FM          1                     2          2          2         2          2          2
   CE          4                     5          7          5         5          7          5
  SVX                                2          2          2         2          2          2
  CEX          2                     2          3          2         2          3          2
   SG          7          7          7          7          7         7          7          7
  DPM          5                     6          6          6         6          6          5
  MEO          1                     1          1          1         1          1          1
 TOTAL        37         12         77         86         78        78         87         71        11


* For units requiring MSEP inspections, LG will increase by 5 personnel.
** For units requiring HSI Inspections, DO will increase by 3 personnel.

4. READINESS/DEPLOYMENT ASSISTANCE VISITS
   4.1. Objectives. The objective of the RAV/DAV program is to assess and improve the capability of
   Fourth Air Force and its assigned units to perform their missions and to provide feedback to unit com-
   manders, wing commanders and 4 AF/CC. Specifically, the RAV/DAV program provides an indepen-
14                                                                           4AFI90-101 1 MARCH 2004


     dent assessment and a subjective rating on a unit’s ability to transition to a wartime posture and sustain
     combat operations in support of OPLAN/CONPLAN/Small-Scale Contingency tasking. The RAV is
     the primary readiness inspection for all 4 AF units. The inspected Wing should plan to conduct a sce-
     nario that encompasses all phases and areas as defined in para 4.9. RAV/DAVs focuses on the unit’s
     ability to accomplish the mission in accordance with the Designed Operational Capability (DOC)
     statement, assigned OPLAN taskings, and Mission Essential Task Lists (METL). In addition to appli-
     cable PACAF and AMC Common Core Readiness Criteria, the following objectives are evaluated:
        4.1.1. Air Force, PACAF, and AMC standards for mobilizing, deploying, and employing person-
        nel and assets in support of wartime or contingency operations.
        4.1.2. Unit's ability to protect personnel, resources and information.
        4.1.3. Unit's sustained combat capability.
        4.1.4. Unit’s ability to defend, survive, and recover from a nuclear, biological, chemical, cyber, or
        conventional attack.
     4.2. Scheduling:
        4.2.1. RAVs or DAVs are scheduled by joint agreement between 4 AF/XP, Wing OSS/OSF and
        the unit commander approximately 9-18 months prior to an Expeditionary Operational Readiness
        Inspection (EORI) by HQ AMC/IG or equivalent HQ PACAF/IG event. RAVs are not scheduled
        by NAF or Wing Functional Area Managers.
        4.2.2. The Plans and Programs Division, Operations Plans Branch (XPO) develops a NAF Global
        Visit Schedule that includes RAVs and DAVs. The DO manages airlift requirements through the
        airlift allocations conference.
        4.2.3. Out of cycle visits are not scheduled by any agency unless approved by the 4 AF/CVA.
     4.3. RAV Planning Committee. The RAV Planning Committee, chaired by XP, consists of a repre-
     sentative from all functional areas at 4 AF/604 RSG and convenes on a regular basis to identify and
     schedule unit readiness assistance requirements. The Operations Division (DO) is OPR for planning
     and execution of all RAVs for 4 AF Units. The Plans and Programs Division (XP) is the OPR for
     scheduling all RAVs and DAVs for 4 AF Units. The Plans and Programs Division (XP) is the OPR for
     planning and execution all DAVs for 4 AF Units. Once requirements are identified and scheduled, the
     planning committee meets to appoint a team chief and develop a RAV scenario appropriate for the unit
     being visited.
     4.4. Visit Preparation:
        4.4.1. The CVA, in consultation with the XP, appoints a team chief and approve a roster of person-
        nel performing support duties required during RAV/DAVs, to include an assistant team chief as
        required.
        4.4.2. The OPR for each function publishes and distributes copies of travel orders with two copies
        to XP.
        4.4.3. Chiefs of divisions or branches, and chiefs of special staff offices will:
            4.4.3.1. Serve as the orders approving official for all TDY orders relative to the visit. Provide
            justification for requests of special authorization listed in AFI 33-328 and determine the
            appropriate orders statement regarding the meal option (a, b, or c).
4AFI90-101 1 MARCH 2004                                                                                  15


        4.4.3.2. Provide XP with a list of team members, which includes office symbol, social security
        number, security clearance data, and duty status. XP consolidates replies and provide copies to
        the team chief approximately one month in advance of the RAV/DAVs to allow time for 4 AF
        and unit RAV/DAV planning. If there are personnel changes after the consolidated list is sub-
        mitted to XP, the changes are coordinated through the team chief.
        4.4.3.3. Educate personnel in the methods, techniques, policies, and philosophies to be used in
        the performance of RAV/DAVs for the division’s functional specialty.
        4.4.3.4. Prepare functional area checklists for use in the orientation of team members. SIIs and
        special instructions pertaining to the functions are included.
        4.4.3.5. Provide functional area checklists to the wing POC NLT 90 days prior to the sched-
        uled RAV/DAVs.
        4.4.3.6. Notify personnel who are scheduled to perform a RAV/DAVs at least 30 days in
        advance of the departure date if possible.
        4.4.3.7. Be responsible for ensuring team members are capable of performing RAV/DAVs
        within the guidelines of this operating instruction and their RAV/DAV reports clearly reflect
        the policy of assistance.
        4.4.3.8. Ensure team members meet both weight and appearance standards.
        4.4.3.9. If team members require entry into restricted areas, each functional area manager
        advises the team coordinator of their requirements NLT 15 days prior to departure. The team
        coordinator ensures entry authority procedures are coordinated with the visit location and team
        members are provided instructions prior to departure. The team coordinator submits a team list
        to 604 RSG/SF NLT 10 days prior to departure for completion of the Entry Authority List
        (EAL). On visits with an SF representative accompanying the team, the SF representative also
        serves as the team security officer.
     4.4.4. The Plans and Programs Division will:
        4.4.4.1. Assist the team chief with all RAV/DAV duties. This includes working with unit OPR
        for lodging, rental vehicles, in-brief/out-brief location, team chief and team work areas, phone
        numbers, etc.
        4.4.4.2. Ensure the unit visited is notified at least 90 days prior to the date of the visit and has
        received a checklist from each 4 AF/604 RSG Functional Area. This initial notification
        includes as a minimum the dates of the visit and approximate number of team members.
        4.4.4.3. Ensure a list of team members is forwarded to the unit at least 14 days prior to the
        visit. The list includes names of team members, lodging and transportation requirements, spe-
        cial requirements and instructions for in-briefing.
        4.4.4.4. Ensure LGRT provides reimbursement procedures for vehicle rental to the visited
        unit.
        4.4.4.5. Ensure an AF Form 40, AF Form 40a, or a UTAPS printout is prepared for all person-
        nel performing RAV/DAVs in a normally scheduled UTA status. Forms are authenticated by
        functional area team chiefs and delivered to DPM upon completion of visit. A listing produced
        by UTAPS can be used as a source document, vice the AF Form 40/40a, and subsequently
16                                                                         4AFI90-101 1 MARCH 2004


           input into UTAPS. Only one source document, either an AF Form 40a or the UTAPS produced
           printout is used on the RAV/DAV.
           4.4.4.6. Conduct a RAV/DAV pre-briefing for team members prior to departure.
           4.4.4.7. Ensure two copies of each team member’s orders, as well as any change of UTA let-
           ters are available.
           4.4.4.8. Ensure a “Team Information Pamphlet” is prepared, printed and and distributed to
           team members.
           4.4.4.9. Ensure the following documents accompany the RAV/DAV team: Previous RAV/
           DAV report, the most recent UCI report, and book of current SIIs, EAL, and other items, as
           required, to include support agreements.
           4.4.4.10. If the base visited has no passenger service function, ensure passenger manifest is
           prepared for all personnel traveling to or from the visit on military aircraft. Three copies are
           used for the trip to the unit, and three for the return trip. Of the three copies, one is used to
           check the presence of all personnel aboard the aircraft, one provided to Base Operations at the
           departing base, and the last one given to the loadmaster or boom operator as the airplane is
           boarded. At locations with a functional passenger service section, the following applies: NAF
           personnel arrive at the passenger terminal 90 minutes prior to aircraft departure unless previ-
           ously coordinated with base passenger service. Checked baggage has the individuals’ name
           and rank on each bag (tags). Each individual processes through the passenger service counter
           and produces his/her identification card and be added to the passenger manifest. Once passen-
           gers are processed they remain in the immediate area should early boarding be requested by
           the aircraft commander. Personnel are then transported to the aircraft by passenger service per-
           sonnel.
           4.4.4.11. Conduct a RAV/DAV team pre-departure meeting on the day of departure. Brief
           team members on the purpose of the visit, itinerary, reporting procedures and any problems
           known or suspected to exist in the unit to be visited, instructions and SIIs.
           4.4.4.12. Ensure critique sheets covering RAV/DAV adequacy and team performance are pre-
           pared, distributed, collected and processed.
     4.5. Conducting the RAV/DAV:
        4.5.1. The Team Chief will:
           4.5.1.1. Assume overall command for administrative purposes. When more than one team is
           on a trip to the same location, each team has a team chief; however, the senior team chief
           present functions as overall team chief to provide a single point of contact for the parent wing/
           group on matters relating to any of the teams.
           4.5.1.2. Team Chief will be the OPR for scenario development.
           4.5.1.3. Submit changes to team composition to the commander of the unit being visited upon
           arrival.
           4.5.1.4. Supervise, guide, and manage team members conduct in the performance of their
           duties while at the visited unit.
           4.5.1.5. Conduct an in-brief.
4AFI90-101 1 MARCH 2004                                                                                17


        4.5.1.6. Conduct daily “How Goes It” meetings with functional chiefs near the end of each
        day to evaluate and redirect assistance efforts.
        4.5.1.7. Authorize team members to remain at the unit if assistance is required in critical
        areas. The Team Chief notifies the appropriate staff director to amend the individual’s orders,
        if necessary. Reservists are not to have their duty extended unless approved by the appropriate
        staff director and additional funds are allocated.
        4.5.1.8. Notify the 4 AF Operations center, or the staff duty officer (SDO) concerning delays
        in team travel. The DOOC or SDO contacts the appropriate division or branch chief, who noti-
        fies the team member’s dependents.
        4.5.1.9. Prepare a written report IAW paragraph 3.6. and leave a draft copy with the unit Wing
        Commander at the out brief. Include comments pertaining to findings, current SIIs, mission
        limiting problem areas; highlight significant assistance accomplishments and any area requir-
        ing urgent attention.
        4.5.1.10. Out-brief the visited commander on problem areas and assistance rendered. Attend-
        ees at this out briefing are determined by the unit commander and the team chief. Functional
        area briefings are conducted by the senior functional area representatives. The team chief
        ensures copies of checklists, process guides, etc., are left with unit functional area representa-
        tive. When significant policy or procedural problems exist between the AFRC unit and the
        host base, the appropriate echelon within the host command is briefed by the team chief and
        functional representative
     4.5.2. Team members will:
        4.5.2.1. Prior to departure, research functional area files and consult with other staff members
        to identify potential problem areas in the unit to be visited.
        4.5.2.2. Meet the SAV objectives expressed in paragraph 1.2.
        4.5.2.3. Identify present and potential problems with appropriate references that apply to each
        problem area so corrective action can be expedited. The functional area guide or checklist pro-
        vides the team with appropriate references to eliminate the need for unnecessary research dur-
        ing the visit. Copies of checklists, process guides, etc., are left with unit functional area
        representatives. Where suggested, demonstrate corrective action and conduct training on an
        individual or group basis. It is each team member’s responsibility to ensure the unit member
        comprehends the problem, its causes, soundness of the solution, and action required to correct
        the problem.
        4.5.2.4. Evaluate corrective actions from the last IG/SAV report to ensure deficiencies have
        been corrected and will not recur.
        4.5.2.5. Carry publications pertinent to team member’s functional area of responsibility if it is
        likely required publications are not be available at the unit through CD ROM or other means.
        4.5.2.6. Review common core items and special interest items applicable to their functional
        area.
        4.5.2.7. Debrief the staff counterpart before departing.
        4.5.2.8. Brief the Team Chief of serious deficiencies.
18                                                                           4AFI90-101 1 MARCH 2004


            4.5.2.9. Prepare an input for the team chief’s functional area out-brief to the commander and/
            or staff. This briefing highlights significant areas and the assistance rendered during the SAV.
            Actions to be taken upon return to home station to resolve problem areas should also be iden-
            tified, if appropriate.
     4.6. Writing the Report: The 4 AF RAV/DAV team uses the 5-tier rating system for all readiness
     inspections to subjectively assess major mission areas and sub-areas. The sub-area ratings roll up for
     an overall major mission area rating, and the mission area ratings roll up to an overall wing or unit rat-
     ing.
        4.6.1. An after action report is accomplished for all RAVs/DAVs and provided to the unit com-
        mander prior to departure or not later than two weeks after the visit. XP provides all functional
        area representatives with the proper format prior to the scheduled visit.
        4.6.2. Normally, an outbrief/hotwash with the wing commander/visited unit is conducted by the 4
        AF team chief prior to departure to discuss process improvements.
     4.7. Processing Reports: Within seven workdays of visit termination, the team chief forwards the
     headquarters file copy of the report to the 4 AF command section attached to an AF Form 1768, Staff
     Summary Sheet.
     4.8. Out of Cycle RAV Requests:
        4.8.1. All divisions/special staff offices will forward requests for out of cycle RAV/DAVs to the
        CVA. The requesting agency will justify the necessity of the RAV/DAV. The CVA will exercise
        approval authority.
        4.8.2. When out of cycle RAVs or DAVs are authorized, the activity conducting the visits is
        responsible for accomplishing all objectives/tasks identified elsewhere in this Instruction and
        coordinate details of the visit with XP.
     4.9. Major Mission Readiness Areas: The major mission areas and sub-areas for each type of readi-
     ness inspection are listed below.
        4.9.1. Initial Response Readiness. Evaluates weapon systems generation, mobility, noncombatant
        evacuation, command and control, and applicable reception and bed-down phases of the unit's
        major theater war plan, contingency, or actions in response to a major operation other than war.
        Planning and scenario development are based on the unit's Designed Operational Capability
        (DOC) statement. Major mission areas are:
            4.9.1.1. Command and Control. The measure of the unit's ability to effectively respond,
            resolve, coordinate, and carry out all actions to accomplish the transition from normal to con-
            tingency operations.
            4.9.1.2. Deployment Processing/Mobility.
                4.9.1.2.1. Deployment Operations Command and Control. Areas evaluated include proce-
                dures to control, monitor, and direct activities of deployment actions. Where unit is a ten-
                ant organization, their interface with their host DCC is observed.
                4.9.1.2.2. Cargo Suitability for Movement. All loads are evaluated for suitability for
                movement based on proper identification, packing, marking, and documenting of all gen-
                eral, hazardous, sensitive, and classified cargo.
4AFI90-101 1 MARCH 2004                                                                                19


            4.9.1.2.3. Personnel Suitability for Movement. Areas evaluated include management of
            Manpower and Personnel Module-Base (MANPER-B), deployment folders, personnel eli-
            gibility, personnel accountability kits (PAK), ability to control/segregate processing per-
            sonnel, and accountability of personnel.
     4.9.2. Employment Readiness. The employment is an evaluation of the unit’s ability to sustain all
     elements of its wartime missions in a realistic combat scenario. Employment Readiness includes
     all actions taken to generate, deploy (if applicable), and regenerate the unit to conduct wartime/
     peacetime contingency operations. Employment planning and scenario development are based on
     the unit’s DOC statement and OPLAN tasking. The major mission areas are:
        4.9.2.1. Command and Control. The measure of the unit’s ability to effectively direct,
        respond, resolve, coordinate, and execute all actions to accomplish the assigned tasking in a
        wartime scenario.
        4.9.2.2. Operations.
            4.9.2.2.1. Employment. Evaluation of the unit’s ability to employ forces and weapons sys-
            tems to perform tasked missions during contingency operations. The following sub-areas
            contribute to the Employment rating and, on a case-by-case basis, may be individually
            rated, especially when a sub-area is performed by a specific squadron:
                4.9.2.2.1.1. Airlift (Aeromedical Evacuation, Air Support).
                4.9.2.2.1.2. Air Refueling
            4.9.2.2.2. Sortie Generation.
            4.9.2.2.3. Operations Support. Areas evaluated may include, but are not limited to, Mis-
            sion Planning Cell, Air Traffic Control, Airfield Management, Intelligence, Weather, and
            Life Support.
            4.9.2.2.4. Noncombatant Evacuation Operation (NEO). Evaluate ability to process or
            receive NEO personnel as appropriate to include, but not limited to, accountability, lodg-
            ing, pay services, medical support, and transportation of NEO evacuees.
     4.9.3. Mission Support Readiness. Mission Support Readiness comprises all mobility and recep-
     tion/bed-down support actions necessary to ensure employment readiness is successfully exe-
     cuted. Rated sub-areas may include:
        4.9.3.1. Logistics. Areas evaluated may include, but are not limited to, Supply, POL, Trans-
        portation, Munitions, Logistics Plans, and Maintenance.
        4.9.3.2. Support. Areas evaluated may include, but are not limited to, Communications and
        Information, Services, Civil Engineers, contracting, personnel, financial management, and
        Combat Support Services.
        4.9.3.3. Reception and Beddown.
     4.9.4. Ability to Survive and Operate (ATSO) Readiness. ATSO Readiness includes all personnel,
     resource, medical, and facility protection, sustainment, and restoration actions taken to prepare for
     and respond during contingency operations. Rated sub-areas may include:
        4.9.4.1. Resource Protection/Force Protection. Areas evaluated may include active defense,
        force protection, resource protection, Force Protection Condition (FPCON) implementation
20                                                                         4AFI90-101 1 MARCH 2004


            and response, Threat/FPCON Working Group process, asset dispersal and protection, person-
            nel response and protection, and contamination avoidance.
            4.9.4.2. Information Protection. Areas evaluated may include Information Conditions (INFO-
            CON) implementation, computer network defense, and measures taken to protect and sustain
            information flow.
            4.9.4.3. Attack/Incident Response. Areas evaluated may include non-medical emergency ser-
            vices, facility/installation sustainment and restoration actions, and sundry responses during
            contingency operations.
            4.9.4.4. Recovery Operations. Areas evaluated may include damage assessment, rapid runway
            repair, expedient construction, crash, fire, and rescue, nuclear, biological and chemical
            defense, and explosive ordnance disposal operations.
            4.9.4.5. Medical Response. Areas evaluated will include casualty care, self-aid, and buddy
            care (SABC).
            4.9.4.6. Survivability.
     4.10. Exercise Higher Headquarters. The RAV team functions as higher headquarters (HHQ),
     called Air Operations Center (AOC), for all RAV events unless HHQ are participating. If HHQ are
     participating, any reports or requests will be sent to them with a copy to the 4 AF Team Chief or des-
     ignated representative. Other activities outside the unit will be presented to the 4 AF Team Chief or
     designated representative in lieu of actually transmitting messages. The 4 AF Team Chief may direct
     the actual transmission of specific messages. The RAV team will respond to inquiries in a format and
     time frame commensurate with the scenario.
     4.11. RAV/DAV Scenarios. Readiness scenarios are based on realistic response to war plan scenar-
     ios, but may be enhanced to give adequate opportunities for the 4 AF team to evaluate essential war
     tasks and objectives. The RAV team develops scenarios to evaluate the unit’s capability to perform
     assigned wartime/peacetime tasking as determined by applicable OPLANS, CONPLANS, DOC state-
     ments, and METLs. Scenarios range from large contingency to small contingency, depending on the
     tasked OPLAN/CONPLAN and the extent of unit involvement.
        4.11.1. Intelligence. Intelligence reports are used to move the inspection through the programmed
        scenario. Scenario messages and inputs received by unit intelligence will be annotated with time
        of receipt. Requests for information can be sent to 4 AF/IN prior to the arrival of the inspection
        team, and after the inspection begins, through the standard intelligence channels as described in
        Beverly Bearcat LOIs.
        4.11.2. Warning/Alert/Execution/Integrated Tasking/Air Tasking Orders and Emergency Action
        Messages (as applicable). Normally, the 4 AF team electronically transmits applicable AOC warn-
        ing, alert and execution orders to the unit. The Warning Order gives general deployment informa-
        tion and guidance for preparatory action. Detailed information such as length of deployment,
        weapons deployment requirements, and deployment bag requirements, etc., is provided in the
        Deployment Order. Transmission of the first integrated tasking orders/air tasking orders (ITO/
        ATO) normally occur no later than 24 hours prior to STARTEX. The 4 AF team publishes special
        instructions (SPINS) prior to readiness inspections and uses AOC ITOs/ATOs to direct flying
        activities. Units can expect to receive the first ITO with SPINS and Airspace Control Order
        (ACO) no later than 24 hours prior to the inspection start time. The unit should react to the sce-
4AFI90-101 1 MARCH 2004                                                                                  21


     nario as it would to a real world situation. Some events will be initiated by card input and some
     events will be conducted separately as task evaluations.
     4.11.3. Inspection Duration. Initial response length is determined by the unit's aircraft generation
     and mobility deployment timelines. Employment and mission support length is determined by fly-
     ing day window and vulnerability period for ATSO activities. Normally both inspections run 2 to
     4 days. RAV length considers all of these factors. The 4 AF Team Chief determines the length for
     each scenario and may declare recesses due to weather or other uncontrollable factors.
     4.11.4. Notification/Initiation/Termination. Notification of readiness visits normally takes place at
     least 6 months prior to the Start of Exercise (STARTEX). Units receive a notification message fol-
     lowed by a series of AOC messages (120, 60, 30 and 7-day messages). Time is allotted for plan-
     ning. Each RAV terminates with a notification from the 4 AF Team Chief to the unit commander.
  4.12. Simulations. Units should make every attempt to react during the inspections as they would
  during a real world situation. Simulations will be minimized and are reserved for those actions which
  are too costly (resource expenditure, potential risk, etc.) to perform in an exercise situation. Only
  PACAF/IG and AMC/IG-approved simulations will be used.
     4.12.1. Simulation Requests. Simulation requests are submitted at any time; however, those sub-
     mitted immediately prior to an inspection may not be processed prior to the start of the inspection.
     4 AF approved simulations are normally validated for 12 months. Approved simulations are
     assigned an expiration date and may include modifying instructions. Previously approved simula-
     tions should be submitted for renewal at least 60 days prior to expiration. Simulation requests
     should be submitted electronically to the 4 AF/XPO. Format for simulation requests is at Attach-
     ment 2 and Attachment 3.
     4.12.2. Standard Simulations. HQ PACAF/IG and HQ AMC/IG publish and periodically update a
     set of Standard Simulations. These are available on the respective IG Web Page. All actions nec-
     essary for an actual air or surface deployment will be taken unless specifically exempted by the 4
     AF Team Chief. For any approved simulation for cargo movement, a container representing the
     actual size of the simulated cargo will be processed with all required shipping documentation,
     markings, pallets, nets, and tie-down straps. Necessary security procedures will be followed for all
     actual and simulated increments.
  4.13. No-Play Areas. The unit commander recommends exercise no-play areas and procedures prior
  to STARTEX. The 4 AF Team Chief approves all exercise no-play areas and procedures.
  4.14. Safety. Unit commanders and functional managers are responsible for ensuring flight, ground,
  and weapons safety directives are followed. If it becomes necessary to deviate from the scenario for
  safety, immediately informed the 4 AF Team Chief of the reasons for the deviation. The unit com-
  mander is the final authority for conducting operations and is responsible for the safety and preserva-
  tion of personnel, equipment, and resources.
  4.15. Communications Support. The unit will coordinate it’s communications plan with 4 AF/SC.
  All communications equipment the unit plans to use will be reviewed by 4 AF/SC to eliminate any
  local conflicts that may exist. Further, this review will ensure proper call signs are used, required fre-
  quencies are available and any other special needs are met prior to beginning the exercise. Include
  computers, faxes, copiers, phones, etc. in this plan.
22                                                          4AFI90-101 1 MARCH 2004


Figure 5. Recommended DAV Team Composition


 Function        GSU/  AW/ARW AW/ARW         AW       AMW        AMW         AG
                HICKAM (ASSOC) (AFRC B)   (TENANT)   (ASSOC)   (AFRC B)   (TENANT)
   TC               1      1       1          1          1         1          1
   XP               4      4       4          4          4         4          4
   LG               1      2       2          2          2         2          2
   DO               1      1       1          1          1         1          1
  APS               1      2       2          2          2         2          2
  DPM               2      2       2          2          2         2          2
 TOTAL             10     12      12         12         12        12         12

Figure 6. Recommended RAV Team Composition


 Function         GSU  AW/ARW AW/ARW         AW       AMW        AMW         AG
                HICKAM (ASSOC) (AFRC B)   (TENANT)   (ASSOC)   (AFRC B)   (TENANT)
     TC            1      1       1           1         1         1           1
    ATC            1      1       1           1         1         1           1
   Team            1      1       1           1         1         1           1
 COORD
    DO            2        5       5          5         5          5          5
    APS           5        5       5          5         5          5          5
     LG           3        4       4          4         4          4          4
     SC           3        3       3          3         3          3          3
     SD                    1       1          1         1          1          1
    SEG           1        1       2          2         1          2          1
    SEF                    1       1          1         1          1          1
   CEV            1        1       1          1         1          1          1
     SF           3        6       6          6         6          6          2
     XP           4        5       5          5         5          5          5
    HC                     1       1          1         1          1          1
    HO                     1       1          1         1          1          1
    CE*           7        7       7          7         7          7          7
   SVX                     2       2          2         2          2          2
   CEX*            4       4       4          4         4          4          4
     SG            3       3       3          3         3          3          3
   DPM             2       2       2          2         2          2          2
  TOTAL           41      55      56         56        55         56         51
(* Per Shift)
4AFI90-101 1 MARCH 2004                                                                                23


5. FUNCTIONAL ASSISTANCE VISITS
  5.1. Purpose. FAVs are conducted to provide guidance and assistance to Fourth Air Force units. FAVs
  are usually requested by unit/wing commanders to furnish functional area expertise, help develop new
  processes, implement new policies and procedures, or assist in preparing for scheduled inspections.
  FAVs may be directed by NAF/CC as required.
  5.2. Scheduling. FAVs must be approved by wing/unit commanders and are scheduled by NAF and
  wing/unit functional areas as far in advance as possible. NAF functional areas will coordinate with 4
  AF/XP to ensure a scheduled FAV do not conflict with SAVs/DAVs/RAVS, AEFs, inspections,
  deployments, or any other major event on the 4 AF Global Schedule.

6. SUPPORT REQUIREMENTS
  6.1. General. This chapter contains support requirements for the planning of all inspection team visits.
  6.2. Transportation, Lodging, and Baggage Support. (POC: 4 AF/XP, DSN 447-6533/7692/7503).
     6.2.1. Transportation. 4 AF will maximize the use of military air when performing unit assistance
     visits.
     6.2.2. Lodging. The 4 AF Team requires team integrity for lodging. For SAVs and RAVs/DAVs,
     XP coordinates with the unit POC. 4 AF Teams conducting FAVs coordinate with the local lodg-
     ing facility.
     6.2.3. Vehicles for SAVs and RAVs should be available upon team arrival. Units are encouraged
     to use their IG Reception plan for baggage support and in-briefing requirements.
  6.3. Work Area Requirements. All work areas must possess sufficient security protection for
  high-value items associated with 4 AF UAV Team equipment and a minimum of two keys for 4 AF
  Team use.
     6.3.1. Team Chief. Designate a private office space located near the team work area with four
     additional chairs. Two single-line class-A telephones are required (one for telecommunications via
     computer).
     6.3.2. Work Area. Designate a large facility with tables and chairs for 4 AF team members. As a
     minimum, four single-line class A telephones, FAX machine, copier, and shredder are required (or
     the unit may choose to provide convenient access to a shredder on a 24-hour per day basis so
     close-hold, Trusted Agent, and For Official Use Only information can be disposed of properly). A
     sufficient power source (6 three-prong capability surge protectors) and electrical outlets through-
     out the area are also required to allow the team’s laptop computers to operate simultaneously.
     6.3.3. Administration. Designate an area in or near the team work area of sufficient size to accom-
     modate personnel and equipment for report preparation. This room must have sufficient space for
     required typing and word processing equipment/tables. Two single-line class-A telephones are
     required (one for telecommunications via computer).
     6.3.4. Crisis Action Team (CAT) During a RAV/DAV, designate a lighted work area in the CAT
     room to accommodate two team members.
  6.4. Work Area Supply Requirements. (POC: 4 AF/XP)
24                                                                     4AFI90-101 1 MARCH 2004


     6.4.1. A copy of your unit alpha roster, key personnel roster, and base telephone book will be for-
     warded to the Team Coordinator at least 2 weeks prior to the visit.
     6.4.2. A checklist is provided at Attachment 2.



                                                  ROBERT E. DUIGNAN, Brig Gen, USAFR
                                                  Commander
4AFI90-101 1 MARCH 2004                                                        25


                                             Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Regulation 5200.1-R, DoD Information Security Program
DoD Regulation 5400.7-R, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program
AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution
AFRCI 10-101, Wing Plans Procedures
AFJI 11-204, Operational Procedures for Aircraft Carrying Hazardous Material
AFI 11-299, Nuclear Airlift Operations
AFI 11-2Cxxx, C-XXX Aircrew Training
AFI 14-104, Oversight of Intelligence Activities
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Regulations
AFI 32-3001, Explosive Ordnance Disposal Program
AFI 32-4001, Disaster Preparedness Planning and Operations
AFI 32-4004, Emergency Response Operations
AFI 36-2104, Nuclear Weapons Personnel Reliability Program
AFI 36-2226, Combat Arms Training and Maintenance (CATM) Program
AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities
AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports
AMCI 10-403, Air Mobility Command Force Deployment
AMCI 24-101, Military Airlift Transportation
AMCI 32-3001, Explosive Ordnance Disposal Program
AMCPAM 90-202, Inspection Checklists
AFPD 90-2, Inspector General-The Inspection System
AFRCI 24-101, Reserve Aerial Port Program
AFRP 90-1, TIG Brief
SD 501-14, Force Management Information System (FMIS) Reporting Procedures

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACM—Additional Crew Member
AEF—Aerospace Expeditionary Force
26                                                      4AFI90-101 1 MARCH 2004


AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFIA—Air Force Inspection Agency
AFWUS—Air Force-Wide UTC Availability/Tasking Summary
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AMCTL—Air Mobility Command Task List
AMOG—Air Mobility Operations Group
AMSG—Air Mobility Support Group
AMSS—Air Mobility Support Squadron
ANG—Air National Guard
APF—Aerial Port Flight
APS—Aerial Port Squadron
ARC—Air Reserve Component
ART—Air Reserve Technician
ASEV—Aircrew Standardization Evaluation Visit
ATSO—Ability to Survive and Operate
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
CAT—Crisis Action Team
CCC—Common-Core Criteria
CCP—Command and Control Procedures (Test)
CDF—Cargo Deployment Function
CI—Compliance Inspection
CII—Compliance Inspection Item
CRAF—Civil Reserve Air Fleet
DAV —Deployment Assistance Visit
DCC—Deployment Control Center
DCI—Defensive Counterinformation
DOC—Designed Operational Capability
DOD—Department of Defense
DPU—Deployment Processing Unit
4AFI90-101 1 MARCH 2004                               27


DRF—Disaster Response Force
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
EAF—Expeditionary Aerospace Force
EAL—Entry Authority List
EOD—Explosive Ordnance Disposal
EORI—Expeditionary Operational Readiness Inspection
FAA—Federal Aviation Administration
FCIF—Flight Crew Information File
FMC—Fully Mission Capable
FOUO—For Official Use Only
GOC—Group Operations Center
GKT—General Knowledge Test
GRL—Global Reach Laydown
IG—Inspector General
IGX—Inspector General Exercise
IO—Intelligence Oversight
JA/ATT—Joint Airborne/Air Transportability Training
LERTCON—Alert Condition
LIMFAC—Limiting Factor
MACC—Maintenance Aircraft Coordination Center
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDS—Mission, Design and Series
MEGP—Mission Essential Ground Personnel
MET—Mission Essential Task
METL—Mission Essential Task List
MMI—Multi-MAJCOM Inspection
NAS—Nuclear Airlift Support
NGB—National Guard Bureau
NMC—Not Mission Capable
OPLAN—Operation Plan
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OPSEC—Operations Security
28                                                                 4AFI90-101 1 MARCH 2004


ORI—Operational Readiness Inspection
OSA—Operational Support Aircraft
PAA—Primary Aircraft Authorization
PDF—Personnel Deployment Function
Prime BEEF—Prime Base Engineer Emergency Force
Prime RIBS—Prime Readiness in Base Services
PRP—Personnel Reliability Program
QRC—Quick Reaction Checklist
RF—Response Force
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SART—Strategic Aircraft Regeneration Teams
SII—Special Interest Item
SIOP—Single Integrated Operational Plan
SOLL—Special Operations Low-Level
SORTS—Status of Resources and Training System
SRC—Survival Recovery Center
SWOG—Special Weapons Overflight Guide
TACC—Tanker Airlift Control Center
TALCE—Tanker Airlift Control Element
TRT—Tanker Recovery Team
USP&FO—United States Property and Fiscal Office
UTA—Unit Training Assembly
UTAPS—Unit Training Assembly Processing System
UTC—Unit Type Code
WMP—War Mobilization Plan
WOC—Wing Operations Center
WR—War Reserve

Terms
Aerospace Expeditionary Force (AEF)—An organization comprised of aerospace capabilities that
provides tailored force packages to meet theater CINC needs across the full spectrum of military
operations. Capable of performing any number of the Air Force’s basic functions to include a full
complement of Expeditionary Combat Support forces. (EAF PAD). Air Force-Wide UTC Availability/
Tracking Summary (AFWUS)—A database that contains a list of all Air Force UTCs. Used by HQ AMC
4AFI90-101 1 MARCH 2004                                                                                29


to source OPLAN and contingency TPFDDs. Units are tasked to maintain capability defined by AFWUS
UTCs.
Air Mobility Operations Group (AMOG)—Provides the organization and management that direct and
supervise deployable AMC forces to provide worldwide Global Reach Laydown (GRL) forces in support
of USTRANSCOM-assigned missions. It also provides liaison with ANG and AFRC forces, and
maintains a trained force of Theater Airlift Liaison Officers (TALO) assigned at major using commands
within the parent NAF AOR.
Compliance Inspection Items (CII)—Those items requiring actions by US laws, Executive Orders,
Department of Defense Directives, and safety, that if not complied with could result in significant legal
liabilities, penalties, or mission impact. The AMCI IG web site also contains a copy of current CIIs and
the checklists used to inspect them.
Crisis Action Team (CAT)—Command and staff personnel assembled in accordance with AMCI
10-208, Vol. 1 to respond to contingency or emergency situations. Battle staff is a synonymous term.
Demonstrated Operational Capability—An EORI conducted through direct observation of real-world
operations (AEF deployments, CJCS exercises, contingency operations, significant JA/ATTs, and other
opportunities).
Designed Operational Capability (DOC)—A unit DOC is the mission for which a measured unit has
been equipped, organized, designed or tasked. While all measured combat, combat support, and combat
service support units must have a primary DOC, some units may have more than one DOC based on
additional taskings. It serves as a basis for SORTS reporting.
Forward Operating Base (FOB)—An airfield used to support operations without establishing full
support facilities. The base may be used for an extended time period.
Global Reach Laydown (GRL)—A deployable en route support system used where infrastructure is
insufficient for AMC operations. Under GRL, resources from various CONUS based organizations are
brought together to form deployed organizations required to achieve specific objectives of any particular
air deployment operation. (AMC Omnibus OPlan).
Inspector General Exercise (IGX)—In an IGX, the AMC/IG tasks UTCs from various units to
Combine into an expeditionary wing for the purpose of an inspection. The goal is a doctrinally sound
scenario that emphasizes team building and fosters an expeditionary culture, thus mirroring real-world
operations. The notional IGX is a NAF-sponsored “play box” lasting approximately 14 days, where total
force capability will be “rainbowed” in and out.
Operation Plan (OPLAN)—A plan for the conduct of joint operations that can be used as the basis for
development of an OPORD. An OPLAN identifies the forces and supplies required to execute the CINC’s
Strategic Concept and a movement schedule of these resources to the theater of operations.
Out of Play Personnel—(including on-scene supervisors), aircraft or ground equipment may be removed
from scenario participation (out of play) by the RAV/DAV team for safety violations, improper responses
to chemical warfare exercise/simulated threat situations, malfunctioning equipment, or other ineffective
responses that pose a serious threat. Units will not use personnel, aircraft, or equipment declared out of
play until released by the inspection team.
Safety Violations—Unsafe acts or conditions that result in or, in the judgment of an evaluator could
result in, damage to aircraft, equipment and/or injury to personnel.
30                                                                         4AFI90-101 1 MARCH 2004


Simulate—A direction or approval by the DAV/RAV Team Chief to not perform specific actions. When
a unit receives an instruction to simulate, it will take all preparatory steps, such as drafting messages,
reviewing checklists/instructions and reporting simulated completion to the appropriate authority. (Units
will maintain supporting directives, messages, records of verbal orders and so forth, for review by the
evaluators.)
Sortie—An operational flight by one aircraft. A sortie begins when the aircraft begins to move forward
on takeoff or takes off vertically from rest at any point of support. It ends after airborne flight when the
aircraft returns to the surface and: (1) the engines are stopped, or the aircraft is on the surface for 5
minutes, whichever occurs first; (2) a change is made in the crew which adds a crewmember. On missions
where some crewmembers deplane and the remaining crew from the original takeoff re-launches, this is
considered a continuation of the original sortie.
Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS)—The JCS controlled and automated system which
provides authoritative identification, location, and resource information to the National Command
Authorities and the Joint Staff.
Survival Recovery Center (SRC)—Provides direction, coordination, and integration to ensure base
survival before, during, and after an attack or disaster
Tanker Airlift Control Element (TALCE)—A mobile command and control organization deployed to
support strategic and theater air deployment operations at fixed, en route, and deployed locations where
airdeployment operational support is nonexistent or insufficient. The TALCE provides on-site
management of air deployment airfield operations to include command and control, communications,
aerial port services, maintenance, security, transportation, weather, intelligence, and other support
functions, as necessary. The TALCE is composed of mission support elements from various units and
deploys in support of peacetime, contingency, and emergency relief operations on both planned and “no
notice” basis. The TALCE is sized based upon projected requirements. (Air Deployment Master Plan)
Trusted Agent—A person or office to whom the 4 AF Team has given information or with whom the
team chief has coordinated events, and trusts they will not pass the information to inspected units.
Unit Type Code (UTC)—A five-character alphanumeric designator that identifies a specific capability
package. The UTCs for all Air Force packages are found in volume III of the WMP and are used by
unified and specified commands, HQ USAF, and the JCS to identify forces required to support
contingency plans.
Weapon System—A composite of equipment, skills, and techniques that form an instrument of combat.
The term includes the aircraft and all of the facilities, equipment, material, services and personnel
required in an operational environment.
Wing Operations Center (WOC)—Provisional (deployed) wing or group commander’s battle staff and
executive command and control agency. The WOC is an operationally integrated collection of functional
work centers which manage unit-assigned, mission-essential forces and resources needed to generate
aircraft, aircrew loads, and deployable mission support elements at bed-down locations in order to satisfy
higher headquarters-directed tasking
4AFI90-101 1 MARCH 2004                                                                               31


                                              Attachment 2

                CHECKLIST FOR UNIT ASSISTANCE VISIT REQUIREMENTS

A2.1. Facilities:
   A2.1.1. Area(s) with desks, tables, and chairs for all SAV Team Members.
   A2.1.2. One private office for the team chief.
   A2.1.3. One private room for XP.
   A2.1.4. One room for team meetings (up to 60 people) and later to be used as briefing preparation
   room.
   A2.1.5. Lodging for team (one per room).
   A2.1.6. Outbrief area with space for maximum participation and adequate public address capability.
   A2.1.7. Lighted work area inside CAT room to accommodate two team members
NOTE: All facilities must have sufficient 110-W, 60-Hz electrical outlets to power all team equipment. If
this is not available, sufficient transformers and/or adapters will be provided.

A2.2. Transportation:
   A2.2.1. Bus to move team from and to aircraft.
   A2.2.2. Covered vehicle and detail to carry team baggage from and to aircraft.
   A2.2.3. Vehicles to conduct visit.
   A2.2.4. Driver’s safety briefing upon arrival for local area, flightline, etc.
   A2.2.5. Arrangements made for any special licensing requirements.
   A2.2.6. Reserved parking slots at work center and lodging.
   A2.2.7. Fuel procedures.

A2.3. Telephone:
   A2.3.1. Dedicated type 3 (on-base, local off-base, and routine DSN capability) line.
   A2.3.2. Two dedicated type 3 lines and one type 1 (on-base capability) for the team work area.
   A2.3.3. One direct dial, dedicated DSN line for electronic mail capability. A 1-800 access line will
   meet this requirement.

A2.4. Equipment:
   A2.4.1. Six power strips (with ability for seven power slots) and extension cords.
   A2.4.2. Pyrotechnics (GBS and smoke generators), number to be determined by planners.
   A2.4.3. Six computers equipped with the latest AFRC standard for Windows/Office software.
   A2.4.4. Three laser printers.
32                                                                          4AFI90-101 1 MARCH 2004


     A2.4.5. One copier.
     A2.4.6. Fax machine.
     A2.4.7. Shredder (approved to destroy classified/FOUO material).

A2.5. Supplies:
     A2.5.1. Reams of paper – 6, Dictionaries – 2, Thesaurus – 2.
     A2.5.2. In/Out baskets – 4.
     A2.5.3. Base and local telephone books – 4 each.
     A2.5.4. Unit key personnel rosters – 4, Staff directories – 4.
     A2.5.5. White board with dry erase markers or tripod with poster paper – 2.
     A2.5.6. Current UMD – 1.
     A2.5.7. ASCAS roster – 1.
     A2.5.8. A one or two drawer safe approved for classified storage– 1.
     A2.5.9. Smaller sized base maps – 4.
     A2.5.10. Coffee pots – 2.
     A2.5.11. Microwave oven – 1.

A2.6. Products provided prior to or upon arrival:
     A2.6.1. SII and compliance POC listing with office symbols and phone numbers.
     A2.6.2. Risk assessment and OPSEC vulnerability assessment package on work center.
4AFI90-101 1 MARCH 2004                                                                                33


                                             Attachment 3

                   GROUND RULES FOR RAVS/DAVS AND AMC FORM 188

A3.1. Ground Rules for RAVs/DAVs. The AMC/IG publishes detailed inspection procedures and a list
of standard simulations for IGXs on its Internet site. 4 AF RAVs/DAVs will follow AMC/IG ground rules
as much as practicable. Procedures for accessing the ground rules are explained in paragraph 2.4. Units
should not submit requests for simulations that are listed in the ground rules unless there has been prior
negotiation with the 4 AF RAV/DAV Team Chief.

A3.2. AMC Form 188, Inspection/Exercise Communication, Coordination Form. A M C G a i n e d
units utilize AMC Form 188 to request simulations not covered in the ground rules. The 188 can also be
used as a record of communication with the RAV/DAV Team when required.

A3.3. Processing Procedures. The Team Chief designates one team member to receive AMC Form 188s
from visited units, and units should funnel all 188s through that POC. Normally, the POC is the CAT eval-
uator, WOC evaluator, C2 evaluator, or DCC evaluator. If in doubt, ask any RAV/DAV team member.
   A3.3.1. The Team Chief approves simulations only when it is impossible or impractical to perform
   actual procedures or to use specified equipment. All requests for simulations must answer the follow-
   ing questions:
       A3.3.1.1. WHAT? (Describe the simulated task or equipment.)
       A3.3.1.2. HOW? (Describe how the unit will simulate the task.)
       A3.3.1.3. WHY? (Provide a brief explanation of why the simulation is required and the impact if
       the Team Chief disapproves the simulation.)

A3.4. Procedures for Accessing Ground Rules. The AMC/IG publishes detailed inspection procedures
and a list of standard simulations that describe how the HQ AMC/IG expects units to demonstrate capa-
bilities during an IG Exercise (IGX). Inspected units should not submit requests for simulations that are
listed in the ground rules. To make it easier for units to obtain a copy of the current IG-approved ground
rules, IGC posts them on the AMC/IG web site. To view the ground rules, click on the Inspection Infor-
mation link at http://amc.scott.af.mil/ig/html/index.htm
NOTE: Previously, Ground Rules for IG Inspections were referred to as Rules of Engagement for ORIs.
