                            DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                   HEADQUARTERS 501ST COMBAT SUPPORT WING (USAFE)



                                                                               501CSWGM90-02

                                                                                     16 April 2013

MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION C
           501 CSW

FROM: 501 CSW/CC

SUBJECT: The Air Force Inspection System

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

1. By Order of the Commander, 501st Combat Support Wing. This is a 501 st Combat Support
Wing Guidance Memorandum immediately implementing AFI 90-201, providing specific Wing
policy and procedure for implementing the Commander’s Inspection Plan (CCIP). Compliance
with this Memorandum is mandatory. This Memorandum rescinds and replaces 501CSWGM90-
1, The Air Force Inspection System, 9 October 2012, which is rescinded. To the extent its
directions are inconsistent with other Air Force publications, the information herein prevails, in
accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.

2. 501 CSW conducts an aggressive self inspection program at all levels, based on the CCIP
concept. This program involves scheduled and unscheduled periodic internal inspections and
assessments utilizing the Management Internal Control Toolset (MICT). All self-assessments
within 501st Combat Support Wing, unless specified by provisions of AFI90-201 for specific
functional areas or other Headquarters Air Force Guidance, will be conducted in MICT.

3. The Wing Vice Commander provides overall direction to Wing inspection processes on
behalf of the Wing Commander. The 501 CSW Inspector General (501 CSW/IG) serves as the
Wing Self-Assessment Program Manager and MICT Lead Manager and reports to the Vice
Commander in this capacity. Each group will designate an office, senior noncommissioned
officer, or Department of the Air Force civilian to serve as Self Assessment Program Manager
and MICT Manager for their respective unit and report designation to 501 CSW/IG. These roles
may be combined when practical at the group or squadron commander’s discretion.

4. 501 CSW/IG publishes an annual Wing inspection plan during the last quarter of the calendar
year for the Wing Commander. This inspection plan encompasses all scheduled external and
internal inspections, audits, and exercises. Scheduled Wing-wide self assessments will occur
semi-annually and be conducted in January and July. An inspection of each squadron and Wing
Staff Agency will be conducted by the Wing IG every 12- 24 months. Every effort should be
made to link such inspections with changes of command or agency leadership to give incoming
leaders a unit effectiveness and compliance overview.
5. Group, squadron commanders and Wing Director of Staff may schedule additional unit and
functional self assessments at their discretion.

6. Establishes and acts as chair of the Wing Commander’s Inspection Management Board
(CIMB). This board will address wing-wide inspection program concerns, serves as a forum to
identify and resolve critical and significant inspection deficiencies, and develops and refines
inspections issues to be addressed to USAFE/IG or respective MAJCOM functional area
managers (FAM). CIMB meetings will be scheduled quarterly (March, June, September, and
December).

7. Develops an annual inspection program for the Wing Commander, due during the last quarter
of the preceding calendar year, that addresses the inspection requirements of this instruction,
incorporates scheduled external and internal assessments, inspections, audits, and exercises, and
those specific areas of interest, units or functions identified by the Wing Commander for special
inspection. Ensure inspection plan is synchronized with the Wing Commander’s defined
enabling missions. Exercises will include those directed by Table 7.1, AFI 10-2501, Anti-
Terrorism/Force Protection (AT/FP) exercises, and exercises which test the Wing Sexual Assault
Prevention and Response (SAPR) program capabilities.

8. Assembles a wing inspection team (WIG) from each group comprised of subject matter
experts that will conduct unit, functional, or special inspections identified in the wing annual
inspection plan. Ensures all team members receive appropriate IG inspector training required by
AFI 90-201 from MAJCOM/IG and are certified by the Wing Commander. Trains and briefs
team members on specific inspection responsibilities and on specific inspection methodology.
Tailors teams to the specific inspection to be conducted.

9. Provides the Wing Commander with reports of unit self-assessments, using reporting tools in
MICT, analysis of external functional inspections, and lessons learned from other wings
inspections and assessments. Disseminates pertinent information gleaned to group and squadron
commanders and wing staff agency directors as appropriate or directed by the Wing Commander
or Vice Commander.

10. Reviews locally developed checklists within the Wing to ensure that the checklists conform
to MICT technical guidelines and are not redundant to other approved MICT checklists.

11. The guidance in this Memorandum becomes void after one-year has elapsed from the date of
this Memorandum or upon incorporation by interim change to, or re-write of AFI 90-201,
whichever is earlier.

                                                    BRIAN T. KELLY, Colonel, USAF
                                                    Commander
