Certified Current 22 March 2010
The guidelines provided in this pamphlet are
intended to foster cooperation and teamwork
between the various agencies located at Royal Air
Force (RAF) Menwith Hill for Equal Opportunity
& Treatment (EOT) related complaints processing
and notification procedures.


Here at RAF Menwith Hill, station leadership
does not condone or tolerate unlawful
discrimination or sexual harassment within the
armed forces or in the civilian workforce. The
leadership also recognizes the policies of various
organizations concerning Equal Opportunity &
Treatment and is committed to their enforcement.


Should barriers arise, employees are encouraged
to voice their concerns with their chain of
command or other appropriate avenues.

                  2
Station leadership is responsible
for creating an environment free
from discrimination. Employees
are encouraged to use their chain
of command to identify and
correct unlawful discrimination or
sexual harassment


Commanders or the equivalent
should utilize these guidelines to
solicit the appropriate contact
procedures for complaints
processing among the various
organizations located at RAF
Menwith Hill
             3
These guidelines deal with complaints
of unlawful discrimination involving
members from different agencies; the
guidelines are intended to assist in
identifying the appropriate Equal
Opportunity & Treatment Counselor,
who in turn will identify the
appropriate process and notification
procedures.


NOTE: When the complainant and
alleged offender are from the same
organization, using these guidelines is
not required; instead, appropriate
agency guidance/procedures should be
followed.
             4
              Complainants have various protected communication channels
              for voicing their Equal Opportunity & Treatment concerns. Any
              person who becomes aware of Equal Opportunity & Treatment
              policy violations that cross agency boundaries should refer the
              complaint to their respective chain of command for resolution.
              At this point, the appropriate Equal Opportunity &
              Treatment Counselor (Agency Advisor) should be
              notified using the chart on page 7 of this pamphlet .
THE PROCESS




              The Equal Opportunity & Treatment Counselors for
              the complainant and alleged offender should begin the
              coordination process. The purposes of coordination are to
              ensure the rights of the complainant and alleged offender in
              complaints processes are not violated, and to provide an avenue
              for identification and notification within the appropriate chain of
              command (on a need-to-know basis). In addition, the
              counselors determine the most appropriate method for resolving
              the complainant’s concerns and agree upon a process.



              The Equal Opportunity & Treatment Counselor for the
              complainant should make the appropriate notifications
              to leadership using the example format provided on
              page 8. The primary purposes for this initial notification are to
              inform the appropriate leadership of allegations crossing
              organizational boundaries and to provide them specific
              recommendations on how to best move forward in resolving a
              complaint.




                           5
              The Equal Opportunity & Treatment Counselor for the
              complainant should coordinate processes they and the
              other counselor agreed upon with the appropriate legal
              officials, usually the host legal office. This coordination
              allows legal officials to review any proposals and make
              necessary recommendations for complying with the processes of
              relevant agencies located at RAF Menwith Hill. The sample
THE PROCESS



              format provided on page 9 may be used.



              After legal coordination, the Equal Opportunity &
              Treatment Counselor for the alleged offender should
              communicate any process changes to those with a
              need-to-know and execute the agreed-upon process for
              resolving the complainant’s concerns.




              The Equal Opportunity & Treatment Counselor for the
              alleged offender should brief the disposition of the
              process to leadership on a need-to-know basis. In
              addition, both counselors should coordinate any administrative
              requirements necessary for appropriate closure.




                           6
Complainant                                   Agency
Anonymous                                     Air Force, Military Equal Opportunity Advisor
United States Air Force                       Air Force, Military Equal Opportunity Advisor
United States Army                            Army, Equal Opportunity Advisor
United States Navy                            Navy, Command Managed Equal Opportunity Officer
United States Marines                         Marine, Equal Opportunity Advisor
Air Force Reserve                             Air Force, Military Equal Opportunity Advisor
Air National Guard                            Air Force, Military Equal Opportunity Advisor
US Non-Appropriated Funds                     Air Force, Equal Employment Opportunity Rep
US Appropriated Funds                         Air Force, Equal Employment Opportunity Rep
Department of Air Force Civilians             Air Force, Equal Employment Opportunity Rep
Department of Defense (non-NSA)               Human Resources Office
National Security Agency                      Human Resources Office
Air Force Element                             Human Resources Office
AAFES                                         Store Manager
DeCA (Commissary Employees)                   Store Manager
GCHQ                                          Senior United Kingdom Officer (SUKO)
British Military                              RAF Commander or Chain of Command
MOD Defence Estates                           Defense Estates Manager
Ministry of Defence (non-DE)                  Ministry of Defense EEO Rep
Local National NAF                            Air Force, Equal Employment Opportunity Rep
Local National Appropriated Funds             Air Force, Equal Employment Opportunity Rep
US Government Contractors                     Senior Site Representative, Mission Engineering Chief, or
                                              Contracting Officer
Department of Defense Dependent Schools       Principal




                                          7
The following information should be included in an initial
notification using your host agency formatting procedures:

1. Allegations of unlawful discrimination and/or sexual harassment
have been reported to the chain of command; the appropriate
Equal Opportunity & Treatment Counselors have been notified.
Based on the allegations crossing organizational boundaries,
actions are being coordinated to provide leadership with specific
details and a proposal as to how to best move forward in resolving
this situation.

2. The following is provided for initial coordination purposes:

     Complainant:
     Agency:
     Respective MEO/EEO Counselor:
     Leadership:

     Alleged Offender:
     Agency:
     Respective MEO/EEO Counselor:
     Leadership:

3. Once a proposal has been identified between the Equal
Opportunity & Treatment Counselors, it will be forwarded to the
appropriate legal office(s) for review; from there, notifications will
be made concerning the agreed-upon process for resolution.

4. The Equal Opportunity & Treatment Counselor for the
complainant will serve as the primary point of contact for this
process. Contact (your name and number) if you have any
questions or concerns.

                            8
The following information should be included concerning legal coordination using your
host agency formatting procedures:

1. Allegations of unlawful discrimination and/or sexual harassment have been reported to
the chain of command; the appropriate Equal Opportunity & Treatment (EOT) Counselors
have been notified; based on the allegations crossing organizational boundaries, this pro-
posed complaints process has been submitted for your review.

2. The basis for this complaints process was an allegation of discrimination filed on (date
complaint filed), by (complainant name and agency) with (agency grievance filed with) al-
leging (type of discrimination) by (alleged offender’s name and agency).

3. For appropriate clarification of the complainant’s concerns, it is recommended that the
complainant’s Equal Opportunity & Treatment Counselor, working in conjunction with the
alleged offender’s counselor, conducts an investigation/clarification into the allegation and
reports the findings to the appropriate chains of command.

4. The following is provided for informational purposes:

       Complainant:
       Agency:
       Respective EOT Counselor:
       Leadership:

       Alleged Offender:
       Agency:
       Respective EOT Counselor:
       Leadership:


5. The following personnel are anticipated to have information regarding this case in which
interviews will need to be accomplished.

       a. (provide agency associated with, name)
       b. (provide agency associated with, name)

6. Please provide the Equal Opportunity & Treatment Counselor for the alleged offender
with your legal recommendations concerning this case to ensure the legal rights of both the
alleged offender and complainant are not violated in this process. We look forward to clari-
fying this situation with your guidance.

7. Your review, to include any recommendations, will be made available to those with a
need-to-know and the respective members within the chain of command for coordination.
Should you need additional information, please contact (complainant EOT counselor).


                                      9
