BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            505 COMMAND AND CONTROL WING
505 COMMAND AND CONTROL WING                                     INSTRUCTION 99-101

                                                                        25 SEPTEMBER 2012

                                                                           Test and Evaluation

                                                         505 CCW TEST AND EVALUATION


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 505 TEG/TTO                                                     Certified by: 505 TEG/CC
                                                                     (Colonel Dustin P. Smith)
                                                                                      Pages: 20




This instruction applies to all test units within the 505th Command and Control Wing (505
CCW). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM)
publications/forms managers Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS)           Records        Disposition      Schedule       (RDS)         located       at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact supporting records managers
as required. Send comments and suggested improvements to this instruction, through channels,
to 505 TEG/TTO, 3663 Tyndall Ave, Bldg 202, Nellis AFB, Nevada 89191. This 505 CCWI
implements AFPD 99-1, Test and Evaluation Process, AFI 11-260, Tactics Development
Program, AFI 99-103, USAFWCI 99-103, USAFWC Test and Evaluation. This instruction
identifies 505 CCW responsibilities for test management activities, guidelines, and procedures.
This instruction provides guidance for wing, group, and squadron leadership, project managers,
test team members, support, and management personnel in planning, conducting, analyzing,
reporting, and disseminating projects in the 505 CCW. This instruction in not intended to be an
all-inclusive document and does not take precedence over established directives, instructions,
manuals, or standards. More detailed guidance, including document formats and examples, for
program planning, execution, and reporting is found in the 505 TEG Test Team Handbook (for
the most up-to-date version, contact the 505 TEG/TTO office)
 2                                                     505CCWI99-101 25 SEPTEMBER 2012


1. TEST AND EVALUATION (T&E) IMPLEMENTATION CONCEPT
1.1. Purpose of T&E. The overarching functions of T&E are to mature system designs; manage
risks; identify and resolve deficiencies expeditiously; ensure systems are operationally effective
and suitable; and develop and evaluate tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTP). The Air Force
T&E community plans for and conducts integrated T&E as an efficient continuum known as
integrated testing in collaboration with the requirements and acquisition communities. AFI 99-
103, Capabilities Based Test and Evaluation, describes the roles and responsibilities of the T&E
community in executing this function.
     1.2. Types of T&E. T&E falls into two general categories:            developmental test and
     evaluation (DT&E) and operational test and evaluation (OT&E).
        1.2.1. Developmental Test and Evaluation (DT&E). A developmental test (DT) is
        conducted throughout the acquisition and sustainment processes to assist in engineering
        design and development and to verify critical technical parametric requirements are met.
        DT supports the decision to certify systems ready for dedicated operational test (OT)
        according to AFMAN 63-119, Certification of System Readiness for Dedicated
        Operational Test and Evaluation. The 505 CCW does not execute DT&E directly, but
        will support DT&E as requested through Air Combat Command (ACC)/A8.
        1.2.2. Operational Test (OT). OT determines if capabilities-based requirements have
        been satisfied and assess system impacts to both peacetime and combat operations. It
        identifies and helps resolve deficiencies as early as possible, identifies enhancements, and
        evaluates changes in system configurations that alter system performance. Operational
        testing also may look at operational impacts of fielding or employing a system, doctrine,
        operational concept, system performance, TTP, logistics support element, intelligence
        support elements, system interoperability and security, materiel issues, safety, training,
        organization, human systems integration (HSI), and personnel. Operational testing
        includes several categories: initial operational test and evaluation (IOT&E), qualification
        operational test and evaluation (QOT&E), follow-on operational test and evaluation
        (FOT&E), and multiservice operational test and evaluation (MOT&E). Testing for
        Acquisition Category (ACAT) I, IA, and II, major ACAT III system upgrades, and
        systems on the Office of Secretary of Defense (OSD) T&E Oversight list is normally
        conducted by Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center (AFOTEC) (the Air
        Force service operational test agency [OTA]). Major command (MAJCOM) support is
        often requested by AFOTEC for their OTA-led test efforts. AFOTEC will normally
        conduct I/QOT&E for ACAT I, IA, II, OSD OT&E Oversight, and multi-Service
        acquisition programs. AFOTEC involvement will end at the completion of I/QOT&E if
        no FOT&E is required. AFOTEC may non-involve on a program if mutually agreed upon
        and approved by AF/TE. MAJCOM tests are primarily force development evaluations
        (FDEs) and tactics development and evaluation projects (TD&Es) conducted through the
        US Air Force Warfare Center (USAFWC), 53d Wing (WG), 505th Command and
        Control Wing (CCW), and the Air National Guard Air Force Reserve Command Test
        Center (AATC). Other MAJCOM OT-related activities supported within ACC include
        operational assessments (OAs), operational utility evaluations (OUEs), foreign materiel
        exploitations (FMEs), foreign comparative tests (FCTs), and test support for technology
        transition mechanisms. Technology transition mechanisms include advanced technology
505CCWI99-101 25 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                              3


     demonstrations (ATDs), advanced concept technology demonstrations (ACTDs)/joint
     concept technology demonstrations (JCTDs), and experiments.
  1.3. T&E GUIDANCE. The 505 CCW supports test efforts across the spectrum of a
  system’s life cycle for many organizations, including developmental efforts of Air Force
  Materiel Command (AFMC) program executive offices (PEOs) and Air Force Research
  Laboratory (AFRL); and operational testing with AFOTEC, AATC, 53 WG, other major
  commands (MAJCOMs), as well as other services’ OT&E efforts. AFI 99-103 tasks each
  MAJCOM’s designated test organization to establish disciplined processes for planning and
  executing T&E activities. This document, along with ACCI 99-101, ACC Test and
  Evaluation, USAFWCI 99-103, USAFWC Test and Evaluation, and the 505 TEG Test Team
  Handbook, establishes the direction and processes for conducting 505 CCW testing,
  regardless of ACAT, to include non-ACAT programs, unless specifically excluded by this
  directive or by other applicable higher headquarters direction. ACC/A8TT is the ACC office
  responsible for testing and office of primary responsibility (OPR) for ACCI 99-101.
  USAFWC/A5 is the USAFWC office for testing and is responsible for USAFWCI 99-103.
2. WING MISSION AND TEST RESPONSIBILITIES
  2.1. Mission.
     2.1.1. The 505 CCW. The mission of the 505 CCW is to improve warfighter capability
     through command and control (C2) testing, tactics development, and training. The wing
     is organized into two groups: the 505th Training Group (TRG) and 505th Test and
     Evaluation Group (TEG). The 505 TEG is the principal point of contact (POC) for
     managing and executing wing-assigned test programs.
     2.1.2. The 505 TEG. The mission of the 505 TEG is to advance the integration of air,
     space, and cyber capabilities into the C2 construct through operational testing, training,
     evaluation, and tactics development of air defense radar networks, theater air control
     system elements, and intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) weapon
     systems and to enhance data sharing among these systems. The 505 TEG acts as the
     wing’s POC with USAFWC, HQ ACC, AFOTEC, and other DoD and contractor
     organizations for executing Air Force test requirements with future and ongoing wing
     tests and real-world efforts.         The 505 TEG is responsible for planning;
     coordinating/managing resources; developing support plans/agreements; monitoring
     execution; gathering and analyzing data; and preparing and publishing plans, reports,
     fielding recommendations, and interim documents for all 505 CCW operational testing.
     The 505 TEG is responsible for ensuring personnel are trained in required test
     management skills. The 505 TEG is comprised of four squadrons to accomplish its
     mission:
         2.1.2.1. The 505th Test Squadron (505 TS). The mission of the 505 TS is to rapidly
         resolve C2 and ISR integration and interoperability challenges through innovation,
         TTP development, and OT of the joint and service data network for combat
         identification, advanced programs, and emerging capabilities, as well as provide
         combined air and space operations center (CAOC) training to ensure fully trained
         joint, service, and multinational C2 warfighters at the operational level of war.
4                                                      505CCWI99-101 25 SEPTEMBER 2012


           2.1.2.2. The 605th Test and Evaluation Squadron (605 TES). The mission of the 605
           TES is to conduct tactics development and operational test of systems that operate
           within the command and control, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance
           (C2ISR) construct, including airborne warning and control system (AWACS), joint
           surveillance target attack radar system (Joint STARS), AOC, tactical air control party
           (TACP), control and reporting center (CRC), and distributed common ground station
           (DCGS) in order to optimize their combat capability.
           2.1.2.3. The 84th Radar Evaluation Squadron (84 RADES). The mission of the 84
           RADES is to provide the warfighter responsive world-wide radar-centric planning,
           optimization, and constant T&E to create the most sensitive integrated radar picture.
           2.1.2.4. The 705th Combat Training Squadron (705 CTS). The mission of the 705
           CTS is to develop, integrate, and deliver a virtual air, space, and cyber warfare
           environment for Air Force, joint, and coalition combat training, test, and
           experimentation.
    2.2. Responsibilities.
       2.2.1. The 505 CCW/CC will:
           2.2.1.1. When appropriate, conduct T&E in a joint environment to the maximum
           extent possible.
           2.2.1.2. Conduct T&E over the life of a system to ensure it continues to meet user
           requirements and to explore nonmaterial means of satisfying deficiencies.
           2.2.1.3. Conduct testing in as realistic operational environment as possible to
           determine system operational effectiveness and suitability in accordance with (IAW)
           public law and OSD, Air Force, and ACC policy.
           2.2.1.4. Require all test articles (to include support equipment, software,
           government-furnished equipment [GFE]) be as production-representative as possible
           IAW public law and OSD and Air Force policy.
           2.2.1.5. Conduct OT to refine estimates, evaluate changes, and verify correction of
           deficiencies, assist in TTP development, and evaluate a system to ensure it meets
           operational needs.
           2.2.1.6. Support IOT&E, QOT&E, and FOT&E IAW ACCI 99-101.
           2.2.1.7. Provide safe, effective, and efficient conduct of all testing within the wing.
           2.2.1.8. Be approval authority, unless otherwise delegated, for forwarding all test
           plans, reports, and fielding recommendations for tests that are on OSD oversight, that
           support MAJCOM-managed acquisition program decisions and milestones, or are a
           505 CCW/CC special interest test.
           2.2.1.9. Be approval authority, unless otherwise delegated, for the annual test priority
           list (TPL) status report.


       2.2.2. The 505 CCW safety officer will:
505CCWI99-101 25 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                           5


        2.2.2.1. Provide a safety representative to support each test team when requested by
        the project manager.
        2.2.2.2. Review and coordinate on test plans for safety considerations and ORM as
        required.
        2.2.2.3. Attend wing combined readiness reviews.
     2.2.3. The 505 CCW/TA will:
        2.2.3.1. Provide subject matter expertise to 505 CCW/CC regarding wing test
        activities, including documentation review as requested by 505 CCW/CC.
        2.2.3.2. Review test plans, reports, and fielding recommendations for 505 CCW/CC
        that are on OSD oversight, that support MAJCOM-managed acquisition program
        decisions and milestones, or are a 505 CCW/CC special interest test.
        2.2.3.3. Review the annual TPL status report for 505 CCW/CC.
        2.2.3.4. Review fielding recommendations and all test plans and reports that support
        MAJCOM-managed acquisition program decisions and milestones prior to 505
        CCW/CC coordination/ approval.
        2.2.3.5. Review changes and contribute inputs to T&E instructions, policy, and
        guidance, frequently consolidating 505 TEG and 505 TRG inputs with 505 CCW/TA
        recommendations to submit as a single 505 CCW input.
        2.2.3.6. Serve as the 505 CCW/CC’s advisor to improve use of science and
        technology in test and training.
        2.2.3.7. Serve as the 505 CCW/CC’s advisor for strategic planning of test and
        training events.
        2.2.3.8. Identify wing opportunities for cross domain integration and involvement in
        joint activities (i.e., joint test and evaluations (JT&Es)).
        2.2.3.9. Serve as the T&E technical interface with USAFWC, HQ ACC, other
        MAJCOMs/ agencies, HQ AF, and OSD for technical issues that impact the 505
        CCW mission.
        2.2.3.10. Serve as the 505 CCW science and technology focal point for test-related
        topics.
     2.2.4. The 505 TEG/CC will:
        2.2.4.1. Provide test guidance for planning, coordinating resources, developing
        support plans/ agreements, monitoring execution, gathering and analyzing data,
        preparing and publishing plans, reports, fielding recommendations, and interim
        documents for the majority of 505 CCW operational testing.
        2.2.4.2. Approve test plans, reports, and test and evaluation master plans (TEMPs)
        for programs not on OSD oversight or identified as 505 CCW/CC special interest test.
        2.2.4.3. Approve 505 TEG response to ACC tasking documents (i.e., electronic
        project orders (EPO), TRPs, requests for test conduct or support, etc.).
6                                                    505CCWI99-101 25 SEPTEMBER 2012


          2.2.4.4. Ensure accurate and complete quarterly and annual test status reports are
          provided to ACC in a timely manner.
          2.2.4.5. Monitor defense acquisition programs, when directed, and manage HQ
          ACC-directed T&E approved by 505 CCW/CC.
          2.2.4.6. Support testing conducted by other agencies, as directed by HQ ACC.
          2.2.4.7. Ensure an annual financial plan, including resources required, for each
          projected test is generated.
          2.2.4.8. Ensure a test concept review is performed for all wing-conducted tests.
          2.2.4.9. Ensure a test execution review IAW 505 TEG Test Team Handbook is
          conducted prior to dedicated wing-conducted OT&E events.
          2.2.4.10. Develop and maintain a set of metrics on test operations.
          2.2.4.11. Ensure a certification of readiness for OT is received IAW AFM 63-119
          prior to test execution when required.
    2.2.5. The 505 TEG/TTO will:
          2.2.5.1. Serve as the group focal point for all test tasking from and reporting to HQ
          ACC.
          2.2.5.2. Serve as the direct liaison authority with ACC/A8TT and USAFWC/A5 and
          the wing focal point for test team training.
          2.2.5.3. Coordinate the review and updates of project prioritizations on the ACC
          TPL.
          2.2.5.4. Participate in the HQ ACC Tactics Review Board (TRB) and TPL integrated
          product team (IPT) conferences.
       2.2.5.5. Ensure all test documents (EPOs, plans, reports, fielding recommendations,
       TRPs, TEMPs, etc.) are coordinated with other group, safety, wing, and higher
       headquarters (HHQ) offices, as applicable.
          2.2.5.6. Ensure all published technical documents (i.e., test plans, final reports) are
          assigned a document number by scientific and technical information (STINFO)
          procedures according to the guidance in AFI 61-201, The Local Scientific and
          Technical Information Process and AFI 61-202, USAF Technical Publications
          Program.
          2.2.5.7. Manage the development and sustainment of the group test management
          system.
          2.2.5.8. Ensure all wing taskings are prioritized appropriately based on the ACC Test
          Prioritization List.
          2.2.5.9. Ensure all 505 CCW test documents on the wing home page on the
          SIPRNET website are password-protected website after approval.
          2.2.5.10. Organize consolidated test VTCs as needed and supply read-aheads to
          participants at least 24 hours prior.
505CCWI99-101 25 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                                 7


        2.2.5.11. Develop 505 CCW test training course curriculum and conduct annual
        curriculum reviews.
        2.2.5.12. Conduct 505 CCW test training IAW the 505 TEG Test Team Handbook.
        2.2.5.13. Maintain the 505 TEG Test Team Handbook and review annually.
        2.2.5.14. Consolidate inputs to this instruction and review and update every 2 years.
        Publish and disseminate interim changes as required upon 505 CCW/CC approval.
     2.2.6. Squadron/detachment commanders will:
        2.2.6.1. Appoint test team members as appropriate for each wing-conducted, wing-
        supported, or wing-monitored test project.
        2.2.6.2. Ensure all personnel supporting test operations are trained before assuming
        unsupervised duties in their test specialty.
        2.2.6.3. Ensure valid repeatable written test cases/procedures are used from test
        design through test execution and in test reporting.
        2.2.6.4. Establish a process for unit leadership review of all test documents.
        2.2.6.5. Prepare an annual financial plan including resources required for each
        projected test.
        2.2.6.6. Monitor the progress of assigned tests.
     2.2.7. Project manager (PM) will:
        2.2.7.1. Be assigned as the 505 CCW’s single POC for each project assigned to the
        wing.
        2.2.7.2. Develop an EPO. As required, ensure (in coordination with TEG/TTO) the
        EPO is updated with significant information.
        2.2.7.3. Assemble a team to conduct the test activities required to meet mission
        needs.
        2.2.7.4. Confirm all test team members are adequately trained to execute their
        specific roles in assigned test missions.
        2.2.7.5. Establish an electronic records management (ERM) case folder for the
        project and maintain it IAW the 505 TEG Test Team Handbook.
        2.2.7.6. Ensure the adequacy and completeness of test planning. Ensure a
        comprehensive safety/operational risk management (ORM) analysis is prepared and
        summary results are included in the test plan.
        2.2.7.7. Identify and coordinate resources required for the test project. Obtain
        coordination of information contained within the test plans with other commands,
        services, or agencies for facilities, ranges, aircraft, personnel, logistics, engineering,
        funding, or information support.
        2.2.7.8. Ensure the test concept briefings and test execution review, as applicable, are
        prepared and presented to the appropriate commanders.
8                                                     505CCWI99-101 25 SEPTEMBER 2012


          2.2.7.9. Ensure an environmental impact analysis is completed and approved before
          any decision to start testing, as required. Where needed, submit AF Form 813 to the
          appropriate environmental office for analysis.
          2.2.7.10. Develop and publish the test plan or test support plan, as required.
          2.2.7.11. Conduct the test according to the approved test plan and ensure critical
          operational issues (COI) or test objectives are addressed.
          2.2.7.12. Ensure information is current and accurate for all assigned tests in the
          approved group management system.
          2.2.7.13. Prepare a final report within 60 of the last data analysis effort. When test
          schedule prevents accomplishment of a final report in a timely manner, an interim
          summary report/fielding recommendation should be provided to the sponsoring
          agency (ACC, AFISRA, etc).
          2.2.7.14. Prepare a fielding or release recommendation, when required, to meet
          acquisition/MAJCOM requirements.
          2.2.7.15. Submit test-derived TTP to the appropriate customer within 30 days of the
          approved test report, as applicable.
          2.2.7.16. Ensure a road show briefing is prepared within 30 days of test report
          approval for any test that results in a fielding recommendation, supports MAJCOM-
          managed acquisition program decisions and milestones, or provides TTP for
          operational use.
          2.2.7.17. Conduct integrated test team (ITT) meetings to facilitate test execution.
          2.2.7.18. Participate in test integrated product teams (TIPT), as required.
3. TEST MANAGEMENT AND TEAM COMPOSITION
    3.1. Test Categories. The 505 CCW is annually assigned a variety of tests by ACC. These
    tests are broken into three main categories.
       3.1.1. Wing Conducted. Wing-conducted tests identify the 505 CCW as the lead test
       agency and are managed by a 505 CCW-assigned PM. The PM is responsible for project
       planning, execution, and final reporting.
       3.1.2. Wing Supported. Wing-supported tests are managed or conducted by other lead
       test agencies (AATC, 530 WG, AFMC, AFOTEC, etc.) with close involvement by an
       assigned 505 CCW PM. The 505 CCW PM is responsible for writing a test support plan
       and coordinating 505 CCW support for the lead test agency as directed in the ACC EPO.
       The 505 CCW/CC may waive developing a formal test support plan if the lead test
       agency plan adequately delineates 505 CCW participation.
       3.1.3. Wing Monitored. A wing monitored test requires no dedicated 505 CCW test
       support. The wing either monitors another agency’s testing or monitors early progress or
       planning of a project in anticipation of a future test. No test support plan or report is
       required.
505CCWI99-101 25 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                                9


  3.2. T&E Funding.
     3.2.1. Funding for wing-conducted testing may come from several sources. Test
     baseline funding is obtained through the ACC budget process which yields an initial
     distribution from HQ ACC to the 505 CCW and ultimately to the 505 TEG and
     subordinate squadrons. Other agencies providing funding for wing-conducted or
     supported tests include, but are not limited to program executive offices (PEOs), HQ
     ACC, Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL), other MAJCOMs, or other services. The
     method for these organizations to provide funding will be coordinated with the PM and
     the applicable budget analyst/resource advisor (RA). Organizations requesting 505 CCW
     support for their testing (AFOTEC, Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC), AATC, 53
     WG, etc.) will normally fund all the 505 CCW support required for the test.
     3.2.2. The 505 TEG is responsible for budgeting resources required to accomplish T&E
     responsibilities. Administrative costs to run each squadron or detachment (e.g.,
     computers, office supplies, phones) should be budgeted separately from specific T&E
     activities and submitted upon 505 CCW's call for execution plans. Test units are
     responsible for submitting test-specific funding requirements through the EPO process,
     outlining the test description, its purpose, required resources to accomplish the test, and
     the scope of the effort for each test program by fiscal year and type of funds. After the
     EPO is approved, PMs will provide funding data to the unit RA/budget analyst for
     budgeting/tracking.
  3.3. Test Team Composition. Each 505 CCW test is conducted using a team effort led by
  the PM. The test team includes a variety of expertise to include, but not limited to, personnel
  knowledgeable in the systems/capabilities being tested, analysts, and support personnel. Unit
  commanders must ensure personnel assigned to a test team are trained to perform the duties
  required for support of test operations IAW the 505 TEG Test Team Handbook.
     3.3.1. PM. The PM is the single focal point within the 505 CCW for a particular test.
     Normally, the PM will be a government employee (military or civilian). The 505
     TEG/CC may waive this requirement on a case-by-case basis. The PM will direct the test
     team and assign responsibilities to ensure all aspects of planning, execution, and
     reporting are accomplished. See paragraph 2.3.7 for additional PM responsibilities.
     3.3.2. Rated Project Officer (RPO). Tests involving upgrades to aircraft systems or
     significant changes to TTP may require an RPO be assigned to the test team. RPOs will
     be pilots, combat systems operators, or air battle management officers currently qualified
     in their aircraft. The RPO will be the team expert on aircraft systems, operations, and
     tactical employment. The operational test organization (OTO) squadron commander will
     review the test concept for 505 CCW-conducted tests requiring flying operations and
     determine if an RPO is required.
     3.3.3. Operations Analyst (OA). The OA is responsible for a valid test design and
     collects, correlates, and analyzes data. The OA ensures adequate data (quantity and
     quality) are collected, validated, and analyzed to determine the sufficiency of measures of
     effectiveness (MOE), measures of suitability (MOS), and measures of performance
     (MOP) for reporting purposes. The OA implements the appropriate test planning
     methodology. After collaborating with other test team members, the OA leads data
10                                                   505CCWI99-101 25 SEPTEMBER 2012


     analysis efforts, determines appropriate inferences, and provides information to support
     test reporting requirements.
     3.3.4. Test Director (TD). The TD is responsible for step-by-step execution of the test.
     The PM normally fulfills this role.
     3.3.5. Operational Suitability Analyst (OSA). OSAs ensure operational suitability test
     objectives adequately reflect system requirements and support fielding recommendations.
     The final report will reflect the test team’s concerns with respect to system suitability
     (reliability, availability, maintainability, and other suitability factors).
     3.3.6. Mission Control Room Personnel. A control room is defined as any facility,
     ground or airborne, which provides two-way communications with the aircrew and real-
     time capability to monitor safety of flight, quality of test data, or flight termination
     system information. For the purposes of this instruction, essential control room personnel
     are test directors and test conductors, as well as designated subject matter experts (SMEs)
     whose active presence in the control room is essential to safety of flight or mission
     success.
4. TEST PROCESS
  4.1. Test Phases. The test phases for most projects assigned to the 505 CCW are project
  initiation, planning, execution, reporting, and close out.
  4.2. Project Initiation. The ACC TPL contains all assigned projects for the current fiscal
  year, prioritized by the ACC staff, and approved by ACC/A8. ACC begins drafting the next
  fiscal year’s TPL in February as part of ACC’s preparation of the “in-cycle” process. These
  projects are submitted to ACC/A8TT during its annual call-for-tests by the ACC staff,
  AFMC, AFOTEC, other services or commands, and other agencies requiring ACC testing or
  test support. ACC compiles the list of tests and submits it to the ACC test agencies for
  drafting the EPOs. All projects are assigned to the 505 CCW through an approved EPO.
  Draft EPOs are submitted to ACC and the TPL is staffed for coordination and approval.
  Projects not identified during this “in-cycle” process are handled individually during the year
  as “out-of-cycle” tests. ACC/A8TT sends a message to the responsible test agency
  describing the test, requesting the agency determine its ability to conduct/support the test,
  and directing preparation of an EPO if it intends to conduct/support the test. This process is
  detailed in ACCI 99-101.
  4.3. Planning. Thorough planning is the key to a successful test project. While plans are not
  expected to be perfect, they must provide enough detail to allow the test team and leadership
  to schedule and fund resources, coordinate resources provided by other units, and safely
  manage the project. At a minimum, PMs are required to update the group-approved
  management system with comments and milestone updates on a biweekly basis during the
  planning phase.
  4.4. Execution. The PM will manage the test team to ensure test events are executed IAW
  the plan and the test item configurations are correct. Testing will not begin without an
  approved EPO, a signed test/support plan, and an approved test safety/ORM review unless a
  waiver has been granted by 505 TEG/CC. Test team OAs, OSAs, and data collection
  personnel must play lead roles in test monitoring to resolve issues and to ensure valid and
  sufficient data are being collected. Analysts will analyze test data throughout the execution
505CCWI99-101 25 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                                 11


  phase using appropriate methodology and analytical tools. They will determine if additional
  or different testing is required. The PM will begin drafting any required test reports during
  the execution phase.
  4.5. Reporting. Final reports are required for wing-conducted and -integrated tests unless
  otherwise coordinated and approved by 505 TEG/CC. The reporting phase starts after the
  last test event which is normally defined as the last data analysis event. PMs are required to
  enter comments and milestone updates in the group approved management system on a
  biweekly basis during the reporting phase.
     4.5.1. PMs will use the 505 CCW-approved final report sample formats found in the 505
     TEG Test Team Handbook. Deviations from these formats will be addressed by the PM
     in the final report coordination package. The PM will submit the final report package for
     coordination and approval with sufficient lead time to ensure the report is at the approval
     authority’s office not later than 60 calendar days after the last data collection event. Final
     reports on OSD oversight must be to the wing commander 60 calendar days prior to the
     acquisition decision review being supported to meet AFI 99-103 requirements. PMs are
     responsible for disseminating reports to the appropriate ACC office or other interested
     agencies. Dissemination may entail only providing notification-of-posting on the 505
     CCW Test Plans and Reports SIPRNET website with the information needed to access
     the report.
     4.5.2. Wing-supported tests may require a final report or data package as agreed to by
     the 505 CCW PM. At a minimum, the PM will provide a memorandum to the wing
     commander, signed by the unit commander, detailing the support provided. In the
     memorandum, PMs do not need to include specific test results or judgments, but should
     limit the report to general information regarding timeline, resources expended, and unit
     responsible for providing the final report.
     4.5.3. Following report/memorandum approval, the 505 TEG/TTO will ensure the signed
     document is posted on the 505 CCW Test Plans and Reports SIPRNET website.
  4.6. Project Closeout. After the project is completed (final report or signed MFR), the PM
  will make final updates in the group approved management system and advise the
  505 TEG/TTO to place the project in “Complete” status.
     4.6.1. Road Shows/Field Training. Road shows may be required in order to provide
     initial training to operational personnel on new software, equipment, and TTP.
     4.6.2. Case Folder Disposition. Following a project closeout, the PM will review the
     ERM-based project case folder and delete nonessential correspondence and
     documentation. Data analysis results will remain in the ERM case folder along with a
     copy of the EPO, test/support plan with all amendments, and all reports. All test
     personnel will maintain documentation IAW guidance found in AFRIMS Table T99-02,
     Rule 2.03 (accessed through the AF Portal).




                                            MUSTAFA R. KOPRUCU, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
 12                                               505CCWI99-101 25 SEPTEMBER 2012


                                    ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-322, Records Management Program, 7 October 2003
AFMAN 33-361, Publishing Processes and Procedures, 10 December 2007
Prescribed Forms
AF Form 673, Air Force Publication/Form Action Request
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AATC —Air National Guard Air Force Reserve Command Test Center
ACAT —acquisition category
ACC —Air Combat Command
AFC2IC—Air Force Command and Control Integration Center
AFMC-Air Force Materiel Command
AFOTEC—Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ATD—advanced technology demonstration
ATEC—Army Test and Evaluation Command
C&LR—capabilities and limitations report
CCW—command and control wing
COI—critical operational issue
COTS—commercial off-the-shelf
CTF—combined test force
CTS—combat training squadron
DOT&E—Director, Operational Test and Evaluation
DR—deficiency report
DT&E—electronic records management
FCT—foreign comparative test
FME—force development evaluation
FME—foreign materiel exploitation
FOT&E—follow-on operational test and evaluation
505CCWI99-101 25 SEPTEMBER 2012                              13


GFE—government-furnished equipment
HPT—high-performance team
HHQ—higher headquarters
IOT&E—initial operational test and evaluation
IPT—integrated product team
ITT—integrated test team
JCTD—joint capability technology demonstration
JT&E—joint test and evaluation
JTTP—joint tactics, techniques, and procedures
LFT&E—live fire test and evaluation
MAJCOM—major command
MCOTEA—Marine Corps Operational Test and Evaluation Agency
MDAP—major defense acquisition program
MFR—memorandum for record
MOE—measure of effectiveness
MOP—measure of performance
MOT&E—multiservice operational test and evaluation
NDI—nondevelopmental item
OA—operations analyst or operational assessment
OPTEVFOR—Operational Test and Evaluation Force (Navy)
ORM—operational risk management
OSA—operational suitability analyst
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
OT—operational test
OT&E—operational test and evaluation
OTA—operational test agency
OTO—operational test organization
OUE—operational utility evaluation
PEO—program executive office
PM—project manager
POC—point of contact
PTO—participating test organization
 14                                                505CCWI99-101 25 SEPTEMBER 2012


QOT&E—qualification operational test and evaluation
RA—resource advisor
RADES—radar evaluation squadron
RPO—rated project officer
RTO—responsible test organization
SIPRNET—Secret internet protocol router network
SOTR—sufficiency of operational test review
STINFO—scientific and technical information
T&E—test and evaluation
TD—test director
TD&E—tactics development and evaluation
TEG—test and evaluation group
TEMP—test and evaluation master plan
TES—test and evaluation squadron
TIPT—test integrated product team
TPL—test priority list
TRB—tactics review board
TRP—test resource plan
TS—test squadron
TTP—tactics, techniques, and procedures
USAFWC—United States Air Force Warfare Center
WG—wing

Terms
Acquisition Category (ACAT)— Acquisition categories determine the level of review, decision
authority, and applicable T&E policies and procedures. They facilitate decentralized decision
making and execution, and compliance with statutorily imposed requirements.               See
DoDI 5000.02, enclosure 3, for details.
Advanced Technology Demonstrations (ATD).— These are advanced development efforts
used to meet the needs of employment concepts and capability requirements through “proof of
principle” demonstrations in operationally realistic environments.
Capabilities and Limitations Report (C&LR)— Warfighter operational needs may require
rapid or early fielding of new capabilities before operational testing is completed. The C&LR
provides the most current OT perspective on developmental system capabilities and limitations
based on testing to date. C&LRs will be based on existing, verifiable T&E data (contractor,
505CCWI99-101 25 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                                 15


developmental, and operational) derived from all available system development, ground, and
flight test activities. A C&LR does not obviate the requirement for dedicated OT&E.
Critical Operational Issue (COI). 1. Operational effectiveness and operational suitability issues
(not parameters, objectives, or thresholds) that must be examined during operational testing to
determine the system capability to perform its mission. 2. A key question that must be
examined in operational test and evaluation to determine system capability to perform its
mission. Testers normally phrase a COI as a question to be answered in evaluating a system
operational effectiveness or suitability.
Dedicated Operational Testing— OT&E conducted independently from contractors,
developers, and operating commands and used to support production or fielding decisions.
Deficiency Report (DR)— The report used to identify, document, and track system deficiency
or enhancement data while a system is in advanced development, OT, or operational transition.
Category (CAT) I DRs— Those which could cause death, severe injury, severe occupational
illness, major loss or damage, or directly restrict combat or operational readiness if left
uncorrected.
CAT II DRs— are those which do not meet the criteria of a CAT I DR. They are attributable to
errors in workmanship, nonconformance to specifications, drawing standards, or other technical
requirements; or identify a problem for potential improvement or enhancement.
Enhancements are a type of CAT II DR which identifies conditions that complement but are not
absolutely required for successful mission accomplishment. The recommended condition, if
incorporated, will improve system operational effectiveness or suitability.
Developmental Test and Evaluation (DT&E)— T&E conducted to evaluate design
approaches, validate analytical models, quantify contract technical performance and
manufacturing quality, measure progress in system engineering design and development,
minimize design risks, predict integrated system operational performance (effectiveness and
suitability) in the intended environment, and identify system problems (or deficiencies) to allow
early and timely resolution. DT&E includes contractor testing and is conducted over the life of
the system to support acquisition and sustainment efforts.
Follow—On Operational Test and Evaluation (FOT&E) - The continuation of IOT&E or
QOT&E activities past the full-rate production decision. FOT&E answers specific questions
about unresolved COIs or completes areas not finished during the IOT&E or QOT&E. It ensures
the initial system acquisition process is complete.
Force Development Evaluation (FDE)— The OT&E of fielded, operational systems during the
sustainment portion of the system life cycle after acceptance for operational use. The focus is on
maintaining or upgrading operational systems after the initial acquisition process is complete.
An FDE also supports acquisition of MAJCOM-managed systems.
Foreign Comparative Test (FCT)— A T&E program centrally managed by OSD which
provides funding for US T&E of selected equipment items and technologies developed by allied
or friendly countries when such items or technologies are identified as having good potential to
satisfy valid DoD requirements.
 16                                                  505CCWI99-101 25 SEPTEMBER 2012


Foreign Materiel Exploitation (FME)— FME projects are used to examine weapon systems
used by foreign countries and testing is generally focused on determining capabilities and
countermeasures.
High—Performance Team (HPT) - An AF/A5RD facilitated team used to develop capabilities-
based requirements documents. An HPT consists of a lead (normally the sponsor), core team
(ideally 7-11 members, consisting of SMEs from the Air Force, government agencies, and other
Services as required) and support team members. The HPT accelerates the documentation
process and increases the potential for a quality document. Its overarching objective is to
capture, articulate, and document the operator’s requirements in minimum time, while achieving
stakeholder buy-in. The HPT leverages the expertise of all stakeholders by inviting them to
participate in the development of the document.
Initial Operational Test and Evaluation (IOT&E)— See OT&E.
Integrated Test Team (ITT)— A cross-functional team of empowered representatives from
multiple disciplines and organizations and co-chaired by operational testers and the program
manager. The ITT is responsible for developing the T&E strategy and TEMP, assisting the
acquisition community with T&E matters, and guiding the development of integrated test plans.
There is one ITT for each acquisition program.
Integrated Testing— The collaborative planning and execution of test phases and events to
provide shared data in support of independent analysis, evaluation, and reporting by all
stakeholders, particularly developmental (both contractor and government) and operational test
and evaluation communities.
Joint Capability Technology Demonstration (JCTD)— A demonstration of the military utility
of a significant new technology and an assessment to clearly establish operational utility and
system integrity
Joint Test and Evaluation (JT&E)— An OSD-sponsored T&E program conducted among
more than one military service to provide T&E information on combat operations issues and
concepts for the purpose of writing and publishing joint tactics, techniques, and procedures
(JTTP). JT&E does not support system acquisition.
Logistics Supportability— The degree to which the planned logistics support allows the system
to meet its availability and wartime use requirements. Planned logistics support includes the
following: test, measurement, and diagnostic equipment; spare and repair parts; technical data;
support facilities; transportation requirements; training; manpower; and software.
Maintainability— The capability of an item to be retained in or restored to a specified
condition when maintenance is performed by personnel having specified skill levels using
prescribed procedures and routines at each prescribed level of maintenance and repair.
Measurable— Having qualitative or quantitative attributes (e.g., dimensions, velocity,
capabilities) that can be ascertained and compared to known standards. (See Testable.)
Measure of Effectiveness (MOE)— A qualitative or quantitative measure of system
performance or characteristic that indicates the degree to which it performs the task or meets a
requirement under specified conditions. MOE should be established to measure system
capability to produce or accomplish the desired result.
505CCWI99-101 25 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                                     17


Measure of Performance (MOP)— A quantitative measure of system capability to accomplish
a task, typically in the area of physical performance (e.g., range, velocity, throughput, payload).
Measure of Suitability (MOS)— A qualitative or quantitative measure of system readiness to
be placed and sustained satisfactorily in the field with primary areas of interest being reliability,
availability, and maintainability (RAM).
Multiservice Operational Test and Evaluation (MOT&E)— OT&E conducted by two or
more service OTAs for systems acquired by more than one service. MOT&E is conducted
according to the T&E directives of the lead OTA or as agreed in a memorandum of agreement
between the participants.
Objective— An operationally significant increment above the threshold. An objective value
may be the same as the threshold when an increment above the threshold is not operationally
significant or useful.
Operational Assessment (OA)— An analysis of potential operational effectiveness and
operational suitability made by an independent OT activity with operator support as required on
other than production systems. The focus of an operational assessment is on significant trends
noted in development efforts, programmatic voids, areas of risk, adequacy of requirements, and
the capability of the program to support adequate OT. OAs may be conducted at any time using
technology demonstrators, prototypes, mockups, engineering development models, or
simulations but will not substitute for the dedicated OT&E necessary to support full production
decisions.
Operational Effectiveness— Measure of the overall ability to accomplish a mission when used
by representative personnel in the environment planned or expected for operational employment
of the system considering organization, doctrine, tactics, supportability, survivability,
vulnerability, and threat.
Operational Suitability— The degree to which a system can be placed and sustained
satisfactorily in field use with consideration given to availability, compatibility, transportability,
interoperability, reliability, wartime use rates, maintainability, safety, human factors, habitability,
manpower, logistics, supportability, logistics supportability, natural environmental effects, and
impacts, documentation, and training requirements.
Operational Test and Evaluation (OT&E)— 1. The field test, under realistic combat
conditions, of any item of (or key component of) weapons, equipment, or munitions for the
purpose of determining the effectiveness and suitability of the weapons, equipment, or munitions
for use in combat by typical military users and the evaluation of the results of such test. (Title 10
§139(a)(2).) 2. T&E conducted in as realistic an operational environment as possible to estimate
the operational effectiveness and operational suitability of the prospective system. In addition,
OT&E provides information on organization, personnel requirements, doctrine, and tactics. It
also may provide data to support or verify material in operating instructions, publications, and
handbooks.
Operational Test Organization (OTO)— The OT organization that has the responsibility to
plan, execute, and report on a test. There may be other OTOs from within the Air Force or other
services that support the test or may conduct specific phases of the test.
 18                                                  505CCWI99-101 25 SEPTEMBER 2012


Operational Utility Evaluation (OUE)— OUEs are a highly streamlined, tailored OT&E
activity designed to obtain a quick-look assessment of military capabilities and limitations.
OUEs are specifically limited in time and scope and will not afford the same rigor as an IOT&E.
OUEs will only be used when an IOT&E, QOT&E, or FOT&E cannot be tailored to meet
unusual test program needs. OUEs cannot be used to replace IOT&E, QOT&E, or FOT&E.
AFOTEC or the MAJCOM OTA conducts OUEs.
Operational Test Agency (OTA)— An independent agency reporting directly to the service
chief that plans and conducts OTs, reports results, and provides evaluations of effectiveness and
suitability on new systems. NOTE. Each Service has one designated OTA: The Air Force has
AFOTEC. The Navy has the Operational Test and Evaluation Force (OPTEVFOR). The Army
has the Army Test and Evaluation Command (ATEC). The Marine Corps has the Marine Corps
Operational Test and Evaluation Agency (MCOTEA).
Operator— Refers to the operating command which is the primary command operating a
system, subsystem, or item of equipment. Generally applies to those operational commands or
organizations designated by HQ Air Force to conduct or participate in operations or operational
testing (interchangeable with the term “using command” or “user.”) In other forums, the term
“warfighter” or “customer” is often used.
Oversight— Senior executive-level monitoring and review of programs to ensure compliance
with policy and attainment of broad program goals.
Oversight Program— A program on the OSD T&E Oversight List for DT&E, live fire test and
evaluation (LFT&E), or OT&E. The list includes all ACAT I (major defense acquisition
program (MDAP)) programs, ACAT II (major system) programs, and any other programs
selected for OSD T&E Oversight. These programs require additional documentation and have
additional review, reporting, and approval requirements.
Participating Test Organization (PTO)— Any test organization required to support a lead test
organization by providing specific T&E data or resources for a T&E program or activity.
Qualification Operational Test and Evaluation (QOT&E)— A tailored type of IOT&E
performed on systems for which there is little to no research and development test and evaluation
(RDT&E)-funded development effort. Commercial off-the-shelf (COTS), nondevelopmental
items (NDI), and GFE are tested in this manner.
Reliability— The capability of a system and its parts to perform its mission without failure,
degradation, or demand on the support system.
Responsible Test Organization (RTO)—                The lead government developmental test
organization on the ITT that is qualified to conduct and be responsible for overseeing DT&E
Sufficiency of Operational Test Review (SOTR)— For some programs of limited scope and
complexity, system development testing, or integrated developmental and OT events may
provide adequate operational test data to support MAJCOM fielding OT may consist of a review
of existing data rather than a separate, dedicated OT event. The SOTR may only be used to
inform MAJCOM or user system fielding decisions. It may not be used as the sole source of OT
information for any type of acquisition milestone or production decisions. The SOTR may not
be used for acquisition milestone decisions associated with OSD OT&E Oversight programs
unless approved by DOT&E.
505CCWI99-101 25 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                               19


Survivability— The capability of a system and crew to avoid or withstand a man-made hostile
environment without suffering an abortive impairment of its capability to accomplish its
designated mission. Survivability consists of susceptibility, vulnerability, and recoverability.
Sustainment— 1. The provision of personnel, logistic, and other support required to maintain
and prolong operations or combat until successful accomplishment or revision of the mission or
of the national objective (JP 1-02). 2. The service's capability to maintain operations once
forces are engaged (AFDD 1-2). 3. Activities that sustain systems during the operations and
support phases of the system life cycle. Such activities include any investigative test and
evaluation that extends the useful military life of systems or expands the current performance
envelope or capabilities of fielded systems. Sustainment activities also include T&E for
modifications and upgrade programs and may disclose system or product deficiencies and
enhancements that make further acquisitions necessary.
Tactics Development and Evaluation (TD&E)— TD&E is a tailored type of FDE specifically
designed to further exploit doctrine; system capabilities; and TTP during the sustainment portion
of the system life cycle. TD&Es normally identify nonmaterial solutions to tactical problems or
evaluate better ways to use new or existing systems.
Testable— The attribute of being measurable with available test instrumentation and resources.
NOTE. Testability is a broader concept indicating whether T&E infrastructure capabilities are
available and capable of measuring the parameter. The difference between testable and
measurable may indicate a test limitation. Some requirements may be measurable but not
testable due to T&E infrastructure shortfalls, insufficient funding, safety, or statutory or
regulatory prohibitions.
Test and Evaluation (T&E)— The act of generating empirical data during the research,
development, or sustainment of systems, and the creation of information through analysis that is
useful to technical personnel and decision makers for reducing design and acquisition risks. The
process by which systems are measured against requirements and specifications, and the results
analyzed to gauge progress and provide feedback.
Test and Evaluation Master Plan (TEMP)— Documents the overall structure and objectives
of the T&E program. It provides a framework within which to generate detailed T&E plans and
documents schedule and resource implications associated with the T&E program. The TEMP
identifies the necessary developmental, operational, and live-fire test activities. It relates
program schedule, test management strategy and structure, and required resources to critical
operational issues, critical technical parameters, objectives and thresholds documented in the
requirements document, and milestone decision points.
Test and Evaluation Organization— Any organization whose designated mission includes
T&E.
Test and Evaluation Strategy— The overarching integrated T&E plan for the entire acquisition
program that describes how operational capability requirements will be tested and evaluated in
support of the acquisition strategy. Developed prior to Milestone A, the T&E strategy addresses
modeling and simulation, risk and risk mitigation, and development of support equipment; it also
identifies how system concepts will be evaluated against mission requirements among other
things. The T&E strategy is a precursor to the TEMP.
 20                                                   505CCWI99-101 25 SEPTEMBER 2012


Test Event— Any flight or ground event designed to collect data for the purpose of evaluating
effectiveness, suitability, or TTP in a formal test environment. All test events should be defined
in the test plan.
Test Integrated Product Team (TIPT)— Any temporary group consisting of testers and other
experts who are focused on a specific test issue or problem. There may be multiple TIPTs for
each acquisition program.
Test Limitation— Any condition that hampers but does not preclude adequate test or evaluation
of a critical technical parameter, operational requirement, or critical operational issue during a
T&E program.
Test Team— A group of testers and other experts who carry out integrated testing according to a
specific test plan. NOTE. A combined test force (CTF) is one way to organize a test team for
integrated testing.
Threshold— A minimum acceptable operational value below which the utility of the system
becomes questionable.
Waiver— A decision not to conduct OT&E required by statute or policy.
