BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   507TH AIR REFUELING WING
507 AIR REFUELING WING                                              INSTRUCTION 48-106

                                                                              4 MARCH 2011

                                                                               Medical/Safety

                                                         PREVENTION OF COLD INJURY

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 507 ARW/SE                                                    Certified by: 507 ARW/CV
                                                                      (Col Michael F. Mahon)
                                                                                      Pages: 5


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 48-1, Air and Space
Maintenance, and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 21-101/AFRCSUP1, Aircraft and Equipment
Maintenance Management. It describes guidelines to aid in the management of cold weather
operations at home station or at deployed locations. At deployed location, these guidelines
should be followed when there are not any locally written. These policies and procedures are
established for the prevention of personal injury due to cold exposure and are applicable to
outside operations only. This directive is applicable to all 507 Air Refueling Wing (ARW)
personnel. Refer recommended changes and question about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force Form (AF Form) 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publications, route AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s
chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Record, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

1. POLICY: 507 ARW personnel may be subject to extreme cold weather at home station and
when deployed. Low temperatures coupled with strong winds may produce cold injury to
persons working outside. The policy of the Command is to continue the mission while ensuring
personnel do not receive injuries when working in the cold.
2. INTRODUCTION:
   2.1. Prolonged exposure to cold air, or immersion in cold water, even at temperatures above
   freezing can lead to dangerous hypothermia.
2                                                             507ARWI48-106 4 MARCH 2011


    2.2. Pain in the extremities may be the first early warning of danger to cold stress. During
    exposure to cold, maximum severe shivering develops when the body temperature has fallen
    to 35 degrees Centigrade (96.8 degrees Fahrenheit). Lower body temperatures will very
    likely result in reduced mental alertness, reduction in rational decision making, or loss of
    consciousness with the threat of fatal consequences. Any of the above symptoms must be
    taken as a sign of danger to workers. Exposure should be immediately terminated for any
    workers when severe shivering occurs. Useful physical or mental work becomes limited
    when severe shivering occurs.
3. RESPONSIBILITIES:
    3.1. It is the responsibility of each supervisor to monitor weather conditions before and
    during outdoor activities. Supervisors may obtain weather data from additional sources such
    as the Command Post, MOC, the National Weather Service, websites, local radio and
    television reports. If conditions appear unfavorable or deteriorating, supervisors should
    immediately verify the weather conditions. Any supervisor observing an outdoor operation,
    which is thought to be unsafe due to weather conditions, should immediately stop the
    operation and ask for instructions from the control center or Command Post. Supervisors
    will direct compliance with the policy to make certain all personnel are protected against cold
    weather injury.
    3.2. The supervisor is responsible for training workers to observe co-workers for evidence of
    cold injury and to identify adverse symptoms. The buddy system will be used during periods
    of extremely cold weather. The work rate will not be so high as to produce sweating which
    would result in wet clothing.
4. EVALUATION AND CONTROL:
    4.1. Recommendations given are in accordance with American Conference of Governmental
    Industrial Hygienists (ACGIH) Threshold Limit Values for Chemical Substances and
    Physical Agent and Biological Exposure Indices.
    4.2. Equivalent chill temperature (attachment 1) down to –20 degrees Fahrenheit.
    Supervisors should caution personnel to wear proper clothing and allow personnel the
    freedom to warm themselves often enough to prevent pain and without seriously detracting
    from operational readiness.
    4.3. Equivalent chill temperature between –20 degrees F and –30 degrees F. Personnel
    should work in 30-minute increments. At the end of each 30-minute period, personnel
    should be sent to a warm area until all body areas are returned to normal temperature.
    4.4. Equivalent chill temperature between –31 degrees F and –60 degrees F. Personnel
    should work in 15- minute increments. At the end of each 15-minute period, personnel
    should be sent to a warm area until all body areas are returned to normal temperature.
    4.5. Equivalent chill temperature lower than –60 degrees F. All nonessential mission work
    will cease. Mission and essential work will continue with extreme caution. Personnel will
    be sent to warm areas as often as necessary to prevent frostbite and hypothermia.
    4.6. These limitations are guidelines for supervisors and are to be used with discretion.
5. RECOMMENDED CLOTHING GUIDELINES:
507ARWI48-106 4 MARCH 2011                                                                    3


   5.1. Use of protective clothing is very important to prevent cold weather exposure. The
   following clothing is recommended.
   5.2. Clothing should be loose fitting and layered.
   5.3. Full leg, arm, and body protection with thermal underwear.
   5.4. Footwear and gloves with insulating qualities sufficient to prevent against moisture and
   cold.
   5.5. Head covering including face mask in order to protect the entire head.
   5.6. Cold weather clothing is available to military personnel through individual equipment
   issue. (Retail Sales Section, 72 ABW/LGSME).
   5.7. Civilian employees living in the area are expected to supply their own cold weather
   clothing adequate for completing the mission subject to conditions of employment, except as
   provided for by arbitration decision or authorization specified by applicable USAF Tables of
   Allowance. Failure to comply with the requirements may result in appropriate administrative
   actions.
6. Prescribed and Adopted Forms:
   6.1. Prescribed Forms: None
   6.2. Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publications




                                            JEFFREY GLASS, Colonel, USAFR
                                            Commander
 4                                                     507ARWI48-106 4 MARCH 2011


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 48-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 03 Oct 2005
AFI 21-101_AFRCSup1, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 13 Jan 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Record, 01 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABW— Air Base Wing
ACGIH— American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists
AF— Air Force
AFI— Air Force Instruction
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
ARW— Air Refueling Wing
ARWI— Air Refueling Wing Instruction
CV— Vice Commander
LGSME— Logistics Supply
MOC— Maintenance Operation Center
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS— Records Disposition Schedule
SE— Safety
USAFR— United States Air Force Reserves
507ARWI48-106 4 MARCH 2011                            5


                             Attachment 2
             COOLING POWER OF WIND ON EXPOSED FLESH
