                            DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                             AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND




                                                                      507ARWGM2014-90-01

                                                                                8 October 2014

MEMORANDUM FOR 507 ARW ALL PERSONNEL

FROM: 507 ARW/CC

SUBJECT: 507th Air Refueling Wing Guidance Memorandum to AFI 90-201, The Air Force
          Inspection System

1. By Order of the Commander, 507th Air Refuling Wing, this Guidance Memorandum
immediately supplements AFI 90-201. Compliance with this memorandum is mandatory. To
the extent its directions are inconsistent with other 507 ARW publications, the information
herein prevails, in accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.

2. The specific supplemental provisions to AFI 90-201 are found in the attachment to this
Memorandum. The provisions establish business rules for use of the Management Internal
Control Toolset (MICT) within 507 ARW.

3. This memorandum becomes void after one-year has elapsed from the date of this
memorandum, or upon publication of an Interim Change or rewrite of AFI 90-201, whichever
is earlier.




                                                      BRAIN S. DAVIS, Col, USAFR
                                                      Commander
Attachment:
507 ARW MICT BUSINESS RULES
                                            Attachment

                            507 ARW MICT BUSINESS RULES

   The following are 507 ARW MICT Business Rules developed in accordance with AFI 90-201
para 5.8.2.4.1.3. These Business Rules are applicable to all 507 ARW units managed by the 507
ARW/IGI office.

1. MICT Roles and Responsibilities:
   1.1. Reviewer. This MICT role will have read-only rights to self-assessments as well as
   permissions to run reports applicable to their units.
       1.1.1 Unit Commanders have ultimate responsibility for the accuracy of MICT data.
       1.1.2 Commanders will ensure their units accomplish required self-assessments
       according to the 507 ARW self-assessment schedule.
   1.2 Inspector. This MICT role will be assigned to the 507 ARW Wing Inspection Team
   (WIT) and Wing IG. WIT members will be selected by their leadership and receive
   inspector training by the 507 ARW/IGI. After completion of training, WIT members will be
   certified by the Wing Commander. WIT members will be subject matter experts in their
   area. Inspectors have read-only rights to their applicable checklists. Inspectors will be
   responsible for the following:
       1.2.1 Inspecting self-assessments.
       1.2.2 Assisting unit administrators and assessors.
       1.2.3 Validating Corrective Action Plans (CAPs).
   1.3 Administrator. Each group will appoint at least one MICT administrator.
   Administrators will manage assignments within MICT of personnel and checklists.
   Administrators should be full-time members with extensive knowledge of their unit’s
   organization. Primary and alternate administrators will be appointed in writing by the Unit
   Commander. Administrators will be responsible for the following:
       1.3.1 Keeping the unit MICT personnel database current at all times.
       1.3.2 Ensuring that all required Administrative Baseline Checklists (ABCs) and
       functional checklists are tracked and assessed for each applicable area.
       1.3.3 Ensuring 100% of tracked checklists have a primary and alternate POC assigned.
       1.3.4 Processing and uploading approved Tier Waivers IAW AFI 33-360.
       1.3.5 Reporting unit MICT statistics to 507 ARW/IGIM monthly.
   1.4 Manager. The manager role is intended for senior leaders (e.g., Squadron Commanders
   and senior ARTs) who need oversight of their MICT unit programs, but do not have
   administrator permission and will not performing administrative duties.
   1.5 Assessor. This MICT role will be assigned to individuals performing self-assessments
   and completing inspection checklists. This should be the person in charge of the functional
   area or program. Assessors will be responsible for the following:
      1.5.1 Ensuring each checklist they are assigned is current and the one required by both
      the Checklist Identification Management Tool (CIMT) and MICT.
      1.5.2 Ensuring all checklist questions have comments in the assessment notes to include
      “Yes,” “No” and “N/A” questions.
      1.5.3 Ensuring that all virtually inspectable questions (marked document required) have
      been linked by URL to location on SharePoint or directly uploading file in MICT.
      1.5.4 Assigning proper Deficiency Severity IAW AFI 90-201.
      1.5.5 Assigning proper Deficiency Cause Codes IAW AFI 90-201.
      1.5.6 Contributing to corrective action plan development using the 8-Step Problem
      Solving process for any deficiency of “critical” or “significant”.
      1.5.7 Developing a clear and concise observation description. The observation should
      accurately describe the nature of the problem/deficiency.
      1.5.8 Ensuring all observations have an Estimated Completion Date assigned, have
      updated status notes at least monthly, are corrected and closed by the completion date;
      or requesting a Tier waiver if required or an observation cannot be closed in 180 days.


2. MICT Training:
   2.1 MICT Training for Administrators, Inspectors, Assessors and Reviewers will be
   provided by the 507 ARW/IGMT.
   2.2 Members will sign up for MICT courses on the 507ARW/IG SharePoint site or by
   calling the office directly.


3. Self-Assessments:
   3.1 Units assigned in MICT under the 507 ARW will conduct applicable self-assessments
   continuously. After an intial assessment, the checklist should remain in comply, non-
   comply, or comply with comments status. Assessors will continually review line items and
   update comments and notes as changes occur. When updating a line item the assessor will
   “initiate assessment”, keep all answers except the changed line item(s), then end assessment
   by updating overall status to comply or non-comply. At no time should an assessment be
   older than 6 months from last assessment.
   3.2 Assessor will upload required documentation for all items in MICT (as identified by the
   blue flag icon or in the question text), unless otherwise specified by MAJCOM Functional
   Managers and approved by the 507 ARW/IGI office. Documents MUST NOT contain
   classified or PII information. The Wing Commander has directed URL links to file storage
   in SharePoint or electronic records management system (ERMS) as the method for providing
   required documents. Contact 507 FSS/SCOK for help with ERMS access.
   3.3 Assessors will thoroughly explain the question’s answer in the comment block.
   3.4 All non-compliance should be identified while answering the question. Do not wait to
   answer a question until you fix a problem. Answer immediately, honestly, then correct the
   observation and update MICT. **REMEMBER** MICT is a communication tool to show
   inspectors work being accomplished.


4. The Checklist Identification Management Tool (CIMT):
   4.1 The CIMT is published by AFRC used to determine all checklists to be tracked. Locally,
   the CIMT is located on 507ARW/IGI SharePoint site.
   4.2 MICT functional areas will mirror functional areas defined by CIMT.
   4.3 Applicable ABCs must be tracked.
   4.4 Units will validate the wing CIMT to verify it accurately reflects tracked checklists and
   update as needed.
   4.5 Units will consult the AFRC functional area managers listed on the CIMT if unsure
   whether a checklist is applicable to them.


5. Workcenters:
   5.1 Each unit will have required workcenters loaded in MICT as applicable.
   5.2 Unit administrators will load and monitor all workcenters for accuracy.
