BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   507TH AIR REFUELING WING
507TH AIR REFUELING WING                                            INSTRUCTION 34-246

                                                                       25 NOVEMBER 2013

                                                                                     Services

                                               LODGING PROGRAM AND PROCEDURES


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 507 FSS/SVF                                                   Certified by: 507 MSG/CC
                                                                        (Col Joseph M. Revit)
                                                                                     Pages: 10




This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 34-6 Air Force Lodging and
instruction extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 34-246 Air Force Lodging
Program. It provides guidance, procedures and responsibilities for personnel authorized to
occupy quarters (on-base/off-base contract commercial) and mandates the use of lodging for all
507th Air Refueling Wing personnel performing active duty (AD) and inactive (IDT) training
tours. It applies only to Air Force Reservists assigned to the 507th Air Refueling Wing (ARW),
513th Air Control Group (ACG), and the 35th Combat Communications Squadron (CBCS)
physically located at Tinker Air Force Base. It requires the collection and maintenance of
information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 as required by AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy
Program. Failure to comply with this instruction may result in loss of lodging privileges and
possible disciplinary actions. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’ s chain of command. All records created as a result of this processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/rims.rfm .


1. Responsibilities:
 2                                                    507ARWI34-246 25 NOVEMBER 2013


     1.1. The 507 ARW Commander oversees the Wing Lodging Program and delegates program
     responsibilities to the 507 MSG Commander.
     1.2. The 507 MSG Commander administers this instruction and coordinates this program
     between 507 ARW, 513 ACG, and 35 CBCS units and the 507th Force Support Squadron
     (FSS). The MSG Commander authorizes and mandates the use of the Automated Lodging
     Reservation System (ALRS) for all 507 ARW, 513 ACG, and 35 CBCS members who
     require and are authorized lodging during designated Unit Training Assembly (UTA)
     periods. The MSG Commander will appoint, in writing, a Wing Lodging Approving Official
     to manage the Wing IDT Lodging Government Purchase Card (GPC) payments.
     1.3. The 507th Force Support Squadron appoints a Wing Lodging Monitor (WLM) who
     oversees the Wing Lodging program and ensures compliance of lodging program policies
     and procedures.
2. Unit Commander Responsibilities:
     2.1. Unit commanders ensure their members receive a lodging newcomer briefing to include
     use of the ALRS and comply with this lodging operating instruction and applicable
     commuting distances based on member’s status. Waiver requests to the IDT and AT
     commuting policies should be up-channeled through the 507 ARW Commander for approval.
     Commanders can take disciplinary action against unit members who abuse lodging privileges
     and the applicable commuting area policy.
     2.2. Appoints a senior non-commissioned officer (SNCO) in writing as the Unit Lodging
     Monitor (ULM) and provides a copy of the letter to 507 FSS/SVF.
     2.3. Verify the reason or cause for a “no-show” (unit member who did not check into
     lodging after making a confirmed reservation), or “walk-in” (unit member who did not make
     a reservation using the ALRS in a timely manner). Provide a response to the Unit Lodging
     Manager or First Sergeant who submits reasons/justifications of no-shows to the Wing
     Lodging Monitor and Wing Commander NLT COB Sunday of the following UTA.
3. WLM Responsibilities:
     3.1. Coordinates annual UTA lodging requirements with the Indian Hills Inn along with
     contract hotels and monitors the ALRS.
     3.2. Comply with all Air Force GPC program directives in administering the Host IDT
     lodging payment process.
     3.3. Maintain billing and payment documentation to ensure accurate accountability IAW Air
     Force requirements.
     3.4. Arrange off-base commercial contract lodging. Assign 507 ARW personnel to hotels
     under the Blanket Purchase Agreement (BPA) held by the 72 CONS/LGCA. Obtain
     requirements-type contracts when necessary to meet 507 ARW UTA lodging needs.
     3.5. Forward reservation reports from the ALRS to Indian Hills Inn and contract hotels 3
     (three) days prior to the Friday of each UTA weekend.
     3.6. Provide an annual UTA schedule as soon as it is finalized and approved to Indian Hills
     Inn and contract hotels while submitting changes as they occur.
507ARWI34-246 25 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                     3


   3.7. The Air Force Reserve guarantees payment for all rooms reserved; therefore, the 507
   ARW must pay for no-shows. The 507 FSS provides to the 507 MSG/CC and unit
   commanders all members who are no-shows for the previous month’s UTA ten days after the
   UTA.
   3.8. The 507 FSS will coordinate with the Military Personnel Section by 1200 hours on the
   Wednesday prior to the UTA to secure lodging for newcomers.
   3.9. The WLM will utilize off-base commercial contract hotels under the BPA’s held by the
   72 CONS/LGCA. Contract hotels under the BPA’s are the only hotels authorized for IDT
   periods and/or Readiness Management Periods (RMPs). All BPA’s are to be reviewed and
   renegotiated before the Period of Performance has expired.
   3.10. Train the Unit Lodging Managers on the procedures prescribed in this instruction.
   3.11. Keeps a log of members who do not use the ALRS system to make reservations prior
   to the cut-off date.
4. ULM Responsibilities:
   4.1. The ULM will be the focal point for unit member lodging concerns and reservation
   issues as well as the liaison between the unit and the WLM.
   4.2. Ensures members are fully briefed on the ALRS process and emphasizes the importance
   of remembering his/her Personal Identification Number (PIN).
   4.3. Monitors lodging eligibility for UTA based on member’s home of record address.
5. First Sergeant responsibilities:
   5.1. Assist the unit commander in working with members to properly utilize lodging and the
   ALRS. Follow up with members and ULM for no-shows and failure to use the ALRS or
   make reservations on-time
   5.2. On a rotating basis, the first sergeants will monitor lodging check-in procedures at the
   base lodging office on Friday nights before the UTA to resolve any issues that may arise
   during check-in.
        5.2.1. If there is an issue with a member not having a reservation the first sergeant will
        contact the 507 FSS/SVF lodging member on duty by phone, to discuss options.
        5.2.2. If the member is trying to change rooms or lodging location for various reasons,
        the First Sergeant will use their discretion based on the AFI and this document to settle
        the situation and coordinating with a 507 FSS/SVF lodging team.
   5.3. See Table 1, Schedule for Friday Night Lodging Duty.

Table 1. Schedule for Friday Night Lodging Duty.
        Jan   Feb    March April May June         July   Aug      Sep      Oct    Nov        Dec
Month
Unit    FSS SFS APS          CE       LRS MXS MDS AMXS 35                  OPS 513           513
                                                       CBCS                    MXS           OSF
                                                                                  /AMXS      /970
 4                                                     507ARWI34-246 25 NOVEMBER 2013


6. Member Responsibilities and Procedures for UTA Lodging:
     6.1. All 507 ARW, 513 ACG and 35 CBCS members will make lodging reservations for
     upcoming UTA and RUTA duty periods by calling into the ALRS. Reservations may be
     made for the FY up to 12 months in advance. Reservation cut-off date for calling into the
     ALRS is, 10 (ten) calendar days after previous UTA. Wing members requesting lodging for
     Active Duty Training (ADT), must arrange their lodging needs directly with Indian Hills Inn,
     giving as much advance notice as possible. AF Form 938 may be required for presentation
     upon check-in for all ADT reservations. Wing members requesting lodging for all IDT (i.e
     UTA, RUTA, RMPs and AFTPs), must arrange their lodging needs utilizing ALRS. NOTE:
     If it is not possible for the member to present a copy of their AF Form 938 at check-in, the
     member or the unit must ensure that lodging receives a copy prior to the guest checking out
     of lodging. All personnel, regardless of rank will be assigned to on-base quarters until all
     available rooms have been reserved. Only after all on-base quarters have been exhausted
     will members be assigned to contract lodging quarters. If a member fails to remember where
     he/she is staying, they must call the ALRS system. Wing members who need to change
     lodging reservations can do so via the ALRS.
     6.2. 507 ARW, 513 ACG and 35 CBCS members who are unable or fail to make
     reservations in the ALRS system before the cut-off date must contact their ULM or Senior
     Air Reserve Technician (ART) for UTA reservations.
     6.3. Wing members will not contact Indian Hills Inn to make UTA reservations to include
     attempting to change rooms.
     6.4. Wing members must cancel their reservation no later than 1800 hours on the date of
     check-in. After this time, unit members will be listed on the no-show report.
     6.5. Members will lose his/her Saturday reservation due to a Friday no-show, when
     reservation for the UTA consists of both nights (Friday and Saturday) and member will be
     listed as a no-show on the CC report. In this situation, the member will be treated as a
     “walk-in” when/if they check in later that day (Saturday) and may have to pay for Saturday
     night lodging if there are no rooms available.
     6.6. Members must present a military ID when checking into a contract hotel. All lodging
     guests must be aware of the hotel’s check-out policy and physically check-out of the hotel
     before this time. At check-out, wing members must turn-in their room keys, pay all
     applicable charges (including in-room snacks, beverages, telephone, etc.) and vacate the
     room. The wing member is subject to an extra day’s lodging charge (at his/her own expense)
     if not checked-out by the required time specified by the hotel.
     6.7. Members must keep room secured at all times. Individuals are responsible for any loss
     or damage occurring to the government or contract hotel property. Members should not
     leave valuables, i.e. money, jewelry, credit cards, or other high value items in their rooms.
     6.8. Pets are not authorized. Members who bring their pets to UTAs are not authorized unit-
     paid lodging.
     6.9. Wing family members are not authorized lodging. Exceptions are passed up the chain
     for Group CC approval prior to the member arriving for the UTA.
507ARWI34-246 25 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                   5


   6.10. Members who fail to utilize the authorized contract quarters while performing IDT
   and/or additional Inactive Duty Training periods will be responsible to pay for their own
   lodging.
   6.11. Members are NOT authorized to use their government travel card while in IDT status.
   Lodging for members in UTA/IDT status is directly billed to the 507 ARW. Payment for
   personal charges, i.e., telephone, in-room resale items, snacks, movies, late checkout fees, etc
   are the responsibility of the member, and must be paid prior to check-out.
7. Check-out procedures:
   7.1. Unit Reservists are required to check-out through the front desk. Check-out time for
   Indian Hills Inn is 1100 hours. Failure to check-out through the front desk by check-out time
   will incur a late check-out fee of one full room rate. Late fees are the responsibility of the
   Reservist not the unit.
   7.2. Local hotel check-out times vary. Check with the hotel to verify check-out times and
   fees associated with late check-outs.
8. Lodging Other: Active Duty/ Dual Status / RMP
   8.1. Unit-assigned Reservists who are authorized lodging at Tinker AFB while performing
   active duty tours (AF Form 938, Request and Authorization for Active Duty Training/Active
   Duty Tour), regardless of per diem status, must contact Indian Hills Inn for lodging
   reservations. If a Letter of Non-availability (LNA)is issued by Indian Hills Inn, personnel are
   authorize to utilize any hotel that will provide the per diem rate IAW the Defense Travel
   Management Office (DTMO) in the Oklahoma City metropolitan area. Letter of Non-
   availability (LNA) will be issued by Indian Hills Inn, when on-base lodging is not available.
   Room rates above the per diem rate will not be reimbursed. This documentation is required
   for personnel to file with their travel voucher for reimbursement. Only Indian Hills Inn is
   authorized to issue Letter of Non-availability (LNA) to utilize off-base hotels.
8.2. Wing members performing “Dual Status”, must arrange their non-IDT lodging needs
directly with Indian Hills Inn, giving as much advance notice as possible and call the ALRS
system to make their IDT reservations. If a LNAis issued by Indian Hills Inn, personnel are
authorized to utilize any hotel that will provide the per diem rate IAW the Defense Travel
Management Office (DTMO) in the Oklahoma City metropolitan area. LNA will be issued by
Indian Hills Inn, when on-base lodging is not available. Room rates above the per diem rate will
not be reimbursed.. Contract hotels under the Blanket Purchase are the only hotels authorized
for IDT reservations.

   8.3. Normally, RMP lodging for a member outside of the IDT commuting distance should
   not be required since the commander can adjust the member’s reporting/release time to
   ensure that the member is not required to travel between 0001-0600 hours and can be
   constructed home before 2400 hours. Commanders should utilize this flexibility to avoid
   unnecessary expenditure of funds. But, on those occasions where lodging for an RMP may
   be required, and the member must travel during the above stated hours, the unit may pay for
   the lodging with their lodging GPC (O&M funds). The AF Form 40A that authorizes the
   RMP must indicate lodging is authorized. Unit is required to provide a copy of the members
 6                                                     507ARWI34-246 25 NOVEMBER 2013


     AF Form 40A to the WLM. When a member is required to perform RMPs on consecutive
     days at the direction of their unit commander, lodging is also authorized provided they live
     outside the designated IDT commuting area. The unit needs to contact the WLM to make
     them aware of the member’s status.
     8.4. Per the AFI 34-246 E-4 and below may be double billeted in the same room. Double
     billeting will be by gender.
9. ALRS Reservation Procedures:
     9.1. Members will make UTA lodging reservations through the ALRS direct telephone
     number.
     9.2. Process to make a reservation through the ALRS:
        9.2.1. Call commercial at (405) 739-4463 or DSN 339-4463.
        9.2.2. Make, change, and cancel all UTA reservations by using ALRS. Problems with
        the ALRS should be immediately identified to the ULM and WLM.
10. Lodging Privileges Abuse:
     10.1. The 507 ARW will not tolerate improper lodging use or abuse. Violations could result
     in disciplinary action and/or loss of lodging privileges.
     10.2. Types of violations:
        10.2.1. Member refuses an assigned room without just cause.
        10.2.2. Member fails to change or cancel a reservation by 1800 the day of check-in.
        10.2.3. Member fails to make a reservation as required IAW this instruction.
        10.2.4. Member violates the contract hotel’s rules and regulations, or damages property.
        10.2.5. Member fails to check-out by the hotel’s specific check-out time. An incomplete
        check-out can include the member failing to return the room/building key, failing to pay
        all applicable room charges in full or failing to clear personal possessions out of the
        room. Local hotel checkout times vary. Check with the hotel to verify checkout times
        and fees associated with late checkouts.
        10.2.6. Member displays inappropriate conduct or violates applicable rules and
        regulations.
        10.2.7. Member allows unauthorized guests to use lodging facilities.
        10.2.8. Member fails to utilize the ALRS to make reservations within the allotted time
        frame
        10.2.9. Member misuses the ALRS system – ex. making reservations and canceling and
        then calling again to possibly obtain an off-base hotel.
        10.2.10. Member shows up with family without prior approval.
        10.2.11. Member shows up with pets.
        10.2.12. Member fails to make their ADT reservations through on-base lodging.
507ARWI34-246 25 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                     7


   10.3. Penalties for violations of validated no-shows (unit commanders may provide
   additional disciplinary punishment as appropriate):
      10.3.1. No-Show - First Offense member will be counseled by squadron leadership.
      10.3.2. No-Show - Second Offense within a 12-month period (starting on the date of the
      first offense and for the 12 month period after the first offense) is a minimum of six
      months loss of UTA lodging privileges. Reservists in this status may utilize government
      quarters; however, the wing/unit of assignment will not pay for lodging members who
      fail to comply with this directive. Reservist in this status has the option to make other
      lodging arrangements not at government expense.
      10.3.3. No-Show - Third Offense within a 12-month period (starting on the date of the
      first offense and for the 12 month period after the first offense) is a minimum of one year
      loss of UTA lodging privileges. Reservists in this status may utilize government
      quarters; however, the wing/unit of assignment will not pay for lodging members who
      fail to comply with this directive. Reservists in this status have the option to make other
      lodging arrangements not at the government expense.
   10.4. Failure to use the ALRS to make room reservations. First incident, member will meet
   with Services lodging personnel to ensure the member knows how to properly utilize the
   system. Second incident, member will have to find their own lodging (not reimbursable by
   unit) and lose their lodging privileges for the UTA period. Third incident the member will
   lose their lodging privileges for six (6) months.
11. Complaint Procedures:
   11.1. When problems occur, members must try to resolve problems at the lowest possible
   level by using the chain-of-command.
   11.2. All complaints which require further consideration and/or follow-up must be in
   writing. The unit commander or unit lodging manager and WLM, as appropriate, will ensure
   complaints are followed-up and answered promptly.
   11.3. Complaints regarding health and/or safety conditions in contract quarters should be
   reported to the WLM immediately.
12. Manual Lodging Procedures:
   12.1. In the case of the ALRS being unavailable, 507 FSS/SVF Lodging Office will make
   reservation to be done according to established procedures.
   12.2. First Sergeants will provide sign in sheets at UTAPS for the next UTA. The member
   will fill out to complete reservation. Lodging Office will make the reservation and call the
   member back with a confirmation number.
   12.3. Indian Hills Inn will be occupied first, and then contracted hotels will be utilized.
   12.4. The reservation form must be turned in no later than 5(five) days after the UTA.
   12.5. If member doesn’t comply, they must call their First Sergeant to ask for a reservation.
8                                                   507ARWI34-246 25 NOVEMBER 2013


    12.6. ADT and Dual status process will continue to be done according to section 8 of this
    publication.




                                           RUSSELL A. MUNCY, Colonel, USAFR
                                           Commander
507ARWI34-246 25 NOVEMBER 2013                                9


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 34-6, Air Force Lodging, 22 July 1993
AFI 34-246, Air Force Lodging Program, 11 November 2007
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Program, 16 May 2011
AFI 36-2254V1, Reserve Personnel Participation, 26 May 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACG—Air Control Group
AD—Active Duty
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ALRS—Automated Lodging Reservation System
ART—Air Reserve Technician
ARW—Air Refueling Wing
BPA—Blanket Purchase Agreement
CBCS—Combat Communications Squadron
CC—Commander
COB—Close of business
FSS—Force Support Squadron
SVF—Services Flight
GPC—Government Purchase Card
IAW—In Accordance With
IDT—Inactive Duty Training
LNA—Letter of Non-availability
MSG—Mission Support Group
 10                                       507ARWI34-246 25 NOVEMBER 2013


NLT—No latter then
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RMP—Readiness Management Period
RUTA—Rescheduled Unit Training Assembly
SNCO—Senior Non-commissioned Officer
ULM—Unit Lodging Monitor
USAFR—United States Air Force Reserves
UTA—Unit Training Assembly
WLM—Wing Lodging Monitor
