BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                      507TH AIR REFUELING WING
507TH AIR REFUELING WING                                              INSTRUCTION36-2001

                                                                              7 OCTOBER 2014

                                                                                       Personnel

                                                      RESERVE AIRMAN COMMISSIONING
                                                                          PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITHTHIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.af.mil/e-publishing.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 507 MSF/DPMSC                                                    Certified by: 507 MSG/CD
                                                                           (Lt Col L. G. Russell)
                                                                                         Pages: 5
Supersedes:    507ARWI36-2001, 1 July 2010


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-20, Accession of Air Force
Military Personnel and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-2005 Appointment In Commissioned
Grades And Designation And Assignment In Professional Categories–Reserve Of The Air Force
And United States Air Force. These procedures are to be used when filling valid officer vacancy
positions through the Airman Commissioning Program in the 507TH Air Refueling Wing to
ensure a consistent, fair and objective process is used to select the best qualified candidate. It
applies to all commanders assigned or attached to the 507TH Air Refueling Wing, Tinker Air
Force Base Oklahoma. Refer recommended changes and question about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force Form (AF Form) 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publications route AF Form 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Record, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records     Disposition     Schedule    (RDS)      located    at    https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. This instruction requires collecting and maintaining information
protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by (5 U.S.C.552a).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision includes a change for the time to convene (paragraph 2.2); and a change for who
will be a board member (paragraph 2.5.2).
 2                                                          507ARWI36-2001 7 OCTOBER 2014


1. General.
     1.1. The Reserve Airman Commissioning Program is designed to select highly qualified
     enlisted members for leadership roles as line officers.
     1.2. Vacant positions, in the grades of Second Lieutenant through Major may be filled by
     commissioning eligible enlisted members, who demonstrate outstanding leadership abilities.
     Selection is an honor reserved for the most qualified, motivated, and deserving individuals.
     1.3. Requests for eligibility waivers should only be made in rare and unusual circumstances
     and must be fully justified. Commanders selecting a member who requires a waiver must
     articulate why the member requiring the waiver is being selected above other equally, and
     fully, qualified candidates.
     1.4. Prior to opening a position through the Reserve Airman Commissioning Program, unit
     commanders are required to contact the Force Support Squadron (FSS), Career Enhancement
     (FSMPD), to review and consider eligible commissioned officers from within the wing that
     are currently assigned as overages.
     1.5. This instruction provides a method whereby well-qualified and motivated individuals
     are afforded an opportunity to seek commissioning.
2. Process.
     2.1. Identify the vacancy as soon as possible. Notify FSMPD in the FSS to review the
     current list of commissioned officers assigned as overages. If it is not feasible or in the unit’s
     best interest to select a commissioned officer, block the vacancy for airman commissioning.
     It is critical to have three months notice to allow the necessary time to “advertise” the
     position, allow potential candidates time to prepare their submission packages, and to
     conduct a proper evaluation and selection process.
     2.2. A board will convene at the direction of the group or wing commander as needed. The
     board will then select members to be placed on the eligibility list. Squadron commanders will
     have the ability to choose a member from the eligibility list when a vacancy is available.
     2.3. Review the qualifications and training required in filling the vacancy. Verify the basic
     Air Force Specialty Code requirements and the specific training requirements with the
     FSMPD. Confirm with the FSS which specific Air Force Instruction applies to the
     qualification process.
     2.4. A position can be filled one of two ways. Wing-wide, which usually takes the least
     amount of time to fill and yields the best results for overall base morale since there is equal
     opportunity given to all. The second method is an external fill. This opens the vacant position
     to any Air Force member outside of 507 ARW or any other branch of service and may yield a
     larger pool of candidates. If considering the external method of filling a vacancy, you also
     need to advertise the position base wide.
     2.5. Once the selection strategy is determined, establish a cutoff date for applications and
     choose board members.
        2.5.1. Allow two months for candidates to prepare the required application package.
        NOTE: Commanders should encourage all enlisted personnel interested in a commission
507ARWI36-2001 7 OCTOBER 2014                                                                 3


     to take the Air Force Officer Qualification Test (AFOQT) as soon as possible; awaiting
     AFOQT results may prevent an individual from being considered.
     2.5.2. Determine composition of the interview selection board consisting of a minimum
     of three field grade officers, the wing command chief (or nominated CMSgt if command
     chief is not present), a board president in the minimum rank of lieutenant colonel and one
     representative from FSMPD (non-voting) to act as the board recorder. Each board
     member should have pre-defined written questions to ask and an objective method of
     scoring the results. Sample questions may be provided by FSMPD.
  2.6. Announce the vacancy, including cutoff date, qualifications, selection criteria, and
  detailed application instructions; provide base-wide dissemination of this information;
  advertise by means of the Tinker Take Off and the On Final.
     2.6.1. If training is required, describe the training requirements. Mandatory training
     requirements to become fully qualified in the Air Force specialty at the applicable level
     are often a key determinant in whether applicants will apply or not.
     2.6.2. If a resume is required, allow sufficient time of at least one Unit Training
     Assembly (UTA) for the individuals to prepare and submit them.
     2.6.3. If additional or unique skills/knowledge is needed or desired, describe those as
     “required or desired qualifications.”
  2.7. Establish a tentative time to convene the board. Ensure board members will be
  available. Be sure to allow sufficient time in the process to accomplish the following:
     2.7.1. Gather and review the application packages. Have FSMPD review the packages
     for all applicants to ensure that they meet the minimum qualifications for the position
     prior to scheduling and convening the board.
     2.7.2. Develop a schedule to conduct the interviews or selection board. If feasible, allow
     all qualified candidates to meet the board to ensure fair and equal consideration. If there
     are simply too many applicants to interview, establish objective criteria to screen and
     reduce the list. The screening criteria must be logical, defensible, and easily explained.
     Allow sufficient time to evaluate each candidate to ensure fairness. Schedule candidates
     at 30-minute intervals.
         2.7.2.1. Notify all applicants as soon as possible who do not qualify or have been
         screened out that they will not be interviewed; provide the reasons why they are
         unqualified or not being considered. This may be done in writing.
         2.7.2.2. Notify all applicants to be interviewed of their scheduled time and the
         uniform requirements for meeting the board as soon as possible. NOTE: If a qualified
         applicant will not be available at the scheduled date/time, you should delay the final
         decision until they can be interviewed. Telephone interviews may be acceptable to
         avoid waiting until the next UTA.
  2.8. Convene the selection board.
     2.8.1. Provide board members a copy of each application package prior to the board to
     allow them time to become familiar with the contents. Awards, decorations, and enlisted
     performance reports may be included in the packages for consideration.
4                                                        507ARWI36-2001 7 OCTOBER 2014


       2.8.2. The board must be consistent in evaluating all candidates. The same questions
       must be asked of each candidate and each interview must be conducted in the same
       manner.
       2.8.3. The board must quantify the results in order to objectively compare the applicants.
       Scoring methods should be developed and explained to each board member prior to
       convening the board FSMPD can provide sample scoring methods. Score the written
       package and interview independently on either a 6-10 or 1-10 scale.
           2.8.3.1. Each board member should score each applicant independently. Rate the
           response to each question, total the results, then divide by the number of questions to
           obtain an overall average. Combine the scores from each board member for each
           individual. Rank order the applicants based upon the total score.
       2.8.4. Each applicant’s responses should be scored immediately after they leave the room
       from the interview while their answers are still remembered. It may be helpful for the
       board members to discuss the applicant’s response to each question prior to scoring it, yet
       they should keep the scores private until the end of all interviews.
    2.9. Make recommendations to the selection authority.
       2.9.1. If the selection authority did not sit on the board as a board member he or she may
       choose to personally interview the recommended candidate.
    2.10. The selection authority should announce the selection as soon as possible. He or she
    should contact each applicant interviewed personally, and tell them who was selected; this
    may be done in writing. Also offer them an opportunity to obtain feedback on how they
    could improve their scores.
    2.11. Have the candidate selected contact FSMPD for further guidance on completing their
    commissioning package.




                                             BRIAN S. DAVIS, Colonel, USAFR
                                             Commander
507ARWI36-2001 7 OCTOBER 2014                                                               5


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-20, Accession of Air Force Military Personnel, 23 Dec 2008
AFI36-2005, Appointment In Commissioned Grades And Designation And Assignment In
Professional Categories–Reserve Of The Air Force And United States Air Force, 15 May 2003
AFMAN33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publications

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFOQT—Air Force Officer Qualification Test
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
FSMPD—Career Enhancement
FSS—Military Personnel Flight
UTA—Unit Training Assembly
