BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  50TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 91-205
                                                                                        3 JANUARY 2005

                                                                                                     Safety

                                                                          SYSTEM SAFETY PROGRAM




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 50 SW/SES (Maj Kerri Uhlmeyer)                  Certified by: 50 SW/SE (Lt Col Stanley Stafira, Jr.)
                                                                                              Pages: 8
                                                                                       Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 91-2, Safety Programs,
28 September 1993 and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 91-202, US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program,
01 August 1998. It gives overall System Safety Program guidelines for implementing system safety
within the 50th Space Wing. This instruction applies to commanders, managers, supervisors and safety
staffs at all levels.


1. Scope. This wing system safety program instruction specifies the processes used by the 50th Space
Wing (50 SW) to manage the system safety risks of 50 SW mission systems, the associated ground sys-
tems and integrated operations to an acceptable risk level. This plan is not intended to cover industrial or
occupational safety issues.

2. Background.
   2.1. 50 SW operates numerous high-value, mission critical systems, including on-orbit assets and the
   Air Force Satellite Control Network (AFSCN). The Air Force Mishap Prevention Program strives to
   prevent loss of such resources. A safety program addresses the risk not only to 50 SW personnel, but
   also to 50 SW critical resources and missions. AFI 91-202, US Air Force Mishap Prevention Pro-
   gram, 01 August 1998 requires that such systems operate under a system safety program that empha-
   sizes risk mitigation throughout the lifecycle of the system.
   2.2. AFI 91-202, Chapter 9 defines the system safety for all major programs. It states “Management
   must ensure that safety offices monitor program requirements to identify and correct hazards through-
   out the operational life of a system or facility to ensure hazards are identified through operational
   experience, mission changes, environmental effects or system modification. Management must also
   ensure that safety staffs identify and control all hazards associated with decommissioning or disposal
   of a system.” AFI 91-202, Chapter 9 also requires units to “establish and maintain a capability to con-
   duct system safety programs.” The unit must “ensure that they adequate organizational structures and
   resources to perform required system safety program actions.” The unit must “ensure their safety per-
2                                                                     50SWI91-205 3 JANUARY 2005


    sonnel have identified safety requirements and incorporated them into program documents.” The unit
    “uses “lessons learned” databases to define baseline safety criteria.” The unit “participates as appro-
    priate in System Safety Groups and System Safety Working Groups to identify risks and hazards.”
    The unit will “coordinate issues affecting system safety with the owning command, the System Safety
    Group and the Air Force Safety Center.” This instruction implements this requirement.

3. Program Overview.
    3.1. The wing system safety program consists of a full-time safety professional that reviews 50 SW
    systems and programs for system safety considerations and contracted system safety professionals
    who conduct system safety facilities assessments. Additionally, the program includes trained unit per-
    sonnel who monitor unit activities and programs for system safety issues and work with the 50 SW
    Safety Office (50 SW/SE) to identify and resolve system hazards.
    3.2. The wing system safety program will consist of three major elements:
       3.2.1. System safety review and safety oversight for operation, upgrades and modifications of
       existing 50 SW programs
       3.2.2. System safety review and safety oversight of future 50 SW programs
       3.2.3. Implementation of a lessons learned program to collect safety lessons learned from the
       operations of 50 SW systems to ensure they are addressed in future systems
    3.3. The program establishes the Wing System Safety Engineer (WSSE) as the full-time safety pro-
    fessional and ensures key personnel in 50 SW units receive system safety training to increase aware-
    ness of system safety issues.

4. Wing System Safety Engineer. Assigned to 50 SW/SES, the WSSE is responsible for managing the
50 SW System Safety Program. The WSSE will be familiar with system safety principles and techniques
and will maintain professional currency in the system safety discipline. The WSSE is responsible for the
following activities:
    4.1. Establish wing system safety policy
    4.2. Review configuration change documentation including Engineering Change Proposals, Tempo-
    rary Configuration Changes, etc., as required
    4.3. Review program and system documentation including program plans, test plans, implementation
    plans, initial/follow-on operational capability plans and program support agreements, as required
    4.4. Participate in planning meetings, anomalies, Operational Review Boards (ORBs), Situation
    Anomaly Review Teams (SARTs), Critical Design Reviews, Test Readiness Review Boards, etc., as
    required
    4.5. Function as Quality Assurance Evaluator (QAE) for contracted system safety support
    4.6. Train and interface with unit personnel on system safety issues
    4.7. Advise and assist unit personnel on identifying and mitigating hazards
    4.8. Interface with HQ AFSPC/SE, SMC/SE and appropriate joint and system program offices on
    system safety issues
    4.9. Ensure wing systems’ safety lessons learned are tracked in a database
50SWI91-205 3 JANUARY 2005                                                                                3


5. Trained Unit Personnel.
   5.1. 50 SW units actively involved in wing programs and mission operations should identify key per-
   sonnel whose duties would benefit from system safety awareness training provided by the 50 SW/
   SES. Squadron commanders should support training for the following personnel:
      5.1.1. Personnel involved in the acquisition of new programs or major program upgrades
      5.1.2. Personnel involved in the technical or engineering aspects of system operations or testing
      5.1.3. Personnel involved in the technical aspects of maintenance and sustainment
      5.1.4. Unit Safety Representatives (USRs)
      5.1.5. Orbital Safety Officers (OSOs)
   5.2. These trained individuals should:
      5.2.1. Identify and mitigate system safety hazards
      5.2.2. Notify 50 SW/SE of system safety incidents, issues and hazards
      5.2.3. Assist 50 SW/SE in conducting hazard assessments and risk management activities
      5.2.4. Participate in system safety meetings and design reviews, as needed

6. Incoming programs.
   6.1. System safety is best implemented during the design and development of a program. The 50 SW
   System Safety Program should be active during this phase, providing operational input and lessons
   learned from previous systems to the system developer to ensure operational safety hazards are iden-
   tified and mitigated in the design.
   6.2. 50 SW/XP will advise 50 SW/SE of all meetings and milestones for new programs. 50 SW/XP
   will coordinate all system documents and plans for future systems with 50 SW/SE.
   6.3. Unit personnel will review new programs for operational hazards and identify pertinent lessons
   learned from related systems. They will work with the WSSE to raise these issues to wing leadership
   and the system’s program office, as appropriate.
   6.4. The WSSE and unit personnel will participate in program-related System Safety Groups (SSGs)
   and System Safety Working Groups (SSWGs) conducted for incoming programs.

7. Existing Programs.
   7.1. The WSSE will review changes and modifications to existing systems for system safety implica-
   tions. Wing program POCs will coordinate such activities and documents with 50 SW/SE prior to
   implementation.
   7.2. Units will monitor daily operations and activities for system safety issues. When necessary, unit
   personnel will consult with the WSSE to resolve issues.
   7.3. The WSSE and units will continuously monitor activities for lessons-learned which may be valu-
   able in designing future systems.
   7.4. The WSSE and units will participate in program-related SSGs and SSWGs conducted for exist-
   ing programs, as required.
4                                                                     50SWI91-205 3 JANUARY 2005


8. Contract System Safety Support.
    8.1. 50 SW/SE has contracted technical system safety support to assist in conducting system safety
    activities for 50 SW mission systems.
    8.2. In accordance with (IAW) the contract statement of work, contract system safety personnel will
    review mission communication related activities and conduct facility system safety inspections as out-
    lined in this instruction.
    8.3. The WSSE will act as QAE for this task.

9. Facility System Safety Assessments.
    9.1. 50 SW/SES will conduct system safety assessments of all mission critical facilities at the wing
    including its Geographically Separated Units (GSUs) to establish system safety baselines. Afterwards,
    the 50 SW/SES will conduct additional assessments at facilities with system modifications that could
    impact mission assurance. These assessments may be performed with the assistance of contracted sys-
    tem safety personnel IAW the contract statement of work. If possible, the system safety assessment
    will be conducted in conjunction with the wing’s ground safety inspections to reduce the impact to
    unit operations.
    9.2. System safety assessments will focus on hazards to the unit mission and equipment and will
    cover the following areas:
       9.2.1. System hazards resulting from modifications, changes or upgrades
       9.2.2. System hazards resulting from single failure points in mission critical areas such as air con-
       ditioning, communications and power distribution
       9.2.3. Visual inspections of infrequently visited/assessed areas such as underfloor, electrical pan-
       els and ceiling areas for system hazards
       9.2.4. Unique, site-specific hazards associated with geography, mission, associated facilities or
       other characteristics
    9.3. 50 SW/SE will provide an assessment report to the appropriate facility commander at the squad-
    ron level after the inspection.
    9.4. The focus of facility system safety assessment is not occupational, industrial or environmental
    safety hazards. However, 50 SW/SE will bring violations in these areas to the attention of the facility
    manager and the appropriate AF organization.

10. System Safety Hazard Management.
    10.1. Unit personnel, the WSSE or system safety assessments can identify system safety hazards.
    AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection and Health (AFOSH)
    Program, 1 June 1996 outlines the management process for system safety hazards.
       10.1.1. Once identified, system safety hazards will be assessed and assigned a Risk Assessment
       Code (RAC).
       10.1.2. Commanders and functional managers will receive formal notification of the hazard.
       10.1.3. Hazard abatement action will be taken and documented accordingly.
50SWI91-205 3 JANUARY 2005                                                                            5


   10.2. The WSSE will brief system safety hazards at the quarterly 50 SW Combined Safety Council.
   10.3. 50 SW/SES will oversee the wing system safety hazard database that will include all open sys-
   tem safety hazards. The database will include the hazard description, the risk assessment code and
   mitigating action.

11. Lessons Learned Program.
   11.1. The WSSE is responsible for overseeing a 50 SW Lessons Learned Database that identifies les-
   sons learned from operations on previous and existing programs. 50 SW/SES will provide these les-
   sons learned to HQ AFSPC/SE for dissemination to appropriate agencies in the development of future
   systems, as appropriate.
   11.2. The database will include lessons learned from mishaps and anomalies, including findings and
   recommendations from reportable mishaps and High Accident Potential incidents. It can also include
   findings and recommendations from non-reportable incident investigations such as SARTS and
   ORBs.
   11.3. Due to the privileged nature of reportable AF mishap reports, some data from the Lessons
   Learned Database may be restricted and should be appropriately protected.

12. System Safety Meetings.
   12.1. Combined Quarterly Safety Council. The WSSE will brief status of system safety issues and
   hazards to the wing commander or designated delegate on a quarterly basis.
   12.2. System Safety Groups/Working Groups. These are program-specific meetings held by program
   offices to address system safety issues. 50 SW personnel should attend these meeting to provide oper-
   ational input to system designers.
      12.2.1. 50 SW/SES will notify operational units of these meetings. 50 SW personnel familiar with
      the respective program should attend these meetings.
      12.2.2. 50 SW/SES will attend these meeting, when possible.
      12.2.3. 50 SW participants will identify and mitigate system safety hazards.



                                              SUZANNE M. VAUTRINOT, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander
6                                                                  50SWI91-205 3 JANUARY 2005


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 91-2, Safety Programs, 28 September 1993
AFI 91-202, US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 1 August 1998
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection and Health (AFOSH)
Program, 01 June 1996
AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management, 01 April 2000
AFI 63-1201, Assurance of Operational Safety, Suitability, & Effectiveness, 01 February 2000
MIL-STD-882, System Safety Program Requirements, 1969

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection and Health
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
HQ—Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
ORB—Operational Review Board
QAE—Quality Assurance Evaluator
RAC—- Risk Assessment Code
SART—Situation Anomaly Review Team
SE—Safety Office
SES—System Safety Office
SSG—System Safety Group
SW—Space Wing
SSWG—System Safety Working Group
WSSE—Wing System Safety Engineer

Terms
Assessments—Safety assessments identify hazards and measure compliance with safety program
50SWI91-205 3 JANUARY 2005                                                                              7


requirements.
Hazard or Deficiency—A condition, procedure or practice that creates a potential for producing death,
injury, occupational illness or equipment damage.
Hazard or Deficiency Abatement—Eliminating or permanently reducing a hazard by complying with
applicable safety requirements or taking equivalent protective measures.
Hazard or Deficiency Severity—An assessment of the expected consequences if a hazard or deficiency
results in a mishap. Severity is based on the degree of injury, illness or resource damage that can result
from a specific mishap.
High-Interest Areas—These areas have the greatest risk to life or property damage, have experienced
repeated mishaps, or in the judgment of 50 SW/SE, require increased monitoring. They can also be work
areas or operations that need additional attention or assessments because of increased mishap potential
due to the nature of work performed, physical conditions or type of materials handled. These assessments
may be no-notice or scheduled.
Interim Control Measure—Temporary action taken to reduce the degree of risk associated with a hazard
or deficiency pending completion of an abatement project.
Mishap—An unplanned or unsought event, or series of events, resulting in death, injury, occupational
illness or damage to (or loss of) equipment or property.
Risk Assessment—An evaluation of possible loss in terms of hazard or deficiency severity and mishap
probability of occurrence.
Risk Assessment Code—An expression of the degree of risk in terms of hazard or deficiency severity
and probability of occurrence.
Risk Management—The application of a systematic process or thinking to detect, assess and control risk
to enhance total organizational performance.
System Safety—The optimum level of safety within the constraints of operational effectiveness,
schedule and cost attained through specific application of system safety management and engineering
principles where hazards are identified and safety risk is minimized throughout all phases of the system
life cycle.
System Safety Engineering—Identification of hazards in products and operations, determination of the
optimum hazard control(s) within program constraints, application and verification of hazard controls and
assuring residual risks are acceptable.
8                                                                   50SWI91-205 3 JANUARY 2005


                                            Attachment 2

          SYSTEM SAFETY (SPACE-RELATED) SELF-INSPECTION CHECKLIST


5.5. CRITICAL ITEMS                                                       YES      NO     N/A
5.5.1. Does the wing have a process to evaluate high-risk hazards to
appropriate levels of management? (AFI 91-202, Para 9.3.7.6.;
AFI 91-213, Para 3.2.)
5.5.2. Does the wing participate in System Safety Groups/Working
Groups run by program offices for systems under the wing’s operational
control, to identify hazards and provide operational insight?
(AFI 91-202, Paras 9.3.7.5. and 9.4.)


5.6. NON-CRITICAL ITEMS                                                   YES      NO     N/A
5.6.1. Does the wing review wing documents (including program,
implementation and initial operational capability and follow-on
operational capability plans and program support agreements) for future
wing systems to ensure system safety requirements are included?
(AFI 91-202, Para 9.3.7.3.)
5.6.2. Does the wing provide system safety training to Unit Safety
Representatives (USR) and Orbital Safety Officers (OSO) and other
key wing personnel participating in system design processes and
operations including those involved with future programs, testing,
engineering, maintenance and sustainment? (AFI 91-202, Para 9.3.7.1.)
5.6.3. Does the wing review test plans and documentation for safety
hazards to systems during testing using operational assets?
(AFI 91-202, Para 9.3.7.3.)
5.6.4. Does the wing provide system safety review and oversight for
operations, upgrades and modifications of existing programs? (AFI
91-202, Para 9.3.7.3.)
5.6.5. Does the wing periodically assess mission critical failures for
system safety hazards?
5.6.6. Does the wing identify and track the correction of operational
hazards and lessons learned for 50 SW systems? (AFI 91-202,
Para 9.3.7.3.)
