BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         50TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 10-617
50TH SPACE WING
                                                                                 25 APRIL 2014

                                                                                      Operations

                                                        AFSCN PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS
                                                                            PROCESS


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms/IMT’s are available for downloading or ordering
               on the e-publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 50 SW/XPP                                                            Certified by: 50 SW/XP
                                                                         (Lt Col Bart M. Hughes)
                                                                                         Pages: 10
Supersedes:    50 SWI 10-617, 18 June 2007


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-6, Capabilities-Based
Planning & Requirements Development, and AFPD 16-3, Priorities for Resources Management.
This instruction defines the Air Force Satellite Control Network (AFSCN) Requirements
Process, identifies roles and responsibilities, and establishes the nominal time-lines and
associated documentation necessary for requesting and obtaining AFSCN support. For purposes
of this instruction, the user agency is defined as any agency requesting support from the AFSCN.
It applies to all AFSCN activities at tenant organizations, Schriever AFB (SAFB), Vandenberg
AFB (VAFB), Remote Tracking Stations (RTS), AFSCN External Users, and all contractors
tasked by this instruction, as stipulated by contract. Each squadron, detachment, organization,
section, or operational area may develop supplements to this instruction. Send one copy of each
to 22 SOPS/DOK, 401 O'Malley Ave, Suite 51, Schriever AFB, CO 80912-3051. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. Requests for
waivers must be submitted through chain of command to the OPR listed above for consideration
and approval. The authorities to waive requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier
("T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3") number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications
and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers.
Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver
approval authority. The waiver authority for non-tiered requirements in this publication is 50
SW/CC. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
 2                                                              50SWI 10-617 25 APRIL 2014


Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Redundant
information and organizational roles and responsibilities have been removed. Numerous higher
level publications referenced in earlier versions of this document have been rescinded and are no
longer included. Information referring to launch support is now contained in 50SWI 10-1208,
Launch Readiness and Responsibilities, and has been removed from this document. A large
volume of minor administrative changes have been made.
1. General The AFSCN is a common user network comprised of the Network Management,
Communications, and Range Segments used to support Launch Vehicles, National Security
Space, and Civil and Allied space systems. Prospective AFSCN users (user agencies) submit
requests to use AFSCN assets in the form of a Program Requirements Document (PRD). The
PRD is created as a result of the user agency and 50 SW/XP coordinating through a requirements
definition process. 50 SW, in partnership with the Space and Missile Systems Center Satellite
and Launch Control Systems Program Office (SMC/RN) and Headquarters Air Force Space
Command (HQ AFSPC) staff offices, analyze user agencies’ requirements for operational and
engineering supportability. Formal documentation of user agencies’ support requirements, and
of AFSCN understanding and agreement to meet those requirements, provides the foundation for
the process. 50 SW/XP manages all initial Program Requirements for the AFSCN. These
requirements include uplink and downlink configuration information, scheduling requirements,
communications connectivity requirements, and all other AFSCN related requirements which a
satellite program may levy on the AFSCN for mission support. The AFSCN Program Support
Manager (PSM) is responsible for oversight of the AFSCN Program Requirements. 50 SW/XP
has the final authority to approve access to the AFSCN as submitted in the PRD. 50 SW/XP is
responsible to ensure all requirements have been analyzed and addressed before 22 SOPS begins
engaging with the user agency for launch and space operations.
2. Requirements Definition Process
     2.1. Request for AFSCN Support. Prospective AFSCN users request AFSCN support by
     contacting the 50 SW Program Planning Branch (50 SW/XPP) and scheduling a program
     overview. This introductory meeting is designed as an informal exchange of information
     between the satellite program and the PSM and may be conducted via telecon or in-person
     meetings. After the appropriate security level has been set and initial program requirements
     are understood, the PSM provides an informal preliminary assessment regarding the
     AFSCN’s ability to support the user agency’s program. The preliminary assessment shall
     consider whether the user agency’s program tracking, telemetry and commanding
     requirements are compatible with the AFSCN’s support capabilities during the user agency’s
     mission timeframe.
     2.2. Technical Interchange Meeting (TIM). If the preliminary assessment indicates
     AFSCN may be capable of supporting the user agency’s requirements, a TIM is scheduled
     between AFSCN and user agency action officers. The TIM is conducted between the user
50SWI 10-617 25 APRIL 2014                                                                 3


  agency and 50 SW/XP (and other AFSCN agencies as appropriate) to discuss the potential
  AFSCN support to the user agency.
     2.2.1. AFSCN Capabilities. The action officers will discuss current and planned
     AFSCN capabilities at the TIM, emphasizing on the user agency’s timeframe for
     requested support.      Additionally, 50 SW/XP will provide instructions, network
     documentation, and software user manuals referenced in this document to the user
     agency’s action officer.
     2.2.2. User Satellite Operations Center (SOC). If the prospective AFSCN user does
     not currently have SOC connectivity to the AFSCN, the requirements, processes, and
     alternative solutions will be discussed at the initial TIM.
     2.2.3. Information Assurance. 50 SW/XP will explain the process for requesting and
     receiving Air Force Space Command (AFSPC) Authority to Connect to the AFSCN to
     the user agency at the TIM.
     2.2.4. PRD Development. Since the PRD is the basis for AFSCN support, the format
     and content of the PRD is discussed at the TIM and 50 SW/XP will provide a template to
     the user agency to use to identify its requirements and to develop the necessary
     documentation.
  2.3. Iterative Requirements Process Initiated. An iterative requirements coordination
  process begins between AFSCN support organizations and the requesting user agency.
  Recurring process actions include, but are not limited to:
     2.3.1. Required Documentation. AFSCN and the user agency agree on the level of
     program documentation required (e.g., determine if a formal Program Introduction (PI) or
     Statement of Capability (SC) is needed).
     2.3.2. Draft Document Review. User agency requirements documentation is reviewed
     by the PSM in draft form prior to formal signature, approval, and submittal by the user
     agency. The focus of this review is to ensure the requirements are complete and that
     AFSCN agencies understand the requirements.
     2.3.3. Document Response. After formal transmittal of the user agency program
     requirements documentation, the PSM will provide an engineering and operational
     assessment. The documentation process is described below in Paragraph 3.
     2.3.4. Program Meeting Participation. The AFSCN PSM attendance at user agency
     TIMs and program reviews (e.g. System Design Reviews, Preliminary Design Reviews
     and Critical Design Reviews) is highly recommended. The exchange of information
     ensures both the user and the PSM understand the user agency’s mission requirements
     and AFSCN’s capabilities.
     2.3.5. Identification of Unmet Requirements. The AFSCN PSM coordinates with the
     user agency government program officer (GPO) and AFSPC/A5 to determine the most
     cost effective and risk reducing method to satisfy unmet requirements. Technical
     solutions are assessed and, if necessary, the need for AFSCN baseline changes and
     funding sources are identified. The AFSCN PSM assists the user agency in preparing
     and submitting the Change Request Forms (CRFs) for AFSCN baseline changes and
 4                                                                50SWI 10-617 25 APRIL 2014


        Command, Control, Communication and Computer (C4) requests for communications
        connectivity, as required.
     2.4. Readiness Review. Approximately 45 days prior to the requested AFSCN support date,
     the user agency GPO and the AFSCN PSM conduct a readiness review. Objectives of the
     review include assurance of AFSCN support capability, user agency readiness to launch, and
     coordination of critical activities with 22 SOPS’ Scheduling Branch and the 50 SW
     Information Assurance Office. This review is the initial handoff of the user agency’s
     program from the requirements definition process (managed by the PSM), to a cooperative
     support from 22 SOPS and the PSM, and then to an operational program on the AFSCN.
     The objectives of the readiness review are:
        2.4.1. Operational Readiness Review. The AFSCN PSM and user agency GPO review
        completed actions or assign an estimated completion date (ECD) on uncompleted items.
        For user agencies that are new to the AFSCN, 22 SOPS conducts an Operational
        Readiness Review to include introductions to operational organizations and tours of
        supporting areas within the SAFB complex.
        2.4.2. Mission Briefing. The user agency provides a Mission Briefing at the Operational
        Readiness Review, identifying mission objectives and critical support activities. This
        assists schedulers and priority users in resolving potential AFSCN scheduling conflicts.
3. Requirements Documentation
     3.1. Document Description. The AFSCN requirements documentation process is a
     standardized process providing a common structure to define program requirements within
     the constraints of approved support architectures. It allows for formal identification of user
     agency requirements and provides for an AFSCN response on how the requirements will or
     will not be met.
     3.2. Document Organization. Four AFSCN requirement and capability documentation
     levels are described below.
        3.2.1. Program Introduction (PI). The PI provides a top-level, program requirements
        definition. It is typically required only when changes to the AFSCN baseline are
        anticipated or long lead-time development activities are required. If deemed appropriate
        by the AFSCN PSM, a PI is created by the user agency and used as a planning document
        for AFSCN security analysis and development actions. The PI is signed by the user
        agency and submitted as early as five years, but not later than three years, prior to the
        mission need date. This ensures adequate time for the establishment of necessary
        AFSCN baseline funding and development initiatives.
        3.2.2. Statement of Capability. The SC is created by the AFSCN PSM and is the
        formal response to the PI. It describes how support will be provided and what changes to
        the AFSCN baseline may be required. The SC provides operational and engineering
        responses, and is generally finalized within 90 days of receipt of the formal PI. The
        document is signed by 50 SW/XP and is the initial AFSCN mission support agreement.
        3.2.3. Program Requirements Document (PRD). The PRD is created by the user
        agency and contains specific details on all mission requirements. The PRD provides, but
        is not limited to, program security issues, information regarding factory and launch base
50SWI 10-617 25 APRIL 2014                                                                      5


       compatibility testing, command formatting, telemetry rates, link margin analyses,
       communications routing and services, and required launch, early orbit, on-orbit, and
       disposal support requirements. The user agency should not specify implementation
       solutions as a requirement. The PRD is signed by the user agency and nominally
       submitted 15 months prior to the mission support need date. To aid development of the
       PRD, the AFSCN PSM is available to meet with the user agency and provide tabletop
       assistance in developing a draft PRD. Either at, or shortly following, the critical design
       review is an optimal time for the user agency and the PSM to meet and draft the PRD.
       The user agency can subsequently coordinate the requirements into the draft PRD and
       obtain approval signature within the user agency.
       3.2.4. Program Support Plan (PSP). The PSP, a formal response to a PRD, is prepared
       by the AFSCN PSM. It provides an analysis of the AFSCN’s ability to meet satellite
       program requirements and specifies how program requirements will or will not be
       satisfied. It contains an item-for-item engineering and operational response to PRD
       requirements. When the document is signed by 50 SW/XP, the PSP becomes the official
       agreement regarding AFSCN support to the mission. The PSP is generally finalized
       within 90 days after receipt of the formal, signed PRD. The PSP will be coordinated by
       SMC/RN (engineering review), 50 Network Operations Group (50 NOG) (operational
       review), and 22 SOPS (loading review).
   3.3. Document Revisions. Changes to the PRD may be formally submitted by the user
   agency (i.e., transmitted with program office signature) in the form of page changes or a
   complete document revision. Examples of events that may warrant a revision are extended
   life of an on-orbit asset, a change in the original AFSCN loading profile (i.e., significant
   changes in required AFSCN contacts), or a movement or major modification of a SOC. The
   AFSCN PSM replies (in kind) to new or modified requirements in the corresponding
   response documents (e.g., PSP). AFSCN response documentation may be reviewed at any
   time, but at least tri-annually, and may be modified as necessary to reflect changes in system
   architecture and/or Concept of Operations. All proposed support changes are coordinated
   with the user agency to minimize or eliminate mission impacts or costs.
4. Essential Activities
   4.1. Description: There are several essential activities that must be completed before the
   user can schedule and perform a contact on the AFSCN. These activities are listed below.
   While many of these activities are performed in parallel, the order listed here should serve as
   a guide to prioritize activities. The AFSCN PSM will work closely with the prospective
   AFSCN user to establish program specific need dates for each individual activity. Upon
   acceptance of the PSP by the user, the AFSCN PSM initiates all the following processes.
   4.2. IRON and Call Sign Assignment. The AFSCN uses IRONs to identify and schedule
   all space vehicles. The AFSCN use Call Signs to identify the operational SOC who is
   performing the contact. The call sign and IRON are always unclassified because they are
   used on the unclassified AFSCN to schedule and perform contacts. However, use of the
   IRON with other program data may not be unclassified. These instances are described in the
   Program’s Security Classification Guide. Upon receipt of the user agency’s PRD, the PSM
   requests IRONs for the user from 22 SOPS. If it is a new SOC, the Call Sign will be
   coordinated with 22 SOPS.
6                                                               50SWI 10-617 25 APRIL 2014


    4.3. IRON Database Configurations. The AFSCN ground stations must be configured for
    the space vehicle contact (transmit power, uplink and downlink configurations, data rates,
    etc). The specific support parameters are provided to the AFSCN ground stations via the
    space vehicle’s IRON Database. These vehicle specific configurations must be developed
    and tested by the user agency before the launch and operation of the space vehicle. Factory
    Compatibility Testing (FCT) and Launch Base Compatibility Testing (LBCT) demonstrate
    and verify the correctness and accuracy of the IRON configurations before launch. The user
    agency is responsible for keeping these IRON database configurations current. The PSM,
    SMC/RNL, and 22 SOPS are available to support the user agency in the development and
    testing of the configurations, but they belong to the user agency. The SMC/RNL maintains
    and distributes the IRON configuration database.
    4.4. Distributed Communication Controller (DCC) Configurations. The DCC is a
    Personal Computer (PC) based workstation within the SOC used by the space operator to
    configure the communication circuits between the SOC and the scheduled Remote Tracking
    Station (RTS). The user agency builds and saves circuit configurations to execute at
    scheduled contacts. The user agency must also release the communications circuits after the
    contact is complete. A DCC workstation is currently a user provided PC loaded with
    AFSCN provided application software and master resource description (MRD) database.
    Based on program requirements documented in the PRD, the PSM acquires communication
    ports for new DCCs and coordinates connection to the AFSCN. The user agency is
    responsible for the DCC connectivity from the SOC to the AFSCN node.
    4.5. Electronic Schedule Dissemination (ESD). The ESD system is the heart of the
    AFSCN because it is used to schedule all contacts and downtimes throughout the network.
    ESD is used to request satellite contacts, receive conformation of contact request and submit
    a Mission Impact Report (MIR) should there be an issue with the contact. Prospective
    AFSCN programs will identify a requirement for a scheduling capability in their PRD, along
    with the number of terminals required, and provide a justification for the requirement. Upon
    completion of the PSP, the AFSCN PSM will assist the user agency in development and
    submission of a Change Request Form (CRF) that will document and initiate the delivery and
    installation of the terminal in the user agency SOC.
    4.6. Information Assurance. Information Assurance (IA) is a Department of Defense
    (DOD) program with mandatory compliance. DoDI 8510.01, DoD Information Assurance
    Certification and Accreditation Process (DIACAP), is the controlling document which is
    supplemented by each military service. AFSPCI 33-202, Information Assurance (IA), is the
    AFSPC supplement for the AFSCN IA process. The AFSPC Designated Approving
    Authority (DAA) is the AFSPC/CC who has delegated the AFSCN DAA to AFSPC/A6. The
    AFSCN PSM will act as an intermediary between the program and AFSPC/A6 to assist in
    obtaining Authority to Connect, but the responsibility for completing the task lies entirely
    with the user agency.
    4.7. Compatibility Testing. Compatibility testing prior to launch is the only means to
    demonstrate successful test of the RTS and Automated Remote Tracking Station
    (ARTS)/RBC database compatibility with the AFSCN. To ensure successful operations,
    LBCT is available at AFSCN supported launch facilities. Factory Compatibility Testing
    (FCT) is highly recommended.
50SWI 10-617 25 APRIL 2014                                                                    7


     4.7.1. Factory Compatibility Testing. FCT utilizes transportable AFSCN equipment
     deployed to the factory and is conducted early in the development of the space vehicle.
     The Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC) provides this service using the
     Transportable Space Test and Evaluation Resource (TSTR) and/or the Transportable RTS
     Block Change (RBC). Scheduling the use of these assets is coordinated by the program
     office directly with SMC. The cost of transportable equipment use, and communication
     connectivity costs to link the on-orbit C2 system (i.e., SOC/MOC), is the responsibility of
     the user agency.
     4.7.2. Launch Base Compatibility Testing. The LBCT demonstrates the correctness
     and accuracy of the space vehicle’s IRON configuration and the correct implementation
     of communications before launch. LBCT utilizes AFSCN Automated Remote Tracking
     Station (ARTS)/RBC ground systems at the Eastern Range (ER) or Western Range (WR)
     to demonstrate space vehicle compatibility before launch. AFSCN ground systems at the
     ER or WR are provided at no charge. For non-ER or -WR launches (e.g., Wallops Flight
     Facility, Kodiak Launch Complex, and the Reagan Test Site at Kwajalein) use of AFSCN
     deployable assets (similar to FCT) is the recommended support method. Use cost,
     shipping costs, and associated communications is the responsibility of the user agency.
  4.8. Test Planning and Execution. Compatibility test planning and execution is the
  responsibility of the user agency. Technical assistance is available from the supporting
  Command and Control (C2) (SOC/MOC) and if requested, the AFSCN PSM and 22 SOPS.
  The AFSCN PSM and 22 SOPS can assist by reviewing the Test Plan, Test Procedures, or
  Test Execution. The program office is responsible for a Final Test Report. Upon test
  completion, the program office provides a copy of the test report to the AFSCN PSM.
  4.9. External Communications Connectivity. External connectivity to the AFSCN
  Communication Segment at the network Operational Control Nodes (OCN) is the
  responsibility of the mission System Program Office (SPO), through its Defense Information
  Systems Agency (DISA) Circuit Control Officer (CCO). The AFSCN PSM assists in
  identifying the CCO and providing the demarcation details. The external connectivity
  provided by DISA is terminated at the established DISA demark at the OCN. The AFSCN
  PSM assists the user agency in extending the connectivity from the DISA demark to the
  AFSCN Communication Segment or user agency SOC. 50 SW/XPP can submit the
  requirement to the local communications organization through the Work Order Management
  System (WOMS), if the user does not have access.




                                          WILLIAM J. LIQUORI JR, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
 8                                                          50SWI 10-617 25 APRIL 2014


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 8510.01, DoD Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process (DIACAP),
28 November 2007
AFPD 10-6, Capabilities-Based Planning & Requirements Development, 31 May 2006
AFPD 16-3, Priorities for Resources Management, 26 January 1994
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
AFI 33-364, Records Disposition-Procedures and Responsibilities, 22 December 2006
AFSPCI 33-202, Information Assurance, 15 January 2009
50SWI 10-1208, Launch Readiness and Responsibilities, 11 September 2012
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
21 SOPS—21st Space Operations Squadron
22 SOPS—22nd Space Operations Squadron
50 SCS—Satellite Communications Squadron
50 NOG—50 Network Operations Group
50 SW/XP—50 Space Wing Plans and Programs Office
50 SW/XPP—50 SW Program Planning Branch
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSCN—Air Force Satellite Control Network
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AFSPCI—AFSPC Instruction
ARTS—Automated Remote Tracking Station
ATC—Authority-to-Connect
C2—Command and Control
C4—Command, Control, Communication and Computer
CC—Commander
CCO—Circuit Control Officer
50SWI 10-617 25 APRIL 2014                                           9


COMSEC—Communication Security
CRF—Change Request Form
CS—Communication Segment
CTO—Certificate To Operate (Ref. AFSCN Operations)
DAA—Designated Approving Authority
DCC—Distributed Communication Controller
DISA—Defense Information System Agency DoD - Department of Defense
DO—Director of Operations
DRSN—Defense Red Switch Network
ECD—Estimated Completion Date
ECP—Estimated Completion Date
EFTO—Encrypt For Transmission Only
ER—Eastern Range
ESD—Electronic Schedule Dissemination
EVCF—Eastern Vehicle Checkout Facility
FCT—Factory Compatibility Test
GPO—Government Program Officer
HQ—Headquarters
IA—Information Assurance
IDCR—IRON Database Change Request
IRON—Inter Range Operations Number
L-X—Launch minus _ Days
LBCT—Launch Base Compatibility Test
MCC—Mission Control Center
MIR—Mission Impact Report
MOC—Mission Operations center
MRD—Master Resource Description
MUE—Mission Unique Equipment
OAFS—Onizuka Air Force Station
OCN—Operational Control Node
OD—Operations Directive
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
 10                                                 50SWI 10-617 25 APRIL 2014


OPS—Operations
ORL—Operational Requirements Letter
OSR—Operational Switch Replacement
PAP—Program Action Plan
PDO—Publishing Distribution Office
PI—Program Introduction
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
PRD—Program Requirements Document
PSM—Program Support Manager
PSP—Program Support Plan
RBC—RTS Block Change
RTS—Remote Tracking Station
SAFB—Schriever Air Force Base
SAGES—Satellite and Ground Environment Simulation
SARM—Set Asynchronous Response Mode
SC—Statement of Capability
SMC—Space and Missile Systems Center
SOC—Satellite Operations Center
SPO—System Program Office
SV—Space Vehicle
SVOD—Space Vehicle Operations Director
SWI—Space Wing Instruction
TIM—Technical Interchange Meeting
VF—Vehicle Folder
WANIU—Wide Area Network Interface Unit
WEBDART—Web-Based Data Analysis and Repository
WOMS—Work Order Management System
WR—Western Range
