BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                50TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 38-202
                                                                                       1 AUGUST 2004

                                                                           Manpower and Organization

                                                                MOST EFFICIENT ORGANIZATION
                                                                                MANAGEMENT

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 50SW/MO (TSgt Barbara C. Claypool)                      Certified by: 50 SW/MO (Mr. David Lee)
                                                                                          Pages: 12
                                                                                     Distribution: F

This instruction prescribes responsibilities, procedures for changing a Statement of Work (SOW)/Perfor-
mance Work Statement (PWS), procedures for improving a Most Efficient Organization (MEO), and pro-
cedures for documenting growth/reductions of an MEO. The governing directives are OMB Circular
A-76 (Performance of Commercial Activities) and AFI 38-203, Commercial Activities Program. These
publications take precedence over this instruction.


1. Roles and Responsibilities. The following is a list of responsibilities for personnel involved with an
MEO.
   1.1. Wing Leadership.
       1.1.1. The MEO must be treated like a contractor. If an increase in service above the current
       SOW/PWS is requested, manpower and/or dollars must be provided to the MEO to offset the
       increase in workload prior to the change being implemented. If resources are not provided, the
       change cannot be implemented. The resources may come from within the MEO if a corresponding
       change to lessen workload in another area of the MEO results in sufficient resources to fund the
       increased requirement.
       1.1.2. Must ensure the MEO is provided with the resources and support necessary for successful
       accomplishment of the workload in the SOW/PWS.
   1.2. Functional Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR).
       1.2.1. The MEO must be treated like a contractor. If an increase in service above the current
       SOW/PWS is requested, manpower and/or dollars must be provided to the MEO to offset the
       increase in workload prior to the change being implemented. If resources are not provided, the
       change cannot be implemented. The resources may come from within the MEO if a corresponding
       change to lessen workload in another area of the MEO results in sufficient resources to fund the
       increased requirement.
2                                                                     50SWI38-202 1 AUGUST 2004


       1.2.2. Must ensure the MEO is provided with the resources and support necessary for successful
       accomplishment of workload in the SOW/PWS.
       1.2.3. The Functional OPR may create a steering group to oversee and advise on complex MEO
       issues. The steering group will consist of, but not limited to, MEO manager, Functional OPR,
       Manpower Office (MO), Comptroller Flight (CPTF), Civilian Personnel (DPC) and Contracting
       (LGC), Judge Advocate (JA).
    1.3. MEO Manager:
       1.3.1. Track, coordinate and document all SOW/PWS MEO changes.
       1.3.2. Request assistance from CPTF and MO for costing changes and/or advisory services.
       1.3.3. Check feasibility of implementing changes with DPC, CPTF and MO as appropriate prior
       to implementing the changes.
       1.3.4. Track, coordinate and document all QASP changes. Track Quality Assurance (QA) inspec-
       tions of the MEO and maintain QA documentation.
       1.3.5. Brief Functional OPR monthly (more often as needed) on status of MEO.
       1.3.6. Maintain all MEO documentation for the life of the MEO and any additional extensions.
       Documentation includes, but is not limited to, QA inspections and reports, functional OPR
       monthly briefing slides with agenda and record of attendance, and all SOW/PWS change docu-
       mentation.
       1.3.7. The MEO manager shall provide to the MO actual dollars expended on the MEO each
       month, complete the spreadsheets in the MEO tracking Tool provided by HQ AFSPC/XPM outlin-
       ing the costs (personnel, supplies, equipment), generate reports from the data. These reports are
       due to the MO on the 10th of each month.
       1.3.8. The MEO manager shall track all manpower; personnel and dollars utilized by the MEO to
       ensure all expenditures are within MEO limits.
    1.4. MEO Customer.
       1.4.1. The MEO must be treated like a contractor. If an increase in service above the current
       SOW/PWS is requested, manpower and/or dollars must be provided to the MEO to offset the
       increase in workload prior to the change being implemented. If resources are not provided, the
       change cannot be implemented. The resources may come from within the MEO if a corresponding
       change will lessen workload in another area of the MEO. Results must be in sufficient resources to
       fund the increased requirement.
    1.5. Manpower and Organization:
       1.5.1. Provide initial training to key MEO staff and functional OPR on this instruction, A-76
       guidelines, SOW/PWS MEO changes and responsibilities. Also provide training for key positions
       upon replacement of personnel. (See Attachment 2 – Training Plan)
       1.5.2. Provide consultant advisory services to the MEO and functional OPR.
       1.5.3. Evaluate SOW/PWS MEO changes for manpower impacts and compliance with AFI
       38-203, Commercial Activities Program, and this instruction.
50SWI38-202 1 AUGUST 2004                                                                           3


      1.5.4. Maintain a copy of the costing and SOW/PWS change documentation. Provide the Func-
      tional reports on the 15th of each month to HQ AFSPC/XPM.
      1.5.5. Update cost changes in WinCOMPARE.
   1.6. Comptroller Flight (CPTF):
      1.6.1. Track MEO costs by performance period and provide reports to MEO manager.
      1.6.2. Provide costing assistance to the MEO manager, the MO and the Wing/CC in pricing
      increases/decreases in workload due to potential SOW/PWS changes.
   1.7. Contracting Office (LGC):
      1.7.1. Review SOW/PWS changes for consistency with solicitation. Verify change is within the
      scope of the original solicitation.
      1.7.2. Provide writing assistance on SOW/PWS changes.
   1.8. Judge Advocate (JA).
      1.8.1. Review SOW/PWS changes to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
   1.9. Civilian Personnel (DPC).
      1.9.1. Work with the MEO manager to resolve personnel issues.
      1.9.2. Assist the MEO in obtaining qualified personnel to staff the MEO.

2. Changes to the SOW/PWS. The following outlines requirements to document and obtain coordina-
tion and approval for SOW/PWS changes.
   2.1. Identify a potential SOW/PWS change. The requirement for a SOW/PWS change may be identi-
   fied by the functional OPR, the MEO, or by MEO customers.
   2.2. Determine if the proposed change is warranted. The functional OPR and MEO manager must
   jointly determine if the proposed change is warranted, and complies with applicable instructions.
   2.3. Obtain a cost/benefit analysis from MO and CPTF for the proposed change. MO and CPTF vali-
   date any impact on resources (i.e. manpower, dollars, etc). MO may outline numerous options includ-
   ing whether the MEO or the residual organization should perform the proposed work, or not at all.
   2.4. The functional OPR must determine where the manpower or dollars will come from in order to
   offset any increases generated by the proposed change. The resources may come from within the
   MEO if a corresponding change to lessen workload in another area of the MEO results in sufficient
   resources to fund the increased requirement. The proposed SOW/PWS change will not be approved
   without resources being provided to offset increased workload/cost.
   2.5. The MEO manager provides a staff summary sheet (SSS) for official coordination and approval
   of the proposed change. The SSS requesting the change must be coordinated, as a minimum, through
   LGC, MO and CPTF with the appropriate functional OPR as the approving authority. More functions
   may be added for coordination as necessary. The following information must be included:
      2.5.1. Purpose: Obtain functional OPR approval for change to SOW/PWS and funding.
4                                                                     50SWI38-202 1 AUGUST 2004


       2.5.2. Background: Provide an overview of the SOW/PWS change. Provide full SOW/PWS
       change including page, paragraph, and specific wording change on document change request
       (DCR) as an attachment. (See Attachment 3 – SOW/PWS change examples)
       2.5.3. Authority Driving Change: Provide change justification/authority (Air Staff, local require-
       ment, etc.). New requirements, workload left out of the SOW/PWS, work no longer required, and
       more efficient use of resources are examples of additional justification. Identify potential work-
       load and resource impacts.
       2.5.4. Resource Impact: The functional OPR must verify the proposed change is warranted, com-
       plies with applicable instructions, impact on resources and proposes where resources will be
       obtained. Additional resources must correspond to an increase in the SOW/PWS workload. Any
       increases in manpower or dollars are the responsibility of the functional OPR. The functional OPR
       approves resources to be realigned. Additional resources must be identified prior to SOW/PWS
       change approval. If the functional OPR must obtain approval from a higher authority for realign-
       ment of resources, the functional OPR will be listed on the SSS as a coordinator and the higher
       authority will be the approver.
       2.5.5. Recommendation: Functional OPR (or higher authority as required) approves proposed
       change to the SOW/PWS and realignment of resources.
       2.5.6. Tabs: As a minimum, provide the Document Change Request (at Attachment 3) and all
       supporting documentation for the change as attachments.
    2.6. Obtain approval. Once approval is obtained from the functional OPR or higher authority, the SSS
    will be returned to MO, CONS/LGC and CPTF for action. The MO will update cost changes in COM-
    PARE. CPTF will update and track the MEO costs.
    2.7. Realignment of resources. MO and CPTF will realign resources identified by the functional OPR.
    2.8. Modification of the SOW/PWS. The MEO manager and/or the functional OPR will make the
    approved changes to the SOW/PWS and provide copies to MO.
    2.9. The MEO manager will adjust the MEO operations to comply with the updated SOW/PWS and
    maintain all supporting documentation and provide copies of the documentation to MO, CONS/LGC
    and CPTF.

3. Improving an MEO. Like any other organization in the Air Force, MEO management is required to
find ways to improve customer service, operations efficiency, and resource utilization. Keep in mind the
MEO in most cases must re-compete at the end of five years. If the MEO finds efficiencies that reduce
required resources, the MEO is authorized to realign those resources to other areas of the MEO that may
not have enough or turn the excess resources to the Wing for redistribution to higher priority areas. Any
improvements must be documented with justification for the change explaining the old system, the new
system and savings. These changes must meet union approval and follow all personnel regulations. The
MEO manager and 50 SW/MO must maintain copies of the improvement documentation. All improve-
ments must be briefed to the functional OPR.

4. MEO Growth/Reductions. The following outlines the requirements to document and obtain coordi-
nation and approval for MEO growth and reduction changes.
50SWI38-202 1 AUGUST 2004                                                                                5


   4.1. MEO Growth. The MEO may experience a growth in requirements based on level of service or
   changes to an AFI. If a growth in the MEO is required, the following procedures must be accom-
   plished.
       4.1.1. Follow the procedures for making a SOW/PWS change identified in paragraph 3. of this
       instruction.
       4.1.2. If growth of the MEO exceeds prescribed limitations identified in AFI 38-203, the MEO
       will be re-competed.
   4.2. MEO Reductions. An MEO is still subject to the same resource constraints as any Air Force orga-
   nization. If a mandatory reduction in manpower or dollars is received for 50 Space Wing, the leader-
   ship may choose to take a portion of the reduction from an MEO. If a reduction in the MEO is
   required, the following procedures must be accomplished.
       4.2.1. Follow the procedures for making a SOW/PWS change identified in paragraph 3. of this
       instruction.
       4.2.2. Identify what services will no longer be accomplished due to the reduction.

5. Temporary Increases to the MEO. Temporary increases to the MEO could occur for a variety of rea-
sons, such as moving the MEO operation temporarily for building renovations. Support of the MEO for
this type of unforeseen circumstance requires less documentation and does not require a change to the
SOW/PWS. However, documentation is required for audit purposes.
   5.1. State the following minimum requirements in a memorandum:
       5.1.1. Describe the work to be performed and why.
       5.1.2. Identify the resources necessary to accomplish the temporary workload.
       5.1.3. State that it is a one-time requirement and the residual organization is funding the require-
       ment as Government Furnished resources to the MEO.
       5.1.4. Identify from where the resources are to be realigned.
   5.2. The MEO manager, MO and the functional OPR must maintain copies of the letter. Courtesy cop-
   ies should be forwarded to CPTF and DPC.

6. MEO Termination.
   6.1. MEO Default.
       6.1.1. Default Determination. The MEO will be in default when the cost of the MEO exceeds the
       original MEO cost plus the minimum conversion differential. To determine if the MEO is in
       default, the Post-MEO review authority will use the original final decision CCF, taking into con-
       sideration allowable adjustments, and add the conversion differential to the MEO cost. If the cur-
       rent MEO cost exceeds the result of that calculation, the MEO is in default.6.1.2. A-76 Waiver. If
       the MEO is in default, the default determination will be the basis for an A-76 cost comparison
       waiver. The waiver documentation will be sent to the 9a Authority for approval (refer to Attach-
       ment 1 paragraph 1.1.). Upon approval of the waiver the contracting officer will release a solicita-
       tion for private sector competition. Since the MEO is in default, there will be no MEO or
6                                                                     50SWI38-202 1 AUGUST 2004


       government in-house cost estimate developed. The functional OPR and the contracting officer will
       immediately design a transition plan to ensure an orderly transition to contractor performance.
    6.2. Decision to Re-compete. The Wing Commander may choose to re-compete an MEO at any time.
       6.2.1. The Wing Commander must have documentation explaining the reasons for re-competing
       early. The MEO manager and the wing MO must maintain this documentation.
       6.2.2. The Wing Commander can choose to increase the resources allocated to the MEO prior to
       the announcement of the competition if there is sufficient justification. Examples of appropriate
       justification are; the MEO was bid incorrectly or the MEO is no longer believed to be competitive.
       The MEO manager and the MO must maintain all documentation and backup.
       6.2.3. The Manpower Office, MEO Management, and the Functional OPR must begin prelimi-
       nary planning for strategic sourcing.



                                                    SUZANNE M. VAUTRINO, Commander
50SWI38-202 1 AUGUST 2004                                                                       7


                                          Attachment 1

            GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Abbreviations and Acronyms
9a Authority—The authority granted to the Office of the Secretary of Defense in OMB Circular A-76,
section 9a (for DoD).
CAMIS—Commercial Activities Management Information System
CCF—Cost Comparison Form
DPC—Civilian Personnel Office
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
CPTF—Comptroller Flight Commander
Functional OPR—Functional designated to oversee SOW/PWS.
LGC—Contracting Office
JA—Judge Advocate
MO—Manpower Office
MEO Manger—Most Efficient Organization Manager/Supervisor
MEO—Most Efficient Organization.
PWS—Performance Work Statement.
QA—Quality Assurance
QASP—Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan
SSS—AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet
SOW—Statement of Work
WinCOMPARE—DoD Cost Comparison Software.
8                                                                   50SWI38-202 1 AUGUST 2004


                                           Attachment 2

                                      MEO TRAINING PLAN

A2.1. Personnel Requiring Training. As a minimum, the following personnel require MEO training:
    A2.1.1. 50 SW Leadership
    A2.1.2. Functional OPR
    A2.1.3. MEO manager and Key MEO Staff

A2.2. When Training is Required. MEO training is required when a new MEO is implemented or when
key personnel are replaced.

A2.3. What Training is Required. The minimum training required is as follows:
    A2.3.1. Training on this instruction emphasizing responsibilities, making SOW/PWS changes and
    maintaining documentation.
    A2.3.2. The basic MEO structure and an overview of the SOW/PWS requirements.
    A2.3.3. The MEO QASP inspection and documentation requirements.
    A2.3.4. What services are available through MO.
    A2.3.5. Emphasize that all documentation must stand up to an Air Force Audit.
50SWI38-202 1 AUGUST 2004                            9


                                  Attachment 3

                            SOW/PWS CHANGE PROCESS
10   50SWI38-202 1 AUGUST 2004
50SWI38-202 1 AUGUST 2004   11
12   50SWI38-202 1 AUGUST 2004
