BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         50TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 36-801
50TH SPACE WING
                                                                                 1 MARCH 2011

                                                                                       Personnel

                                                        CIVILIAN TIME AND ATTENDANCE



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 50 CPTS/FMF                                         Certified by: 50 CPTS/CC (Maj Thomas
                                                                                   A. Smicklas)
                                                                                      Pages: 18


This instruction implements AFPD 36-8, Employee Benefits and Entitlements, to establish
civilian time and attendance management guidance applicable to base personnel. This
instruction applies to all 50th Space Wing (SW) personnel and Geographically Separated Units
(GSU). This instruction does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command or Air National Guard.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Changes of Publications; route
AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate organizational chain of command. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air
Force Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil

.

1. Roles, Responsibilities, and Approval Authority
    1.1. Wing Commander. The Wing Commander establishes the hours for opening and
    closing the installation. The standard work week is Monday through Friday, 0730-1630;
    everything outside of this standard schedule is considered an alternative work schedule
    (AWS) (see paragraph 5).
    1.2. Organization Commanders. Commanders (see Glossary for further explanation)
    establish, by written order, the daily hours for beginning and ending work and the basic 40-
    hour tour of duty including uncommon tours of duty, alternative work schedules, hours and
    location(s) for alternative workplace arrangements (AWA), as well as rest and lunch periods
    for their respective organizations. Commanders should set work schedules, assign overtime
2                                                               50SWI 36-801 1 MARCH 2011


    and holiday work to balance mission requirements, efficiency and economy of operations,
    and employee needs. These determinations may be subject to approval by the installation
    commander.
       1.2.1. IAW AFI 36-802, Commanders must continually ensure overtime work occurs
       only pursuant to mission needs. They should review Defense Civilian Pay System
       (DCPS) reports such as the Overtime/Compensatory Time review (P6602R04), the
       Overtime/Compensatory Time Usage Report (P6602R05), and the Control of Hours
       Report (P6605R01) which can be requested from the Comptroller Squadron.
       1.2.2. Additionally, Commanders should perform self-inspection of overtime and
       compensatory time usage and documentation (the checklist in Attachment 2 can be used
       for this purpose).
    1.3. Supervisors:
       1.3.1. Recommend tours of duty including those which require the payment of premium
       pay rates (night work, Sunday work, overtime, holiday, etc.) only when the mission
       requires this work for operations.
       1.3.2. Must obtain approval from their Commander before ordering overtime (see
       paragraph 4 for overtime process).
       1.3.3. Consider changing tours of duty involving the assignment of overtime when the
       requirement conflicts with an employee's religious obligations or practices, or excuse him
       or her from the assignment. EXCEPTION: If failure to perform the overtime will
       prevent accomplishment of the mission, the employee is expected to perform the
       overtime.
       1.3.4. Release employees from overtime if the additional work would impair health or
       efficiency or cause extreme hardship.
       1.3.5. Review overtime reports (see paragraph 4.7).
       1.3.6. Schedule temporary duty (TDY) travel within an employee's regularly scheduled
       tour of duty to the maximum extent possible to avoid paying overtime.
       1.3.7. Compare employee travel vouchers with time and attendance reports to determine
       if there is an entitlement to overtime.
       1.3.8. Record approved travel-related overtime on the attendance records.
       1.3.9. Prepare and process corrected time and attendance records when required.
       1.3.10. Are considered Approving Officials of their employees’ timecards and can be
       held pecuniarily liable if data is determined illegal, improper, or incorrect payments were
       made due to the negligent performance of duties. Additionally, disciplinary action can be
       taken against a supervisor when a civilian employee is allowed to work non-emergency
       overtime without first gaining proper approval (AF IMT 428, Request for Overtime,
       Holiday Premium Pay, and Compensatory Time, see paragraph 4.2).
    1.4. Employees:
50SWI 36-801 1 MARCH 2011                                                                        3


       1.4.1. May not receive overtime pay for work which a Commander did not properly
       authorize and approve (except employees under the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA)
       who are permitted to work overtime (5 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) 551.401).
       1.4.2. Request supervisor approval for all exceptions to the normal civilian duty day.
       1.4.3. Ensure that all documentation for performance of military duty is properly
       certified and provided to the supervisor for inclusion with member’s timecard.
   1.5. DCPS Coders and/or Timekeepers:
       1.5.1. Coordinate with supervisors and employees to ensure employee time and
       attendance documentation, to include daily entries to the electronic Management
       Tracking System (eMTS), which interfaces DCPS, for all exceptions to an employee’s
       scheduled tour of duty, when required, is accurate.
       1.5.2. Are responsible for the maintenance of time and attendance records to include
       required supporting documentation which includes: timecard for each pay period with
       copies of all supporting documentation whether electronically within a timecard system
       such as eMTS or hard copy (copies of certified military pay documents, AF IMT 428,
       work schedule changes, leave requests, DD Form 1610, Request and Authorization for
       TDY Travel for DoD Personnel, work schedule logs/worksheets).
       1.5.3. Ensure all time and attendance records, to include required supporting
       documentation (i.e. anything to prove missing work, but not on leave, such as jury duty
       notices, subpoenas, reserve duty orders, etc. ) are properly maintained for six years or
       until an approved external audit has occurred, whichever comes first, whether
       electronically or hard copy.
       1.5.4. Should verify the time and attendance information they input into DCPS or other
       time management programs is an accurate reflection of the timesheets submitted.
       Timekeepers have the responsibility of ensuring accurate information is transcribed from
       an employee worksheet to a timecard and can be held pecuniarily liable for erroneous
       payments.
2. Hours of Work. The administrative workweek, within which an employee’s work must be
scheduled, begins at 0001 hours Sunday morning and ends Saturday night at 2400 hours. The
basic workweek is those days and hours within the administrative workweek which include the
regularly scheduled work.
   2.1. Management Requirements. Management is required, if possible, to specify the days
   and hours that constitute the basic workweek. In other words, supervisors should provide
   each employee a regularly scheduled tour of duty in which the hours and days of work are
   scheduled and known to the employee in advance of the administrative workweek.
   2.2. Changes to Basic Workweek. When the 'basic workweek' must be changed, the
   requirement is to notify affected employees and Civilian Pay of any schedule change prior to
   the start of the administrative workweek. Management is required to give bargaining-unit
   employees at least seven calendar days notice before the effective date of the change, unless
   shorter notice is necessary to prevent the agency from being handicapped in the exercise of
   its functions or to forestall a substantial increase in operational costs. Supervisors will need
   to provide notice to 50 FSS/FSMC well in advance of the change as the Union must be given
 4                                                                50SWI 36-801 1 MARCH 2011


     notice and an opportunity to respond. Schriever AFB, New Boston AFS, Kaena Point, and
     Guam must coordinate with their respective unions. (See Glossary for a listing of
     applicable unions).
     2.3. Irregular Workweeks. In rare cases, due to the nature of the work, it may not be
     possible to establish a regularly scheduled workweek, with definite hours and days. In such
     cases, management may establish the first 40 hours of duty within an administrative
     workweek as the basic workweek, rather than definite hours and days. Additionally,
     Commanders have the authority to establish an uncommon tour of duty (see paragraph 1) or
     AWSs (discussed in paragraph 5).
3. Shift Change Guidance for Bargaining Unit Employees. Generally, work is scheduled on
the same hours each day (0730-1630). Changes in individual workdays and shifts may be made
when dictated to meet operational requirements. Notice must be given when employees are to be
assigned to a different tour of duty or to different hours of work. AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily
Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observances, requires supervisors to give as much advance
notice as possible to employees on a 40-hour workweek, but 5 United States Code (USC)
6101(a)(3)(A) requires a minimum of seven days notice. An agency may make changes within
those seven days if they would otherwise be handicapped in carrying out its mission or if costs
would be substantially increased.
     3.1. Approval. Approval should be documented with coordination by 50 FSS/FSMC and, if
     bargaining unit employees are involved, the appropriate union. (See Glossary for a listing of
     applicable unions). The letter should include the following: proposed work schedule,
     justification including benefits to organization and employees, name/grade/title of affected
     employees, proposed implementation date (beginning of pay period), and a statement that
     proposed work schedule will be year-round or only during certain times of year.
     3.2. Union Coordination. If any bargaining unit employees will be affected by the
     proposed work schedule, union coordination must be obtained (See Glossary for a listing of
     applicable unions). The proposed implementation date should allow for a possible union
     request to negotiate impact and implementation. The fact that an agency’s decision to
     change employees’ tours of duty is negotiable only at the agency’s election should not be
     viewed as encouraging agencies not to bargain over these changes. Moreover, even where an
     agency exercises its right not to bargain over the change itself, an agency has an obligation to
     bargain over the matters set forth in section 7106(b)(2) and (3) of the statute procedures to be
     observed by management in exercising its authority and appropriate arrangements for
     employees adversely affected by management’s exercise of its authority.
4. Overtime. Civilian overtime will be held to an absolute minimum by making every effort to
accomplish work within the normal 40-hour workweek. Management must use all resources,
including flexible scheduling and compensatory time, to avoid overtime. Only overtime
determined to be absolutely necessary to carry out the assigned mission on a timely basis should
be considered for approval. Employees cannot voluntarily perform work outside their regular
schedule under FLSA as this may result in an Anti-deficiency Act violation.
     4.1. Overtime Pay for Exempt/Non-Exempt Employees. The employee’s core document
     cover sheet defines whether the employee is “exempt” or “non-exempt.” Different laws and
     different procedures apply to each category. For the purposes of overtime and compensatory
     time off, Title 5 USC; Title 5 CFR, Government Organization and Employees, applies to
50SWI 36-801 1 MARCH 2011                                                                     5


  employees who are “exempt” from FLSA, while the FLSA applies to everyone else, hence
  the term “non-exempt.”
     4.1.1. Overtime for Non-Exempt Employees. Overtime pay for non-exempt
     employees is one and one half times their hourly rate of basic pay. Commanders will not
     allow their non-exempt employees to voluntarily perform work outside their regular
     schedule. For example, a non-exempt employee works a 0730-1630 regular schedule, but
     sometimes works an extra 30-45 minutes in order to complete a project. The supervisor
     does not tell the employee to stay late, yet knows about it and, in fact, expects it. These
     extra 30-45 minutes are considered hours of work under the FLSA.
     4.1.2. Overtime for Exempt Employees. Exempt employees are not entitled to
     compensation for working outside their normal duty hours unless overtime is ordered or
     approved by management. Overtime pay for exempt employees is the greater of (1) one
     and one-half times the minimum hourly rate of basic pay for GS-10 or NSPS equivalent
     not to exceed $5,224 per year (including any applicable specials salary rate or locality
     rate of pay), or (2) the employee’s own hourly rate of basic pay (including any applicable
     special salary rate or locality rate of pay).
  4.2. Supervisor’s Responsibilities. Supervisors must get approval from Commander and
  funds certification from the Comptroller Squadron before they direct an employee to work
  overtime. Supervisors must use a hard copy AF IMT 428 to get advance approval for either
  overtime pay or compensatory time off (comp time). If an emergency forces a supervisor to
  order overtime without advance approval, the AF IMT 428 must be completed the following
  workday. The supervisor must retain the approved and certified AF IMT 428 for 6 years and
  3 months IAW DoD Financial Management Regulation (FMR), Vol 8, Chapter 2, paragraph
  020208. Although, eMTS contains an application for electronic 428s, there is no mechanism
  for the Comptroller Squadron to certify funds. Hard copy 428s must be generated, certified,
  and maintained with the timekeeper in order for legal overtime to be approved
  4.3. Requesting Overtime. Prepare original and one copy of AF IMT 428, and forward to
  the Approval Authority. Once approved by the Approval Authority, forward to the
  Comptroller Squadron for funds certification. A separate form is required for each pay
  period (see exception in paragraph 4.5). When an emergency situation occurs, and the
  request cannot be processed in advance of the work being performed, obtain verbal approval
  from the approval authorities listed in paragraph 1. Written confirmation in the form of a
  completed AF IMT 428 is required the following duty day. Include the name of the
  individual who gave verbal approval in the justification section of the AF IMT 428.
  4.4. Reporting Overtime. Return the original AF IMT 428 to the originator after the
  Approval Authority’s signature. The civilian time keeper records actual overtime worked on
  the Time and Attendance Card. The timekeeper will attach a copy of the AF IMT 428 to the
  Time and Attendance Card for employees who worked the overtime. The supervisor will
  retain the approved AF IMT 428 to support entries on the employee’s Time and Attendance
  Card and makes file disposition according to Air Force Disposition Schedule (RDS) located
  at Error! Hyperlink reference not valid.
  4.5. Blanket 428s. When overtime is regularly scheduled and approved, consider
  submitting a blanket AF IMT 428 quarterly. Adjust as necessary when the overtime exceeds
  originally approved blanket AF IMT 428.
6                                                              50SWI 36-801 1 MARCH 2011


    4.6. Retroactive Overtime. Retroactive overtime should only be processed on a case-by-
    case basis, and will be submitted by the Commander. The request will contain an
    appropriately approved AF IMT 428, with solid documentation of overtime worked and
    include an explanation of why it was not processed prior to the overtime. Before being
    certified, any request for retroactive overtime should be presented to the Judge Advocate
    office to determine legality. Per DoD FMR, Vol 8, Ch 2, paragraph 020602, if the time and
    attendance for the current pay period has been processed and a change is required, the
    supervisor shall certify adjusted time and attendance data for input to the payroll system or
    transmittal to the civilian payroll office via the customer service representative. The
    adjustment will be processed promptly in the employee's pay and/or leave record no later
    than the pay period following receipt.
    4.7. Overtime Reports. Commanders should review DCPS reports: P6602R04,
    Overtime/Compensatory Time Review; P6602R05, Overtime/Compensatory Time Usage
    Report; and P6605R01, Control of Hours Report, to identify overtime/compensatory time,
    note any discrepancies in hours worked versus hours paid, and monitor compensatory time to
    ensure the employee uses earned compensatory time prior to it being paid out unless
    absolutely necessary.
    4.8. Internal Controls for Overtime. To determine whether internal controls are adequate
    and properly applied, a checklist has been developed (Attachment 2). This checklist will be
    used during random timekeeper audits (usually performed by 50 CPTS) to validate
    compliance with regulatory requirements and local policy.
    4.9. Alternatives to Overtime. The general rule is that employees get overtime pay for
    overtime work. However, other options are available and can be used with the proper
    approval.
       4.9.1. Compensatory (Comp) Time. Both exempt and non-exempt employees can
       request comp time instead of overtime pay for irregular or occasional overtime work, or
       call-back overtime. Employees cannot request comp time for work performed during
       normal duty hours on either a holiday or the day on which a holiday is observed. By law,
       an employee who performs work on a holiday during normal work hours must be
       compensated with holiday premium pay. The employee must request compensation
       before performing the overtime work. The supervisor decides whether the request for
       comp time, instead of overtime pay, will be requested IAW the FLSA. The supervisor
       must indicate whether the employee will receive comp time or overtime pay on the AF
       IMT 428 requesting approval for the overtime work. One hour of comp time is given for
       each hour of overtime worked. Time can be earned in 15 minute increments. The comp
       time must be used within 26 pay periods after it is earned by submitting an OPM Form
       71, Request for Leave or Approved Absence. If comp time is not used within this time
       period, it must be paid as overtime at the overtime rate in effect when it was earned.
           4.9.1.1. Comp Time Rules for Non-Exempt Employees. Non-exempt employees can
           never be directed to take comp time instead of receiving overtime pay for overtime
           work. They can request comp time rather than overtime pay, but they cannot be
           forced to take comp time instead of overtime pay. If the supervisor denies the request
           for comp time, the employee receives overtime pay for the overtime hours worked.
50SWI 36-801 1 MARCH 2011                                                                      7


          4.9.1.2. Comp Time Rules for Exempt Employees. Exempt employees at the GS-10,
          Step 10 or NSPS equivalent pay level, and below, are treated like non-exempt
          employees for comp time purposes. This means that they can ask for comp time, but
          they can’t be forced to take it instead of overtime pay. If the supervisor denies the
          request for comp time, the exempt employees at the GS-10, Step 10 or NSPS
          equivalent pay level and below receive overtime pay for the overtime hours worked,
          though that overtime pay is capped at one and one half times the GS-10, Step 10
          level.
          4.9.1.3. Comp Time for Travel. The only travel time that is creditable for this
          purpose is time actually spent traveling and the usual waiting time that precedes or
          interrupts such travel (for example, the designated pre-departure time at an airport or
          the time spent waiting at intervening airports for a connecting flight). However, if
          there is an extended waiting period outside the employee’s regular working hours
          during which the employee is free to use the time for his/her own purposes, then the
          time is not creditable time in a travel status. Also excluded are bona fide meal
          periods, such as when the employee spends an uninterrupted hour eating a meal in an
          airport restaurant while waiting for a flight. Accrued compensatory time off for travel
          must be used by the end of the 26th pay period after it was earned or else it will be
          forfeited. Payment for this type of compensatory time off is prohibited.
      4.9.2. Credit Hours. Credit hours are any hours within a flexible schedule established
      under Title 5 USC 6122 that are in excess of an employee’s basic work requirement, and
      that the employee elects to work to vary the length of a workweek or a workday. Only
      employees on flexible schedules may work credit hours.
          4.9.2.1. Requirements for Credit Hours. The basic work requirement for full-time
          employees is 80 non-overtime hours in a 2-week pay period. Agency policies or
          union agreements may place restrictions on earning or using credit hours. Employees
          are not paid basic pay or overtime pay for credit hours when they earn them.
5. Alternative Work Schedules. An Alternative Work Schedule (AWS) is a deviation from the
normal 8 hour day, 5 day week work schedule (reference paragraph 1.1). An AWS allows
Commanders to meet their mission requirements while giving employees more flexibility in
scheduling family and personal activities. Only Commanders are authorized to approve an
AWS.
   5.1. Compressed Work Schedules. The employee is scheduled for 80 hours per bi-weekly
   pay period in fewer than 10 days. The tour of duty is defined by the particular schedule the
   installation or organization chooses to establish. For all compressed work schedules, the tour
   of duty is arranged in such a way that employees on these schedules will fulfill their basic
   work requirements in less than 10 days during the biweekly pay period. Examples include
   the four-day workweek, the three-day workweek, and the 5/4-9 plan (see figure 5.1 below
   for examples).
 8                                                   50SWI 36-801 1 MARCH 2011


Figure 5.1. Examples of Compressed Work Schedules.
50SWI 36-801 1 MARCH 2011                                                                    9


These models characterize the more common types of compressed work schedules. They are not
meant to be all inclusive. Agencies should develop schedules tailored to meet their specific
needs.
   5.2. Flexible Work Schedules. A flexible schedule splits the work day into two types of
   time: core time and flexible time. During core time all employees must be at work.
   Additional periods of flexible time are established during which the employee has the option
   of selecting and varying his/her starting and quitting time within limits set by management
   for the organization or installation. Examples include flexitour schedule, gliding schedule,
   variable day schedule, variable week schedule, and maxiflex schedule (see figure 5.2 below
   for examples).
 10                                           50SWI 36-801 1 MARCH 2011


Figure 5.2. Examples of Flexible Schedules.
50SWI 36-801 1 MARCH 2011   11
 12                                                              50SWI 36-801 1 MARCH 2011


6. Telework. Telework, also known as flexiplace and telecommuting, is a federal program
which provides employees the opportunity to work all or part of the work week at alternative
worksites away from the main worksite.
   6.1. Requirements for Telework. A written telework agreement, including safety
   checklist, is required for all regular and recurring telework and recommended for ad hoc or
   situational telework. A sample agreement is available from 50 FSS/FSMC. It may not be
   used to replace appropriate arrangements for dependent care. Telework time must be
   accounted for and reported in the same manner as if the employee reported for duty at the
   traditional worksite.
   6.2. Types of Telework.
       6.2.1. Regular-Recurring or Core Telework. An approved work schedule, where
       eligible employees regularly work at least one day per biweekly pay period, at an
       alternate worksite. The payroll code is “TW.”
       6.2.2. Ad Hoc or Situational Telework. Approved telework at an alternate worksite on
       an occasional, one-time, or irregular basis. Telework of less than one day per biweekly
       pay period is considered ad hoc or situational. The payroll code is “TS.”
7. Civilian Fitness Program. Commanders should encourage maximum, safe participation in
fitness for all Air Force civil service members. Active involvement from civil service personnel
can improve mission readiness, enhance esprit-de-corps, and increase productivity.
   7.1. Requirements. Each person will: (a) obtain medical clearance to participate in an
   exercise program; (b) receive supervisor approval to participate; and (c) only use on-base
   facilities during authorized duty time.
   7.2. Use of Duty Time. The program allows individuals up to three hours of duty time
   (excused absence) per week and is restricted to the use of facilities under the direct control of
   the installation commander. Use of duty time (excused absence) is appropriate only if
   recommended by the first level supervisor and approved by the Commander. Mission impact
   is the key element in making this decision. Normally, overtime and compensatory time may
   not be approved nor earned on days when use of duty time is approved under this program.
   The civilian fitness program may be rescinded at any time by the Wing Commander.
   7.3. Facilities. In order to maintain the integrity of the program, fitness activities may only
   be performed in or on 50 SW facilities.
8. Excused Absences, Official Functions, Down Days, and Off-Sites. The supervisor only
has authority to grant excused absence (no charge to leave) for the reasons and periods specified
in Chapter 8 of AFI 36-815, Absence and Leave, such as blood donations, voting, attending
meetings and conferences, and unavoidable absences and brief periods of early dismissal of less
than one hour, etc. The installation commander, however, can grant an excused absence
(normally not more than 4 hours) for other reasons "that are deemed to be in the best interest of
the public or Air Force."
   8.1. Accepted Practices. The accepted practice has been, at the supervisor's discretion, to
   excuse employees for the purpose of attending "official functions," such as
   retirement/farewell ceremonies/luncheons, and organization picnics. These functions are
   considered normal organization activities and do not require the approval of the installation
50SWI 36-801 1 MARCH 2011                                                                       13


  commander. Birthday luncheons, whether on or off-base, have not been considered official
  functions. "Off-sites" are authorized in two instances: (1) If a purely social or recreational
  event, leave or earned compensatory time will be used. Example: An organization wants to
  arrange for employees to attend a baseball game on duty time as a team-building event.
  Employees must be charged leave or use any available compensatory time. (2) If the primary
  purpose of the off-site is formal team-building, training or other job-related activity/training,
  and social or recreational activities (e.g., volleyball) are secondary, then off-site attendance
  may be deemed duty-time, without charge to leave.
  8.2. Team Schriever Events. A “Team Schriever” event, an annual event, that has been
  designated by the Wing Commander (installation commander) as an official function, and all
  employees (assuming they can be released without mission impact) are eligible to participate
  without charge to leave in the various activities intended to promote fitness, morale and
  esprit de corps. In this case, the installation commander has determined that excused absence
  for civilians is deemed "in the best interest of the public or Air Force."
  8.3. Organizational Events. Organizational events such as golf, bowling and fishing
  tournaments do not have the broad purpose of a Team Schriever event, especially if the event
  appeals to and benefits only certain employees (e.g., those interested in golf, bowling, or
  fishing), and if a fee is charged. SnoFest is another event that does not meet the intent of the
  regulation as it appeals to and benefits only certain employees and there is a cost associated
  to attend. Since only the installation commander has the authority to excuse civilian
  absences other than for those reasons specified in Chapter 8 of AFI 36-815, supervisors and
  commanders of individual organizations may not grant excused absence for these events.
  8.4. AFSPC Family or Wing Down Days. AFSPC Family Days and wing down days are
  considered to be liberal leave days for civilian employees. Commanders should grant leave
  or previously earned compensatory time off to employees requesting it to the fullest extent
  possible without adversely impacting the mission (i.e. some employees cannot be excused for
  reasons of national security, defense, or other essential public business). Any Appropriated
  Fund civilian employee planning to participate in this, or any down day, is required to submit
  an OPM Form 71 (http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/opm71.pdf) to their leave approving
  official. All civilian employees must be on appr
  8.5. Adopted Forms:
     AF IMT 428, Request for Overtime, Holiday Premium Pay, and Compensatory Time
     OPM Form 71, Request for Leave or Approved Absence

     DD Forms 1610, Request and Authorization for TDY Travel for DoD Personnel




                                            WAYNE R. MONTEITH, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
 14                                                          50SWI 36-801 1 MARCH 2011


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 5 United States Code; Title 5 Code of Federal Regulations, Government Organization and
Employees, 3 January 2007
DoD Financial Management Regulation, Volume 8, Civilian Pay Policies and Procedures, 3
February 2009
AFPD 36-8, Employee Benefits and Entitlements and Work/Life Programs, 10 February 2009
AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observances, 21 June 1999
AFI 36-815, Absence and Leave, 21 December 2006
AFI 36-802, Pay Setting, 1 September 1998

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFGE— American Federation of Government Employees
AWA— Alternative Work Arrangements
AWS— Alternate Work Schedule
CFR— Code of Federal Regulations
DCPS— Defense Civilian Pay System
DOD— Department of Defense
MTS— Electronic Management Tracking System
FLSA— Fair Labor Standards Act
FMR— Financial Management Regulation
OPM— Office of Personnel Management
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS— Records Disposition Schedule
SW— Space Wing
TDY— Temporary Duty
USC— United States Code

Terms
Administrative Workweek— The Air Force administrative workweek begins at 0001 Sunday
and ends at 2400 on the next following Saturday. The calendar day on which a shift begins is
considered the day of duty for that day even though the day of duty extends into the next
calendar day or into the following administrative workweek.
50SWI 36-801 1 MARCH 2011                                                                      15


Alternative Work Schedules (AWS)— Work schedules made up of flexible or compressed
schedules.
Alternative Workplace Arrangements (AWA)— Working under a flexiplace arrangement,
either at home or other approved location(s), such as a telecommuting center (see also
Telework).
Approving Official— Individuals who are responsible for providing information, data, or
services to a certifying officer that he/she directly relies upon to certify vouchers (e.g.,
timecards) for payment. They can be held pecuniarily liable for erroneous payments resulting
from their negligent actions in accordance with section 2773a of title 10, United States Code
(USC).
Basic Workweek— The days and hours of an administrative workweek which make up a full-
time employee's regularly scheduled 40-hour workweek.
Certifying Official— A Department of Defense (DOD) military member or civilian employee of
the Department appointed in writing to attest to the legality, propriety and correctness of a
voucher (timecard) for payment as provided for in 31 USC 3528.
Commander— For purpose of this instruction, the term “Commander” encompasses
Group/Squadron Commander, Director, and Director of Staff.
Compressed Schedule— Compressed schedule means for a full-time employee, an 80-hour
biweekly basic work requirement which is scheduled in less than 10 workdays. In the case of a
part-time employee, it is a biweekly basic work requirement of less than 80 hours which is
scheduled for less than 10 workdays.
Credit Hours— Credit hours are any hours within a flexible schedule established under 5
U.S.C. 6122 that are in excess of an employee’s basic work requirement, and that the employee
elects to work to vary the length of a workweek or a workday.
First 40—Hours – The first 40 hours of duty performed within a period of no more than six
days of the administrative workweek may be established as the basic workweek when it is
impractical to prescribe a regular schedule of definite hours of duty each workday.
Flexible Schedule— Flexible schedule is that portion of the work day during which the
employee has the option to select and vary starting and stopping times within established limits
set by installation level approving officials for AWS.
Holiday Work— Work performed on a legal holiday or the day observed as a holiday.
Observed Day— Observed day is a holiday in which employees are given time off on a day
other than the date which the holiday actually falls on.
Part Time— In some circumstances it is not possible to obtain or use an employee's services for
the full 40-hour workweek. Part time tours of duty may be authorized when service on a regular,
repetitive basis is required at least one day during each administrative workweek, however,
additional service may be required during the remainder of the administrative workweek.
Pecuniary Liability— Personal financial liability for fiscal irregularities of disbursing and
certifying officers and departmental accountable officials as an incentive to guard against errors
and theft by others, and also to protect the government against errors and dishonesty by the
officers themselves.
 16                                                             50SWI 36-801 1 MARCH 2011


Regular Tour of Duty— The regular tour of duty for Air Force employees is five 8-hour days,
Monday through Friday.
Standby— Certain types of work require employees to remain at their duty stations for long
periods of duty, a substantial part of which is standby time. For example, the tour of duty for
firefighters generally is a 72-hour workweek of three 24-hour days. The tour is scheduled so that
the employee is on duty three alternate 24-hour shifts during each administrative workweek, and
deviations from this tour are kept to a minimum. The basic weekly tour of duty for fire chiefs,
assistant fire chiefs, fire prevention inspectors, and similar fire protection personnel is 40-hour
workweek of five 8-hour days unless the duties of the position require substantial amounts of
standby time.
Telework— Also known as “flexiplace” or “telecommuting”, this federal program which
provides employees the opportunity to work all or part of the work week at alternative worksites
away from the main worksite. Typically, the alternative worksite is the employee's home or a
satellite work center geographically convenient to the employee's home.
Timekeeper— A civilian, military, or contractor employee responsible for timely and accurate
recording of time and attendance data and the maintenance of related documentation.
Uncommon Tour of Duty— Any 40-hour basic workweek scheduled to include Saturday and or
Sunday, for four workdays or less but not more than six days of the administrative workweek.
An uncommon tour of duty may be established when necessary for efficient operations or when
the cost of operations can thus be reduced without imposing undue hardship on employees.
Unions— Schriever AFB - American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE) Union
local 1867; New Boston AFS - National Association of Government Employees (NAGE) Union
local 19; Kaena Point - International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) Union local
1186.
50SWI 36-801 1 MARCH 2011                                  17


                            Attachment 2
 REQUEST FOR OVERTIME, HOLIDAY PREMIUM PAY, AND COMPENSATORY
                        TIME CHECKLIST
18                         50SWI 36-801 1 MARCH 2011


Attachment 2 (Continued)
