BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         50TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 10-220
50TH SPACE WING
                                                                                   12 MAY 2010
                                                            Certified Current 12 September 2012
                                                                                     Operations

                                                         AIR FORCE SATELLITE CONTROL
                                                         NETWORK (AFSCN) OPERATIONS
                                                               PERFORMANCE SCORING




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms/IMTs are available for downloading or ordering on
               the e-publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 22 SOPS/MAF                                                       Certified by: 22 SOPS/CC
Supersedes: 50SWI10-220, 21 Jan 2005                                  (Lt Col Eric S. Dorminey )
                                                                                         Pages: 8


This instruction implements AFI 10-1201 Space Operations and AFPD 63-5 Quality Assurance
by establishing requirements, responsibilities, products, and interfaces involved in the
management and conduct of Air Force Satellite Control Network (AFSCN) operations. This
instruction applies to all activities and organizations supporting and/or under the control of the
50 SW Commander using AFSCN Common User Elements (CUE) and Mission Unique
Equipment which are AFSCN controlled resources. This publication does not apply to Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) Units. References to satellite support scoring in this document refer
to internal AFSCN scoring as it pertains to AFSCN Remote Tracking Station (RTS) contractor
operations performance scoring, not the support score provided by the satellite operations
squadron or satellite operations center in reference to the Mission Impact Report (MIR). Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AF Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision increases performance from the .994 monthly operations performance scoring to
.996 and increases the yearly operations performance scoring from .996 to .998. In addition, it
includes definitions of lost, failed, marginal, and nominal satellite supports formerly covered in
rescinded AFSPCI 10-202, 50 SW Sup 1. It removes the data link terminals (DLT) as a category
 2                                                                50SWI 10-220 12 MAY 2010


for operations performance scoring and removes satellite transfers (XFER) as the associated
DLT function code. This revision renames the terminology of satellite sortie and contact to
satellite support.

1. Introduction. The objective of the AFSCN is to provide uninterrupted support for space
operations. All operational elements must achieve the highest possible standards of performance
to meet this objective. The Government Contract established a method of monthly operations
performance evaluation for each remote tracking station (RTS) to ensure the contractor performs
operations at the highest standards. Telemetry and Commanding Station (TCS) Oakhanger
contractor is not part of that contract and is not contractually required to meet a minimum
standard. However, site leadership closely monitors the scores and considers 99.6% to be the
minimum acceptable standard. The operations performance score is based on the point award
scoring system for satellite supports.

2. General. This section describes the criteria used to evaluate mission success and
standardization of related practices. It contains terms and definitions that standardize
terminology through the AFSCN for all network operations. Satellite support scoring is a key
metric used by the 50 SW to assess contractor operations performance. All satellite support
resources will be scored using the criteria contained in this instruction. Scoring is derived from
MIRs filed against lost or failed supports that are directly attributed to the contractor personnel
or equipment. See Table 1 for satellite support definitions.
50SWI 10-220 12 MAY 2010                                                                           3


Table 1. Satellite Support Definitions.
Lost        Problems were encountered during the satellite support that resulted in not meeting
Support     all mission objectives defined by operational directives or pre-established by the unit,
            and the user, responsible for mission payload data was impacted.

            Some examples of a lost support include:

            -Time-critical or time-specific commanding could not be performed on time that
            results in user impact such as a loss or degradation of communication satellite
            capability or the postponement of a satellite maneuver and cannot be rescheduled.

            - Mission data is lost or unrecoverable within user specified time limits (i.e. loss of
            mission payload data such as Defense Meteorological Satellite Program (DMSP)
            imagery data, various programs Infrared (IR) data, Intelligence-Surveillance-
            Reconnaissance (ISR) data, and other mission payload data) or is unusable. A data
            loss can be a direct result of site equipment failure, communications
            malfunction/failure, space vehicle problem, procedural error, or personnel error.
Failed      Problems were encountered during the support resulting in the failure to meet all
Support     planned mission objectives of the support defined by operational directives or pre-
            established by the unit, but the user was not impacted.

            Some examples of failed supports include:

         - Unit unable to comply with Operational Requirements Document (ORD) (State of
         Health, Track, critical space vehicle equipment adjustments, Delta V & I, etc.) due to
         support problems, but can accomplish the requirements at a later time without impact
         to the user (i.e. only loss of state of health telemetry data, ranging, etc).
Marginal Problems were encountered during the support but all mission objectives were met
Support and the user was not impacted.

            Some examples of marginal supports include:

            - Any equipment problems that occurred during the support that required a
            substitution at the RTS, communications segment, or at the satellite operations center
            (SOC), to include any significant mission impacting equipment, AFSCN problems, or
            communications problems.

            - Problems sending commands on time but mission objectives still met.
Nominal     100% of all mission objectives were successful. No problems were encountered
Support     during pre-pass, pass and post pass.
3. Satellite Types. The criteria for satellite types are based on the difficulty for the RTS to
contact the vehicle. A Type 1 satellite is usually designated as a low earth orbiting satellite. A
Type 2 satellite orbit is a semi-synchronous or highly elliptical orbit. A Type 3 satellite is in a
geosynchronous or geostationary orbit. A satellite will be designated as Type 1 in pre-launch
and early orbit, and will hold that designation until it reaches its designated orbit. Each Satellite
 4                                                                 50SWI 10-220 12 MAY 2010


Operations Center (SOC) or Mission Control Complex (MCC) must send a letter depicted in
Attachment 2, to 22 SOPS/MAF whenever a satellite’s type changes, such as launch, early orbit
and final orbit. If a letter is not received from the user to 22 SOPS typing the respective
satellite(s), those vehicles will not be typed and subsequently not scored. Playbacks will be
scored 1 point regardless of inter-range operations number (IRON) Type.
4. Satellite Support. Defined as an event for the reception and/or transmission of information
between a space vehicle (SV) and the SOC or MCC. A support consists of a Prepass and Pass.
All playbacks will be scored separately. The specific related “Function Codes” that are shown
on the Network Tasking Order are identified in Table 2.

Table 2. Function Codes.
FLT  A flight activity of an on-orbit satellite as compared to a non-flight activity such as
     maintenance
PART Each satellite is visible at certain antennas for a period of time and will support that
     satellite for a portion of its visibility
PASS Will support that satellite for its entire visibility, horizon to horizon
P/B  Playback, used to play back recorded information from the RTS to a customer
5. Major Modifications. If a site is down due to a major modification, the side of the site will
be scored after the RTS Commander has signed Operations and Maintenance Responsibility
Transfer (OMRT) with concurrence of 22 SOPS/CC. OMRT is defined in the 50th Space Wing
Supplement to AFSCN TR-9000. Mission impact reports MIR will be submitted prior to OMRT
and used for tracking problems only and will not be included into the operational performance
scoring process.
6. Equipment Outages.
     6.1. Reported before Estimated Time of Acquisition (ETA) -25 minutes. If a station does
     not meet success criteria during a support due to an amber or red equipment outage reported
     earlier than 25 minutes before the scheduled start time, the support affected is considered
     successful, and no points will be deducted. MIRs will still be reported and accepted by the
     Network Operations Center (NOC). Successful support is defined as “Nominal” described in
     Table 1.
     6.2. Reported after ETA -25 minutes. Outages reported less than 25 minutes before the
     scheduled start time will have an effect on scoring, unless the outage meets scoring exception
     criteria identified in paragraphs 6.3 and 6.4; that is, points may be given if success criteria
     were met, or deducted if success criteria were not met.
     6.3. Backup, Redundant, and Nonstandard Equipment. The unavailability of backup or
     redundant equipment does not exempt a support from being scored. However, if a site is
     required to support with nonstandard hardware or non-AFSCN facilities, the support will be
     scored successful, if a failure is due to the nonstandard hardware or non-AFSCN facility.
     Nonstandard hardware is hardware that is installed for a particular mission, will be pulled out
     after that mission is completed and has not gone through the Space and Missile Systems
     Center (SMC) configuration control board. Non-AFSCN facilities are facilities, such as the
     Naval Satellite Operations Center (NAVSOC) or National Oceanic and Atmospheric
50SWI 10-220 12 MAY 2010                                                                         5


   Administration (NOAA) that have not had their equipment approved by the SMC
   configuration control board.
   6.4. Test Support. A test support is scheduled to investigate or verify hardware, software,
   communications, procedural problems or solutions. These supports may also be used to
   accomplish other mission objectives. Test supports will not be scored. A MIR is required
   for lost, failed, or marginal test supports and 22 SOPS/MAF uses the MIR for tracking and
   trending network problems.
7. Support Scoring. 22 SOPS/MAF scores all scheduled activity as successful unless a lost or
failed MIR has been submitted. This includes situations where the MCC/SOC deletes routine
procedural steps (i.e. pre-pass checks, read-backs, etc.) and elects to have the Automated Remote
Tracking Station (ARTS) operator conduct nonstandard configurations that could have prevented
the problem support.
   7.1. A Type 3 satellite is scored as one point, a Type 2 satellite is scored two points, and a
   Type 1 satellite is scored three points. If a satellite support has been supported and the
   support provided does not meet mission success criteria (due to contractor personnel or
   equipment)      22 SOPS/MAF will deduct points.
   7.2. Scoring Exceptions. Problems caused by circumstances outside of the direct control of
   the contractor or TCS Oakhanger Operations contractor will not be scored against an RTS.
   This includes intermittent Control & Status (C&S) software problems that cannot be resolved
   by level 2 software support; failure to meet mission requirements due to hardware or
   software design deficiencies; problems caused by the loss of facility equipment
   (Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS), Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning (HVAC)
   etc., not maintained by the contractor or TCS Oakhanger Operations contractor; problems
   resulting from faulty spares removed from supply; NAVSOC Automated Track Supports;
   and, problems resulting from non contractor or TCS Oakhanger Operations contractor action
   (Depot level maintenance personnel, etc.).
   7.3. Short and Negative Turnaround Support Scoring. A support is scored successful if the
   standard station-turnaround time, defined in the Operations (OPS) Directive (OD) document
   for the IRON concerned is not available and, as a result, the support was lost or failed. If the
   lack of success was due to a station personnel error or equipment failure unrelated to the
   short turnaround, further review of the support circumstances will be taken into consideration
   to determine if points will be deducted.
8. Scoring Percent Calculation. 22 SOPS/MAF calculates the score for each RTS at the end of
each month to provide a quantitative evaluation of each site’s operational performance. The
operational scores are computed using the equation in following figure:

Figure 1. Operations Performance Scoring.




   8.1. Percentages will be rounded to the nearest thousandth (for example, 0.9954 would be
   rounded to 0.995). An RTS must maintain a monthly minimum score of 0.996 and a yearly
   score of 0.998.
 6                                                               50SWI 10-220 12 MAY 2010


     8.2. If an RTS has less than 500 points per month with a score lower than .996, overall site
     performance will be examined to determine if performance meets Statement Of Work (SOW)
     requirements. A decision for fee reduction will be made IAW inspection of the service
     clause. This does not apply to TCS Oakhanger.
9. Scoring Conflict Resolution. 22 SOPS/MAF and the contractor’s Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) will conduct routine discussions to resolve any scoring conflict. Any
scoring conflict that can’t be resolved are elevated to the 50 NOG Program Management Office
(PMO), who is the final resolution authority. The PMO then forwards this decision to the
contracting officer for any deduction of the contractor’s award fee. This does not apply to TCS
Oakhanger, except the site works directly with 22 SOPS/MAF to resolve any scoring conflicts.
10. Monthly Summaries. 22 SOPS/MAF prepares a monthly and annual scoring summary for
the contracting officer and the contractor. 22 SOPS/MAF mails information copies to each site
commander.




                                             WAYNE R. MONTEITH, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
50SWI 10-220 12 MAY 2010                                                                7


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-1201 Space Operations, 25 July 1994
AFI 63-5 Quality Assurance, 25 August 2003
AFSCN TR-9000, Air Force Satellite Control Network Turnover Plan for SMC/CW Developed
Products, 25 March 1998

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFSCN—Air Force Satellite Control Network
C&S—Control and Status
CUE—Common User Element
DLT—Data Link Terminal
ETA—Estimated Time of Acquisition
HVAC—Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning
IRON—Inter-Range Operations Number
MCC—Mission Control Complex
MIR—Mission Impact Report
MUE—Mission Unique Equipment
NOAA—National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
NAVSOC—Naval Satellite Operations Center
NOC—Network Operations Center
OD—Operations Directive
OMRT—Operations and Maintenance Responsibility Transfer
PMO—Program Management Office
RTS—Remote Tracking Station
SMC—Space and Missile Systems Center
SOC—Satellite Operations Center
SOW—Statement of Work
SV—Space Vehicle
TCS—Telemetry and Commanding Station
UPS—Uninterruptible Power Supply
 8                                             50SWI 10-220 12 MAY 2010


                               Attachment 2
                      SPACECRAFT TYPE SAMPLE LETTER

Figure A2.1. Sample Letter.
