BY ORDER OF THE                                   50TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 10-202
50TH SPACE WING COMMANDER
                                                                                   14 JULY 2010

                                                                                      Operations

                                                            WING EXERCISE PROCEDURES




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms/IMTs are available for downloading or ordering on
               the e-publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 50 SW/XP                                                            Certified by: 50 SW/XP
Supersedes: 50 SWI 10-202, 17 June 2008                                (Lt Col Marc A. Peterson)
                                                                                        Pages: 26


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-2, Readiness, AFI 10-204,
Readiness Exercises and After-Action Reporting Program, and AFI 10-2501, Air Force
Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations. It establishes policy,
assigns responsibilities, and prescribes procedures for exercise participation in the 50th Space
Wing (50 SW). It applies to all 50 SW units, as well as tenant units on Schriever Air Force Base,
including any Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve units. Tenant units desiring notification
or coordination of exercises will identify their requirements to the 50 SW Exercise Directors (50
SW/XPE). Units will not supplement this instruction. Send requests for changes or
improvements, with justification, on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, through command channels to 50 SW/XP. Ensure all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision
implements new criteria and requirements for the wing exercise program. It updates Exercise
Evaluator Team responsibilities, phases of exercises, and exercise ground rules. It also clarifies
exercise participation requirements and provides guidance on the 50 SW Emergency Information
Sheet.
 2                                                                                                  50SWI10-202 14 JULY 2010


        1.      Purpose, Objective, and Concept. ..........................................................................                   2
        2.      Exercise Evaluation Team. ....................................................................................                3
        3.      Exercises. ...............................................................................................................    8
        4.      Exercise Participation. ...........................................................................................           9
        5.      Phases of Exercises. ...............................................................................................         10
        6.      Exercise Ground Rules. .........................................................................................             14
        7.      50 SW Readiness Guide. ........................................................................................              23
        8.      Awards and Honors Selection Procedures. ............................................................                         23

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                               25

Attachment 2—CAUSE CODES                                                                                                                     26


1. Purpose, Objective, and Concept.
     1.1. Purpose. 50 SW sponsors and participates in scheduled and short-notice exercises to
     assess, train and improve unit readiness to meet peacetime and wartime missions. 50 SW
     and its subordinate units also participate in United States Strategic Command
     (USSTRATCOM), Air Force Space Command (AFSPC), and 14th Air Force (14 AF)
     sponsored exercises. This document covers exercise development, execution, and ground
     rules. Information specific to a given exercise will be distributed, as appropriate, prior to the
     start of each exercise (STARTEX).
     1.2. Objective. Exercises are conducted to enhance readiness, boost combat capability,
     improve system support, improve crisis response, and increase individual proficiency. Non-
     compliant performance will be documented and provided as feedback to improve future
     performance. Failure to meet requirements of an Air Force Instruction (AFI) or AFSPC
     Checklist (AFSPC/CL) will be identified as a finding and reported to the appropriate unit
     Self Inspection Program (SIP) monitor for tracking and resolution. All exercised areas will
     be briefed and reported to group and wing commanders. Additionally, formal inspections
     may occur while an exercise is being conducted, and deficiencies will be documented. The
     installation Exercise Program has three specific objectives.
        1.2.1. To provide the Installation Commander with a means to plan and conduct realistic
        integrated exercises.
        1.2.2. To provide accurate, honest feedback to commanders for planning, preparation
        and training purposes.
        1.2.3. To establish the minimum exercise and evaluation criteria.
     1.3. Concept. 50 SW exercises embody the “train the way we fight” concept. They are
     designed and planned to reflect real world conditions to the maximum extent possible.
     Emphasis is placed on participation and reduced artificiality (notional forces and events) to
     assess actual abilities and limits consistent with safety, exercise objectives, security, mission
     accomplishment, and other real world constraints. Logistics, support, and force protection
     requirements are integrated to the fullest extent possible with operational requirements.
50SWI10-202 14 JULY 2010                                                                        3


   Exercises are conducted under “no-fault” conditions in order to ensure problems are
   identified. Participants are given the chance to practice procedures and perfect skills used in
   real world operations.
2. Exercise Evaluation Team. The Exercise Evaluation Team (EET) consists of the EET
Chief, Exercise Directors (ED), Exercise Controllers (EC), and Exercise Evaluators (EE).
   2.1. EET Chief. The EET Chief is appointed in writing by the wing commander and is the
   point of contact for exercise planning and coordination. The EET Chief ensures the
   requirements in AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities, AFI 10-204, Readiness Exercises
   and After-Action Reporting Program, and AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency
   Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations and their AFSPC and 14 AF
   supplements are met. The EET Chief is the liaison between the AFSPC Inspector General
   (IG), local community officials, the wing commander and EDs on all exercises and
   evaluation visits. The EET Chief is considered to be an ED.
      2.1.1. The EET Chiefs responsibilities include: interfacing with higher head quarters
      (HHQ) or AFSPC IG and local community officials; ensuring tenant units participate in
      the Installation Exercise Program, coordinating with the Staff Judge Advocate, Public
      Affairs, local law enforcement agencies, and civil governing authorities before
      conducting off-base exercises; ensuring each EET receives the required training; and
      incorporating local communities as often as possible in EM exercises.
   2.2. Exercise Directors. EDs are evaluators assigned to 50 SW/XP. EDs develop the wing
   exercise schedule, coordinate with 50 SW group and unit ECs/EEs on information required to
   construct exercise scenarios, ensure exercise scenarios follow the script, coordinate with
   external agencies on unified command exercises, give daily and post exercise briefings to the
   wing commander (as requested), and prepare the final exercise report. The ED can change or
   delete scenario inputs at any time to ensure exercise objectives are met and ensure mission
   accomplishment is not hampered by exercise scenarios. The EDs also represent the 50 SW at
   the annual and quarterly AFSPC Scheduling Resources and Process Team conferences.
   2.3. Exercise Controllers. Group and Unit ECs are the primary EEs assigned to each group
   and unit. The ECs are expected to represent their group/unit for all exercises at all planning
   meetings. ECs are expected to consult with their Group and Squadron leadership to identify
   focus areas and concepts to be tested prior to the planning phase. ECs will not, even if
   directed, disclose exercise scenario content and will refer questions on the scenario to the
   EET Chief or EDs. During the execution phase, ECs inject exercise inputs at the group/unit
   level and evaluate performance. They also assist with ensuring the exercise scenarios follow
   the script and provide exercise briefings to their respective group/unit commander (as
   requested). After the exercise, ECs provide a post exercise briefing to their respective
   group/unit commander and provide inputs to the ED for the official exercise report. These
   inputs include both positive observations and problems observed which affect the group’s
   ability to effectively accomplish its mission. They compile inputs from unit EEs on exercise
   evaluation information and supply this information to the EDs.
      2.3.1. Group Exercise Controllers. Group commanders appoint a primary and alternate
      group EC in writing. To ensure weapon system knowledge is covered weapons & tactics
      flight members are recommended to be assigned as part of the EE team.
4                                                          50SWI10-202 14 JULY 2010


    2.3.1.1. During the exercise planning phase, group ECs are responsible for
    developing group exercise scenarios based upon their leaderships objectives and the
    EDs objectives.
    2.3.1.2. Group ECs provide required information to EDs to construct wing exercise
    scenarios to include briefing them regarding any off limit areas which should not be
    affected by the exercise due to mission requirements.
    2.3.1.3. Group ECs coordinate with unit ECs and EEs on to develop exercise inputs
    and evaluate them. They provide information and determine stimuli needed to
    provide realism for exercise scenarios.
    2.3.1.4. Group ECs are the primary coordinators and developers at the group level
    and are the group’s liaison to the wing EDs.
    2.3.1.5. Group EC’s coordinate with group commanders to provide support with SIM
    SWITCH manning and provide volunteer support during the exercise. These support
    requirements may vary dependent on the duration of the exercise.
    2.3.1.6. Group ECs submit a group level after action report (AAR) to their chain of
    command following exercises and conduct a group level outbrief prior to the final
    Commander Out-Brief and AAR.
    2.3.1.7. Weapons and Tactics Exercise Controllers. Exercises which involve weapon
    system knowledge should be coordinated and executed by weapons and tactics
    exercise controllers. Weapons and tactics exercise controllers are part of the EET for
    planning and deconfliction purposes. The wing weapons and tactics EC will be dual
    certified as an EET member and any certification process established by the wing
    weapons and tactics.
       2.3.1.7.1. Advanced training events (ATE) are weapon system focused exercises
       for the Operations Group and Network Operations Group. Weapons and tactics
       ECs are responsible for coordinating, executing, and evaluating Combat Flex
       exercises.
       2.3.1.7.2. Space Scrimmage exercises are 14th Air Force (14AF) exercises;
       focused on the war fighter and on exercising operations capabilities. Weapons
       and tactics ECs are responsible for coordinating, executing, and evaluating
       operations and weapon system events for Space Scrimmage exercises.
       2.3.1.7.3. Global Series exercises are USSTRATCOM exercises. Weapons and
       tactics ECs will provide all planning, execution, and evaluation inputs involving
       the 50th Operations Group (50th OG), the 50th Network Operations Group (50th
       NOG), and their weapon systems.
       2.3.1.7.4. Weapons and tactics ECs will coordinate with the Wing EET Chief and
       EDs throughout the planning, execution, and evaluation phases.
    2.3.1.8. Group ECs will ensure all Geographically Separated Unit (GSU) ECs are
    sent a final copy of the exercise script before each planning meeting and prior to
    STARTEX.
50SWI10-202 14 JULY 2010                                                                       5


        2.3.1.9. Group ECs will input their events directly into the script on-line to include
        complete details of the event, the implementer, and the outcome expected.
        2.3.1.10. Group ECs can change or delete exercise inputs to meet exercise objectives
        and to aid in designing a realistic script any time prior to finalizing the script. After
        the EDs have declared the script final, the ECs will only delete those events which
        could violate this instruction, published ground rules, safety and security standards, or
        affect real world mission accomplishment.
        2.3.1.11. Group ECs are responsible to ensure all EEs in their groups are current on
        all training and their appointment letters are up to date and will notify the EDs when a
        member is removed from the group EE team.
     2.3.2. Unit Exercise Controllers. Unit ECs are the primary EEs assigned to each unit.
     Their respective unit commander appoints a primary and alternate unit EC in writing with
     additional EEs assigned to cover their unit’s specific mission areas. To ensure weapon
     system knowledge is covered weapons and tactics personnel are recommended to be
     assigned as part of the EE team.
        2.3.2.1. During the exercise planning phase, unit ECs are responsible for developing
        unit exercise scenarios based upon their leaderships objectives and the EDs
        objectives.
        2.3.2.2. Unit ECs coordinate with group ECs to develop exercise inputs and evaluate
        them. They provide information and determine stimuli needed to provide realism for
        exercise scenarios.
        2.3.2.3. Unit ECs are the primary coordinators and developers at the unit level and
        are the unit’s liaison to the group ECs and the wing EDs.
        2.3.2.4. Unit EC’s coordinate with unit and squadron commanders to provide support
        with SIM SWITCH manning and provide volunteer support during the exercise.
        These support requirements may vary dependent on the duration of the exercise.
        2.3.2.5. Unit ECs submit feedback and information to the Group ECs for the group
        and wing AAR immediately following exercises. Unit ECs are responsible for
        ensuring their leadership has reviewed the material being submitted.
        2.3.2.6. Unit ECs that are weapons and tactics personnel will develop scripts,
        conduct exercises and evaluate the weapon system operators for exercises which
        involve operations group and network operation group exercises, in particular Space
        Scrimmage Exercises and Global Series Exercises.
        2.3.2.7. Unit ECs will input their events directly into the script on-line to include
        complete details of the event, the implementer, and the outcome expected.
        2.3.2.8. Unit ECs can change or delete exercise inputs to meet exercise objectives
        and to aid in designing a realistic script any time prior to finalizing the script. After
        the EDs have declared the script final, the ECs will only delete those events which
        could violate this instruction, published ground rules, safety and security standards, or
        affect real world mission accomplishment.
6                                                                  50SWI10-202 14 JULY 2010


           2.3.2.9. Unit ECs will ensure their appointment letters are up to date and will notify
           the EDs when a member is removed from their unit EE team.
    2.4. Exercise Evaluators. EEs are individuals assigned to the groups and subordinate units
    entrusted with exercise information who aid in designing, conducting, and evaluating
    realistic exercises. EEs are appointed in writing by the unit commander or designated
    representative.
       2.4.1. EEs will meet the following minimum qualifications:
           2.4.1.1. For enlisted evaluators ensure at least a 5-skill level; if possible, a 7-level
           evaluator should be appointed. For officers, ensure the grade/experience level of the
           officer is appropriate for the expected evaluation level.
           2.4.1.2. All evaluators must be qualified for the task they are evaluating. For
           example, in order to evaluate an Emergency Operations Center (EOC) response to a
           major accident, the person should be fully qualified as an EOC member prior to
           evaluating an exercise event.
           2.4.1.3. All evaluators should have experience in the task they are evaluating. The
           most experienced person at each position would be the first choice for selection to the
           EET. Personnel who have deployed are preferred for evaluation of field exercise
           events.
       2.4.2. The unit commander will ensure the following statement is on the appointment
       letter: “I certify the above individuals are trained, experienced and qualified to perform
       as Exercise Evaluation Team members.” The appointment letter will also specify what
       portions of the unit mission the EET member is qualified to evaluate (e.g. EOC, Unit
       Control Center, and Crisis Action team).
       2.4.3. During the exercise planning phase, EEs support the EDs and ECs by providing
       credible, detailed exercise event inputs for their respective unit, ensuring the proper
       simulation materials needed to present the scenario are available and maintaining
       exercise script integrity.
       2.4.4. During the exercise execution phase, EEs are in the unit injecting unit-level
       exercise inputs and evaluating unit, crew, and individual performance. They remain on-
       scene to ensure scenarios are clearly presented and kept within the scope of the script and
       to provide clarification of inputs as needed.
       2.4.5. Post exercise. EE support consists of providing an outbrief to the unit commander
       (as requested) and unit exercise reports to the group EC, as well as participating in post
       exercise analysis and identifying any observed problem areas. They will ensure
       identified findings are passed to the unit SIP Monitor for entry into the SIP Database.
       2.4.6. EEs will not, even if directed, disclose exercise scenario content and will refer
       scenario questions to the EET Chief or EDs.
       2.4.7. Weapons and tactics personnel assigned as part of the weapons and tactics ATE
       assessment team will be appointed by their respective squadron weapons and tactics
       flight commander and certified by a process established by the wing weapons and tactics.
50SWI10-202 14 JULY 2010                                                                     7


        2.4.7.1. Weapons and tactics ATE assessment personnel can be either an officer or
        enlisted. However, the appointed individual must have the appropriate experience in
        their weapons system to accurately assess generated inputs and responses.
        2.4.7.2. During the ATE planning phase, ATE assessment personnel support
        squadron and wing weapons and tactics ECs by providing credible, detailed exercise
        event inputs for their respective unit, ensuring the proper simulation materials needed
        to present the scenario are available and maintaining script integrity.
        2.4.7.3. During the execution phase, ATE assessment personnel are in the unit
        injecting unit-level inputs and assessing unit, crew, and individual performance.
        They remain on-scene to ensure scenarios are clearly presented and kept within the
        scope of the script and to provide clarification of inputs as needed.
        2.4.7.4. Post exercise. ATE assessment personnel support consists of conducting a
        debrief and presenting an outbrief to the unit commander (as requested). Any lessons
        learned will be tracked at the squadron and wing level.
        2.4.7.5. ATE assessment personnel will not, even if directed, disclose scenario
        content and will refer scenario questions to the wing weapons and tactics EC.
        2.4.7.6. ATE assessment personnel should certify as EET members, due to potential
        conflicts during the execution phase. However, they may be appointed as such by
        their squadron commander during extreme circumstances.
  2.5. EET Training. All members of the EET will complete EET training requirements prior
  to performing wing exercise evaluator duties.
     2.5.1. Initial Training. There are several EET training requirements.
        2.5.1.1. EET On-line Training. This training is available via CBT on Advanced
        Distributed Learning System (ADLS). This should be accomplished prior to
        attending classroom training. This is a onetime CBT course. E-copies of certificates
        will be e-mailed to the 50 SW/Exercise mailbox.
        2.5.1.2. EET Classroom Training. Classroom training covers basic evaluator duties,
        responsibilities, and wing exercise procedures. EET classroom training is normally
        conducted monthly. Recurring EET classroom training is required every 20 months
        IAW AFI 10-2501.
        2.5.1.3. Air Force Emergency Response Operations (AERO) introduction computer
        based training (CBT). The basic AERO introductory CBT is required per AFI.
        However, EEs who evaluate command and control (C2) functions during exercises
        are required to take the AERO C2 CBT, which incorporates the introductory course.
        E-copies of certificates should be e-mailed to the 50 SW/Exercise mailbox.
        2.5.1.4. ERO Classroom Training. This hands-on classroom training is provided by
        CEX.
     2.5.2. Recurring Training. EET classroom training must be re-accomplished every 20
     months IAW AFI 10-2501. This is tracked in XPE using a database that monitors dates
     of training by the NCOIC, Exercise Branch.
 8                                                                 50SWI10-202 14 JULY 2010


     2.6. SIM SWITCH. SIM SWITCH is set up at Schriever AFB (SAFB) and GSUs (as
     necessary) to meet exercise objectives. SIM SWITCH personnel act as various agencies
     outside the scope of the exercise that are not exercise participants but would be contacted in
     response to presented scenarios. Additionally, the SIM SWITCH will inject inputs that
     would have originated from off-base agencies or personnel from on base as needed to
     provide accurate status during the exercise. SIM SWITCH phone numbers and locations will
     be provided in exercise specific ground rules, which are distributed prior to STARTEX.
     2.7. White Cell. The white cell is the coordination cell for all EET inputs and actions. The
     white cell is operated by the EDs with EC support as needed. ECs will contact the white cell
     prior to dropping inputs and to coordinate actions.
3. Exercises.
     3.1. Higher Headquarters Exercises. 50 SW participates in several higher headquarters
     (HHQ) exercises during the year. 50 SW is required to participate in these exercises as
     tasked in the Consolidated Tasking Order (CTO). Wing participation in HHQ exercises
     provides an opportunity to test wartime relationships among wings, 14 AF, United States
     Strategic   Command      (USSTRATCOM),          United   States   Northern   Command
     (USNORTHCOM) and theater war fighters.
        3.1.1. AFSPC and 14 AF exercise scripts are developed with either Joint Master
        Scenario Events Listing (JMSEL) software or excel software and PowerPoint quad
        charts. JMSEL is an Access program application. Units tasked with providing scenarios
        to AFSPC and/or 14 AF will create the scenario and forward through their group ECs and
        then to 50 SW/XP, who will forward it to AFSPC and/or 14 AF for conversion into
        JMSEL as needed and injection into their script.
     3.2. Local Exercises. Opinicus Vistas (OV) are the 50 SW-sponsored exercises conducted
     quarterly as a minimum or as directed by the wing commander. The Opinicus, a mythical
     animal that has a body and four legs of a lion, the head, neck and wings of an eagle, and the
     short tail of a camel, is the symbol of the 50 SW and found on the wing shield; vista is
     defined as an avenue or passage that allows a distant view. These exercises can be a wing
     only effort or conducted in conjunction with exercises as tasked in the CTO and are used to
     meet emergency management exercise requirements as outlined in AFI 10-2501. OVs also
     provide an opportunity for commanders to validate unit procedures, improve operations
     between units, and practice contingency procedures. Procedures for planning and conducting
     an OV exercise are detailed in section 4.
        3.2.1. OV Phase I. OV Phase I exercises evaluate and measure the wing’s readiness and
        ability to execute its Fight-in-Place mission. These exercises can include various
        objectives, including emergency management exercise requirements from AFI 10-2501.
        3.2.2. OV Phase II. OV Phase II exercises evaluate and measure the wing’s ability to
        either deploy unit tasking codes (UTC) to an area of responsibility (AOR), or relocate
        mission personnel to their back up location.
            3.2.2.1. When testing the deployment of UTCs to an AOR, units train and participate
            in exercise scenarios at Base X, is located due South South-West of the Schriever
            AFB restricted area on base property.
50SWI10-202 14 JULY 2010                                                                            9


          3.2.2.2. To test the continuity of operations (COOP) plan, units send personnel to
          their back up location. A partial COOP occurs when the unit members accomplish all
          actions in preparation for relocating their missions. A full COOP occurs when unit
          members travel to their back up location and transfer mission operations. An exercise
          mission operations transfer is contingent upon real world mission and theater mission
          needs as determined by the 50 OG/CC and 50 NOG/CC in concert with 14 AF/CC
          approval.
4. Exercise Participation.
   4.1. 50 SW Participation. Unless otherwise directed, all 50 SW units will participate in
   wing exercises. There are times when units may require exempt status or have mission
   essential personnel that cannot take part in exercises; the following procedures will be
   followed in these cases.
       4.1.1. Exemption Letters: Prior to each scheduled exercise, each unit assigned to the 50
       SW will provide a letter, signed by the unit and group commander, requesting exemption
       for personnel by name to include military, civilian, and contractor personnel. Under
       some circumstances, it may not be feasible to list by name all contractor personnel
       assigned to a project. In this case, the letter will identify the prime and subcontractors
       who will be exempted, as well as the Quality Assurance Evaluator for the contract. Units
       will route original letters to 50 SW/CV NLT three duty days prior to the start of a
       scheduled exercise. If the exemption is approved, units will then forward the signed letter
       to 50 SW/XPE for posting to all EEs. Exempt personnel should carry a copy of their
       approved exemption letter at all times during the exercise. Exemption letters are valid for
       one exercise (unless requested otherwise for a period not to exceed 6 months) and are not
       required from units with no exempt personnel.
       4.1.2. Exemption Badges: There may be times when mission essential personnel are not
       listed on an approved exemption letter, but are required to move within the exercise area
       to accomplish time-critical mission related activities. To facilitate this, units may request
       a limited number of exemption badges from 50 SW/XP. These badges will be issued on
       a case-by-case basis, and unit commanders should ensure they are being used for their
       intended purpose.
       4.1.3. Other: If an individual is required for time-critical mission related activities, but is
       not on an approved letter and does not have access to an exemption badge, he/she should
       explain the situation to the nearest EET and proceed to the required location. EET may
       escort the individual, verify their situation, and/or take their name and organization for
       validation (if necessary).
   4.2. Tenant Unit Participation.
       4.2.1. AFI 10-2501, Para 7.6.3 states: “Include tenant units and ensure they participate
       in the installation exercise program.” Unit tenant commanders should support exercise
       participation to the maximum extent allowed by mission commitments.
       4.2.2. Members of tenant units who are mission essential are exempt from exercise
       participation. Mission essential is defined as an individual whose absence would cause
       mission degradation. Any support facility closures (i.e., Medical Clinic, Fitness Center,
 10                                                                50SWI10-202 14 JULY 2010


      and Dining Facility) will apply to all personnel, including tenant units and mission
      essential personnel.
   4.3. Exercise Exemption Procedures. 50 SW/XP will ensure all EET members have
   access to copies of all current exemption letters. Exempt and mission essential personnel
   will advise EET of their exempt status when a scenario affects them or their workspace. EET
   will verify by checking current exemption letters or checking their exemption badge. If an
   individual states he or she is exempt, but does not appear on a letter or have an exemption
   badge, EET will use their judgment to resolve the situation. In the case of possible mission
   degradation or additional monetary obligation, the individual in question will be allowed to
   return to duty. As needed, EET will document the incident, including the individual’s name
   and organization, and notify 50 SW/XPE following the exercise. The information will be
   forwarded to the owning units, and units will take action on any misuse of exempt status.
   Exemptions are only for mission essential personnel working a mission critical system. If a
   person is not actively working their mission, they will be subject to all exercise inputs, (i.e.
   smoking, eating, exercising are not mission essential tasks).
      4.3.1. Exemption Letters. Letters should be submitted from group leadership requesting a
      large organizational exemption. The letter should be submitted to the 50 SW/CV for
      approval, and then forwarded to 50 SW/XP. If approved, personnel on the letter will
      carry a copy of this letter during exercises and will show the letter to EET upon request.
      EET members may obtain name, rank and unit information for verification.
      4.3.2. Exemption Badges. Badges should be requested at the unit level for mission tasks
      i.e. console operations. Requests should be made to the 50 SW/XPE NCOIC directly by
      the unit. Badge numbers will be assigned and tracked for each unit. Badges can also be
      requested tenant units residing on Schriever AFB.
5. Phases of Exercises. The exercise cycle consists of five phases: Planning, Preparation,
Execution, Post exercise, and Reporting.
   5.1. Phase 1: Planning. The planning phase of the exercise cycle encompasses all aspects
   of designing and developing exercises. Depending upon the type of the exercise, this phase
   can start weeks or months before the exercise begins. It is the most time-consuming phase
   for EET members.
      5.1.1. EDs develop planning milestones along with post exercise reporting submission
      deadlines based on the approved execution dates. This will be distributed to the group
      commanders and ECs via the Exercise Directive.
      5.1.2. Upon receipt of the Exercise Schedule, which is posted on line, ECs will notify
      their group and unit commanders and EEs of all upcoming exercises. Group ECs will
      then task the unit ECs and EEs to start developing exercise scenarios.
      5.1.3. The EET Chief and EDs establish primary objectives for each exercise using AFI
      10-2501 AFI 10-403 AFSPC Sup, Deployment Planning and Execution, AFI 31-101
      AFSPC Sup, The Air Force Installation Security Program, AFI 10-2001, Defensive
      Counterinformatin Planning, Operations and Assessment, AFI 10-2603, Emergency
      Health Powers On Air Force Installations, AFI 10-404 AFSPC Sup,,Base Support and
      Expeditionary Site Planning, and AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program. EDs
      disseminate this information to the ECs and EEs who develop scenarios supporting the
50SWI10-202 14 JULY 2010                                                                       11


     primary objectives and promoting group and unit objectives. When combined together,
     these scenarios provide a robust exercise program for the wing.
  5.2. Phase 2: Preparation. During this phase, EET must accomplish a variety of tasks to
  ensure everything proceeds smoothly during the rest of the exercise cycle. The tasks may
  include coordinating off-base support, distributing documents, training personnel, obtaining
  simulated items, and collecting exercise inputs.
     5.2.1. The Preparation Phase will be completed though a series of planning conferences
     using objectives identified by EDs, ECs, and EEs. Mandatory attendance includes: EDs,
     ECs, and EET subject matter experts (i.e. fire department, Readiness and Emergency
     Management, and security forces). Attendance may be tailored by the needs of the
     exercise, as determined by the ED.
     5.2.2. EEs will create and compile all scenario inputs for their respective unit and enter
     them into the script via SharePoint. The exercise SharePoint site is located at the
     following address: 50th Space Wing > 50 SW/XP > Wing Exercises > Shared Documents
     > EET Trusted Agent Material.
         5.2.2.1. Scenario inputs should evaluate performance, effective training, and
         experience of the unit and its personnel. Most importantly, inputs should be realistic.
         Scenario inputs will not be written to place emphasis on known discrepancies (i.e. if a
         communications restoral plan is under development, do not plan a communication
         outage for an exercise input). Wait until the discrepancy is fixed and use future
         exercises to test the resolution. Script development begins with the EET Chief and
         EDs selecting the overall objectives for the exercise. It is then a team effort among
         the EDs, ECs, and EEs to develop scenarios that support the exercise objectives.
         5.2.2.2. All scenario input injection times will be between STARTEX and the ending
         date and time of the exercise (ENDEX). The only exception to this rule is for inputs
         which “set the stage” for other inputs during the exercise (e.g. Intel, messages, road to
         war, etc).
         5.2.2.3. When submitting a scenario input, the author must ensure the scenario is
         complete and is accurate. For a scenario to be complete, it must be explicit in not
         only what the presented scenario is, but also in how it will be presented. The input
         should contain: what the expected response should be, what actions the SIM
         SWITCH person should take if called, the objective to be met, the implementer for
         the scenario, and how the objective will be met. If reports are generated from this
         scenario the input should include their type and the expected outcome from them, i.e.
         will the event cause other agencies to be notified and what is their expected response?
     5.2.3. Exercise-specific ground rules will be established. The ED will distribute them to
     the groups prior to STARTEX. Standing ground rules are also included in this
     instruction in Section 6.
  5.3. Phase 3: Execution. After planning and preparation are complete, the exercise takes
  place. During this phase, EE members have many tasks to perform which include: serve as
  coordinate activities, drop inputs, collect exercise data, report observations, and make
  recommendations.
12                                                               50SWI10-202 14 JULY 2010


     5.3.1. Wing exercises are initiated and terminated by EDs; EDs will make notifications
     to Command Post, as needed. During the exercise, on-scene evaluators will wear
     assigned EET badges and/or vests to assist unit members in identifying them. EET
     badges do not replace restricted area badges.
     5.3.2. All 50 SW units will respond to exercise inputs as realistically as possible and
     follow them to their logical conclusion or until directed by an evaluator. Questions
     concerning the continuation or termination of an exercise scenario due to safety or real
     world operations impact will be addressed to an EE, EC, or ED. However, any person
     may stop a scenario if it is violating safety standards, causing a negative impact to real
     world operations, or has the propensity to cause a security violation.
     5.3.3. Certain artificialities are injected into exercise scenarios to promote increased
     participation and to meet exercise objectives. Participants are instructed not to judge the
     realism of events or timing but to accept them at face value and take appropriate actions
     based on the situation at hand. Judging whether a certain situation may or may not
     realistically happen is counter-productive to the learning process and is strongly
     discouraged. However, in order to improve future exercises, participants are highly
     encouraged to provide feedback to evaluators after the scenario has concluded.
     5.3.4. Time compression is essential to exercise play. Every effort should be made to
     comply with short suspense requests even though the response time given may be
     unrealistic.
     5.3.5. To maximize overall benefits of an exercise, all exercise participants will respond
     to exercise inputs in accordance with exercise ground rules, operations plans,
     instructions, and other applicable directives. Units will respond to exercise events even if
     an evaluator is not present to observe their response.
  5.4. Phase 4: Post Exercise. Evaluation is the cornerstone of exercises; it documents
  strengths and areas for improvement in an entity’s preparedness. The EET Chief conducts the
  hot wash with all EET members as soon as practical; this is to review exercise events and
  determine if exercise objectives were met, and determine what improvements may be needed.
     5.4.1. After ENDEX, group and unit ECs and EEs should conduct a hot wash within
     their respective groups and units.
     5.4.2. EET will conduct an internal wing hot wash to discuss the exercise and any wing
     problems noted.
     5.4.3. Between the internal wing hot wash and the wing commander out brief, group ECs
     will lead an out brief for their respective group commanders.
     5.4.4. Approximately one week following ENDEX, the EDs will lead an out brief with
     wing leadership.
     5.4.5. ECs and EEs should send group exercise report inputs to the ED. All inputs are
     required to be validated and the verbiage approved by group and squadron commanders.
     Validation is accomplished by referencing the violated AFI. The report will include but
     not be limited to:
         5.4.5.1. Major functional areas covered by the exercise.
50SWI10-202 14 JULY 2010                                                                    13


         5.4.5.2. Strengths, findings, and recommended areas of improvement in the major
         graded areas of Initial Response, Employment, Mission Support, and Ability to
         Survive and Operate (ATSO) IAW AFI 90-201 AFSPC Sup, Inspector General
         Activities. Format will be posted on the XP SharePoint website.
         5.4.5.3. Nominees for “Professional Performer” and “Professional Team” awards
         IAW paragraph 7 of this instruction.
     5.4.6. Approximately two weeks following ENDEX, the EDs will provide a written
     exercise report to 50 SW/CC.
  5.5. Phase 5: Reporting. Once EET members have finalized their observations, findings,
  and recommendations, they forward their information to the ED. The ED consolidates the
  data into the final AAR. The AAR is distributed to all organizations that participated in the
  exercise. The report is used for identifying findings, validating corrective actions, and
  planning subsequent exercises and operations to re-evaluate findings.
     5.5.1. EETs should validate findings/observations with subject matter experts and Unit
     commanders prior to submitting information to the EET Chief. If their finding impacts
     another group or unit, the EE is responsible to coordinate with that section prior to
     submitting the write up.
     5.5.2. All findings will be reported by the group and unit ECs to their group and unit SIP
     monitors respectively, who will enter them in the SIP Database for tracking and
     resolution.
     5.5.3. Recommended areas of improvement (RIA) may be entered in the SIP Database,
     but it is not required. RIAs will be tracked by 50 SW/XPE until an OPR is assigned on a
     tracking sheet. Group and unit ECs will input RIAs onto the tracker and keep status of all
     on-going issues.
     5.5.4. AAR Format will include an executive summary, exercise controller observations,
     professional teams and performers, and annexes as needed with supplemental
     information.
         5.5.4.1. Executive Summary. This section gives a quick synopsis of the events that
         transpired during the exercise.
         5.5.4.2. Exercise Controller Observations. This section is broken out by group and
         each will relay their strengths, findings, and recommended improvement areas.
         Following each deficiency ECs will identify the items to help resolve the finding.
             5.5.4.2.1. Cause Code (CC). The cause codes are posted in Attachment 2 and
             should be listed in the AAR as (CC: ).
             5.5.4.2.2. Reference (REF). Every finding should be listed with the REF that has
             been violated or broken. ((REF: put the regulation and paragraph number here).
             5.5.4.2.3. The office of primary responsibility (OPR) should be listed with a
             name and organization fixing the finding as required as (OPR: name,
             organization).
             5.5.4.2.4. Name of the Exercise Evaluation Team (EET) member who wrote up
             the finding with their phone number, listed as (EET: Name, phone number).
 14                                                                50SWI10-202 14 JULY 2010


              5.5.4.2.5. OPRs assigned to fix any identified deficiencies are also responsible to
              ensure those unit Self Inspection Monitors (SIP) assigned have placed the
              deficiency into the SIP database within one week of this reports completion date.
          5.5.4.3. Professional Teams and Performers. This section will recognize performers
          that go above and beyond their normal duties.
6. Exercise Ground Rules. Exercise-specific ground rules are published prior to each exercise.
The following are standing ground rules.
   6.1. Operations.
       6.1.1. Exercise activities will not interfere with nor prevent accomplishment of real
       world operations.
       6.1.2. Real world activities may be observed and evaluated by EEs on a non-interference
       basis only.
   6.2. Safety.
       6.2.1. Personnel safety takes precedence over all exercise activities. Participants will not
       respond to an exercise event in any manner that will endanger life or cause damage to
       equipment.
       6.2.2. Evaluators will stop individuals from committing actions which may jeopardize
       personnel safety, damage equipment, or have a negative impact on real world missions.
       6.2.3. Personnel will observe posted speed limits when responding to exercise events.
       Operators of emergency vehicles will not use warning lights or sirens when responding to
       an exercise scenario, unless established as a part of their exercise response protocol.
       Once on-scene, warning lights will be utilized.
       6.2.4. Vehicle sirens or horns will be used to alert other personnel when entering or
       withdrawing from an exercise accident site as needed.
       6.2.5. Personnel will wear appropriate protective equipment, when responding to
       exercise events. Protective equipment will not be worn if it creates an unsafe condition.
       6.2.6. Personnel will not wear protective masks, boots, or gloves while operating a
       privately owned vehicle (POV) or a government owned vehicle (GOV) off base or during
       the hours of darkness. Personnel will not ride in pick-up truck beds when responding
       during exercises.
   6.3. Communications, Reporting, and Logs.
       6.3.1. Sound Operations Security (OPSEC) and Communications Security (COMSEC)
       procedures will be adhered to at all times.
       6.3.2. Exercise participants will prepare all required reports (voice and hardcopy) driven
       by an exercise scenario. Reports will not be sent off-base unless specifically directed,
       (i.e. during a HHQ exercise). Evaluator personnel may stop a report from being
       produced if they are on-scene and the report is not needed to drive another agency’s
       actions. Exercise reports should contain ONLY exercise status information. Reports
       required to be sent to Command Post or other participants should be forwarded in the
       same manner used in real world operations. Do not mix real world status with exercise
50SWI10-202 14 JULY 2010                                                                    15


     status, or vice versa. Ensure the words “EXERCISE, EXERCISE, EXERCISE,” are at
     the beginning and end of any exercise reports.
        6.3.2.1. Reports, which are required to be telephoned or transmitted to non-
        participants, will be phoned to the SIM SWITCH or typed up and given to the
        evaluator observing the procedure. If no EE is present, the unit will maintain
        hardcopies of messages for a period of five days after ENDEX.
     6.3.3. Voice Communications.
        6.3.3.1. Use the phrase, “EXERCISE, EXERCISE, EXERCISE,” at the beginning
        and end of all verbal communications. Use appropriate terms for each exercise input
        being relayed.
        6.3.3.2. Do not place exercise telephone calls to non-wing agencies unless these
        agencies were explicitly identified as exercise participants, (i.e. during a HHQ
        exercise). Unit personnel will call the SIM SWITCH to “contact” all non-wing
        agencies not participating in the exercise, but that would normally have a role in a
        particular input (i.e. up and down channel reporting, mutual aid requests, etc).
        6.3.3.3. The SIM SWITCH (SAFB/GSUs) will act as needed to provide realism to
        the exercise scenario. The exercise specific ground rules will contain all SIM
        SWITCH numbers.
        6.3.3.4. Each GSU will consider establishing a local SIM SWITCH to handle calls to
        all local non-participating organizations and disseminate all SIM SWITCH telephone
        numbers (as required).
        6.3.3.5. SIM SWITCH Procedures.
           6.3.3.5.1. The SIM SWITCH consists of one to two selected personnel per shift.
           It will be manned continuously from STARTEX to ENDEX (as required). Prior
           to the exercise, EDs will task each group for the required number of bodies
           (individuals with knowledge of the functions of their group) to man the SIM
           SWITCH.
           6.3.3.5.2. When calling the SIM SWITCH, the caller will do the following:
               6.3.3.5.2.1. State: “EXERCISE, EXERCISE, EXERCISE.”
               6.3.3.5.2.2. Identify themselves as, "This is (rank, name, and unit)."
               6.3.3.5.2.3. Give the functional area, telephone number, and identity of the
               individual/unit they are calling. For example, "I'm calling the Fire Chief of
               Colorado Springs at 555-6789."
               6.3.3.5.2.4. Clearly state the reason for calling. For example, "There is an out
               of control grass fire west of SAFB. Please respond!"
               6.3.3.5.2.5. State: “EXERCISE, EXERCISE, EXERCISE.”
               6.3.3.5.2.6. Wait for SIM SWITCH response.
        6.3.3.6. Message Traffic.
           6.3.3.6.1. Place the phrase “EXERCISE, EXERCISE, EXERCISE” on the first
16                                                                50SWI10-202 14 JULY 2010


             and last line of all written communications.
             6.3.3.6.2. Number event/incident reports (OPREP-3) IAW AFI 10-206,
             Operational Reporting.
             6.3.3.6.3. Include all required addressees on exercise messages. Ensure exercise
             messages are transmitted only to exercise participants. Identify all other
             addressees as “ZEN” addressees. Clearly mark all releasing documents and
             accompanying disks with the exercise name.
         6.3.3.7. Event Logs. Maintain all appropriate event logs (operations center, control
         centers, etc). Units will retain all exercise logs and message traffic records for a
         period of 5 days after ENDEX. ECs or EEs will select what messages, if any, they
         want photocopied or e-mailed and turned in at the end of an exercise to 50 SW/XPE.
         6.3.3.8. Communications/Computer Systems.
             6.3.3.8.1. Do not disrupt real world communication services to non-participating
             agencies. Internal communications services for participating units may be
             disrupted, but the disruption must not cause negative impact on real world
             operations, safety, or security.
             6.3.3.8.2. Communications/Computer Systems, circuits, and equipment removed
             from service as a result of an exercise scenario will remain out of service until the
             repair (actual or simulated) or restoration of the system has been validated by an
             EE, the exercise event is concluded by an EE, or the exercise is terminated and
             normal operations have resumed.
  6.4. Security Forces.
     6.4.1. Perpetrator Actors.
         6.4.1.1. If actors will be used as perpetrators for an exercise scenario, they will not
         confront on-duty security forces or support members with deceptions that could be
         interpreted as hostile, jeopardize security of protection level resources, or provoke the
         use of deadly force.
         6.4.1.2. Perpetrators may have various types of simulated concealed weapons (props)
         to evaluate security forces search techniques. “Prop” weapons should be marked as
         “Exercise” or “Prop” or be “Red Guns/Props” so that security forces can quickly
         determine them to be training aids and not a functioning weapon. Commercially
         purchased training aids made of rubber or plastic, painted red in color, and marked
         with the office responsible for their safekeeping are preferred over hand-made
         training aids. “Prop” weapons will not be drawn or pointed at security forces
         members and will be strictly controlled by the on-scene evaluator.
         6.4.1.3. Anytime security forces personnel have achieved positive control of an
         exercise perpetrator and the use of deadly force is authorized in the situation, exercise
         perpetrators will obey all challenges and security forces instructions.
         6.4.1.4. An exercise gunshot will be simulated by a sharp whistle blast followed by a
         verbal announcement of “Exercise Gunshot”.
     6.4.2. Armed Response.
50SWI10-202 14 JULY 2010                                                                     17


         6.4.2.1. Security forces responding to exercise events may respond, when warranted,
         with their firearms ready IAW AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force
         Personnel.
         6.4.2.2. Personnel armed with the M9 pistol will have their firearm in their holster at
         “ready pistol,” flap open, shooting hand on the pistol grip, hammer NOT cocked, and
         finger NOT in the trigger guard. Security Forces will NOT draw pistols from the
         holster during exercises.
         6.4.2.3. Personnel armed with the M-4/M-16/GAU rifle will have their firearm
         pointed in a safe direction i.e. not at any person, safety selector on SAFE, and finger
         NOT in the trigger guard. Personnel will NOT chamber a round during exercises.
         6.4.2.4. Under NO circumstances will a weapon of any kind be pointed at anyone
         during an exercise scenario.
         6.4.2.5. El Paso County Sheriff Office SWAT personnel will remove ammunition
         from all weapons for exercise scenarios. The on-scene senior Security Force
         Squadron evaluator will check SWAT personnel to ensure no live ammunition is
         present.
     6.4.3. During any field deployments off Schriever AFB, units are responsible for
     providing security for firearms movement to the deployed site. EEs will coordinate with
     security forces on security requirements for any weapons remaining in the field.
     Members who are performing weapons guard duty and armed with live ammunition will
     be identified by wearing a distinctive reflective vest. Their weapon loaded with live
     ammunition will be marked in a distinctive manner along with the ammunition magazine
     containing the ammunition. The armed guard will NOT participate in any exercise
     activities.
     6.4.4. SFS must block off areas as if a real world situation. Actions may include: closing
     gates, conducting vehicle searches (installation entry), closing portals, and 100% ID
     checks, forming cordons, and inspecting hand carried items in response to exercise
     scenarios. In order to meet exercise constraints, these requirements may be waived or
     modified. Release actions must be coordinated through the EET chain and up through
     normal chain of command. The EDs or EET Chief will be the final authority for release
     of constraints through the CC or representative. Release will be considered after
     capabilities are demonstrated., or at a pre-determined time (i.e. 10-15 minutes).
  6.5. Fire Department.
     6.5.1. Do not discharge water on any facility except fire department training facilties or
     props. Do not take charged headlines inside facilities.
     6.5.2. Fire vehicle operators will demonstrate pumping capability by discharging water
     onto the ground outside of facilities. If the temperature is freezing or below water will
     not be discharged.
     6.5.3. Firefighter pre-briefings will be used during live-fire exercises to review the
     exercise event to prepare, motivate, and challenge each firefighter involved. Post drill
     critiques may be used to improve future performance.
18                                                                50SWI10-202 14 JULY 2010


     6.5.4. Simulate forcible entry into vehicles and facilities unless otherwise notified by the
     Fire Department qualified EE.
     6.5.5. Personnel may remove encapsulated suits after demonstrating their ability to
     accomplish their assigned tasks for a period of 20 minutes or as required by black bulb
     temperature limitations.
     6.5.6. Personnel are not required to wear protective equipment (bunker clothing) when
     temperatures exceed 85°F or black bulb temperature limitations exist.
     6.5.7. Only two individuals will be required to don specialized protective clothing for
     hazardous materials.
     6.5.8. Fire Department personnel will not use ground ladders when winds exceed 20
     knots.
     6.5.9. The Fire Chief or senior fire official on duty must receive at least a 30-minute
     prior notification when exercises involve fire fighting vehicles, equipment, or personnel
     IAW AFI 32-2001, The Fire Emergency Services Program.
  6.6. Medical Group.
     6.6.1. All active individual medical profiles will remain in effect for all exercise events.
     6.6.2. The Medical Treatment Facility (MTF) will use all available resources except
     those designated for real world emergencies.
     6.6.3. The MTF may have to suspend, cancel or reschedule patient appointments in order
     to respond to exercise activities.
     6.6.4. Patient treatment for exercise events will be conducted to the fullest extent until
     medical personnel are notified by an evaluator to end their actions.
     6.6.5. The MTF will use appropriate medical supplies and equipment to demonstrate
     patient care capability with the following exceptions:
         6.6.5.1. Medical personnel will not uncap any needles for syringes or IVs and will
         not administer oral or intravenous medications, except for real world requirements.
         6.6.5.2. Medical personnel will not open or damage expendable medical supplies. If
         available, props can be used to make medical personnel actions more realistic.
         6.6.5.3. The MTF will simulate aero medical evacuation and civilian transfer of
         patients for the base portions of the exercise. All procedures up to the actual
         evacuation will be demonstrated.
  6.7. Contractors and Most Efficient Organization (MEO).
     6.7.1. No exercise events will be conducted which could result in a potential contractor
     claim for additional costs. Exercise scenarios that would require contractor personnel
     participation must be coordinated through the normal wing approval process to the
     contracting officer and EE prior to scripting the event. Contact the 50th Contracting
     Squadron for guidance on what would cause additional contract costs.
50SWI10-202 14 JULY 2010                                                                       19


     6.7.2. Direct contractor participation in exercises is limited to those activities and levels
     of effort specified under contract. Civilian contractor and MEO personnel are expected
     to participate in exercises to the extent required by the Statement of Work or contract.
     6.7.3. Contractor and MEO personnel should respond to all evacuation events. Units
     should request exemption for contractor or MEO personnel whose evacuation results in
     mission impact or a government-caused delay of contractor performance.
     6.7.4. 50 SW/XPE should coordinate any additional contractor efforts beyond the
     currently specified work levels with the contracting officer in advance of the exercise.
     6.7.5. Avoid contract-related delays that may cause cost impact to the government.
     6.7.6. Contracting personnel must take all appropriate contracting actions in response to
     exercise events short of expenditure of funds. Call the SIM SWITCH to simulate calls to
     contractors. Any requirement to transmit hard copy information to non-participant
     organizations should be generated and provided to unit EE in lieu of actual transmission.
     6.7.7. Units preparing purchase requests based on exercise inputs shall not call actual
     contractors for sourcing information. They will instead call the SIM SWITCH for
     information.
     6.7.8. Legal considerations exist in contracts for civilian support at some participating
     units and may not provide for contractor participation where contractor support is limited.
     In this case, exercise participation will be limited to actions normally handled by military
     personnel assigned to these units.
  6.8. Deployment and Relocation.
     6.8.1. Deployments. Only personnel and equipment identified in Unit Type Codes
     (UTC) or against an Air Expeditionary Force (AEF) are required to deploy.
     6.8.2. Prior to personnel processing through the Deployment Line, Unit CCs/Unit
     Deployment Managers (UDMs) must submit simulation requests as outlined in the Pre-
     Deployment Briefing conducted by the Installation Deployment Officer (IDO). UDMs
     are provided the "NLT" time when unit simulations and shortfalls must be submitted to
     the IDO. Any requests submitted after the Pre-Deployment Briefing will not be
     considered unless they impact mission capabilities. All simulation requests must be
     reviewed and signed by the Unit CC and submitted to the IDO who will brief the
     Wing/CC/CV and receive an approval or disapproval.
     6.8.3. Aircraft arrivals and departures may be simulated.
     6.8.4. If aircraft movement of personnel and material is simulated, surface transportation
     consistent with event requirements will be used.
     6.8.5. The immunization station on the Personnel Deployment Function (PDF) will
     administer immunizations on the deployment processing line as required by personnel for
     actual deployment. A health care provider is required at the PDF if immunizations are
     administered.
     6.8.6. Simulate authentication of special orders. Minimum distribution will be provided
     to the appropriate workstations, included in personnel accountability kits, and distributed
     as required by local policy.
20                                                                 50SWI10-202 14 JULY 2010


     6.8.7. Simulate issue of new identification cards for enlistment extensions needed to
     meet retainability requirements for deployment exercises unless the identification card is
     due to expire within 30 days.
     6.8.8. Relocations. Unlike deployment for units with UTCs, non-UTC units (e.g.,1, 2, 3,
     4, and 22 SOPS operations crews) relocate to an alternate operating location.
         6.8.8.1. Immediately after determining that operations personnel need to relocate, the
         operations unit commander or designated representative will inform Command Post.
         6.8.8.2. When the relocation itinerary is set, the operations unit will notify Command
         Post with departure and arrival times, number of personnel relocating, personal
         information on personnel (i.e., name, rank, and social security number), and the
         estimated time the alternate site will be operational. OPSEC/COMSEC procedures
         will be observed at all times.
         6.8.8.3. When relocating personnel arrive at their alternate operations site, they will
         notify their unit of arrival time and when the site is operational. The unit will then
         notify Command Post.
         6.8.8.4. If a unit plans to physically relocate to their alternate site during an exercise,
         real world coordination with 14 AF must be accomplished well in advance. Mission
         transfer must be pre-approved by 14 AF through the Space Tasking Order.
  6.9. Evacuations.
     6.9.1. All personnel, except mission essential personnel performing real world operations
     and exempt personnel, participate in evacuations. Maintain minimum personnel required
     for facility security. Mission essential personnel required for real world security and
     mission accomplishment will remain in evacuated facilities.
     6.9.2. Do not totally evacuate the following facilities or operations without prior ED
     coordination: (NOTE: Non-mission essential personnel should evacuate from these
     facilities.)
         6.9.2.1. Command Centers (Command Post, Operations, Communications, Security
         Forces, Fire Department).
         6.9.2.2. Entry Control Facilities and Posts.
         6.9.2.3. Promotion, PME, and academic testing facilities when testing is in progress.
         6.9.2.4. Dental and clinic facilities.
         6.9.2.5. Military court facilities.
         6.9.2.6. Hazardous materials storage areas.
         6.9.2.7. Air Education and Training Command (AETC) classrooms and schools
         (including off-duty education courses).
         6.9.2.8. Child Development Center.
         6.9.2.9. Dining facilities. All Non-Mission Essential Employees and all customers
         will evacuate. The dining facility will evacuate all personnel except for the three
50SWI10-202 14 JULY 2010                                                                      21


        safety people. Safety personnel are required to monitor food temperatures and
        cooking appliances.
        6.9.2.10. Telephone switchboards, power plants, and computer rooms.
        6.9.2.11. Army & Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES) facilities.
        6.9.2.12. Base housing or housing facilities.
     6.9.3. Restrict entry into facilities exempted from total evacuation to essential personnel.
     Personnel who are conducting business when the evacuation was directed may continue
     their business but must remain in the facility until the evacuation portion is over.
  6.10. Handicapped Parking. Authorized individuals can use identified handicapped
  parking spaces throughout the exercise. These vehicles will not be moved to satisfy an
  exercise Force Protection Condition (FPCON) requirement. However, units must marshal
  and dispatch the necessary resources to simulate removal of the vehicle.
  6.11. Cordons.
     6.11.1. Once the unit establishes the cordoned area, the on-scene unit Security Forces
     representative notifies the on-scene Security Forces evaluator. Cordons will not
     automatically be terminated without on-scene EET approval. ED or on-scene Security
     Forces evaluator may reduce the cordon size at their discretion.
     6.11.2. Mission essential personnel and non-participants may not break cordons.
     Mission essential personnel and non-participants who need access to a cordoned area will
     enter through the established entry control point (ECP). If the local procedure involves
     the use of a log at the ECP, then mission essential personnel and non-participants will be
     logged in and be allowed to enter the cordoned area to reach their destination.
  6.12. Network Operations Center (NOC).
     6.12.1. 22 SOPS Network Scheduling will maintain an exercise database. All exercise
     inputs/questions regarding the exercise schedule or 22 SOPS operations will be directed
     to the exercise Network Crew Commander (NCMDR) or the exercise scheduler.
     Exercise outages will not be entered into the Electronic Scheduling Dissemination (ESD)
     database, which means agencies that typically receive information via ESD will be
     contacted via voice or secure voice.
     6.12.2. Phone numbers for the exercise scheduler, exercise NCMDR and 22 SOPS SIM
     SWITCH will be listed in the exercise ground rules. In the event 22 SOPS Network
     Operations relocates to the temporary facility, those numbers will be provided real-time
     to all applicable agencies.
     6.12.3. At STARTEX, the real world database will be copied over to an exercise stand-
     alone workstation/Mini Network. This will time stamp the starting point of the exercise
     database, and the exercise database will no longer be updated with real world events.
     Users/Satellite Operations Centers (SOC) will be responsible for downloading the
     Network Tasking Order (NTO) and marking it appropriately for exercise scenarios. Air
     Force Satellite Control Network (AFSCN) outages that exist real world at the creation of
     the exercise database will remain in the exercise version; once the outage is closed real
     world, the exercise database will be updated.
22                                                               50SWI10-202 14 JULY 2010


     6.12.4. Any exercise correspondence with the 22 SOPS exercise NCMDR or exercise
     scheduler (i.e. Manning Schedule Changes (MSC) or Outage Reports) will be marked
     “EXERCISE, EXERCISE, EXERCISE” at the top and bottom in bold lettering.
     6.12.5. Call the SIM SWITCH for all 22 SOPS detachments (unless they are players
     within the exercise). Do not call 22 SOPS detachments/Remote Tracking Stations (RTS)
     with exercise inputs/questions unless prior coordination with 22 SOPS has been
     accomplished. All planning and coordination of the detachments should be done through
     the 22 SOPS EEs. The EE can be reached at the phone extension listed in the exercise
     specific ground rules.
  6.13. Base Housing. Prior to exercising in the base housing areas, EDs will coordinate with
  the Tierra Vista Community representative.
  6.14. Exercise Duress Words.
     6.14.1. The exercise duress word is “FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY.” It will be used to
     indicate duress during exercise scenarios. Primary and alternate duress words will not be
     used for exercise purposes.
     6.14.2. EEs may evaluate personnel knowledge of the primary, alternate, and exercise
     duress words using written tests.
  6.15. Standing Simulations.
     6.15.1. Do not have personnel from leave or temporary duty physically report in for an
     exercise recall; however, complete required recall actions to make contact with these
     individuals (as directed) and provide documentation to the EE.
     6.15.2. Personnel will not remove underclothing during personnel decontamination
     operations.
     6.15.3. Manpower and materials consumed in response to a scenario event remain
     unavailable for the duration of the exercise unless otherwise stated by EDs.
     6.15.4. Simulate moving dumpsters in response to changes in security levels driven by a
     scenario. Evaluators may review/validate procedures in place to have them moved, but
     will NOT engage contractors to move them.
     6.15.5. Public roads will not be blocked for exercise events without prior coordination
     with appropriate civil authorities.
     6.15.6. Pregnancy waivers for the wear of protective equipment are governed by AFI 44-
     102, Medical Care Management.
     6.15.7. Personnel will use “training” chemical gear during an exercise. They must be
     able to show all required real world equipment.
     6.15.8. Unit personnel should not initiate any action which will result in excessive cost to
     the unit without consulting an ED/EC/EE first.
     6.15.9. Simulation media will be exclusively controlled and initiated by unit EEs.
50SWI10-202 14 JULY 2010                                                                        23


7. 50 SW Readiness Guide.
   7.1. Use of 50 SW Readiness Guide. 50 SW/XP publishes and maintains the 50 SW
   Readiness Guide (50 SW VA 10-1). The 50 SW Readiness Guide is a small reference guide
   that personnel can use for a variety of situations, including fires, bomb threats, and
   suspicious objects. It also has key information on self-aid buddy care, shelter-in-place
   procedures, OPSEC, Force Protection Conditions (FPCON), and Operational Risk
   Management (ORM), as well as many other things. Additionally, the Readubess Guide has
   several areas that can be tailored to fit the group/unit; there are several areas where specific
   information can be written in by the individual unit to include specific phone numbers, and
   evacuation locations; where the group/unit can put their own pertinent information. It is
   recommended that all wing personnel carry the 50 SW Readiness Guide and all assigned
   Airmen carry the AFPAM 10-100 on their person. It is a useful tool for both real world and
   exercise situations.
8. Awards and Honors Selection Procedures.
   8.1. Nomination Process.
      8.1.1. EEs identify “Professional Performers” based on a combination of superior duty
      performance and strict adherence to AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of
      Air Force Personnel. EEs identify “Professional Teams” based on the overall superior
      duty performance of the work center.
      8.1.2. EEs should submit ranks and complete names of “Professional Performer”
      nominees along with details behind the nomination for the award to the EC and/or ED.
      For “Professional Teams,” unit and specific section should be submitted, along with a
      brief description of the team’s performance.
      8.1.3. Certificate Preparation. 50 SW/XPE will compile the list of “Professional
      Performers” and “Professional Teams” for the report and prepare certificates. The
      certificates will be signed by the EET Chief and will be given to the groups for
      dissemination. At the GSUs, the site or detachment commander or their designated
      representative will sign the certificates as the approving authority.
   8.2. “Professional Performer” Eligibility Criteria.
      8.2.1. Normally not more than 5 percent of Air Force members with the rank of captain
      and lieutenant, technical sergeant and below, non-appropriated fund employees and
      civilians are eligible for this award. Personnel of Allied nations, other United States
      military and civilian personnel are eligible for this award with the same restrictions as
      above.
      8.2.2. There is no requirement for this award to be given. The five percent ceiling can be
      exceeded with the concurrence of the EET Chief.
24                                                              50SWI10-202 14 JULY 2010


  8.3. Professional Team” Eligibility Criteria.
     8.3.1. There is no limit to the number of teams that can be nominated for this award.




                                           WAYNE R. MONTEITH, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
50SWI10-202 14 JULY 2010                                                                   25


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-2001, Defensive Counterinformation Planning, Operations and Assessment, 4 October
2001
AFI 10-204, Readiness Exercises and After-Action Reporting Program, 12 July 2002
AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations, 21
January 2007
AFI 10-2501 AFSPC Sup1 Ch 1, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning
and Operations, 19 Nov 2007
AFI 10-403 AFSPC Sup, Deployment Planning and Execution, 13 January 2008
AFI 10-2603, Emergency Health Powers On Air Force Installations, 7 December 2005
AFI 10-404 AFSPC Sup, Base Support and Expeditionary Site Planning, 1 March 2007
AFI 10-403 AFSPC Sup, Deployment Planning and Execution, 1 March 2009
AFI 31-101 AFSPC Sup, The Air Force Installation Security Program, 23 January 2009
AFI 32-2001, The Fire Emergency Services Program, 9 September 2008
AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program, 2 April 2008
AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities, 17 June 2009
AFI 90-201 AFSPC Sup, Inspector General Activities, 15 October 2007
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
 26                                                                 50SWI10-202 14 JULY 2010


                                        Attachment 2
                                      CAUSE CODES

A2.1. Cause Codes.

Table A2.1. Cause Code.
Category      Root Cause
Oversight     A.1 - Inadequate Supervision
              A1.1 - Experience: Error committed despite adequate training & guidance
              A1.2 - Training: Insufficient driver training
              A1.3 - Lack of attention-to-detail
              A1.4 - Supervisor aware but delayed action
              A1.5 - Supervisor Aware, but ignored established guidance
              A.2 - Military Equal Opportunity (MEO) Environment
              A.3 - Funding Shortage
              A3.1 - Unit miss-prioritized
              A3.2 - Parent unit provided inadequate funding
              A3.3 - Cause of funding shortage unknown
Personnel     B.1 - Inadequate Supervision
              B1.1 - Training course/guidance not available or inadequate
              B1.2 - On-the-Job training inadequate
              B.2 - Inexperienced / Unqualified Personnel
              B.3 - Lack of Attention-to-Detail
              B.4 - Aware, but Ignored Established Procedures or guidance
Manning       C.1 - Manning Inadequate to Accomplish Task or Mission Needs:
              C1.1 - Insufficient number of assigned personnel
              C1.2 - Insufficient personnel with appropriate PRP-certification or security clearance
              C1.3 - Insufficient personnel due to TDY/deployment
Guidance      D.1 - Complexity of Guidance Prevent/Precluded Task Accomplishment
              D.2 - No/Inadequate Guidance Prevent/Precluded Task Accomplishment
              D.3 - Incorrect Guidance Prevent/Precluded Task Accomplishment
              D.4 - Outdated/Non-current Guidance Prevent/Precluded Task Accomplishment
              D.5 - Conflicting Guidance Prevent/Precluded Task Accomplishment
Equipment/    E.1 - Equipment Reliability
Tools         E1.1 - Attributed to equipment defect or design flaw
              E1.2 - Attributed to inadequate equipment maintenance
              E.2 - Inadequate / Unavailable Support:
              E2.1 - Base-level support
              E2.1 - HHQ-Level support
              E.3 - Accountability Inadequate
