BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      512 AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 36-2803
512TH AIRLIFT WING
                                                                               1 MARCH 2008
                                                                 Certified Current 13 July 2012
                                                                                     Personnel

                                              512 AW WING SAFETY AWARDS PROGRAM




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication
OPR: 512 AW/SE                                                      Certified by: 512 AW/CCE
                                                                        (Maj Marnee Losurdo)
                                                                                       Pages: 3
Supersedes:   512AWI 36-2803,
              27 November 2006


This Instruction implements AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Program. It establishes the
512th Airlift Wing Safety Awards Program. Safety awards are designed to honor and recognize
people and units for contributing to safety and for preventing mishaps through either sustained
superior performance or a one-time act. The safety awards program is designed to recognize our
model safety awareness performers and encourage others to emulate their example.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Minor grammatical changes and deletion of attachment 2
1. Reference: AFI36-2833, Safety Awards
2. Nominations:
   2.1. Send the name, organization, and short narrative describing their achievements to 512
   AW/SE.
   2.2. Each award is selected quarterly, with an overall winner being selected annually for
   flight and ground safety.
3. Responsibilities:
   3.1. The Wing Safety Office (512AW/SE) manages the wing safety awards program. The
   Wing Safety Office reviews unit nominations and selects the most qualified individual for
   either the flight or ground safety award.
   3.2. The unit commander nominates unit personnel for the wing safety awards.
 2                                                             512AWI36-2803 1 MARCH 2008


4. Program Specifics:
     4.1. The 512 AW Flight Safety Mishap Prevention Award (Quarterly). This award is
     presented to individuals who in the performance of their duties consistently demonstrated an
     outstanding safety consciousness, have contributed to the overall improvement of flight
     safety, have prevented a serious flight mishap or have contributed significantly to the 512
     AW Flight Safety Mishap Prevention Program.
     4.2. The 512 AW Ground Safety Mishap Prevention Award (Quarterly). This award is
     presented to individuals not involved in aerial flight; who in the performance of their duties
     consistently demonstrated an outstanding safety consciousness, have prevented a serious
     ground mishap or have contributed significantly to the 512 AW Ground Safety Mishap
     Prevention Program.
5. Nomination Procedures:
     5.1. Individuals assigned to the 512 AW are eligible for the awards.
     5.2. The awards can be submitted? by anyone; however, commanders and supervisors are
     encouraged to play an active part in the nomination process. Nominations will be forwarded
     no later than two weeks after the quarter ends. Nominations can be submitted? for military
     or civilian personnel.
     5.3. The Chief of Safety will determine the winner of the awards based on the following
     factors:
        5.3.1. Unit Commander’s nomination
        5.3.2. Other nominations
        5.3.3. Safety inspection results (how the nominee contributed)
        5.3.4. Mishap prevention record (how the nominee contributed)
        5.3.5. Other noteworthy achievements and improvements made to promote the 512th
        Airlift Wing’s Mishap Prevention Program.
     5.4. Award nominations must be supported by clear, concise, and pertinent facts reflected in
     a short narrative describing the individual’s or unit’s achievements during the award period.
     If you have multiple nominees, please submit a separate nomination package for each. See
     Attachment 1 for a sample awards package format.
6. Award Winners:
     6.1. The winner’s name will be published in the Liberty Press. Each award winner will
     receive a Certificate of Appreciation, prepared by the safety office and signed by the Wing
     Commander. It will be presented to the recipient by the Wing Commander, Vice
     Commander, or respective Group Commander.
     6.2. All quarterly award winners will be eligible for the annual safety award. The Chief of
     Safety will select the award winner. The winner will receive a plaque which will be
     presented by the Wing Commander or designated representative.

                                              RANDAL L. BRIGHT, Col, USAFR
                                              Commander
512AWI36-2803 1 MARCH 2008                                                                     3


                                         Attachment 1
          MEMORANDUM FOR SAFETY AWARD NOMINATION FORMAT

MEMORANDUM FOR 512 AW/SE

FROM: 512 MSS/CC

SUBJECT: Quarterly Ground Safety Mishap Prevention Award

1. I nominate SSgt Helpe of the Hydrants Fuels Management Branch for the Ground Safety
Mishap Prevention Quarterly Award for the period of 1 April through 30 June XXXX.

2. SSgt Helpe identified a problem, which impacted the refueling support capability for the 512th
AW and the safety of all assigned C-5 aircraft. Fuel was trickling into a hydrant fueling outlet
pit from where the pipe enters the bottom of the pit. This indicated that the below ground fuel
pipeline was ruptured. With the system under pressure, the flow of fuel entering the pit
increased, confirming the underground leak. The hazard created by the leak had potential for a
catastrophic incident as well as serious environmental impact. SSgt Helpe inspects fuel hydrants
on a more frequent cycle than required by regulations. He detected the leak during one of his
“extra” inspections. The ruptured fuel pipeline was isolated and drained of remaining fuel. The
isolation valve was tested to prevent re-pressurization of the ruptured fuel line and found to be
defective. The entire fuel system was removed from operation, the defective valve was also
removed and the piping was flanged with no impact on flying operations. The prompt detection
of the fuel leak and reaction to the valve malfunction enabled actions to be immediately taken
which minimized hazards, eliminated environmental pollution, and minimized fuel lost. Due to
his efforts, the dangers and environmental damage associated with serious fuel leaks was
eliminated with no impact on safety or the ecosystem.




                                            I. DO CARE, Lt Col, USAFR

                                            Commander
