BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       512th AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 91-201
512TH AIRLIFT WING
                                                                                   26 JULY 2012
                                                                Certified Current 10 August 2012
                                                                                          Safety

                                                              WING MUNITIONS HANDLING




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication
OPR: 512 AW/SE                                                        Certified by: 512 AW/CCE
                                                                             (Capt Crystal Beach)
                                                                                         Pages: 5
Supersedes:    512AWI91-201,
               1 February 2004


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directory (AFPD) 91-2, Safety Programs
Information. It complies with the following: Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 91-201/AFRC
Supplement 1, Explosives Safety Standards; Air Force Instruction (AFI) 91-202, USAF Mishap
Prevention Program; AFI 91-204, Investigating and Reporting Mishaps; Twenty Second Air
Force (22AF) Instruction 91-101, Explosives, munitions, and ammunitions; and Dover Air Force
Base (DAFB) Instruction 91-201, DAFB Weapons Safety Program. It establishes and
standardizes procedures and responsibilities for the 512th Airlift Wing concerning the inspection,
issue, loading, and turn-in of blank munitions used during field exercises. This instruction
applies to all personnel assigned to the Wing that are tasked to use blank ammunition (ammo). It
is coordinated with Wing Safety, Security Forces, and Munitions offices. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the Air Force Information Management Tool (AF IMT) 847, Recommendation for Change
of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the filed through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in the publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction is revised to reflect the new Air Force numbering system, deletion of
attachments, changing the inspection process for loading munitions and Non-specific
grammatical changes. A bar ( | ) indicates a revision from the previous edition.
 2                                                                512AWI91-201 26 JULY 2012


1. General Instructions: When munitions operations are not covered in sufficient detail by
other applicable publications such as technical orders (T.O.), local operating instructions (OI) are
required. Compliance with the cardinal principle for munitions safety is mandatory: “Expose
the minimum number of people to the minimum amount of explosives for the minimum amount of
time.”
2. Objective: The provisions of this instruction apply whenever blank munitions are present
during an exercise or training mission. It is the responsibility of each Squadron Commander or
member designated by the Squadron Commander to ensure the separation of training and
weapons courier munitions and that live munitions are not introduced into a training field
exercise in accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 91-201, paragraph 2.14.
3. Requirements:
     3.1. The M-9 pistol will be used as guard weapons. Members armed with the M-9 and
     performing official guard duties will not be permitted into the training exercise area unless
     “real world” security is required in the training area. Training area: Exercise area designated
     by the Wing commander or member designated by the commander in coordination with
     Wing Safety, Security Forces, Fire Department and Munitions.
     3.2. Individuals carrying weapon(s) loaded with live ammo are also required to wear an
     orange reflective vest. Only those individuals qualified to carry the M-9 pistol will perform
     “Overwatch” (Guard Duty) for protection of resources used in field exercises. Guard M-9
     Magazine(s) must indicate they are loaded with live ammo by painting the bottom footplate
     red
     3.3. All Units will designate an overall Exercise Supervisor, in the grade of E-5 or above,
     who is in charge of all Observer/Controllers. The Exercise Supervisor will ensure that
     personnel are briefed on their responsibilities regarding accountability from a safety
     standpoint. Each Exercise Supervisor and Observer/Controllers will be responsible for
     conducting inspections of weapons and munitions to maintain 100% accountability of all
     expended and unexpended ammunitions, as well as the separation of training and weapons
     courier ammunition.
     3.4. All M-16 magazines used for training and exercises with blank munitions will be
     identified by painting the bottom one-third of the magazine with a light to medium shade of
     blue paint. These are the only authorized weapon magazines to be used in exercise and
     training areas. Absolutely no other magazine/ammunition will be introduced into the
     exercise area.
     3.5. Live ammo will be identified by painting the bottom one-third of the M-16 magazine
     with red to identify the magazine and the M-16 as containing “Live Rounds.”
4. Inspection/Loading:
     4.1. Exercise Supervisor or a member designated by the Commander who is trained and
     qualified will perform the following actions:
        4.1.1. Prior to start or termination of training, check all ammo pouches, rucksacks,
        mobility bags, gear, and magazines for live ammunitions. Brief all personnel regarding
        their responsibilities from a safety and accountability standpoint.
512AWI91-201 26 JULY 2012                                                                      3


       4.1.2. Visually inspect all blank munitions utilized by the 512th Wing prior to use in
       any/all field exercises to ensure that no live ammo is present IAW AFI 36-2226, AFRC
       Sup 1.
       4.1.3. Supervise the loading of all magazines with blank munitions in a controlled
       environment under the observation of a disinterested third party familiar with blank and
       live munitions.
       4.1.4. Ensure that all magazines containing blank munitions are identified by painting the
       bottom one-third of the magazine with a light to medium shade of blue paint, sealed with
       tape and marked with the initials of the member responsible for loading.
       4.1.5. Ensure that all magazines containing blank munitions are stored in an approved
       metal container during exercises. The container will be sealed and “Blank Ammo” will
       be written in large legible words on the outside of the container.
       4.1.6. Ensure that live or blank ammo will not be issued to other than Security Forces
       personnel without the supervision of a Combat Arms Instructor, Munitions Custodian, or
       other individual trained and qualified in accordance with DAFBI 91-201.
5. Issue:
   5.1. The Commander shall designate an overall Exercise Supervisor who will oversee the
   issue of “Exercise-Safe” blank munitions for use in field exercises.
   5.2. The Exercise Supervisor or member designated by the Commander will only issue
   munitions to a Point of Contact (POC), Supervisor or Team Leader via AF Form 1297,
   Temporary Issue Receipt, or AF Form 629, Small Arms Hand Receipt, for the container
   of blanks. The container of blanks will be marked in large legible words to designate “Blank
   Ammo”(be consistent throughout publication) prior to the POC, Supervisor, or Team Leader
   issuing blank munitions to their personnel; they will also inspect every weapon to ensure they
   are in proper working order.
   5.3. The Squadron Supply Representative will maintain at a minimum, all AF Forms 1297
   for a period of 90 days from date of exercise.
   5.4. At a minimum, the following information will be included on file:
       5.4.1. Participants name, rank and signature
       5.4.2. Date of issue
       5.4.3. Name, rank and signature of issuing official
       5.4.4. Description and quantity of weapons issued
       5.4.5. Date of turn-in
6. Turn-In:
   6.1. All unexpended rounds, dud and/or damaged blank munitions will be returned to the
   issue point upon completion of the exercise.             The Exercise Supervisor and
   Observer/Controllers will ensure all personnel and equipment are inspected for any unfired
   blank rounds.
 4                                                                512AWI91-201 26 JULY 2012


     6.2. The Exercise Supervisor or Senior NCO designated by the Commander will oversee or
     monitor the removal of blank munitions from magazines.
     6.3. The Exercise Supervisor will visually inspect all unexpended blank munitions to ensure
     “blank rounds” are not stored with expended or live munitions.
     6.4. Upon completion of the inspection, unexpended blank munitions will be stored in the
     original container according to lot number and a seal will be placed on the container. The
     outside of the container will be marked “Blank Ammo” along with the quantity.
     6.5. The overall Exercise Supervisor will have sweeps conducted to the maximum extent
     possible to collect expended blank ammunition. AF Form 2005, Issue Turn-In Request,
     will be filled out for the number of rounds expended; munitions remaining will then be
     returned to the supply point.
     6.6. Upon returning from the exercise(s), a clearing barrel and safety glasses will be
     available. All weapons will be cleared at the clearing barrel prior to turn-in to the armory or
     storage vault and exit from the exercise area. The Unit Commander or designated
     representative will appoint a Clearing Barrel Supervisor to monitor the clearing operation
     IAW AFMAN 31-229.
7. Safe Firing Distances: To meet the requirements of Air Force T.O. 11W3-5-5-42, Unit and
Direct Support Maintenance Manual (M16, 5.56mm), no M-16A2 Rifle shall be discharged
within 25 feet of any individual.
8. Emergency Procedures/Communications:
     8.1. The Safety Official designated by the Commander or Exercise Supervisor, will have a
     cellular phone or radio to enable him/her to contact emergency personnel to include Wing
     Safety and the Security Forces Control Center in the event of a mishap or abnormal
     condition.
     8.2. The Safety Official will obtain a list of emergency numbers to contact from the exercise
     area in the event of a mishap or abnormal condition. Appointed individual will ensure the
     Security Forces Commander, Security Forces Control Center, Munitions Supply Officer
     (MASO), Base Medical Personnel, Base Command Post, Fire Department, and Wing
     Weapons Safety Office is notified of any mishaps and complete any necessary paperwork.
     8.3. The Safety Official will establish a clearing area where weapons can be checked prior to
     and after, in the event of a mishap during the exercise.
     8.4. The Safety Official or member designated by the Commander will perform and
     document inventories of both live and blank munitions to include a reconciliation of assets at
     the start of the training exercise, change of shifts, and at the end of the duty day.
     8.5. All “out of balance” conditions shall cause the training operations to be terminated until
     the “out of balance” condition is resolved.
     8.6. The following notifications will be made whenever the Base Training Area is to be
     used: Security Forces Control Center, Airfield Operations, Base Command Post, Base Fire
     Department and Wing Weapons Safety Office.
9. Safety Officials:
512AWI91-201 26 JULY 2012                                                                      5


   9.1. The 512th Wing Safety Office will ensure that all personnel appointed by the
   Commander’s Safety Officials/Designated Members shall be trained prior to participating in
   field exercises.
   9.2. The appointed Safety Official will conduct a pre-task safety briefing prior to exercise.
   A sign in sheet will be completed and maintained for a period of 90 days in the squadron’s
   safety office. At a minimum the following will be on the sign-in sheet:
       9.2.1. Date of briefing
       9.2.2. Name and Rank and Signature of briefing official
       9.2.3. Name and Rank of individual attending the briefing
       9.2.4. A description, copy, or location of briefing materials used
10. Transportation of Munitions: Only properly trained and certified GOV operators will
drive munitions laden vehicles. Transportation and protection requirements of munitions states
that ALL personnel transporting munitions shall be transportation qualified and tested in
accordance with DAFBI 91-201, paragraph 3.3 Firearms transportation and protection
requirements will be IAW AFI 31-101, paragraph 23.5.2.3
11. Protecting of Firearms Under Field Conditions:
   11.1. When deployed in the field for actual or exercise purposes, firearms (regardless of risk
   category) must be under continuous positive control. The Commander may elect to
   consolidate firearms in a central location to make surveillance easier. Weapons are never left
   unattended or unsecured. The deploying commander must establish and enforce procedures
   for protecting deployed firearms. Procedures must be based on the following guidelines:
   11.2. Persons charged with custody of the weapons (off base only) must be armed and have
   the capability to sound an alarm if a forceful theft is attempted. NOTE: The armed guard
   requirement may not be used when the exercise is located on a secured installation. Live
   ammo and blank ammo will not be mixed together inside the exercise area; however,
   designated protection custodians must have the capability to sound the alarm and contact the
   Force Protection Control Center at all times whether on or off base.
   11.3. An armed response force must be capable of responding within 10 minutes.




                                             Ronald A. Rutland, Col, USAFR
                                             Commander
