BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                          514TH AMW INSTRUCTION 90-901
514 AIR MOBILITY WING                                                                    6 AUGUST 2007

                                                                                        Command Policy

                                                               OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 514AMW/SE                                          Certified by: 514AMW/CC (Col. James L. Kerr)
Supersedes 514AMWI 90-901, 01 January 2002                                                 Pages: 8

This instruction implements AFPD 90-9, Operational Risk Management, AFI 90-901, Operational Risk
Management, AFI 90-901/AFRC Sup 1, Operational Risk Management, and DoD 6055.1, Safety and
Occupational Health (SOH) Program. This document is intended to provide the strategic instruction for
the implementation and sustainment of Operational Risk Management (ORM) in the 514AMW. This
instruction applies to all personnel assigned to the 514th Air Mobility Wing and its units. Submit any rec-
ommendations for changes in writing to the OPR at the 514 AMW/SE, McGuire AFB, NJ. Maintain and
dispose of records created as a result of prescribed process in accordance with Air Force Records Dispo-
sition Schedule (RDS) which may be found on-line at https://webrims.amc.af.mil.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision updates the wing Operational Risk Management program. All the text has been changed to
reflect the new program.


1. Executive Summary:
   1.1. General: This document is intended to provide the strategic plan for the implementation and sus-
   tainment of Operational Risk Management (ORM) in the 514AMW. ORM implementation provides
   vision and is not intended as an administrative program. Application and use of ORM, both formal
   and informal, by all 514th AMW members is the objective. ORM initiatives include training, tools and
   information, application to mission activity, integration, and oversight. These initiatives will be
   refined, added to, and updated as ORM integration matures, experience is gained, and mission needs
   change the sustainment focus.
   1.2. Resources: All resources required to implement and sustain ORM for units within the 514th
   AMW will be provided by the unit.
2                                                                  514AMWI90-901 6 AUGUST 2007


    1.3. Financial Requirements: Current O&M funding is expected to be sufficient to support implemen-
    tation and integration of ORM into 514th AMW activities. The only significant future expense is fund-
    ing to train replacement ORM advisors in the event of reassignments. This expense is limited to travel
    and per diem for one week to Kirtland AFB, NM., or at other locations where training is offered.
    1.4. Manpower Requirements: Each group within the wing will appoint an ORM program manager to
    oversee the implementation and sustainment of ORM for all units within the respective group. Addi-
    tional duty personnel will support the wing and group ORM programs in the form of primary and
    alternate functional area specific ORM advisors. Supervisors will ensure assigned personnel employ
    ORM in all mission-related activities.

2. Introduction
    2.1. PURPOSE: The purpose of this plan is to implement requirements identified in AFPD 90-9,
    paragraph 5.5. Specifically, that “commanders at all levels will develop and maintain an ORM imple-
    mentation and sustainment plan.”
    2.2. VISION: Ensure an organization in which all personnel manage risk so that operations are suc-
    cessfully completed in the most mission effective manner possible.
    2.3. MISSION: Enhance mission effectiveness while minimizing risk.
    2.4. GOALS: The hierarchy of goals, illustrated in Figure 1., is the crucial framework for defining
    operational risk management.

Figure 1. Operational Risk Management Hierarchy




3. Objectives
    3.1. Overview. The following objectives provide an overview of how this plan will be implemented
    in support of Air Force requirements.
       3.1.1. Objective 1: Train our people to apply, implement, and integrate ORM.
514AMWI90-901 6 AUGUST 2007                                                                             3


     3.1.2. Objective 2: Provide tools and information to enable ORM use.
     3.1.3. Objective 3: Integrate ORM into all 514th AMW mission-related activity.
     3.1.4. Objective 4: Continuously improve ORM processes, products, and policies.
     3.1.5. Objective 5: Encourage off-duty application of ORM.
     3.1.6. Objective 6: Provide oversight.
  3.2. OBJECTIVE 1: Train our people to apply, implement, and integrate ORM.
     3.2.1. Introduction: Training and education initiatives within the 514th AMW in support of ORM
     are categorized as basic level and advisor level.
        3.2.1.1. Basic: The basic level includes locally performed training for all wing members.
        3.2.1.2. Advisor: The advisor level includes participation in all basic level training and partic-
        ipation in specialized Air Force-level training.
     3.2.2. Implementation and Responsibilities:
        3.2.2.1. Basic: The basic level involves participation by all members in a combination of
        training venues. It includes Introduction to ORM, initial workplace training, annual
        ORM-related briefings as determined and provided by the commander, on-the-job training,
        and participation in application of ORM to mission activities.
            3.2.2.1.1. Introduction to ORM training will be provided by the wing ORM Advisor. This
            training will include the Introduction to ORM training course and should be accomplished
            via CBT. This training should be documented in an appropriate manner to include Form
            55s or other training documentation product utilized by the unit.
            3.2.2.1.2. Initial workplace training will consist of the unit involving the new member in a
            shop level ORM process as soon as possible.
            3.2.2.1.3. ORM-Related Activities.
                3.2.2.1.3.1. ORM-down days may be scheduled by HQ AFRC on a periodic basis.
                These days will be fully supported by all personnel, by unit safety representatives, and
                all unit ORM advisors.
                3.2.2.1.3.2. Annual Recurrent training: At least annually, ORM-related briefings will
                be provided to unit personnel as a part of commander’s calls. These briefings may be
                presented as Air Force video presentations, briefings by the group/unit ORM advisor,
                wing, or squadron safety representatives. Supervisors will document attendance at
                these briefings on the individual’s AF form 55 or automatic system as ORM Refresher
                Training.
            3.2.2.1.4. On-the-Job Training: Personnel at every level will work with their supervisors
            and the group/unit ORM advisor to learn wing and unit procedures for applying ORM to
            tasked activities.
            3.2.2.1.5. Participation in ORM-Related Mission Activity. Project managers and team
            members will employ the wing process for managing risk associated with mission-related
            activity for all projects, with the assistance of the group/unit ORM advisor.
4                                                                   514AMWI90-901 6 AUGUST 2007


              3.2.2.1.6. Responsibility and documentation: Supervisors are responsible to ensure all
              personnel receive training and that it is documented on the employee’s AF Form 55
              Employee Safety and Health Record or by an automation system. Attendance records will
              be maintained.
                  3.2.2.1.6.1. Organizations that do not have automation capabilities for documentation
                  will use the AF Form 55 for initial training. Subsequent training will be documented on
                  attendance records or other acceptable means such as Excel Spreadsheets.
           3.2.2.2. Advisor: Advisor level training includes participation in all basic level activities and
           attending the Air Force ORM Applications and Integration Course at the Air Force Safety
           Center, Kirtland AFB, New Mexico, or at other locations where training is offered. Specifics
           are provided on the HQ AFRC ORM web site. Tuition and books are funded by HQ AFRC.
           Travel and per diem is unit funded. The ORM advisor may be an Air Reserve Technician,
           AGR, civilian, or a traditional reservist with sufficient mission experience, availability, and
           interest to support this activity.
    3.3. OBJECTIVE 2: Provide tools and information to enable ORM use.
       3.3.1. Introduction: Providing the tools and information necessary for assigned personnel to apply
       ORM to mission activities is essential to successful implementation of ORM in the wing. The
       tools and information required will be provided in two ways: Web-based products and personal
       contact.
           3.3.1.1. Web-based Products: The latest web-based information in support of ORM is avail-
           able from the AFRC ORM site. This information is made accessible to all mil-only sites.
           https://wwwmil.se.afrc.af.mil/ under the ORM heading.
           3.3.1.2. Personal Contact: Despite the best of training and web-based products, personal con-
           tact remains a staple of doing business. All wing members will be encouraged to discuss any
           ORM related topic with their supervisor, group/unit ORM advisor, or safety representatives.
       3.3.2. Implementation and Responsibilities:
           3.3.2.1. The ORM representative or advisor will maintain an ORM Continuity Book. This
           book may be stored electronically, but all individuals within the organization must have access
           to the media. All assigned personnel will have access to all essential ORM requirements and
           supporting documentation. Information may also be provided via e-mail.
           3.3.2.2. Personal Contact: Contact information for the ORM advisor will be provided on unit
           additional-duty rosters. The wing/group/unit ORM advisors will make themselves available to
           discuss, assist, train, and guide personnel in their ORM activities.
    3.4. OBJECTIVE 3: Integrate ORM throughout the wing into all mission-related activity.
       3.4.1. Introduction: Employing ORM in the conduct of mission-related activity is the key focus of
       ORM policy and guidance.
       3.4.2. Implementation and Responsibilities:
           3.4.2.1. Planning Activity: During planning, project managers and teams will routinely inte-
           grate ORM into their planning activities by using the wing process for integration. All identi-
           fied hazards and controls will be identified and integrated into the plan so they become a part
514AMWI90-901 6 AUGUST 2007                                                                            5


        of the planned activity. In addition, the risk analysis will be reviewed by unit or group com-
        manders before being briefed to the appropriate commander as a part of the plan briefing.
        Review of the risk analysis will be included in such briefings. Risks that cannot be reduced to
        an acceptable level will be identified to the commanders to enable an informed decision
        regarding the level of risk.
        3.4.2.2. During Execution: Throughout the execution of any project or procedure, project
        managers and teams will implement all risk controls identified in planning and observe their
        effectiveness. Inadequate risk controls will be cause for delaying operations until adequate risk
        controls can be employed or an informed decision by the appropriate commander is provided.
        Lessons learned will be noted for future use.
        3.4.2.3. Post Mission Activity: Once after-action reports are published, project managers will
        assemble any ORM lessons learned and provide them to the group/unit ORM advisor so the
        process for applying ORM can be updated.
  3.5. OBJECTIVE 4: Continuously improve wing ORM processes, products, and policies.
     3.5.1. Introduction: Continuous improvement of ORM processes is essential to keep abreast of the
     mounting complexity of hazards to mission activity.
     3.5.2. Implementation and Responsibilities:
        3.5.2.1. ORM Processes: All project managers and teams will note any difficulty or inade-
        quacy in any unit ORM process and identify their observations and recommended fixes to the
        ORM advisor by any practical means.
        3.5.2.2. ORM products: All wing personnel will note any difficulty or inadequacy in any unit
        ORM product and identify their observations and recommended fixes to the group/unit ORM
        advisor by any practical means.
        3.5.2.3. ORM Policies: All wing personnel will note any difficulty or inadequacy in any unit
        ORM policy and identify their observations and recommended fixes to the group/unit ORM
        advisor by any practical means.
  3.6. OBJECTIVE 5: Encourage off-duty application of ORM.
     3.6.1. Introduction: Application of ORM by Air Force personnel to off-duty activities is identified
     at Air Force level as an essential part of any unit ORM program.
     3.6.2. Implementation and Responsibilities:
        3.6.2.1. ORM Down Days: During all safety or ORM down-day activities, application of
        ORM to off-duty activities will be included as a part of the day’s activities.
        3.6.2.2. ORM Briefings: Application of ORM to off-duty activities will be included as a part
        of commander’s call ORM briefings.
  3.7. OBJECTIVE 6: Provide ORM program oversight.
     3.7.1. Introduction: Commander/unit personnel ownership of ORM activities is essential to
     ensure ORM is employed and becomes an integrated part of all mission activity.
     3.7.2. Implementation and Responsibilities: On an annual basis, the applicable ORM advisor and
     unit/group/wing commander will review their instruction for currency and completeness. This
6                                                                   514AMWI90-901 6 AUGUST 2007


       review will be recorded on Attachment 1 and posted in the ORM Continuity Binder or main-
       tained electronically as appropriate.

4. Group and Unit Responsibility: Each Group within the Wing will have an Appendix to this regula-
tion. Groups will provide any information on their ORM programs that differ from the Wing regulation.
This includes but is not limited to such items as additional programs, more detailed information, and/or
Unit Specific items within their respective groups. All Group specific information will be contained in the
Appendix. The Appendix with the basic regulation will serve as the Operation and Sustainment Plan for
that respective Group.
    4.1. 514th Operations Group – Appendix 1
    4.2. 514th Maintenance Group – Appendix 2
    4.3. 514th Mission Support Group – Appendix 3



                                               JAMES L. KERR, Colonel, USAFR
                                               Commander
514AMWI90-901 6 AUGUST 2007                           7


                                Attachment 1

                              ANNUAL REVIEW


Commander              ORM Advisor             Date
8                                      514AMWI90-901 6 AUGUST 2007


APPENDIX 1
514th Operations Group
(THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK)


APPENDIX 2
514th Maintenance Group
(THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK)


APPENDIX 3
514th Mission Support Group
(THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK)
