BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                  514TH AIR MOBILITY WING
514TH AIR MOBILITY WING                                                          INSTRUCTION 10-201
                                                                                          8 AUGUST 2007

                                                                                                 Operations

                                                           STATUS OF RESOURCES AND TRAINING
                                                                                     SYSTEM

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
                        www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 514 OSF/OSO                                           Certified by: 514 AMW/CC (Col. James Kerr)
Supersedes 514 AMWI 10-201, 15 July 2003.                                                    Pages: 4

This instruction implements AFPD 10-2, Air Force Readiness. It provides guidance and establishes
responsibilities for the 514 AMW reserve units reporting Combat Readiness status according to Joint
Publication 1-03.3 and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 10-201, as supplemented. It is the responsibility of
each unit commander, staff agency, and work section furnishing information for the Status of Resources
and Training System (SORTS) to comply with this instruction. This applies to all members assigned to
the 514 AMW at McGuire AFB, New Jersey. Refer any recommended changes to this instruction directly
to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) at the 514 OSF/OSO.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision updates the Wing Status of Resources and Training System. A bar ( | ) indicates revisions
from the previous edition.


1. Sorts. The purpose of SORTS is to provide the National Command Authority (NCA) and the Joint
Chiefs of Staff with timely and accurate combat readiness information for the U.S. Armed Forces. Inac-
curate or late data distorts assessments that affect military decisions, obscures trends, and undermines the
process of setting priorities and allocating resources for levels (C-levels) according to AFI 10-201, as sup-
plemented.

2. Reporting Responsibilities:
   2.1. Wing Level Responsibility. The 514 OSS Wing Operations Center is the reporting agency for
   the 514th Air Mobility Wing and has the overall responsibility for management of SORTS reporting
   within the wing. The wing manager is responsible for the following:
       2.1.1. Provide and document training to unit level SORTS Monitors on a quarterly basis and as
       required.
2                                                                 514AMWI10-201 8 AUGUST 2007


       2.1.2. Quality Check unit worksheets for the various measured areas against specific Designed
       Operational Capability Identification (DOCID). Worksheets will be tailored to the units’ mission
       requirements established in the unit designed operational capability (DOC) statement.
       2.1.3. Review all SORTS data presented for submission to higher headquarters for completeness,
       format, and compliance with directives.
       2.1.4. Maintain original DOC statement received from HQ AFRC. Distribute copies to the appro-
       priate units as required to ensure SORTS reporting is in accordance with DOC statement direc-
       tives.
       2.1.5. Submit unit SORTS reports to higher headquarters within 48 hours of the report’s comple-
       tion as prescribed by AFI 10-201, AFRC Sup 1.
       2.1.6. Maintain and store classified SORTS data files for all SORTS reportable units.
       2.1.7. Distribute higher headquarters SORTS directives, instructions, policies, and other related
       operational data to the appropriate agencies as required.
       2.1.8. Ensure unit SORTS data bases are made available for review and comparative analysis by
       the unit designated SORTS monitors.
       2.1.9. Provide SORTS briefings with slide presentations containing the current C-levels for all
       reporting organizations at the wing commanders bimonthly UTA staff meeting or as required.
       2.1.10. Act as the coordinating agency between the reporting subordinate units and HQ AFRC
       Readiness Reporting Branch. This, however, does not preclude the reporting organizations from
       contacting their HQ AFRC functional manager when necessary.
    2.2. Unit Level Responsibility. All units with a DOC statement prepare and submit SORTS data to
    the wing reporting agency. Personnel assuming responsibilities for SORTS reporting in these units
    are known as SORTS monitors. Each SORTS reportable unit is responsible for the following:
       2.2.1. Per AFRC 10-201 Sup 1 at least 1 unit monitor is required to be an ART. Members identi-
       fied as SORTS Monitors, primary and alternate, are required to complete the SORTS Data Han-
       dlers Course within 1 year of appointment.
       2.2.2. Submit signed SORTS reports by the unit commander or his/her designated representative
       to 514 AMW Sorts Manager NLT than 1400L on the Saturday of the regular scheduled UTA
       weekend. When applicable, an interim report may be required to keep units with-in the 30 day
       timeline between UTA weekends.
       2.2.3. Provide supporting data to ensure all SORTS report calculations for the measured areas are
       correct and reflect the reported C-level according to AFI 10-201.
       2.2.4. Provide appropriate required remarks using standardized remark formats with get well/
       worse dates (GWD) for any measured area less than 1.
       2.2.5. Using the mandatory format sent out as a template, accomplish a current SORTS Monitor
       letter of appointment to the 514 OSS, Attn: Wing SORTS Manager. A primary and an alternate is
       required. Units may assign more than one alternate, but not more than three. Each unit is required
       to appoint an Air Reserve Technician (ART) as the primary or alternate.
514AMWI10-201 8 AUGUST 2007                                                                           3


      2.2.6. Commander are required to designate, in writing, an alternate person/s to sign the unit
      SORTS report in his/her absence. When this occurs the CC is required to review and sign the
      report on their next duty day.
      2.2.7. Accomplish semi-annual self inspections.
      2.2.8. Unit Commander must attend SORTS briefing on the Sunday of his/her UTA, and as
      required by the Wing Commander.
      2.2.9. Located at the top and bottom of each page next to the Classification marking a Declassifi-
      cation Date is required. EX. CONFIDENTIAL // 20110705
      2.2.10. No pre typed or printed information of any kind is authorized on worksheets, regardless of
      classification level. Blank worksheets are to be used each time and accomplished in pencil.
      2.2.11. Quarterly training for all Monitors and CC’s is mandatory. Located in the Training Sec-
      tion of the SORTS Binders each monitor and CC is required to sign off memo’s, e-mails and
      SORTS Report Findings monthly.
      2.2.12. The RAMP/Come Back Copy must be reviewed and signed monthly by a unit monitor and
      CC.
   2.3. Wing Readiness Office. The 514 LRF/LGR office provides individual unit mobility bag status
   information to unit commanders (AFWUS Report). Forward a copy of this list to the 514 OSS, Attn:
   Wing SORTS Manager.

3. Reporting Criteria:
   3.1. Reporting Deadline. Each SORTS reportable unit is required to submit an updated SORTS
   report to the 514 Wing SORTS Manager NLT 1400L on the Saturday of their regular scheduled UTA
   weekend. SORTS reportable units who have more than 30 days between UTAs are required to submit
   an interim updated report. This does not relieve them of generating their monthly UTA weekend
   report.
   3.2. Additional Reports Required. An additional SORTS report is required if any of the following
   conditions occur: (NOTE: The submission of an additional report does not eliminate the requirement
   of a UTA report.)
      3.2.1. A SORTS report cannot be more than 30 days old. If UTAs are more than 30 days apart, a
      report is required to update the system. Reports must be submitted to provide adequate time for
      review and quality control prior to the required 30-day suspense to higher headquarters.
      3.2.2. When a change has occurred causing a measured area level to change and or the overall
      C-level to change, the SORTS report is to be updated as soon as possible after the change becomes
      known. This is required to provide adequate time for review and quality control prior to the
      required 24-hour suspense to higher headquarters.

4. Coordination Responsibilities:
   4.1. Commanders. Prior to submission into the SORTS data base, all SORTS reports must be prop-
   erly coordinated with commanders at all levels in the wing to make sure the combat capability of the
   wing is accurately assessed and the LIMFACs accurately portray the capabilities of the unit. The unit
4                                                                 514AMWI10-201 8 AUGUST 2007


    commander is, therefore, expected to assign an overall category level rating based on both objectives
    (measured area computations) and subjective factors.
    4.2. SORTS Monitors. SORTS monitors must brief their unit commander on the status of their units.
    This includes the contents of their SORTS report, associated remarks, and LIMFACs. The overall
    assessment of the commander and his/her signature is required prior to submitting the reports to the
    Wing SORTS Manager’s office.



                                               JAMES L. KERR, Colonel, USAFR
                                               Commander
