BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                     514 AIR MOBILITY WING
514 AIR MOBILITY WING                                                             INSTRUCTION 90-201
                                                                                      1 FEBRUARY 2004

                                                                                   Specialty Management

                                                                       SELF-INSPECTION PROGRAM



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 514 AMW/CCX                                                              Certified by: 514 AMW/CC
                                                                                   (Brig Gen Chris Joniec)
Supersedes 514AMWI90-201, 15 February 2000                                                       Pages: 3

This instruction implements AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities, AMCI 90-201, The Inspection Sys-
tem, AMCP 90-202, Inspection Guide, AFRCI 90-201, The Inspection System, and 22AFI 90-101, Assis-
tance Visit Program. This instruction establishes guidance for the 514 Air Mobility Wing Self Inspection
(SI) Program. It outlines the responsibilities of the principal program members. This instruction applies to
all 514 AMW assigned units.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision updates the
wing Self Inspection program and establishes an Executive Self-Inspection Team to oversee the program.
All the text has been changed to reflect the new program.


1. Responsibilities of Vice Wing Commander:
   1.1. The Vice Wing Commander, as directed by the Wing Commander, will set policy and ensure
   proper program direction throughout the Wing.
   1.2. The Vice Wing Commander will select an Executive Self-Inspection Team (ESIT) to oversee and
   ensure compliance of the program in their respective areas. The team will be comprised of the Vice
   Wing Commander, Wing Executive Officer, Wing Performance Planner, a monitor from each Group,
   Medical, and Aero Medical representative.

2. Responsibilities of the Wing Self Inspection Program Manager:
   2.1. The Wing Performance Planner is the Wing Self Inspection (SI) Program Manager and will
   develop a standardized program and oversee its compliance throughout the Wing.
2                                                              514AMWI90-201 1 FEBRUARY 2004


    2.2. Provide day-to-day guidance, maintenance, and training of the SI program, to include
    Self-Inspection Tracking System (SITS), and the wing created SI program folder, located on the net-
    work (S:\Sits514AMW-SI program). The wing SI program folder is an additional tool provided to
    enhance the effectiveness of the wing SI program.
    2.3. Attend ESIT meetings at a minimum quarterly.
    2.4. Review SITS and update ESIT at quarterly meetings.
    2.5. Consolidate closed findings found during external inspections and brief Wing Commander. For-
    ward completed information to Higher Headquarters as required.

3. Responsibilities of the Executive Self Inspection Team (ESIT):
    3.1. Attend quarterly ESIT meetings.
    3.2. At a minimum, conduct quarterly SI meetings for unit SI monitors and SMEs within your group.
    3.3. Maintain Unit SI monitors appointment letters. Inform Wing SI Program Manager of any
    changes to SME and primary and alternate unit SI monitors.
    3.4. Obtain a copy of each internal SAV schedule from each SME, NLT 31 Aug. Forward schedules
    to Performance Planning Office.
    3.5. Ensure units input all discrepancies into SITS no later than 31 Jul. Query SITS program for fol-
    low up action on a monthly basis. Monitor progression towards discrepancy completion.
    3.6. Closed findings found during external inspections will be reviewed with appropriate group com-
    mander and forward to the Wing SI Program Manager.
    3.7. Review unit SI or locally developed spreadsheet to ensure compliance and maintenance of SI
    program.
    3.8. Ensure annual SI checklist completion and Annual Statement of Assurance (SOA) is accom-
    plished no later than 30 Jun. Forward SOA to Performance Planning Office.

4. Responsibilities of the Squadron Commanders:
    4.1. Squadron Commander or the Wing Executive Officer will appoint, in writing, a primary and
    alternate Self-Inspection Monitor, one of which must be full time member. A sample appointment let-
    ter is located in the SI program folder. Forward the appointment letter to respective ESIT member.
    4.2. Ensure a working Self-Inspection Program is in place with adequate oversight and support.
    4.3. Review SITS open discrepancies. At a minimum, quarterly monitor progression towards discrep-
    ancy completion. Ensure action plans are in place and corrective actions are taken in a reasonable
    amount of time.
    4.4. Sign Annual Statement of Assurance form located in the SI program folder and forward to
    respective ESIT member no later than 30 June.

5. Responsibilities of the Subject Matter Experts (SME):
    5.1. Attend SI meetings held by respective ESIT member.
514AMWI90-201 1 FEBRUARY 2004                                                                             3


   5.2. Review AFRC and 22 AF website for most updated checklist(s) in your functional area. Clarify
   with NAF functional for any interpretations as needed.
   5.3. Streamline your functional area checklist for unit specific requirements.
   5.4. Forward checklist to respective ESIT member.
   5.5. Forward yearly internal 514 AMW SAV schedule to respective ESIT NLT 31 Aug.
   5.6. SAV reports will be forward to Unit SI monitor, CC, and unit functional area manager. SAV Fol-
   low ups accomplished as required.
   5.7. Review recent inspection reports, Special Interest Items that are applicable to functional area.
   Disseminate information as required.

6. Responsibilities of the Unit Self Inspection Monitor:
   6.1. Attend SI meetings held by respective ESIT member
   6.2. Review and download mission specific checklists from the AFRC and 22 AF website. Distribute
   checklists to appropriate unit personnel.
   6.3. Download SME checklists located in the SI program folder and distribute to appropriate unit per-
   sonnel.
   6.4. Maintain all completed checklists either electronically or in hard copy. Electronic checklists
   maintained will have a completion date when e-mailed. Hard copies maintained must have date and
   signature of individual who completed checklist.
   6.5. All findings from annual inspection, 514 SAVs, and external inspections will be input into SITS.
   Ensure all discrepancies have an action plan and estimated completion date.
   6.6. Review and update steps and progress taken toward completion in the remarks section of the
   SITS. At a minimum, quarterly brief unit commander.
   6.7. Ensure sufficient documentation is available in the remark section of SITS prior to closing a find-
   ing.
   6.8. Forward completed findings found by external inspections to respective ESIT member.
   6.9. Sign, with commander, the Annual Statement of Assurance form located in the SI program folder
   no later than 30 June and forward to respective ESIT member.
   6.10. Review inspection reports located in the SI program folder. Forward appropriate information for
   unit mission to respective unit functional monitors.
   6.11. Review Special Interest Items located on SI program folder. Forward as needed.
   6.12. Develop and maintain an SI spreadsheet to include at a minimum: functional point of contact,
   date checklist distributed, date checklist completed w/corrective action plan for findings, and date dis-
   crepancies put into SITS. SI spreadsheet and findings report are located in SI program folder. These
   templates are optional.


                                       CHRISTOPHER M. JONIEC, Brigadier General, USAFR
                                       Commander
