BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             51ST FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION
OF THE 51ST FIGHTER WING                                                      32-7050

                                                                               4 AUGUST 2011

                                                                              Civil Engineering

                                                                 UNIT ENVIRONMENTAL
                                                            COORDINATOR MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications is available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 51 CES/CEAN                                                      Certified by: 51 MSG/CC
                                                                   (Colonel Luke E. Closson III)
Supersedes:   51FWI 32-7050,                                                           Pages: 11
              30 January 2007


This instruction implements AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality, for Osan Air Base (AB) by
providing guidance on establishing and standardizing an environmental quality program and
environmental management procedures. This instruction establishes responsibilities and
procedures for managing and coordinating environmental infrastructure on Osan AB. It is
applicable to all units assigned, attached, or tenant to Osan AB. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The changes substantially revise the initial 2007 instruction and focus on updating Unit
Environmental Coordinator (UEC) responsibilities including Storm Water Pollution Prevention
training requirements, management of UEC requirements and ensuring shop and office
environmental management binders are complete and current. The Environmental Element (51
CES/CEAN) is responsible for management of the UEC Program. The UEC Appointment letter
template has been added in Attachment 2. The ECATTS training website has been replaced by
the ESOHTN training website information in Attachment 3 and the instructions to access the
ESOHTN training modules have been updated.
 2                                                          51FWI 32-7050 4 AUGUST 2011


1. Background: An Unit Environmental Coordinator (UEC) infrastructure is necessary to assist
the Environmental Office in effectively managing and coordinating environmental programs on
Osan AB. All 51 FW Squadrons and Osan AB tenant organizations are required to appoint
primary and alternate UECs who are committed to Osan AB environmental objectives such as
cleaning up environmental damage resulting from past activities; meeting all environmental
standards applicable to present operations; planning future activities to minimize environmental
impacts; managing responsibly the irreplaceable natural and cultural resources held in public
trust; and eliminating pollution from activities wherever possible.
2. Concept: The Osan AB Environmental Management System (EMS) Implementation Plan
requires the ability to communicate environmental issues and requirements to all organizations
on the base. 51 FW/CC has determined that a UEC program is essential to achieving these goals.
Osan AB is required to be in compliance with the Korea Environmental Governing Standards
(KEGS), published October 2004, and to educate the base community about these regulations.
Several years of Osan AB Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health Compliance
Assessment and Management Program (ESOHCAMP) reports indicate the cause of the majority
of non-compliance findings was attributable to a lack of manpower in the Environmental Office;
high turnover rate of trained, knowledgeable UECs, Hazardous Material (HAZMAT) Monitors
and Hazardous Waste (HAZWASTE) Managers; departure from following established
procedures; lack of communication within base organizations, including the lack of a Point of
Contact (POC) for disseminating environmental information and installation environmental
training requirements; lack of ensuring accountability; and lack of training.
3. Responsibilities:
     3.1. 51 FW/CC and Staff will:
        3.1.1. Ensure all base organizations comply with the KEGS, Osan AB EMS, and all Air
        Force (AF) and base environmental policies.
        3.1.2. Ensure 51 FW staff agencies, 51 FW squadron commanders, and commanders and
        leaders of tenant organizations, appoint a primary and alternate UEC for their
        organization and send the appointment letters to 51 CES/CEAN. Organizations that are
        owners of multiple Osan AB Significant Aspects, with activities and processes that pose
        the greatest threat to the environment and the health of the base community are
        encouraged to appoint additional UECs to ensure each major operation within the
        organization has primary and alternate UECs.
            3.1.2.1. The UEC appointment letter template is provided in Attachment 2 and it
            includes the UEC’s office telephone number and DEROS and requires the UEC to
            confirm the appointment by signing the letter.
        3.1.3. Provide direct access for UECs to 51 FW Staff, and tenant organization
        commanders.
        3.1.4. Place an addendum into the UEC’s position description for civilian UECs.
        3.1.5. Direct subordinate commanders to assign members to appropriate environmental
        committees, the EMS Cross Functional Team and ESOHCAMP POCs as requested by
        the Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Council (ESOHC) chairperson.
51FWI 32-7050 4 AUGUST 2011                                                                   3


     3.1.6. Ensure each UEC has completed the minimum training as outlined in Section 3.4.5
     of this document.
     3.1.7. Ensure all legal matters involving compliance with federal and local regulations
     pertaining to the environment are reviewed by 51 FW/JA.
  3.2. 51 FW Group Commanders will:
     3.2.1. Ensure compliance with all the KEGS, Osan AB EMS, and all AF and base
     environmental policies.
     3.2.2. Direct subordinate and tenant commanders to appoint primary and alternate UECs
     and to assign members to the EMS Cross Functional Team, the Pollution Prevention (P2)
     Cross Functional Team, the Hazardous Materials Management Process (HMMP) Team
     and other environmental working groups when UECs are unable to participate.
     3.2.3. Ensure all environmental matters are addressed to 51 FW/JA for a review of
     potential legal issues as circumstances dictate.
  3.3. Organization/Unit Commanders will:
     3.3.1. Ensure organizations comply with the KEGS, Osan AB EMS, and all AF and base
     environmental policies.
     3.3.2. Appoint primary and alternate UECs and ensure a copy of the current appointment
     letter (see UEC appointment letter template in Attachment 2) is sent to the 51
     CES/CEAN office.
        3.3.2.1. Require the UEC to sign the appointment letter to confirm the appointment.
        3.3.2.2. Ensure the UEC is not also appointed as a HAZMAT Monitor, HAZWASTE
        IAP Manager, Tank Custodian or Facility Manager.
        3.3.2.3. Appoint a replacement UEC at least 30 days prior to the departure of the
        current UEC, even if the appointment is temporary until the replacement arrives.
        3.3.2.4. Appoint primary and alternate UECs with a DEROS more than three (3)
        months apart, to ensure environmental continuity within the organization.
        3.3.2.5. Ensure UECs take the UEC Introductory Training, Stormwater Pollution
        Prevention Training and EMS Practitioner Training within 30 days of their
        appointment.
     3.3.3. Ensure that all environmental matters are addressed to 51 FW/JA for a review of
     potential legal issues.
     3.3.4. Allow direct access to the UEC to solve environmental issues and to assist with
     the preparation and signing of ESOHCAMP Management Action Plans and Closure
     Documents.
     3.3.5. Assign squadron members to the EMS Cross Functional Team, the P2 Cross
     Functional Team, the HMMP Team and other environmental working groups when UECs
     are unable to participate.
     3.3.6. Place an addendum into the squadron UEC’s position description for civilian
     UECs.
4                                                           51FWI 32-7050 4 AUGUST 2011


    3.4. Unit Environmental Coordinators will:
       3.4.1. Represent their organization at EMS Cross Functional Team meetings and at
       applicable P2 ESOHC Subcommittee meetings and the HMMP Team meetings.
       3.4.2. Ensure personnel in their organization use the Osan AB Environmental
       Community of Practice website to find details on environmental programs. The link to
       the website is https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-
       MS-PC-32.
       3.4.3. Ensure all environmental training requirements are identified and completed by
       appropriate personnel within the organization.
           3.4.3.1. Ensure EMS Awareness training is on their organization’s In-Processing
           Checklist and all personnel are trained in EMS Awareness IAW PACAF and DoD
           directives.
           3.4.3.2. Ensure their organization’s compliance status for environmental training
           requirements is reported to 51 CES/CEAN prior to installation, PACAF and AF
           completion deadlines.
       3.4.4. Complete all environmental training requirements as summarized in Attachment 3,
       including the Osan AB UEC Introductory Training, EMS Practitioner Training and the
       following modules on the Environmental Safety And Occupational Health Training
       Network (ESOHTN): Environmental Compliance System, Environmental Compliance
       and Enforcement, EMS Awareness Level Training and Storm Water Pollution
       Prevention. A Certificate of Accomplishment should be printed and placed in the
       training certificate section of the UEC Continuity Binder when all training is complete.
       Also, if the UEC’s organization manages hazardous materials, the UEC must also
       complete the Hazardous Materials, Hazardous Waste Management, and Waste
       Management Guidelines modules on the ESOHTN website.
       3.4.5. Ensure the primary and alternate HAZMAT Monitors and HAZWASTE Initial
       Accumulation Point Managers and Tank Custodians have completed all required
       trainings, including Storm Water Pollution Prevention Training, and ensure they are
       effectively managing their respective programs.
       3.4.6. Identify environmental areas of concern to the organization’s commander and
51 CES/CEAN.
       3.4.7. Review and certify (signature and date) that the organization’s Work Center
       Environmental Management Binders are complete and all required environmental
       appointments, trainings, assessments, checklists and inspection logs are documented and
       current.
       3.4.8. Represent their organization as the POC during the External ESOHCAMP and as
       either the organization’s POC or an ESOHCAMP assessor during Internal ESOHCAMPs.
       3.4.9. Maintain a copy of ESOHCAMP checklists for each protocol that concerns their
       respective organization.
       3.4.10. Prepare Management Action Plans to correct negative ESOHCAMP findings and
       closure documents to ensure the finding root cause is corrected in a manner that the
51FWI 32-7050 4 AUGUST 2011                                                                5


     finding will not be repeated. These documents are submitted to 51 CES/CEAN,
     approved by the Environmental Chief and then signed by the organization’s commander.
     3.4.11. Ensure that 51 CES/CEAN and the squadron/unit commander is notified that at
     least 30 days prior to departure that a replacement UEC needs to be appointed.
     3.4.12. Maintain the UEC Continuity Binder which contains documents and tabs as
     follows:
        3.4.12.1. Tab A – Current UEC Appointment letter and UEC Appointment Letter
        Template
        3.4.12.2. Tab B – Duties and responsibilities of UECs (Section 3.4 of this document)
        3.4.12.3. Tab C – UEC Training certificates (UEC, EMS, other ESOHTN modules)
        and training instructions for the EMS training module
        3.4.12.4. Tab D – UEC SAV checklist; prior UEC SAV reports and ESOHCAMP
        reports/findings for the unit/organization
        3.4.12.5. Tab E – UEC Introductory training and EMS Practitioner training slides
        (EMS Practitioner training is required for all UECs IAW the Osan AB EMS Manual).
        3.4.12.6. Tab F– Reference materials including 51 FWI 32-7050, UEC
        Environmental Management Plan, PACAF 2006 memo requiring EMS Awareness
        Training on in-processing checklists, Squadron/unit in-processing checklist with EMS
        Awareness Training Certificate requirement, Stormwater Pollution Prevention Best
        Management Practices and the current Osan AB Environmental Policy Statement in
        English and Korean.
  3.5. Environmental Element (51 CES/CEAN) will:
     3.5.1. Designate a UEC Program Manager who will provide UECs with environmental
     guidance and a description of their responsibilities.
     3.5.2. Assist UECs with project programming and funding requests for pollution
     prevention and other environmental initiatives.
  3.6. Unit Environmental Coordinator Program Manager will:
     3.6.1. Administer the UEC Introductory Training classes, print and distribute training
     certificates and keep records to validate personnel participation.
     3.6.2. Maintain current UEC appointment letters, the UEC roster and the UEC email
     distribution list.
     3.6.3. Ensure minutes of quarterly environmental cross-functional team meetings and
     changes in environmental policies, procedures and training requirements are sent to
     UECs for dissemination throughout their organizations.
     3.6.4. Provide UECs with ESOHCAMP checklists for quarterly work center
     environmental assessments IAW AFI 90-803, Environmental, Safety, and Occupational
     Health Compliance Assessment and Management Program and for each environmental
     protocol as requested.
 6                                                              51FWI 32-7050 4 AUGUST 2011


        3.6.5. Ensure all environmental matters are addressed to 51 FW/JA for a review of
        potential legal issues.
4. Funding.
     4.1. Defining requirements. The first step in the funding process is determining
     environmental requirements for each unit. The Air Force Instructions for environmental
     management give broad guidelines on how the Air Force complies with environmental laws
     and regulations. Additionally, the KEGS provide rules and guidelines for conducting
     activities in an environmentally sound manner. The Air Force has put all of these
     requirements into checklists that form the basis for the ESOHCAMP. Review of these
     checklists with respect to operations in each organization should give an initial starting point
     for defining requirements. Additionally, as environmental awareness of the installation
     increases, further technical training may be justified to ensure compliance with KEGS.
     4.2. Validation. The AF has determined that anything that is currently not in compliance or
     will go out of compliance in the next year, will be funded in the current year budget to ensure
     that all compliance issues are accomplished. In addition to compliance funding, there is
     funding for conservation and pollution prevention. AFI 32-7001, Environmental Budgeting,
     covers the AF policy on each funding source and the associated valid requirements.
        4.2.1. Submitting Validation Requests to 51 CES/CEAN. The 51 FW Form 8,
        Environmental Funding Request Application, shows the necessary information that
        should be provided to 51 CES/CEAN to validate project funds requests. A memorandum
        with the information is essential to ensure proper accounting of environmental funds.
        Each memorandum should have the necessary information, necessary forms attached,
        coordinator signature and the commander's approval before being forwarded to 51
        CES/CEAN.
            4.2.1.1. Equipment/Supply Purchases and Services. An AF Form 9, Request for
            Purchase, should be filled out for each item/service requested over $2,000.
            Purchasing information should include sources and scope of work.
            4.2.1.2. Construction. An AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, should
            be filled out for each project/job request.
            4.2.1.3. Turn-in of Equipment/Supplies. This item does not currently apply. The
            only item that is turned in at this time is hazardous waste and this is funded through
            51 CES/CEAN. In the future this may change. A DD Form 1348-1A, Issue
            Release/Receipt Document, should be filled out for each item.
            4.2.1.4. Training. Provide brochure describing desired training.
            4.2.1.5. TDYs. Attach a copy of a brochure/letter that describes the seminar, training
            course, benchmark candidate or symposium that the individuals are interested in
            attending.
        4.2.2. 51 CES/CEAN Validation. Once all of the appropriate forms are accomplished,
        51 CES/CEAN, through guidance documents and AF Policy memorandums, determines
        if the requirement is valid.
51FWI 32-7050 4 AUGUST 2011                                                                7


  4.3. Approval. The ultimate approval authority for all environmental funding requirements
  is the ESOHC. Once 51 CES/CEAN has validated the requirement, it will be presented to
  the ESOHC for approval.
  4.4. Accountable Equipment. Due to the constraints of the budget system, there will be no
  transfer of funds across Program Element Codes (PECs) to allow individual units to purchase
  equipment through their unit equipment accounts. Three PECs will remain under 51
  CES/CEAN control: PE27456F (Environmental Compliance), PE28853F (Environmental
  Conservation), and PE28854F (Pollution Prevention). The approved DD Form 1348-6, DoD
  Single Line Item Requisition System Document, will reflect 51 CES/CEAN organizational
  codes and each unit will transfer the purchased equipment to their unit accounts once the
  equipment has arrived on base.
  4.5. Future Project Programming Efforts. Each organization must keep their respective
  resource managers aware of funding requirements. Submission of the environmental funding
  request information on 51 FW Form 8 should allow a historical tracking of environmental
  costs for each organization.




                                          PATRICK C. MALACKOWSKI, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
 8                                                       51FWI 32-7050 4 AUGUST 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality, 20 July 1994
AFI 32-7001, Environmental Budgeting, 9 May 1994
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 90-803, Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Compliance Assessment and
Management Program, 24 March 2010
Prescribed Forms
51 FW Form 8, Environmental Funding Request Application, 2 February 2007
Adopted Forms
AF Form 9, Request for Purchase, 19 September 2006
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, 1 January 1991
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
DD Form 1348-1A, Issue Release/Receipt Document, July 1991
DD Form 1348-6, Single Line Item Requisition System Document, DOD (Manual-Long Form),
Feb 1985

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
EMS—Environmental Management System
ESOHCAMP—Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health Compliance Assessment and
Management Program
ESOHC—Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Council
ESOHTN—Environmental Safety And Occupational Health Training Network
HAZMAT—Hazardous Material
HAZWASTE—Hazardous Waste
HMMP—Hazardous Materials Management Process
KEGS—Korea Environmental Governing Standards
MAJCOM—Major Command
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
51FWI 32-7050 4 AUGUST 2011                                                               9


P2—Pollution Prevention
PECs—Program Element Codes
POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
UEC—Unit Environmental Coordinator

Terms
ESOHCAMP— An audit program used by the Air Force to assess the environmental, safety and
occupational health compliance status of an installation.
ESOHC— The main body of the base that is responsible for the oversight of the installation’s
Environmental Management System (EMS). Representation includes 51 FW Group
Commanders, Squadron commanders/managers of tenant organizations, and technical
representatives.
ESOHC Chairman— The 51 FW/CC has appointed 51 FW/CV as the ESOHC Chairman.
ESOHC Sub-Committee— Committees that report to the ESOHC, including Pollution
Prevention, Environmental Compliance and the EMS Cross Functional Team.
Environmental Working Groups— Working groups that report to the ESOHC and its sub-
committee on specific issues relating to environmental management.
Unit Environmental Coordinators— Organization representatives for environmental issues.
 10                                                            51FWI 32-7050 4 AUGUST 2011


                                          Attachment 2
                        UEC APPOINTMENT LETTER TEMPLATE

                                                                                   DATE
MEMORANDUM FOR 51 CES/CEAN

FROM: Organization/CC

SUBJECT: Appointment Letter for Unit Environmental Coordinators

1. Personnel listed below are appointed as Unit Environmental Coordinators (UEC) with duties
assigned in 51 FWI 32-7050, Unit Environmental Coordinator Management.

 Pri/              Print Name                Rank         ORG/          Building     Phone     DEROS
 Alt               & Signature                        Office Symbol

  Pri


  Alt



2. Unit Environmental Coordinators are required to take UEC Introductory Training within 30
days of appointment, and the DEROS of primary and alternate UECs should be at least 3 months
apart for continuity. UECs manage their organization’s Hazardous Material Program in
accordance with AFI 32-7086, Supplement 1, Sec 2.10.12.3, and oversee their organization’s
Hazardous Waste Program and Fuel Tank Program in accordance with 51 FWI 32-7050. UECs
should not also be appointed as HAZMAT Monitors, HAZWASTE IAP Managers, Tank
Custodians or Facility Managers.

3. The appointed personnel have signed the table to indicate they acknowledge responsibility as
the Primary or Alternate UEC.

4. This letter supersedes all previous letters, same subject. If there are any questions concerning
this matter contact (Unit OPR, 784-XXXX.)




                                               (UNIT COMMANDER SIGNATURE)

cc: Each Section in Squadron/Unit
51FWI 32-7050 4 AUGUST 2011                                                                     11


                                         Attachment 3
      REQUIRED TRAINING FOR UNIT ENVIRONMENTAL COORDINATORS

Osan AB UEC Introductory Training – This 30-minute training, presented by 51 CES/CEAN,
explains UEC responsibilities and training requirements, UEC Continuity Binder requirements,
Work Center Environmental Management Binder contents and Osan’s Storm Water Pollution
Prevention initiatives.

ESOHTN Training Modules – log on to the Environmental Safety and Occupational Health
Training Network (ESOHTN) website, www.esohtn.com, select a MAJCOM, select
―Environmental Training (ESOH Training)‖, click on ―All available environmental training‖,
and scroll down to ―Environmental Subject Area Training.‖ At a minimum, the following
training modules must be completed:
Environmental Compliance and Enforcement
EMS Awareness Level Training
Pollution Prevention

If the UEC’s organization manages hazardous materials, the UEC must also complete the
following training modules:
Hazardous Materials
Hazardous Waste Management
Waste Management Guidelines

Click on ―Environmental Subject Area Testing,‖ take the test for each module completed and
print out your certificate. A copy of the Certificate of Accomplishment must be placed in the
UEC Continuity Binder.
