BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                               51ST FIGHTER WING
OF THE 51ST FIGHTER WING                                                INSTRUCTION 51-901

                                                                          17 FEBRUARY 2010
                                                              Certified Current 15 March 2012
                                                                                          Law

                                                          CIVILIAN AND FAMILY MEMBER
                                                                MISCONDUCT BOARD (PA)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications is available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 51 FW/JA                                                            Certified by: 51 FW/JA
Supersedes: 51 FWI 51-901, 19 May 2000                              (Lt Col, Jefferson B. Brown)
                                                                                         Pages: 6


This instruction implements AFPD 51-9, Civil Law for Individuals, and AFPD 31-1, Integrated
Defense. It is consistent with USFKR 600-52, Family Member Misconduct, and establishes an
administrative program to address cases of civilian misconduct at Osan Air Base (AB) and in the
Korean community. This program and instruction is applicable to all DOD civilians, contractor
personnel, family members and retirees who are in Korea and in the Osan AB area and affiliated
with the U.S. Armed Forces. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through Major Command
(MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. The use of the name or mark of any specific
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force.

This instruction is affected by the Privacy Act of 1974. Records generated by this regulation are
authorized by 10 U.S.C. ß8012. No independent system of records will be maintained in the
Family Member Misconduct Program. Authorities: Public Law 94-415, Juvenile Justice and the
Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 (18 U.S.C. ßß5031-5042); USFKR
600-52, Family Member Misconduct; AFPD 51-9, Civil Law for Individuals.
2                                                        51FWI51-901 17 FEBRUARY 2010


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be reviewed completely. This revise
changes Family Member Misconduct Board (FMMB) to Civilian and Family Member
Misconduct Board (CFMMB) (throughout); updates office symbols (throughout); adds
information for Civilians; adds Attachment 1, Glossary of References and Supporting
Information.
1. Policy. Acts of misconduct committed by DoD civilians, contractor personnel, retirees and
family members assigned to Osan AB threaten the security and safety of property and persons on
the base and in the local community. Civilians and family members who commit acts of
misconduct or those who demonstrate a pattern of misconduct will be brought before the Civilian
and Family Member Misconduct Board (CFMMB). Actions of the CFMMB are designed to
ensure good order and discipline on and around Osan AB and to rehabilitate the offender(s).
2. Terms:
    2.1. Civilians. Persons who are employed by the DoD or by a DoD contractor, retired U.S.
    military personnel and other non-military persons entitled access to Osan AB.
    2.2. Family Member. A dependent of a civilian, contractor, retiree or military member who
    has access to U.S. military installations in Korea.
    2.3. Misconduct. Any act which is criminal, destructive, abusive, disrupts the good order
    and discipline or breaches the peace of the installation and/or local Korean community.
    2.4. CFMMB. A board established at Osan AB to evaluate cases of civilian and family
    member misconduct and to make appropriate recommendations to the 51 FW/CC or designee
    for disposition.
    2.5. Respondent. A civilian or a family member asked to appear before a CFMMB hearing.
3. Responsibilities:
    3.1. Military members, civilians, contractors, retirees and family members are responsible
    for their conduct and the conduct of those under their sponsorship. All individuals are
    expected to comply with acceptable standards of behavior. Failure to do so will result in
    adverse administrative action against the offender and/or the sponsor.
    3.2. The 51 FW/CC is responsible for maintaining good order and discipline on Osan AB.
    The 51 FW/CC may delegate this authority to the 51 MSG/CC.
    3.3. The 51 FW/CC, or designee, shall decide what actions or sanctions will be imposed
    against civilians or family member as recommended by the CFMMB. The 51 FW/CC, or
    designee, shall appoint the CFMMB Chairman.
    3.4. The CFMMB Chairman shall convene the CFMMB and present recommendations as to
    the disposition of the cases heard by the CFMMB to the 51 FW/CC or designee.
    3.5. The CFMMB shall hear cases involving acts of misconduct by civilians or family
    members that occur in or around Osan AB or in the local Korean community.
    3.6. The 51 MSG/CCE shall act as the CFMMB Recorder and shall maintain meeting
    minutes, records and correspondence.
51FWI51-901 17 FEBRUARY 2010                                                               3


4. The CFMMB:
   4.1. Composition. The board shall be composed of the following persons or designated
   representative:
      4.1.1. Voting Members:
          4.1.1.1. The CFMMB Chairman, as designated by 51 FW/CC or designee
          4.1.1.2. The 51 Fighter Wing Staff Judge Advocate (SJA)
          4.1.1.3. The 51 Security Forces Commander
          4.1.1.4. The Office of Special Investigations Detachment Commander, as appropriate
          4.1.1.5. The Command Chief Master Sergeant
          4.1.1.6. A 51 MDG representative
          4.1.1.7. The appropriate school Principal in cases involving juveniles
      4.1.2. Nonvoting Members:
          4.1.2.1. The Sponsor's Squadron Commander or equivalent
          4.1.2.2. A Chaplain
          4.1.2.3. Additional representatives as appropriate and requested by the CFMMB
          Chairman
   4.2. Purpose. To provide a method and framework for disposition of civilian and family
   member misconduct cases arising in the Republic of Korea and for the administrative
   punishment and/or rehabilitation of offenders. The Board will:
      4.2.1. Convene at the direction of the 51 FW/CC to review incidents or allegations of
      misconduct by civilians and family members that occur in or around Osan AB or in the
      local Korean community.
      4.2.2. Recommend corrective actions to the 51 FW/CC or designee.
5. Procedures:
   5.1. All reports of investigation disclosing acts of misconduct or allegations thereof
   committed by civilians or family members in or around Osan AB or in the local Korean
   community shall be forwarded to the Office of the SJA. The SJA or his designee may make
   recommendations on the appropriateness of referring the case to the CFMMB.
   5.2. The 51 FW/CC will decide which cases will be heard by the CFMMB and may
   unilaterally recommend corrective action without convening the CFMMB.
   5.3. The 51 FW/CC’s or designee’s scope of authority is not limited by CFMMB’s
   recommendations and may take any corrective action, including but not limited to those set
   forth in paragraph 6 below.
   5.4. A member (both voting and non-voting) of the CFMMB shall not sit in judgment on a
   case that may involve a conflict of interest such as Respondent being his/her dependent.
   5.5. Written notification of the hearing shall be sent out by the CFMMB Recorder to the
   Respondent, sponsor and all CFMMB members.
4                                                          51FWI51-901 17 FEBRUARY 2010


    5.6. Attendance at the CFMMB is mandatory for military sponsors. Respondents and their
    civilian sponsors are strongly encouraged to attend. The CFMMB can conduct in absentia
    hearings and is authorized to consider the willful refusal of any non-active duty member to
    appear as a matter in aggravation in deciding upon its recommendation. Failure of the
    military sponsor to attend may constitute a violation of the Uniform Code of Military Justice
    (UCMJ).
    5.7. Requests for delays must be made in writing to the CFMMB Chairman 72 hours prior to
    the hearing date. Delays will only be granted in extraordinary cases, or where the military or
    civilian sponsor is TDY or is otherwise physically unavailable. The CFMMB Chairman is
    the decision authority on all delays.
    5.8. The CFMMB hearing is informal and administrative in nature. Respondents are not
    entitled to legal counsel but may hire counsel at their own expense.
    5.9. The CFMMB Chairman shall ensure a thorough development of the facts. Formal rules
    of evidence will not apply. The CFMMB shall review and consider all facts and evidence
    presented at the hearing.
    5.10. The Board Chairman may permit Respondent to present witnesses or to submit written
    matters.
    5.11. All CFMMB members shall provide input during deliberations. A majority of the
    CFMMB voting members must concur in the recommendation sent to the 51 FW/CC or
    designee.
    5.12. The 51 FW/CC or designee may accept the recommendation, take any other
    appropriate action, or return the case to the CFMMB for further action. Dissenting
    recommendations are appropriate and may also be forwarded to the 51 FW/CC or designee.
    5.13. CFMMB proceedings will be afforded the protections of the Privacy Act.
    5.14. In cases involving civilian Department of Defense employees, the servicing Civilian
    Personnel Officer (CPO) will be consulted prior to convening any CFMMB. The 51
    FW/CC's decision to convene a CFMMB and take action on the board's recommendation
    must be done in coordination with the CPO to ensure compliance with civil service laws,
    rules and regulations.
6. Corrective Action. Administrative sanctions should be evaluated in terms of the individual’s
prior record, the seriousness of the misconduct, the availability of community agencies to
support any corrective actions, and the sanctions used in similar cases. Corrective action may
include probation. The following list is not all-inclusive, and the CFMMB may recommend any
one or more of the following corrective actions:
    6.1. An oral or written warning or reprimand.
    6.2. Referral of Respondent to base agencies such as Chaplain, Mental Health Services,
    Family Advocacy, etc.
    6.3. Temporary or permanent revocation of specific privileges, such as the BX, Recreation
    Center, base theater, etc., or a restriction on entering certain areas of the base.
    6.4. Imposition of curfew.
51FWI51-901 17 FEBRUARY 2010                                                                   5


   6.5. Restitution for damages or injury caused by Respondent, including physical labor to
   repair any damage.
   6.6. Performance of community service.
   6.7. Barment from the base for a specific period of time, except for limited access for
   purposes of attending medical/dental appointments, school, employment, and other
   reasonably justified exceptions.
   6.8. Revocation of driving privileges for a specific period of time.
   6.9. Early return of dependents.
7. Decision. The 51 FW/CC or designee will make a final decision after considering the
recommendation of the CFMMB. The decision is considered final and not subject to appeal.
Notice of the decision will be served on Respondent, who will acknowledge receipt.
8. Action. Copies of the action will be forwarded to agencies involved. In the event community
service, restitution, or referral to other agencies is decided, Respondent will be asked to
cooperate. If Respondent refuses to cooperate, the 51 FW/CC or designee may reconsider the
matter, taking the refusal into account. Agencies to which Respondent is referred are responsible
for reporting Respondent’s progress to the CFMMB Chairman. The CFMMB Chairman may
make a recommendation to the 51 FW/CC or designee for additional action without re-convening
the CFMMB.
9. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
   9.1. Prescribed Forms:
   No forms prescribed.
   9.2. Adopted Forms:
   AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                             PATRICK C. MALACKOWSKI, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
6                                                       51FWI51-901 17 FEBRUARY 2010


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense, 7 July 2007
AFPD 51-9, Civil Law for Individuals, 5 November 1993
AFI 38-301, Productivity Enhancing Capital Investment Programs, 20 November 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
USFKR 600-52, Family Member Misconduct, 11 March 1999

Abbreviation and Acronyms
AB—Air Base
CFMMB— Civilian and Family Member Misconduct Board
CPO—Civilian Personnel Officer
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
