BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           51ST FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION
51ST FIGHTER WING                                                           36-501

                                                                             26 APRIL 2011

                                                                                   Personnel

                                                                 CIVILIAN PERSONNEL
                                                              RESOURCE MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications is available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 51 FSS/FSMC                                                    Certified by: 51 MSG/CC
                                                                    (Col Luke E. Closson III)
Supersedes:   51 FWI 36-501, 12 May 2003                                              Pages: 8


This instruction implements AFPD 36-5, Policy Formulation and complements AFI 36-502,
Managing Civilian Personnel Resources; AFPD 36-8, Employee Benefits and Entitlements and
Work/Life Programs; DoD 1400.25-M, Subchapter 1930, Compensation Architecture Pay
Policy; DoD 1400.25-M, Subchapter 1940, National Security Personnel System (NSPS) -
Performance Management; DoD 1400.25-M, Subchapter 1950, National Security Personnel
System (NSPS) - Staffing and Employment; AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work
and Holiday Observances; and USFKR 690-1, Civilian Personnel Regulations and Procedures-
Korean Nationals. It provides guidance to commanders, managers and resource managers about
the role of the Civilian Resource Management Board (CRMB), and how the CRMB considers
issues concerning overtime management of civilian employees, the performance award process,
the summer hire program, and the overhire approval process. It applies to all Korean national
(KN) appropriated and non-appropriated fund employees, and United States (US) General
Schedule (GS) and Federal Wage System (FWS) appropriated fund employees. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims
 2                                                                  51FWI36-501 26 APRIL 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Revised to
reflect merger of 51 SVS and 51 MSS into 51 FSS and Compressed Work Schedule (CWS) for
KN employees that was newly established in USFKR 690-1. Deleted requirement for Civilian
Personnel Office (CPO) to certify requests for overtime pay, holiday premium pay, and
compensatory time.
1. Terms and Definitions. The following terms and definitions are used in this instruction:
     1.1. Administrative Workweek. The administrative workweek begins at 0001 Sunday and
     ends at 2400 on the following Saturday. The calendar day on which a shift begins is
     considered the day of duty for that day even though the day of duty extends into the next
     calendar day or into the following administrative workweek.
     1.2. Overtime Work. Work in excess of 8 hours in a day or in excess of 40 hours (US) or 44
     hours (KN) in an administrative workweek. For KN, payment in the amount of 150 percent
     of the scheduled hourly base pay rate and hourly Consolidated Allowances Payment (CAP) is
     authorized for all time actually worked as overtime. For US employees, overtime pay is one
     and one-half times an employee’s basic rate of pay or no more than the basic overtime rate of
     pay for GS-10 Step 1.
     1.3. Call Back Overtime Work. Irregular or occasional overtime work performed by an
     employee on a day when work was not scheduled, or for which the employee is required to
     return to his place of employment, is deemed at least 2 hours in duration for the purpose of
     premium pay, either in money or compensatory time off.
     1.4. Compensatory Time. Time off from an employee’s regularly scheduled work instead of
     overtime pay. Compensatory time off is granted on the basis of one hour off for each hour of
     overtime worked. The use of so-called “unofficial compensatory time,” the procedure of
     allowing employees to work in excess of their 8-hour day with a promise of “comp time” off
     at a later date (and not reflected on official time sheets) is illegal and its use is prohibited.
     1.5. Holiday Premium Pay (US). An employee who performs work on an officially
     designated American holiday is entitled to pay at his/her rate of basic pay plus premium pay
     (for work not in excess of 8 hours) at a rate equal to his or her rate of basic pay for that
     holiday. An employee is entitled to pay for overtime work on a holiday (after the 8th hour of
     holiday work) at the same rate as for overtime work on other days. An employee who is
     assigned to duty on a holiday is entitled to pay for at least 2 hours of holiday work (similar to
     call back overtime rule). For example, a US employee who worked 12 hours on a holiday
     would receive 8 hours of regular pay, 8 hours of holiday premium pay and 4 hours of
     overtime pay.
     1.6. Holiday Premium Pay (KN). An employee who performs work on an officially
     designated Korean holiday (USFKR 690-1, Chapter 6) is entitled to holiday premium pay.
     The payment of holiday premium is 100 percent of base pay, CAP, and supervisory
     differential. Work in excess of 8 hours per day or 44 hours per week that occurs on a holiday
     will entitle an employee to both the holiday premium pay and overtime pay. For example, a
     KN employee who worked 12 hours on a holiday would receive 8 hours of regular pay (base
51FWI36-501 26 APRIL 2011                                                                      3


   pay, CAP, and other applicable allowances); 12 hours of holiday premium pay (100 percent
   of base pay and CAP); and 4 hours of overtime pay (150 percent of base pay and CAP).
   1.7. Performance Award. A cash payment to US and KN employees based on performance
   reflected in the annual rating of record. A performance award does not increase base pay.
   1.8. Quality Step Increase. An additional within-grade increase granted to a US GS
   employee under Title 5 U.S.C. 5336 to recognize sustained high quality performance beyond
   normal expectations.
   1.9. Special Tours of Duty for KN Employees. Special tours may be established for fire
   fighter personnel and other personnel where a substantial standby period of time is required.
   The tour of duty for these employees (for example, fire fighter personnel and air traffic
   controllers) is 24 hours on duty and 24 hours off duty. Sixteen hours of each 24 hours will be
   considered pay time, and eight hours will be considered as standby (non-pay) time for
   sleeping and eating. Overtime will be paid for the 16 hours of the second shift when the
   employee is required to work two consecutive 24-hour shifts.
   1.10. Compressed Work Schedule (CWS) for KN Employees. At the discretion of
   Commanders, a CWS may be established upon agreement between management and Union.
   There are two conditions under the CWS: (1) the average work hours per week in each two
   week work period must not exceed 40 hours, and (2) working hours in any work week must
   not exceed 48 hours. Overtime rates will not be paid for those CWS daily scheduled hours
   even though the employee actually worked more than 8 hours a day on those CWS workdays.
   The hours in excess of 8 hours a day will be accounted for as CWS time earned, and the
   CWS time earned (or to be earned) during the given week will be paid off/offset by charging
   to CWS time used during the week. All hours actually worked in excess of the CWS daily
   scheduled hours on the CWS workdays will be paid at overtime rates.
   1.11. Overhire. A civilian position for which there is no funded Unit Manpower Document
   (UMD) authorization.
2. Civilian Resource Management Board (CRMB)
   2.1. The CRMB is a corporate board established to consider civilian resource issues such as
   the civilian employment plan, civilian pay use, performance awards, civilian training,
   overtime pay, and use of overhires.
   2.2. The CRMB is chaired by the 51 FW/CV, and group commanders or their designees
   serve as members. Representatives from Manpower, Budget, and Civilian Personnel serve as
   advisors. The Board considers requests relating to the use of civilian resources, and makes
   recommendations to the 51 FW/CC on these issues. Organizations will not commit civilian
   pay resources, e.g., overhires (except where unavoidable), without approval of the CRMB.
   Meetings are held quarterly, or on an as-needed basis.
3. Overhire Approval Process
   3.1. The civilian pay budget is based solely on the number of funded US and KN civilian
   authorizations on the UMD for each organization. PACAF units at Osan AB may employ
   overhire employees that can be supported from within each respective group’s funds without
   CRMB approval. Overhire funding options by individual groups include: using supply,
   equipment, operations, or other funds to pay for overhire employees’ pay and benefits. Even
 4                                                                 51FWI36-501 26 APRIL 2011


     though unit funds are used to pay for an overhire, the request must be coordinated with both
     the Budget Office and the Manpower and Organization Office prior to arrival at 51
     FSS/FSMCXC for processing.
     3.2. Employment of overhires using 51 FW civilian pay funds must be approved by the
     CRMB. Use AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet, for overhire requests (initial or
     extensions). The AF Form 1768 should explain: amount and source of funds used to support
     the request; a short description of overhire duties; why the overhire is needed; and beginning
     and ending dates. Requests must be processed through the appropriate chain-of-command up
     through the group commander or equivalent. If the position being filled is vice or in-lieu-of a
     military authorization, the request must also be processed through 51 FSS/FSMM for
     coordination. Upon obtaining all coordination (which must include coordination with both
     the Budget Office and Manpower and Organization Office), attach the AF Form 1768 to a
     Request for Personnel Action (RPA), and forward to 51 FSS/FSMCXC for processing.
     Once the necessary review is completed and approval of an overhire position is
     accomplished, it is forwarded to 51 FSS/FSMCX for appropriate action.
     3.3. Technical questions concerning the overhire process should be referred to the
     Affirmative Employment and Classification Section (51 FSS/FSMCX).
4. Overtime Policy and Procedures
     4.1. Overtime work that is to be paid must be officially ordered by the appropriate supervisor
     and approved in writing by a group commander or equivalent, or his/her designee not below
     squadron commander level. The second level supervisor may approve overtime work when
     that work will result in compensatory time only and not in a payment of overtime. When
     using this option, the supervisor must assure that the compensatory time off will be allowed
     within the time period explained in paragraph 4.5.1 and 4.5.2 of this instruction. 51 FW/CC
     has designated the following Commanders and Deputy Commanders as having approval
     authority for overtime and holiday work requests: 51 FW/CV, 51 MSG/CC, 51 MSG/CD, 51
     MXG/CC, 51 MXG/CD, 51 MDG/CC, 51 MDG/CD, 51 OG/CC, 51 OG/CD.
     4.2. Supervisors must use AF Form 428, Request for Overtime, Holiday Premium Pay, and
     Compensatory Time, to request and document advance approval for overtime, including
     compensatory time. All requests for overtime and holiday premium pay will be routed
     through 51 CPTS/FMA for funds availability. The only exception to this rule is in
     emergency situations when approval of the AF Form 428 may be done no later than the
     following workday. Supervisors will ensure their timekeepers maintain the AF Form 428 for
     six years.
     4.3. Employees are entitled to a minimum of two hours each time they are called back to
     duty. Since overtime is usually involved, the use of AF Form 428 is required.
     4.4. Compensatory time off is time off with pay in lieu of overtime pay for any overtime
     work for US employees. A supervisor may require that an employee receive compensatory
     time off in lieu of overtime pay for any overtime work. Korean employees, regardless of
     grade level, may request compensatory time in lieu of overtime payment or must be paid for
     overtime for work over eight hours per day or 44 non-overtime hours in any workweek,
     except for employees working a special tour of duty or compressed work schedule. One hour
     of compensatory time off is granted for each hour of overtime worked.
51FWI36-501 26 APRIL 2011                                                                    5


   4.5. Compensatory Time Usage Rules
      4.5.1. When US employees are given time off in lieu of overtime pay, the compensatory
      time off earned must be used by the end of the 26th pay period after that in which it was
      earned. Compensatory time off not used within 26 pay periods shall be paid at the
      overtime rate at which it was earned. When a DoD employee separates or transfers to
      another DoD Component or other Federal agency (e.g., from Air Force to Army, from
      Navy to Air Force, or from Air Force to Department of State), any unused compensatory
      time off balance shall be paid at the overtime rate at which it was earned. Compensatory
      time off cannot be granted for work performed on a holiday (except for holiday work
      performed in excess of eight hours in a day). To avoid the unnecessary expense of
      paying overtime for unused compensatory time, supervisors must ensure time is made
      available for its use. Furthermore, supervisors should require employees to use any
      accumulated compensatory time before approving annual or sick leave.
      4.5.2. When KN employees are given time off in lieu of overtime pay, it cannot be
      changed back to overtime payment. Compensatory time will normally be taken in the
      same pay period accrued. However, the time period for use may be extended up to six
      additional pay periods. Compensatory time is forfeited if not used within these six pay
      periods or if the employee transfers or is reassigned to another organization.
      Compensatory time taken will be accounted for on a first-in, first-out basis. As with US
      workers, supervisors should require KN employees to use any accumulated compensatory
      time before approving annual or sick leave.
   4.6. Overtime expenses are a part of the average annual salary used in determining the total
   civilian pay budget. The previous fiscal year’s overtime amount is factored into the current
   civilian pay budget. Careful consideration should be given before approving overtime
   requests. The CRMB and the Budget Office closely monitor overtime expenses to ensure
   they remain at manageable levels.
   4.7. Technical questions concerning the rules for granting overtime or compensatory time,
   holiday premium pay, and holiday observances should be referred to the Labor and
   Employee Management Relations Section (51 FSS/FSMCE).
5. Performance Awards (Cash Bonus) Procedures
   5.1. Each year, prior to the close of the performance rating cycle for US and KN employees,
   the CPO will obtain a decision from the CRMB the civilian awards policy. Following
   approval, the CPO will publish a letter conveying that policy to squadron commanders.
   Generally, the policy will include procedures, approval levels for awards, and the amount of
   each organization’s awards budget.
   5.2. The civilian performance awards approval process will be a decentralized one in which
   prorated, centrally funded budgets will be determined and conveyed to organizations. The
   budget for each organization is based on the number of employees assigned to the
   organization, average grade, and average annual salary. Commanders are tasked with
   ensuring their awards budget is distributed fairly among their top performers. Commanders
   must assure all awards approved are appropriate, supported by proper documentation, and
   meet the intent of the performance awards program.
 6                                                               51FWI36-501 26 APRIL 2011


     5.3. US employees rated “Acceptable” may by nominated for up to five percent of their base
     salary. If an employee received a promotion during the past year, the award will be limited
     to no more than one percent. Only exceptional performers should be nominated for Quality
     Step Increases (QSI), which, for budget purposes, are equivalent to a three percent cash
     bonus. KN employees with outstanding ratings may be given an award of up to 160 hours at
     the scheduled hourly basic rate.
     5.4. Each organizational commander with five or more civilian employees is responsible for
     managing performance awards within the prorated share of each year’s centrally funded
     awards budget or may reallocate funds from another area within that unit’s overall
     organizational budget to accommodate an increased amount, in coordination with the Chief,
     Financial Analysis (51 CPTS/FMA). Organizations with less than five civilian employees
     will be consolidated into a “shared” budget.
     5.5. Technical questions concerning the prorated share of each year’s awards budget and
     information for completion of performance appraisals should be referred to the Labor and
     Employee Management Relations Section (51 FSS/FSMCE).
6. Summer Hire Employment Process. This program is predicated on the availability of
funding each year.
     6.1. The purpose of the program is to provide meaningful employment experience for
     military and DoD civilian dependents. Summer hires are employed as “General Aides”.
     They perform miscellaneous, helper-type duties. The program typically runs from June to
     August of each year.
     6.2. If a summer-hire employee can be effectively used, organizations will submit an RPA to
     51 FSS/FSMCXUS by the suspense date established each year by the CPO. Each request
     must include a brief description of duties to be performed, including any special skills
     needed, such as typing, computers, light lifting, etc. The work schedule of the position must
     be identified.
     6.3. Organizations may request an employee by name if the employee has previously worked
     in that organization. All other applicants will be ranked in priority order of dependency
     status, years of education, and date of application. Summer-hire employees will not be
     assigned to the same organization as the military or civilian sponsor. Where there are not
     enough applicants available, the CPO will endeavor to distribute the supply of applicants to
     all requesting organizations in an equitable manner.
     6.4. Program Restrictions. Applicants must be at least age 14 (by program start date) but no
     older than 22 to be appointed, and they must be US citizens. They must be a dependent of an
     active duty military member or a US Federal civilian employee. College students must be
     taking at least 12 semester hours of study or eight hours in a trimester. Applicants must
     provide as proof of student enrollment a copy of their registration receipt showing
     matriculation and number of enrolled credit hours.
     6.5. Application Requirements:
        6.5.1. An application form (OF 612, Optional Application for Federal Employment,
        resume, or Family Member Youth Application).
51FWI36-501 26 APRIL 2011                                                                      7


       6.5.2. All applicants must have individual social security numbers as verified by a social
       security card. In lieu of a valid social security card, copy of sponsor’s income tax
       statement, bank statement, or other official document showing a social security number
       may be accepted subject to approval by the CPO.
       6.5.3. Family Member Statement (available in CPO).
       6.5.4. Parental consent letter for all applicants under age 16.
       6.5.5. Statement of Selective Service registration status (only required for male
       applicants ages 18-22).
       6.5.6. Local Applicant questionnaire.
       6.5.7. SF 181, Ethnicity and Race Identification.
       6.5.8. SF 256, Self-Identification of Handica .
       6.5.9. SF 1199A, Direct Deposit Sign-Up Form.
       6.5.10. Copy of sponsor’s orders or Letter of Employment.
   6.6. Technical questions concerning the summer-hire process should be referred to the
   Affirmative Employment and Classification Section (51 FSS/FSMCX).
7. Prescribed and Adopted Forms
   7.1. Prescribed Forms:
No forms prescribed.
   7.2. Adopted Forms:
       AF Form 428, Request for Overtime, Holiday Premium Pay, and Compensatory Time,
       AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
       AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet
       OF 612, Optional Application for Federal Employment
       SF 181, Ethnicity and Race Identification.
       SF 256, Self-Identification of Handicap.
       SF 1199A, Direct Deposit Sign-Up Form




                                             PATRICK C. MALACKOWSKI, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
 8                                                          51FWI36-501 26 APRIL 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-5, Civilian Personnel Resource Management, 30 November 1993
AFPD 36-8, Employee Benefits and Entitlements and Work/Life Programs, 10 February 2009
AFI 36-502, Managing Civilian Personnel Resources, 30 March 1994
AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observances, 21 June 1999
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DoD 1400.25-M, Subchapter 1930, Compensation Architecture Pay Policy, 1 December 2008
DoD 1400.25-M, Subchapter 1940, National Security Personnel System (NSPS) - Performance
Management, 1 December 2008
DoD 1400.25-M, Subchapter 1950, National Security Personnel System (NSPS) - Staffing and
Employment, 28 April 2006
USFKR 690-1, Civilian Personnel Regulations and Procedures-Korean Nationals, 10 February
2011

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
CAP—Consolidated Allowances Payment
CPO—Civilian Personnel Office
CRMB—Civilian Resource Management Board
CWS—Compressed Work Schedule
FWS—Federal Wage System
GS—General Schedule
KN—Korean National
NSPS—National Security Personnel System
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
QSI—Quality Step Increases
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RPA—Request for Personnel Action
UMD—Unit Manpower Document
US—United States
