BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      51ST FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION 10-205
51ST FIGHTER WING
                                                                              31 AUGUST 2011
                                                                  Certified Current 8 April 2014
                                                                                     Operations

                                                                  AIRCRAFT OPERATIONAL
                                                                      DECONTAMINATION

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications is available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 51 MOS/MXOO                                                       Certified by: 51 MXG/CC
                                                                      (Col Deborah A. Meserve)
Supersedes:   51FWI 10-205,                                                              Pages: 5
              12 February 2004


This instruction implements AFPD 10-2, Readiness, and establishes responsibilities, precautions
and procedures for conducting sustained combat operations with aircraft in a chemically or
biologically contaminated environment. This instruction applies to all subordinate, deployed,
and associate units of the 51st Fighter Wing (51 FW). Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This change reassigns
the OPR and certifier to reflect personnel changes, and it updates the references (paragraphs 1
and 5.3.). All paragraphs have been rearranged. Attachment 1, Glossary of References and
Supporting Information has been added.
1. General. AFPAM 10-100, Airman’s Manual, defines operational decontamination as actions
to reduce or minimize the contact hazard associated with contamination located on mission
essential equipment. Operational decontamination, along with immediate decontamination of
personnel is two levels of decontamination performed at the unit level. Complete or further
decontamination procedures will occur in a post-contingency environment. Time spent
 2                                                             51FWI10-205 31 AUGUST 2011


performing local decontamination will be dictated by local mission requirements. Additional
information and procedures can be found in AFMAN 10-2602, Nuclear, Biological, Chemical,
and Conventional (NBCC) Defense Operations and Standards.
2. Protective Measures. The Mission Director will task 51 FW units via Crisis Action Team-
Directive (CAT-D), to implement the following measures when the threat of Chemical or
Biological (CB) attack exists. Units will be prepared to implement these measures on order at
the start of hostilities.
     2.1. Aircraft not preparing for immediate launch will be sheltered. Aircraft canopies and
     shelter doors will remain closed when not in use.
     2.2. During ground operations, pilots must be prepared to launch for survival or shelter
     aircraft during an attack.
     2.3. 51 MXG will:
        2.3.1. Pre-position M291, M295 kits or household bleach and decontamination
        associated supplies in assigned aircraft shelters, revetments, flow throughs, transient
        parking, and end of runway (EOR) check areas. Procurement of required supplies and
        materials is the responsibility of each organization.
        2.3.2. Develop procedures to train personnel on performing operational decontamination
        of assigned aircraft.
        2.3.3. Consider implementing selective work-rest cycles IAW AFMAN 10-2602,
        paragraph 5.6. when supporting operations in a CB environment.
3. Avoidance. Following a confirmed CB attack, the Mission Director will:
     3.1. Identify alternate aircraft taxi routes to avoid contamination (if confirmed) or minimize
     exposure to contamination. Mission requirements may require the taxi and continued
     operations through contaminated areas.
     3.2. Consult with the Maintenance Director to discuss moving operations to uncontaminated
     or less contaminated areas when contamination is persistent. Mission and Maintenance
     Directors will consult with Wing Plans and Programs (XP) to identify possible locations for
     alternate operations. Locations for consideration include: Flow throughs, Bravo Diamond
     Shelters, and Charlie Diamond Shelters if not required for Time-Phased Force Deployment
     Data (TPFDD) forces.
4. Operational Decontamination Procedures. Contamination can migrate into any crevice
and joint on aircraft making complete decontamination impossible. Personnel will use available
materials and supplies to decontaminate aircraft that test positive. Guidance for decontamination
procedures (e.g. materials required, areas to decontaminate for immediate decontamination) is
provided IAW AFMAN 10-2602, attachment 4.
     4.1. IAW AFMAN 10-2602, attachment 4.5.6.8, the most efficient way to decontaminate an
     aircraft is to fly the aircraft. 51 FSS/CC or delegated leadership will determine if the
     operational risk of flying the aircraft in a decontamination profile as described in 4.1.1. is
     acceptable after consulting with 51 AMXS leadership.
        4.1.1. Flying provides the most effective method of decontaminating the exterior
        surfaces of aircraft. The aircraft should be airborne for 60 minutes or more and flights at
51FWI10-205 31 AUGUST 2011                                                                         3


      lower altitudes are more effective than higher altitudes. All sub-sonic speeds have
      approximately the same effectiveness. Test results indicate these flight operations will
      reduce contamination levels on the smooth portions of the aircraft exterior. However,
      small pockets of higher levels of contamination may exist in cracks or around rivets or
      screws. Weathering alone can significantly reduce the residual CB hazard. Cold weather
      and the presence of V-series nerve or blister agents make this method less effective.
5. Precautions with Contaminated or Suspected Contaminated Aircraft. Treat all exposed
aircraft during an airfield CB attack as suspect for contamination. Squadron post-attack
reconnaissance (PAR) teams will conduct post-attack damage assessments and will notify unit
control centers (UCCs) of contaminated areas as soon as possible.
   5.1. Personnel will approach suspected contaminated aircraft wearing MOPP Level 4
   protective gear. Ground handling during recovery should continue until the aircraft is
   “safed” and parked. Prior to ingress/egress, pilots and ground crew will ensure the aircraft or
   equipment is checked for contamination with M8 paper or M9 tape. Personnel working on
   aircraft when contamination is suspected will ensure it is checked with M8 paper prior to
   approaching the aircraft without personal protective gear.
   5.2. Personnel will request a chemical reconnaissance team conduct a Joint Chemical Agent
   Detector check for positive M8/M9 indications to verify agent presence if time permits.
   Some petroleum products may cause a false positive M8/M9 indication.
   5.3. Aircraft suspected of or confirmed contaminated will be annotated as such in the aircraft
   forms (AFTO 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document). Specific guidance for
   annotation provided IAW TO 00-20-1, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Inspection,
   Documentation, Policies, and Procedures, paragraph 4.4.
   5.4. Contaminated aircraft will be quarantined after operational decontamination. The 51
   MXG will identify separate quarantined areas for parking or combat-turning aircraft. The
   quarantined areas will be clearly marked to alert other personnel and prevent inadvertent
   exposure by using ropes, cones, or signs IAW AFMAN 10-2602, paragraph A6.6.2.
   5.5. Personnel must don MOPP Level 4 protective gear prior to any follow-on maintenance
   or de-paneling during Phase 1 of the 10 ft rule (protecting from vapor hazard) regardless of
   MOPP level. Individuals handling contaminated aircraft during Phase 2 of the 10 ft rule
   (protecting from contact hazard) are only required to wear protective gloves.
   5.6. Unit commanders and 51 CE Readiness experts will provide recommendations to the 51
   FW/CC to tailor the MOPP in quarantined areas.
   5.7. Pilots will avoid touching contaminated aircraft during preflight and postflight checks.
   If pilots are required to touch the aircraft during the preflight and postflight checks, the pilot
   must follow the same direction in 5.5.
   5.8. Ground crew will decontaminate gloves, tools and equipment after servicing a
   contaminated aircraft. Mark and quarantine all contaminated aircraft parts or unexpended
   ordnance after removal.
   5.9. The 51 MXG will ensure the Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) tracks all
   contaminated aircraft with the date of contamination and current 10-foot phase information
   on applicable aircraft status boards. The 51 OG will ensure contaminated aircraft are tracked
 4                                                        51FWI10-205 31 AUGUST 2011


     in Theater Battle Management Core System-Unit Level (TBMCS-UL) and Tactical Aircrew
     Scheduling and Airspace Management System (TASAMS).
6. Long Term Considerations. Post-contingency, continue to quarantine contaminated aircraft
and parts until an effective process is developed to render them toxic-free.




                                          PATRICK T. McKENZIE, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
51FWI10-205 31 AUGUST 2011                                                             5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-2, Readiness, 30 October 2006
AFMAN 10-2602, Nuclear, Biological, Chemical, and Conventional (NBCC) Defense
Operations and Standards, 29 May 2003
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPAM 10-100, Airman’s Manual, 1 March 2009
TO 00-20-1, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Inspection, Documentation, Policies, and
Procedures, 1 September 2006
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AFTO Form 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document, 8 January 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
51 FW—51st Fighter Wing
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFTO—Air Force Technical Order
CAT—D —Crisis Action Team-Directive
CB—Chemical or Biological
EOR—End of Runway
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
MOPP—Mission-Oriented Protective Posture
NBCC—Nuclear, Biological, Chemical, and Conventional
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PAR—Post-Attack Reconnaissance
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TASAMS—Tactical Aircrew Scheduling and Airspace Management System
TBMCS—UL —Theater Battle Management Core System-Unit Level
TO—Technical Order
TPFDD—Time-Phased Force Deployment Data
UCC—Unit Control Center
