BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              51ST FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION
OF THE 51ST FIGHTER WING                                                       21-107

                                                                                 19 APRIL 2012

                                                                                    Maintenance

                                                 HUSH HOUSE OPERATING PROCEDURES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications is available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 51 MXS/MXMP                                                        Certified by: 51 MXG/CC
                                                                       (Col Deborah A. Meserve)
Supersedes:    51 FWI 21-107,                                                             Pages: 4
               21 November 1996


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space
Maintenance. It establishes procedures and responsibilities to be followed whenever the Hush
House (HH) noise sound suppresser is used for installed engine runs and applies to all personnel
assigned or attached to the 51st Fighter Wing (51 FW). Additional guidance for HH operating
procedures are found in Technical Order (T.O.) 33D4-6-645-1, Operation and Maintenance
Instructions Enclosed Noise Suppressor System Aircraft Engine (Hush House). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms
managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System      (AFRIMS)        Records      Disposition     Schedule      (RDS)       located      at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Updates paragraph 1
and paragraph 2; adds paragraph 3 and Attachment 1; revises office symbols (throughout) and
updates reference.
 2                                                                 51FWI21-107 19 APRIL 2012



1. Responsibility.
     1.1. 51 MXS will manage the HH and will be responsible for the upkeep and repairs. Using
     units will be responsible for maintaining Hush House Operator (HHO) qualifications and
     supplying the HHO for installed engine runs. 51 MXS will also maintain qualifications for
     trainer/certifier purposes. Per Air Force Instruction (AFI) 32-9005, Real Property
     Accountability and Reporting, Table A2.2, Hush-houses are classified as Real Property
     Similar Equipment (RPSE). RPSE is not considered real property because accountability is
     strictly in the control of the user. The user must ensure maintenance is performed according
     to applicable technical orders or directives assuring system reliability, safety, configuration
     control, and continued spare parts logistical support. Primary maintenance of these systems
     is assigned to the designated user, with limited support from the Civil Engineer Squadron.
     Civil Engineer support should be provided according to a memorandum of understanding,
     reimbursable, and subject to man-hour availability. Recurring requirements should be
     addressed and negotiated for contractual support.
     1.2. The Hush House Operator will give a mandatory briefing on emergency evacuation
     procedures, and on the fire suppression system before aircraft operation. It is the
     responsibility of the supervisor and each team member to ensure these procedures are
     followed. Individuals will enter their man numbers and date of the briefing. The HHO will
     ensure all information is accurate and complete prior to signing the form. The form will be
     kept in the control room during run procedures.
2. Procedures:
     2.1. Personnel requesting use of the HH will review the aircraft forms prior to aircraft
     delivery to ensure that an unsafe condition does not exist and will ensure the aircraft is
     configured as follows: proper fuselage fuel load to complete required maintenance, all
     munitions/explosives removed (except for target practice ammunition, providing the gun is
     safed), and practice AIM-9 missiles will have umbilical cables disconnected. Additionally,
     the hangar entry checklist will be completed with the exception of egress components
     2.2. Personnel requesting use of the HH will notify 51 MXS/Production Superintendent
     (MXM). 51 MXS/ MXM will notify 51 MXS HH manager and verify HH status. 51
     MXS/MXM will notify requester and provide HH status. Requester will then coordinate
     with Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) for aircraft run approval.
     2.3. Prior to the delivery of an aircraft to the HH, the HHO will set up the HH, IAW T.O.
     33D4-6-645-1. Then the tow crew will position the tires on the appropriate guidelines or as
     directed by the HHO and run supervisor.
     2.4. A minimum of four people will be required on all installed engine operations. Installed
     engine runs will be accomplished by user and they will furnish ground restraint, an engine
     operator, a ground supervisor, and a fireguard.
     2.5. It is the ground supervisor, HHO and run supervisor responsibility to ensure all required
     aircraft run checklists, T.O.’s and local directives are complied with. For F-16 aircraft safety
     provisions for Hydrazine leaks follow T.O. 1F-16CG-2-70JG-00-11, Engine Operation
     paragraph 1.13.
51FWI21-107 19 APRIL 2012                                                                  3


  2.6. Repair of engine-related discrepancies discovered during HH operation is permissible.
  Jacking and other extensive maintenance will not be performed on aircraft inside the HH
  unless approved by 51 MXS/CC. Open fuel cell maintenance is not permitted inside the HH.
  2.7. If aircraft requires additional refueling prior to completion of required maintenance
  runs, a qualified personnel will refuel the aircraft. The HHO will prepare the HH IAW T.O.
  33D4-6-645-1, paragraph 4-73 prior to refueling.
  2.8. Vehicles and equipment will not be parked in front of the HH main doors. This will
  expedite aircraft removal from the HH in case of an emergency. The ground supervisor will
  ensure applicable tug and tow bar are available during HH operations. In case of an
  emergency, the ground supervisor will supervise removal of the aircraft from the HH.
  2.9. In the case of a non-operational fire suppression system, the fire department must be
  present during all engine run operations. 51 MXS will request an operational waiver from
  WR-ALC to continue operation for a specified and temporary time period. If WR-ALC
  issues waiver, the fire department will be called to provide standby support just prior to
  engine start. In the event of an emergency, HHO will open main doors to allow fire
  department access as required.
  2.10. In case of a fire, the HHO will initiate the Fire Control System, notify MOC and the
  fire department, and implement emergency evacuation of personnel and equipment
  2.11. Upon completion of aircraft functional checks, the user will remove the aircraft from
  the HH as soon as possible and perform a FOD inspection. This will allow 51 MXS
  personnel the ability to perform a post-run inspection of the HH in a timely manner.
  2.12. The user will ensure minor oil and fuel leakage, from HH operations, is cleaned up
  prior to leaving the facility.




                                          PATRICK T. McKENZIE, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
 4                                                           51FWI21-107 19 APRIL 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 February 2003
AFI 32-9005, Real Property Accountability and Reporting, 14 August 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
T.O. 33D4-6-645-1, Operation and Maintenance Instructions Enclosed Noise Suppressor System
Aircraft Engine (Hush House), 12 June 2007
T.O. 1F-16CG-2-70JG-00-11, Engine Operation, 1 November 2011
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
51 FW—51st Fighter Wing
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
HH—Hush House
HHO—Hush House Operator
MAJCOM—Major Command
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RPSE—Real Property Similar Equipment
TO—Technical Order
