BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                     51ST FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION 44-103
OF THE 51ST FIGHTER WING
                                                                             29 MARCH 2010
                                                              Certified Current 29 March 2012
                                                                                     Medical

                                                PUBLIC ACCESS DEFIBRILLATION (PAD)
                                                                     PROGRAM (PA)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications is available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 51 MDG/SGH                                                       Certified by: 51 MDG/CC
                                                                       (Col, David M. O’Brien)
                                                                                       Pages: 15


This instruction implements AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations. It established Osan Air Base’s
(AB) PAD program, and Public Law 106-129, 66 Federal Register 28495-28511 “Guidelines for
Public Access Defibrillation Program in Federal Facilities”. This instruction applies to all
personnel assigned, attached, or associated with the 51st Fighter Wing (51 FW), Osan AB,
Republic of Korea. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM)
publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. The use of the name or mark of any specific
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force.

This instruction requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy
Act of 1974. The authorities to collect and maintain the records prescribed are Title 10 USC
8013 and USC 3101. Privacy Act Statements are required by AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program.
“Air Force Privacy Act” Program will be incorporated in the body of the document or in a
separate statement accompanying each document.
2                                                               51FWI44-103 29 MARCH 2010


1. Purpose: This instruction provides guidance of the deployment of Automated External
Defibrillators (AEDs) within facilities at Osan AB. The AED will be used during an emergency
response to sudden cardiac arrest as a means to prevent premature mortality. This instruction
will further identify and delineate lines of responsibility and provide general guidelines to ensure
an appropriate response to initiate this program.
2. Scope: This document describes the roles and responsibilities deemed necessary to ensure
the broadest training and application of the AED. The scope of training and use is applicable to
all federal employees, volunteers, and active duty personnel at Osan AB.
3. Roles and Responsibilities:
    3.1. 51st Fighter Wing Commander (51 FW/CC).
       3.1.1. Has overall responsibility for the PAD program. Appoints an installation PAD
       Program Manager.
       3.1.2. Appoints a Director of Base Medical Services/Medical Group Commander who
       follows and ensures current medical guidelines are maintained.
       3.1.3. Ensures each organization with an AED appoints a unit individual as the AED
       point of contact (POC) to meet guidelines set forth in this document.
       3.1.4. Facilitates notification of Traumatic Stress Response Team upon unit Commander
       request.
    3.2. Installation PAD Program Manager.
       3.2.1. Will maintain a log of all installation AEDs and their specific location.
       3.2.2. Coordinates with the PAD medical director and medical logistics and maintenance
       on all installation AED purchases.
       3.2.3. Conducts annual inspection of unit AED operational and exercise logs to insure
       compliance to this instruction.
    3.3. 51st Medical Group Commander (51 MDG/CC).
       3.3.1. Is responsible to the installation commander to ensure all AED medical objectives
       are maintained and provide professional guidance on PAD program administration.
       3.3.2. Appoints, in writing, a physician medical director, who will be proficient in
       emergency medical protocols, cardio-pulmonary resuscitation, and the use of AEDs IAW
       local state laws.
    3.4. PAD Medical Director.
       3.4.1. Has direct medical oversight over the PAD program and its participants.
       3.4.2. Has general responsibilities that include the review of the "AED-Chain of
       Survival" and "Post-Use Procedure" guidelines included in this document (Attachment 2
       and Attachment 3).
       3.4.3. Will be available to organizations for consultation on unit compliance with this
       guidance. Continuation of Cardio-Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR)/AED training is the
       responsibility of the purchasing organization.
51FWI44-103 29 MARCH 2010                                                                  3


     3.4.4. Critically reviews all recorded data from all AED usage events and provides
     feedback to the impacted organization and unit commander, as needed.
     3.4.5. Retains the authority to direct the standardization of AED equipment throughout
     the wing.
  3.5. Logistics and Maintenance.
     3.5.1. Procurement and receipt of AEDs will be coordinated by the purchasing unit with
     the nearest medical logistics office. Each unit’s AED POC will be responsible for daily
     and weekly operational checks using the respective manufacturer’s AED functional
     operations checklist.
     3.5.2. The nearest medical equipment repair center (MERC) will provide limited
     maintenance such as battery replacement (which must be provided by the owning unit), if
     indicated. Should an AED require further servicing, the unit AED POC will arrange this
     maintenance or service with the manufacturer. Accountability and management of safety
     recalls and health device alert notifications will be accomplished utilizing the Defense
     Medical Logistics Standards Support System (DMLSS). AED units will be placed in this
     system to monitor the locations and points of contact, in the event of any recall or
     notification. The cost of routine and periodic maintenance (and immediate replacement
     of a failed AED) will be funded by the owning unit.
  3.6. Unit Commander:
     3.6.1. The unit commander of the purchasing organization will appoint an AED POC
     who will serve as the primary liaison between the local organization’s AED program, the
     installation PAD Coordinator, Base Medical Director and medical logistics.
     3.6.2. The PAD program is not a “medical” program. It is a “user” program. Therefore,
     each unit commander funds the purchase, reuse supplies, and long-term training for unit
     personnel in the facility where the AED is located.
     3.6.3. Each unit commander has full authority to purchase and implement any number of
     AEDs as they desire in coordination with the installation PAD Program Manager and the
     PAD Medical Director.
     3.6.4. Determine need for Traumatic Stress Response intervention following AED usage.
  3.7. AED POC:
     3.7.1. Is a member of the local organization where the AED is deployed.
     3.7.2. Is responsible for the daily visual unit check IAW manufacturer’s guidance, and
     monthly supplies check of the AED to ensure its readiness for use. Follows
     manufacturer's suggested maintenance protocol for the particular AED model.
     3.7.3. Re-stocks AED supplies after use in an emergency situation (Attachment 5).
     3.7.4. Ensures validation of biannual AHA CPR/AED of core staff members to ensure
     they are properly trained, certified, and/or recertified in CPR and AED procedures. The
     AED POC will collaborate with the 51FW Military Training Network (MTN) Program
     Director or Training Site Coordinator to ensure necessary training is accomplished and
     will maintain a minimum of 25% trained as responders.
4                                                             51FWI44-103 29 MARCH 2010


       3.7.5. Conducts and documents quarterly CPR/AED exercise scenarios to ensure
       certified, trained staff knows AED location, that all equipment is operational, and that
       staff respond appropriately. Evaluation of these quarterly exercises will be documented
       on 51FW Form 12, 51 FW Quarterly Unit and Exercise Evaluation (It is available on the
       e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil) and 51FW Quarterly Unit AED
       Exercise Criteria (Attachment 8). The AED Exercise Criteria and Log forms will be
       kept on file by the unit AED POC for the annual inspection conducted by the installation
       PAD Program Manager. If the AED POC needs additional guidance, contact the
       installation PAD Program Manager or Base Medical Director as the local resource.
       3.7.6. Ensures AEDs and supplies are centrally located to ensure quick, easy access.
       3.7.7. Installs AED location signage at all AED locations and posts information signs,
       along with an AED photo, within the facility to readily identify location of all AEDs
       (Attachment 7).
       3.7.8. Ensures a core group of the organization's members are trained in CPR/AED use
       and can respond to a sudden cardiac arrest event. AHA Basic Life Support (BLS, a.k.a.
       CPR) and/or Heartsaver AED (CPR/AED) training is available through the 51 FW MTN
       Training Site Coordinator.
       3.7.9. After an AED is used in an emergency situation, the AED POC or the responder
       will immediately complete 51FW Form 11, AED Coordination Report for Medical
       Director (It is available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil) and
       forward it to the Medical Director for review. The Medical Director should receive the
       completed report within five duty days of the AED use event.
       3.7.10. Arranges for Critical Incident Stress Management (CISM) debriefing sessions to
       be offered for all individuals involved in providing assistance in an emergency situation
       (Attachment 5) as needed.
       3.7.11. Consults PAD Medical Director and/or Medical Logistics regarding all concerns
       with AED use, training, and new purchases as needed.
    3.8. Responders:
       3.8.1. Are currently certified in CPR/AED use and will respond to an emergency.
       Specific training and certification is available through the American Heart Association.
       3.8.2. Follow the protocol in an emergency situation as depicted in the AED Treatment
       Algorithm (Attachment 4).
4. AED Model Selection: AED model selection will be determined by the purchasing Units
Commander and in collaboration with the Medical Director and Medical Logistics. They will
utilize a list of comparable products. Ideally, a single AED model should be purchased for the
installation. Standardization of AED models will ease responder familiarization, unit
maintenance, and supply logistics. AED models should be considered based on simplicity of
use, durability, battery life, internal memory, warranty, cost, and available training packages,
however; selection of a particular model should not be misconstrued to indicate endorsement by
the American Heart Association.
51FWI44-103 29 MARCH 2010                                                                         5


5. AED Location and Installation:
   5.1. The essential key to surviving a heart attack is early CPR and defibrillation, when
   indicated. Therefore, AEDs should be strategically placed throughout a unit facility to
   reduce time between victim collapse and ability to provide initial shock when indicated to a
   heart attack victim.
      5.1.1. Factors to consider in determining number of AEDs and AED placement include
      the following:
          5.1.1.1. Facility size and or accessibility.
          5.1.1.2. Number of employees in the facility.
          5.1.1.3. Identified high risk environments.
          5.1.1.4. Number of people that may have public access to the facility on a daily basis.
          5.1.1.5. Average age of the facility occupants; older populations are at higher risk.
          5.1.1.6. Security levels that may hinder access to the facility by emergency response
          crews.
          5.1.1.7. Increase risk of incidence of heart disease given the communication
          population as reported by local, state and national health departments.
          5.1.1.8. Use of high voltage electrical equipment.
          5.1.1.9. Emergency response protocol that may already be in place for your facility,
          keeping in mind that early initial shock when indicated increases potential for
          survival.
   5.2. To achieve optimal area coverage within a building, an AED should be positioned no
   more than one minute's travel time (one way) from any given point within the building.
   5.3. Optimal response time from the identification of a person "down" to the arrival of AED
   on-scene is three minutes or less.
   5.4. Optimal response time from the identification of a person down to the delivery of a
   shock (i.e., drop-to-shock) should be less than five minutes.
   5.5. AED accessory kits should be packed with the AED so that the responder will not lose
   time deciding what to take to the emergency. These kits should provide items such as gloves,
   scissors, razor, tape, extra electrodes and a barrier mask (Attachment 6).
   5.6. AEDs should be stored in such a way that an alarm is activated when the unit is
   removed for use. This can be set up as a central alarm, whereby the local EMS is
   automatically notified, or as a local sounding alarm that can draw assistance to the scene.
6. Emergency Response:
   6.1. An event timeline for a responder should ideally be as follows:
      6.1.1. Minute #1.
          6.1.1.1. Discovery of “downed” victim: Initiate Chain of Survival; Activate 9-1-1.
          6.1.1.2. Decision to retrieve AED.
6                                                               51FWI44-103 29 MARCH 2010


           6.1.1.3. Identify closest AED.
       6.1.2. Minute #2-3.
           6.1.2.1. Retrieval of AED (round trip).
       6.1.3. Minute #4.
           6.1.3.1. Re-familiarization with AED instructions.
           6.1.3.2. Preparation of victim and application of chest pads.
           6.1.3.3. Detection of shockable rhythm.
           6.1.3.4. Delivery of shock.
    6.2. AEDs in the following areas will contain both adult and child chest pads: the BX,
    Elementary School, Housing Towers and Base Theater. AEDs with both adult and child leads
    will be clearly marked by a sign stating “This device is equipped with both Adult and Child
    chest pads. Please check to ensure appropriate pads are utilized.” on the outside of the AED
    cabinet. Specialized child chest leads are labeled CHILD on the package to prevent
    accidental misuse. Users should check to ensure they have the correct chest pads prior to
    application.

7. Prescribed and Adopted Forms:

7.1. Prescribed Forms:

51 FW Form 11, AED Coordinated Report for the Medical Director
51 FW Form 12, 51 FW Quarterly Unit and Exercise Evaluation

7.2. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                             PATRICK C. MALAKOWSKI, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
51FWI44-103 29 MARCH 2010                                                                      7


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations, 1 September 1999
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 29 January 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Guidelines for Public Access Defibrillation Programs in Federal Facilities, FR 28495, 23 May
2001.
Public Law 106-505, Public Health Improvement Act of 2000, Title IV, Subtitle A, Cardiac
Arrest Survival Act (CASA); (H.R. 2498).
Public Law 106-129, 42 U.S.C. 241 Note, Healthcare Research and Quality Act of 1999, Section
7
Public Health Service Act, 42 U.S.C., Sections 238, 247-248; Title 2, Part B

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AEDs—Automated External Defibrillators
BLS—Basic Life Support
CISM—Critical Incident Stress Management
CPR—Cardio-Pulmonary Resuscitation
DLMSS—Defense Medical Logistics Standards Support System ()
MAJCOM—Major Command
MERC—Medical Equipment Repair Center
MTN—Military Training Network
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PAD—Public Access Defibrillation
POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule

Terms
Automated External Defibrillator (AED)—A defibrillator device that is:
Commercially distributed in accordance with the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
Capable of recognizing the presence or absence of ventricular fibrillation or ventricular
tachycardia, and is capable of determining, without intervention by the device user, whether
defibrillation should be performed.
Able to deliver an electrical shock to a victim upon determining defibrillation should be
performed.
8                                                           51FWI44-103 29 MARCH 2010


Basic Life Support (BLS)—A training program that teaches basic CPR techniques including
AED use
Cardiac arrest—The abrupt cessation of normal cardiac function
Cardio—Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR)—The act of providing respiratory ventilation and
cardiac (heart) compression by an external source. This is most commonly provided by someone
capable of performing the required mechanical action
Defibrillation—The application of an electric shock, via a defibrillator, directly through a
person's chest
Emergency Medical Services (EMS)—The term used to describe the rapid response team of
medical personnel to provide emergency medical assistance as necessary
Federal building—A building or portion of a building leased or rented by a federal agency,
which includes buildings on military installations of the United States
Harm—For purposes of this document, this term may include physical, non-physical, economic,
and non-economic losses
Perceived Medical Emergency—When circumstances exist whereby the behavior of an
individual leads a reasonable person to believe that the individual is experiencing a life
threatening condition that requires an immediate medical response
Pulseless Ventricular Tachycardia—An abnormal cardiac rhythm that is incompatible with life
if not immediately treated (hereafter referred to as heart attack)
Sudden Cardiac Death (SCD)—The term used to describe an abrupt cessation of normal
cardiac function that typically results from ventricular fibrillation or pulseless ventricular
tachycardia with rapid progression to death if not immediately treated
Ventricular Fibrillation—An abnormal cardiac rhythm that is incompatible with life if not
immediately treated
51FWI44-103 29 MARCH 2010                                                                          9


                                          Attachment 2
                                 AED-CHAIN OF SURVIVAL

A2.1. In Case of Emergency, Initiate Chain of Survival.
     Activate 9-1-1.
     Assess scene safety. Ensure victim is clear of electrical voltage source or water.
     Assess responsiveness. Tap shoulder and shout, "Are you OK?"
     Activate emergency response plan.
     Check Airway, Breathing, and Circulation (ABCs).
     Assess Airway. Perform head tilt, chin lift to open airway.
     Assess Breathing. Look, listen, and feel. If breathing absent, use protective airway mask
     and deliver two rescue breaths.
A2.2. Early CPR (for one rescuer).
     Perform CPR until an AED arrives.
     Compress and release chest 30 times (Rate: 80-100 compressions/minute).
     Ventilate. Give 2 rescue breaths.
     Continue CPR; 30 compressions/2 rescue breaths.
A2.3. Early Defibrillation.
     When AED arrives (and while the first rescuer is continuing CPR):
     Place the AED near the head of the patient on the same side as the rescuer.
     Turn on the AED.
     Prepare the “bare” chest.
     Rapidly open (if necessary, cut or tear away) clothing.
     If chest hair is excessive and electrode pads won’t adhere, shave or strip off with first set of
     defibrillator pads and then apply new/spare set of pads.
     If chest wall is wet, rapidly wipe it before placing electrode pads.
     Follow the AED’s auditory and visual prompts.
     Apply electrodes.
     Stop CPR and allow the AED to analyze heart rhythm.
     If indicated, deliver shock by pressing the illuminated shock button.
     Continue care per the AED prompts.
A2.4. Early Advanced Care Life Support.
     Have a designated person wait for EMS providers at a designated area of the building and
     help guide them to the patient.
     Individuals working on a victim should communicate information to the EMS providers:
     Victim’s name.
     Any known medical problems or allergies.
     Time victim was found.
     Initial and current condition of the victim.
     Information from the AED, such as number of shocks delivered.
     Assist EMS personnel as necessary.
10                                                              51FWI44-103 29 MARCH 2010


                                          Attachment 3
                POST-USE PROCEDURE AND REGULAR MAINTENANCE

A3.1. The AED POC will do the following after any AED use:
     A3.1.1. Complete 51FW Form 11, AED Coordinated Report for Medical Director, and
     forward it to the Medical Director for review. The Medical Director should receive the
     completed report within five duty days of the AED use event.
     A3.1.2. If applicable, remove used PC data card and replace it with a spare PC card. Label
     used PC data card with patient identification information and deliver it to the Medical
     Director with the report listed above.
     A3.1.3. Conduct employee (CISM) debriefing, as deemed necessary.
     A3.1.4. Restock any used electrode pads, batteries, razors or gloves. Inspect unused supplies
     for any damage or expiration dates.
     A3.1.5. Remove and replace battery in the AED and perform a Battery Insertion Test (BIT)
     prior to replacing the AED back into service.
     A3.1.6. Clean the AED. Review specific User’s Guide for list of appropriate cleaning
     agents.
A3.2. Regular Maintenance. See User’s Guide for the complete maintenance schedule.
A3.3. Daily:
     A3.3.1. Check the Status Indicator. Verify the light settings that indicate the unit is ready
     for use and consult the unit’s User’s Guide for the specifics regarding the meaning of your
     lighting configuration.
     A3.3.2. Ensure all supplies, accessories and spare parts are present and are in operating
     condition.
     A3.3.3. Check expiration dates and any obvious signs of damage to the unit.
A3.4. Weekly: Inspect the exterior and pad connectors for signs of damage.
A3.5. After Each Use:
     A3.5.1. Inspect the exterior and pad connectors for dirt or contamination.
     A3.5.2. Check status indicator. Perform a BIT to confirm the power source is ready to be
     put back in service.
     A3.5.3. Ensure all supplies, accessories and spare parts are present and are in operating
     condition.
     A3.5.4. Check expiration dates and any obvious signs of damage to the unit.
51FWI44-103 29 MARCH 2010                                                     11


                                         Attachment 4
                              AED TREATMENT ALGORITHM


  AED Algorithm:                          Unresponsive      Call for HELP!
  *Continue until the victim starts
  to breathe normally
                                          Open airway:
                                          Not breathing
                                            normally
                                                              Send or GO
                                                               for AED,

                                                               Call EMS

                                           CPR 30::2
                                           Until AED is
                                            attached




                    “SHOCK                   AED               “NO SHOCK
                   ADVISED”                assesses             ADVISED”
                                            rhythm




                 Depress
               Shock-button
                 one time


                 Immediately                                    Immediately
                resume CPR                                     resume CPR
                   30:2 for                                       30:2 for
                  2 minutes                       No             2 minutes
                (or 5 cycles)                                 (or 5 cycles)


                                         Responsive?

                                                      Yes

                                      Recovery position
12                                                               51FWI44-103 29 MARCH 2010


                                           Attachment 5
                 TRAUMATIC STRESS RESPONSE (TSR) INFORMATION

A5.1. Traumatic Stress Response [formerly Critical Incident Stress Management (CISM)
Information]
     A5.1.1. What is TSR?
        A5.1.1.1. The primary goal of TSR teams is to foster resiliency in those exposed to
        potentially traumatic stress. This is accomplished through preparatory education for
        those likely to experience potentially traumatic stress, and through education, screening,
        psychological first aid, and referral for those exposed to potentially traumatic stress. TSR
        teams (1) serve as trauma response consultants to unit leaders; (2) prepare personnel
        likely to be exposed to potentially traumatic events; and (3) provide screening, education,
        psychological first aid, and referral for those exposed to potentially traumatic events.
        This document also provides revised training guidance.
A5.2. What events might precipitate a request for TSR services?
     A5.2.1. TSR services may be provided in response to events at the request of the unit
     commander. The services provided will vary depending on the nature of the mishap and the
     needs of the squadrons involved in the mishap. In general, the commander of any unit that
     incurs loss of personnel or significant injury to personnel as a result of a mishap should
     consult with a TSR team leader to determine whether there is a need for TSR support. Then,
     if the commander subsequently requests service, the nature of those services should be
     developed by the commander in collaboration with the TSR team leader.
     A5.2.2. Many types of events have the potential to produce individual and community
     traumatic stress. Events include: large scale disasters (tornadoes, bombings, hurricanes, etc.)
     and small scale disasters (suicide, death or near-death of coworker, workplace violence
     event, etc.). TSR services will be provided after traumatic events to help those who have
     experienced the events. The goal is to assist those affected by traumatic events to cope with
     the normal stress reaction in an effective manner. These actions are intended to minimize the
     impact of exposure to these events and prevent or mitigate permanent disability if possible.
A5.3. What is the procedure for requesting TSR services?
     A5.3.1. The office of record for TSR services is the Mental Health Office. The affected
     wing commander will support or arrange for consultation between the TSR team chief and
     the affected unit commander to determine what level of service, if any, is needed.
51FWI44-103 29 MARCH 2010                                                                        13


                                         Attachment 6
                   AED MANUFACTURER INFORMATION (SAMPLE)

A6.1. Adult (AED) Electrodes

A6.2. Battery/Data Card
    5-year shelf life
    300 shocks

A6.3. Rescue Pack restock kit
    CPR Mask
    Gloves
    Razor
    Scissors
    Biohazard bag
    Alcohol wipes
    Wet pads
    Hand sanitizer
    Dressing

A6.4. Daily/After Each Use
    Check the Status Indicator.
    Verify the settings that indicate the unit is ready to use.
    Consult your user's guide for the specifics regarding the meaning of your status indicator
    configuration.
    Ensure all supplies, accessories and spares components are present and are in operating
    condition.
14                       51FWI44-103 29 MARCH 2010


          Attachment 7
     AED SIGNAGE (SAMPLE)
51FWI44-103 29 MARCH 2010                               15


                            Attachment 8
            51FW QUARTERLY UNIT AED EXERCISE CRITERIA
