BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               51ST FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION
OF THE 51ST FIGHTER WING                                                        36-2901

                                                                                  19 APRIL 2012

                                                                                        Personnel

                                                                   COMMANDER’S POLICIES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications is available on the e-Publishing website at http://www.e-
               Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 51 FW/CCE                                                            Certified by: 51 FW/CV
                                                                           (Col Mark D. Delong)
Supersedes:    51 FWI 36-2901,                                                           Pages: 13
               22 February 2008


This instruction implements AFPD 36-29, Military Standards. It outlines the 51 FW/CC’s
policies essential to good order and discipline. It applies to: (1) all active-duty members of the
U.S. Armed Forces (including active-duty for training) who are assigned to or visiting Osan Air
Base, Republic of Korea (ROK); (2) all individuals subject to U.S. military jurisdiction under
Article 2(a), Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ); (3) all U.S. citizen civilian employees of
the Department of Defense (DOD) and Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities (NAFIs)
supporting United States Forces Korea (USFK) who are assigned to or visiting Osan Air Base,
ROK; (4) all Invited Contractor (IC) employees, as defined in Article XV, subparagraph 1 of the
ROK-US Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA); and all personnel afforded status as Technical
Representatives (TRs) under the ROK-US SOFA; (5) all dependents of the above individuals;
and (6) every other person present on Osan Air Base, unless prohibited by other guidance.
Regarding all personnel listed in (3), (4) and (5) above, provisions and procedures set forth in
USFKR 600-52, Civilian and/or Family Member Misconduct, shall be used in addressing
violations of this instruction. The provisions of USFKR 600-52, para. 7, civilian personnel
regulations and service directives, and contract requirements, are given priority in the event they
conflict with USFKR 600-52 or this instruction. This is a punitive regulation. Military
members who violate the prohibitions and policies contained in paragraphs 2.2.1, 2.2.2.1,
2.2.2.2, 2.5, 2.6, and 3.3 of this instruction can be prosecuted under Article 92, UCMJ, or any
other article of the UCMJ, as appropriate. Violations may result in administrative disciplinary
action without regard to otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for violations of related
laws. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms
 2                                                             51FWI36-2901 19 APRIL 2012


managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial
product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include the incorporation of 51 FW/CC policy letters regarding government vehicle usage; Basic
Allowance for Subsistence and Essential Station Messing Programs; computer abuse; ration
control shelf limits; DoD Priority Placement Program; reappointment of Korean National
employees after age 65; facility use and siting; found property; and environmental policy.
51FWI36-2901 19 APRIL 2012                                                                       3



1. Introduction:
   1.1. Purpose. This document provides guidance on 51st Fighter Wing Command policy.
   This document will be revised as required to ensure continued adherence to specific
   directives and mission requirements. The OPR for this instruction is the 51st Fighter Wing
   Executive Officer. Any conflicts with other directives should be brought to the attention of
   the wing executive officer. Group and squadron commanders and staff agency chiefs will
   ensure maximum distribution to all assigned personnel.
2. Standards:
   2.1. Knowledge of and adherence to standards are the foundation of being an Airman in the
   United States Air Force (USAF). All Airmen are expected to uphold standards and represent
   the 51 FW and the American people with dignity and respect on and off duty.
   2.2. Substance Use and Abuse:
      2.2.1. Drug Abuse. The Air Force “zero tolerance” policy on drug abuse is
      straightforward and to the point. The use of illegal drugs, other illegal substances,
      intoxicating substances other than alcohol or nicotine which are not used pursuant to a
      valid medical prescription, and controlled substance analogues, is not compatible with
      service in the Air Force; abuse will not be tolerated and violators will be prosecuted
      under applicable articles of the UCMJ.
      2.2.2. Alcohol Abuse. The abuse of alcohol is inconsistent with good order and
      discipline. Members who consume alcohol should do so in a responsible manner, which
      is imperative to maintain the highest state of mission readiness. While there are no
      objections to wing members drinking alcohol, irresponsible use or abuse carries
      consequences. Additionally, if any military member witnesses any other military
      member using alcohol in such a manner or to the point as to endanger the health and
      safety of the individual or others, actions must be taken to prevent an incident from
      occurring. This remains at the heart of our Wingman program. Intoxication does not
      excuse misconduct. If misconduct occurs and alcohol is involved, members will be
      referred for assessment/treatment through the Alcohol Drug Abuse Prevention and
      Treatment (ADAPT) program in addition to any action that may be brought under the
      UCMJ. Abuse of alcohol which is the cause of, results in, or is related to other
      misconduct, including but not limited to disturbing the peace, is punishable under the
      UCMJ.
          2.2.2.1. Underage Drinking. Wing members under the age of 21 will not consume
          alcoholic beverages. No one will knowingly serve, provide, or make available
          alcoholic beverages to individuals under the age of 21. In addition, a person’s age
          must be verified prior to serving, providing, or making available to them an alcoholic
          beverage. Violation of this provision by drinking or possessing alcohol under 21 or
          providing alcohol to an individual younger than 21 is a crime under Article 92,
          UCMJ.
          2.2.2.2. Driving/Biking Under the Influence (DUI/BUI).                   Drinking and
          driving/biking is unacceptable. It will be dealt with as a military discipline issue, and
          where appropriate, will be prosecuted under the UCMJ.
4                                                               51FWI36-2901 19 APRIL 2012


    2.3. Equal Opportunity and Treatment. All individuals should be treated equally, with
    dignity and respect. Discriminatory actions weaken our team and reduce the productivity of
    our members. Discrimination based on sex, national origin, race, color, religion, and in the
    case of DoD civilian employees, age, reprisal, disability and genetic information will not be
    tolerated. Personnel must take immediate steps to resolve any suspected instances of
    discrimination. The ridicule, abuse or harassment of anyone based on their protected
    categories or other differences will not be tolerated. Additionally, sexual harassment is
    illegal, immoral, and will not be tolerated. Report all incidents to your supervisor, first
    sergeant, commander, or the Equal Opportunity office. If you have any questions concerning
    the Air Force’s “Zero Tolerance” policy, contact the Equal Opportunity office at 784-4848.
    2.4. Sexual Assault:
       2.4.1. Sexual assault is criminal conduct and violates Air Force Core Values. Sexual
       assault negatively affects the ability of this wing to focus on mission accomplishment,
       destroys unit cohesion, and will not be tolerated. The Air Force defines sexual assault as
       intentional sexual contact, characterized by use of force, threats, intimidation, abuse of
       authority, or when the victim does not or cannot consent. Sexual assault includes rape,
       forcible sodomy (oral or anal sex), and other unwanted sexual contact that is aggravated,
       abusive, or wrongful (to include unwanted and inappropriate sexual contact), or attempts
       to commit these acts. Sexual assault can occur without regard to gender, spousal
       relationship, or age of the victim.
       2.4.2. Commanders at every level will promote a “zero tolerance” policy and will
       heighten personnel awareness, conduct annual sexual assault prevention training, educate
       all personnel on how to contact the Sexual Assault Response Coordinator (SARC), and
       create an environment where victims can report this crime without fear of retribution.
       2.4.3. SARC Contact Protocol.          Personnel who are sexually assaulted should
       immediately contact the SARC 24-Hour Hotline at 784-7272 (off base, dial 031-661-
       7272); SARC cell: 010-8732-2832; or USFK (ROK-wide) Hotline: Dial 158 on base or
       0505-764-7000 from off base. Law enforcement should be contacted at 911 or 784-5515
       (off base, dial 031-661-5515) in situations where personnel are in danger. Commanders
       and First Sergeants are encouraged to contact the SARC office at 784-2832 for questions
       and/or concerns related to sexual assault.
       2.4.4. Risk Reduction. Sexual assault is a crime that is under-reported and is often
       committed by an acquaintance, which makes it more difficult for victims to seek help.
       All personnel are encouraged to make every effort to minimize their risk by using the
       Wingman/buddy concept during social activities, drinking alcohol responsibly, if at all,
       and taking measures to heighten personal security, such as ensuring dormitory rooms are
       locked.
    2.5. Prostitution and Human Trafficking. Engaging in prostitution, pandering, or solicitation
    of a prostitute is punishable under Article 92 of the UCMJ for failing to obey this guidance
    and any other applicable UCMJ articles.
       2.5.1. Trafficking in Persons (TIP) is the second largest criminal activity in the world. It
       is defined as the recruitment, transportation, transfer, harboring, or receipt of persons by
       means of threat, use of force, coercion, abduction, fraud, deception, abuse or exploitation.
51FWI36-2901 19 APRIL 2012                                                                        5


       TIP is a grave violation of human rights and a worldwide criminal threat to security, civil
       rights, and stability as well as a direct threat to our national foreign policy goals. Due to
       the seriousness of the crime, the egregious results in terms of human tragedy, and the
       disabling impact on our military readiness the AF has established a zero tolerance policy.
       2.5.2. In addition to the Air Force’s zero tolerance policy, prostitution and TIP are illegal
       by Korean law. All personnel must respect Korean laws or risk apprehension, trial, and
       confinement by Korean authorities. All personnel should recognize the indicator signs
       for prostitution and TIP such as rooms for employees and patrons, money being
       exchanged for unknown reasons, and the appearance of someone’s freedom being
       restricted. If you see these signs, report them immediately to the Security Forces
       Squadron at 784-5515. You may also contact the USFK prostitution and TIP hotline at
       DSN 736-9333 or from off-installation at 0505-736-9333.
   2.6. Off-Limits Areas. 51 FW/CC is designated the Area V Commander per USFK
   regulations 10-2 and 190-50. Area V consists of Osan AB, plus the Collocated Operating
   Bases (COB), specifically Suwon AB, Cheong Ju AB, Gwang Ju AB, Daegu AB and Gimhae
   AB. This includes a three kilometer radius around each base. 51 FW/CC has been delegated
   authority over all military personnel and property to include law enforcement responsibility
   within these areas. Presence in an off-limits area is a violation of Article 92, UCMJ. The
   following areas and establishments within Area V are off-limits:
       2.6.1. All tattoo parlors and body piercing shops
       2.6.2. All houses of prostitution. A house of prostitution is defined as any building or
       structure where prostitution or the promotion of prostitution (engaging in any sexual
       activity with another person for a fee) is regularly carried on by one or more persons
       under the control, management, or supervision of another.
       2.6.3. The ROK public streets, roads, and highways during the hours of curfew when
       established by the ROK Government. Travel during curfew hours is permitted in
       emergencies or when performing official duties.
       2.6.4. Any other establishment/area as ordered by the Area V Commander.
       2.6.5. Off-limits areas during emergencies may be established by the 51 FW/CC,
       Defense Force Commander (DFC), or the Noncommissioned Officer in Charge (NCOIC),
       51 SFS/Town Patrol, when there is insufficient time to carryout normal procedures and
       unsatisfactory conditions warrant immediate action. Emergency sanctions imposed by
       the NCOIC, Town Patrol will not exceed 12 hours in duration unless ratified in writing
       by the 51 FW/CC. The DFC will be immediately notified of any off-limits sanctions
       imposed by the NCOIC, Town Patrol.
3. Safety:
   3.1. General Safety. Safety is the cornerstone of the 51st Fighter Wing’s daily activities.
   We must ensure that we can accomplish the mission while protecting our people and
   resources. Attention to detail and Operational Risk Management (ORM) must be applied by
   all personnel to every task, on and off-duty. Professional, disciplined operations with
   effective application of ORM will lead to safe mission accomplishment.
 6                                                               51FWI36-2901 19 APRIL 2012


     3.2. ORM. Here at Osan, we must be ready to provide maximum combat capability at any
     time. Mishaps that occur both on and off duty clearly limit our ability to maximize combat
     capability as personnel and resources may be unavailable to support potential wartime
     taskings. Commanders will ensure their people are trained in the ORM process using
     established principles. Instructions and online tools are available to help commanders,
     supervisors and individuals apply ORM. Contact 51 FW/SE at 784-1842 for assistance.
     3.3. Bicycle Safety. All personnel riding bicycles on Osan AB are required to wear an
     approved bicycle helmet and reflective vest. This requirement is extended to include all
     family members, retirees, civilian employees, and children riding in carriers on the back of
     an adult’s bicycle. Helmets must be worn with the chinstrap connected. Bicycles are part of
     the traffic flow, must obey all traffic rules, and are not to be ridden on sidewalks. Violation
     by a military member of this section is a violation of Article 92, UCMJ.
     3.4. Running and Walking Safety. The wear of headphones or earphones while running or
     walking on installation roadways is strictly prohibited.
        3.4.1. Formation Running. Units participating in formation running must provide front
        and rear road guards. Additionally, units should run with no more than 3-columns (3
        abreast). Every vehicle driver will yield the right-of-way to formation running units.
        Drivers may proceed around formations with extreme caution at a speed not to exceed 10
        MPH. Units wishing to run in formation should consult 51 FW/SE for approved running
        routes.
4. Security:
     4.1. Security. All personnel will be held accountable for maintaining security of the
     information they work with and their work area. There are many different areas that fall
     under security including, but not limited to, Physical Security, Force Protection,
     Communications Security (COMSEC), Operations Security (OPSEC), Computer Security
     (COMPUSEC), and Emissions Security (EMSEC). Security training is provided to all
     members concerning these areas upon their arrival. It is essential that security becomes part
     of your daily routine and that we are all security sensors.
        4.1.1. Operations Security. Activities, conversations and communications may provide
        operational indicators to an adversary, who will use any lapse in sound OPSEC against
        us. All organizations will forward their unit’s Critical Information List to the Osan Air
        Base OPSEC manager (784-9612). It is the responsibility of each member to know their
        Critical Information List and how they can protect that information. Authorized
        shredders must be used to shred all classified and For Official Use Only (FOUO)
        documents. Shredders should be used to the maximum extent for all other documents.
        Always be aware of your surroundings and do not discuss information where individuals
        without a need to know can overhear.
     4.2. Identification:
        4.2.1. Common Access Cards (CAC). It is imperative that every military member and
        their dependents safeguard their CAC. Lost or stolen CAC have a potentially damaging
        effect on our ability to ensure force protection. Repeated negligence causing the loss of a
        CAC may result in punitive actions.
51FWI36-2901 19 APRIL 2012                                                                     7


      4.2.2. Procedures for re-issue. Members who lose their CAC will report to their unit
      commander to explain the circumstances surrounding the loss. The unit commander or
      their designated representative must then authorize the replacement of the CAC through a
      letter to be taken to Security Forces. The member must file a statement with Security
      Forces about the events surrounding the loss or theft of the CAC. Security Forces will
      then endorse the commander’s letter and the member will then proceed to the MPS for a
      new CAC.
   4.3. Found Property:
      4.3.1. Unclaimed lost and found items may be disposed of as follows:
          4.3.1.1. Credit cards and other negotiable instruments: destroyed and witnessed by
          member of Property Disposal Board (contact 51 SFS/S3I for coordination).
          4.3.1.2. Money:    turned in to 51 CPTS using DD Form 1131, Cash Collection
          Voucher.
          4.3.1.3. All others: coordinate with 51 SFS/S3I to facilitate disposition.
          4.3.1.4. The Property Disposal Board Members will survey and place a value on all
          unclaimed property, in writing, with emphasis on converting the property to
          government use. Items may be turned over to the Airman’s Attic, Thrift Shop, any
          NAF agencies, or destroyed.
      4.3.2. The following items must be turned over to 51 SFS/BDOC immediately:
      weapons; military identification cards; USFK Forms 37 EK, USFK Pass/ID; Restricted
      Area Badges; government issues credit cards; and money in excess of $100. 51 SFS will
      then turn over the item to the owning agency.
5. Miscellaneous:
   5.1. Military Appointments. Scheduled appointments, such as medical, dental, physical
   fitness testing, in-processing, out-processing and training are mandatory military functions.
   Supervisors will establish procedures to ensure all appointment times are met. If scheduling
   conflicts preclude attendance, cancel or reschedule as appropriate and as far in advance as
   possible.
   5.2. Computer Abuse. Government computers are for official business only. Under certain
   circumstances, your commander can authorize use for educational or morale purposes.
   Government computers can never be used for entertainment or personal gain. At no time will
   any government computer be used for the storage of, or retrieval of, pornographic or racially,
   religiously or sexually discriminatory material. Refer to AFI 33-112, Information
   Technology Hardware Asset Management, for additional details.
      5.2.1. Unauthorized USB Devices. All USB devices must be authorized before they are
      connected to the Osan NIPR and SIPR networks. When an unauthorized device is found
      on the network, 51 CS will lock the user account and notify the respective Director or
      Squadron Commander. Before the account is re-enabled, the user must re-accomplish
      their Information Awareness training and the first O-6 in their chain of command must
      submit a request to the 51 MSG/CC for approval. Once approved, 51 CS will re-enable
      the account.
 8                                                              51FWI36-2901 19 APRIL 2012


     5.3. Family Care Responsibility. While the majority of individuals assigned to the 51st
     Fighter Wing are here unaccompanied, this does not relieve you of your responsibility to care
     for your family. You can work with your Commander, First Sergeant, or the Airman &
     Family Readiness Center to cope with special circumstances. Additional guidance is
     outlined in 51FWI 40-301, Family Advocacy Program (PA).
     5.4. Hazing. There will be absolutely no hazing of any kind. This includes initiations, rites
     of passage, or alcohol-related requirements.
     5.5. Weapons. Osan AB has insufficient armory storage to accommodate privately owned
     firearms and ammunition. Osan also lacks any capacity to fire privately owned firearms on
     our combat arms training range. Personnel with permanent change of station orders to Osan
     or within the jurisdiction of USFK Area V are not permitted to bring to the ROK, or purchase
     while in the ROK, any privately owned firearm or ammunition. Questions regarding this
     policy can be directed to Security Forces.
     5.6. Leave. USFK policy states that no more than 10 percent of personnel assigned to the
     ROK can be on leave off-peninsula at one time. Unit Commanders will grant leave in a
     manner compliant with this policy and ensure their unit can carry out its wartime mission at
     all times. Airmen should be granted no more than 30 days of ordinary leave during a 12-
     month short tour. Airmen on 24-month tours may take 30 days of ordinary leave in each
     year. Under normal circumstances, there is no reason why an individual should lose leave.
     Leave must start and end in the local area (defined as Osan Air Base).
     5.7. Vehicle Usage:
        5.7.1. Government Owned Vehicles (GOV) Driving Privileges.             All personnel,
        regardless of rank, may operate GOV after the completion of all applicable testing and
        licensing.
        5.7.2. Parking of GOVs at On-Base Dining Facilities. The following units are authorized
        to take assigned GOVs to on-base dining facilities identified below:

Table 5.1. On-base dining facility GOV use
UNIT                          ON-BASE DINING FACILITY
51 SFS (Patrols)              Military Dining, AAFES & NAF Facilities (drive through
51 CES/CEF (Fire Dept)        windows not authorized)
51 MXG (Flight Line Units)    Back of the Hangar Dining Facility (Military Dining Facilities
5 RS                          with passenger carrying vehicles only when Back of the Hangar is
                              closed)
Allowing GOVs to pick up to-go meals is also prohibited except for specific organizations as
referenced in AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, Chapter 3.
        5.7.3. GOV Terminal Transportation Policy. GOVs may be used to transport official
        travelers to or from military or commercial terminals only when:
            5.7.3.1. Official non-DOD visitors are invited to participate in DOD activities. At
            Osan, a General Officer or Wing Commander will extend these invitations.
            5.7.3.2. The member is authorized domicile-to-duty transportation.
51FWI36-2901 19 APRIL 2012                                                                    9


        5.7.3.3. An emergency situation or security requirement arises. These requests will
        be coordinated and validated through LRS Vehicle Operations section.
        5.7.3.4. Other methods of transportation (DOD scheduled bus service, scheduled
        public transportation, and commercial taxi) are unresponsive. These requests will be
        coordinated and validated through LRS Vehicle Operations Section.
        5.7.3.5. Personnel are required to transport a weapon, either issued, or authorized by
        the DOD in connection with official funded travel (non-PCS), and the 51 FSS
        Information Tickets and Travel shuttle cannot be utilized.
     5.7.4. Misuse. A command and control vehicle authorization does not fall under the
     domicile-to-duty transportation condition, so these commanders are not automatically
     authorized terminal support. Any support based solely on rank, position, prestige, or
     personal convenience is not authorized and may constitute vehicle misuse. Government
     vehicle misuse is a violation of public law and subjects violators to prosecution and
     punishment by the Secretary of the Air Force (civilians) or under the Uniform Code of
     Military Justice (military).
     5.7.5. Exceptions. Sufficient commercial transportation options exist at this location and
     are the most cost effective to meet travel requirements to our commercial air terminals
     (Incheon and Gimpo). In rare cases, where these options may be unresponsive (such as
     large groups carrying excess baggage), the request can be forwarded to 51 LRS Vehicle
     Operations for processing. The request must include justification other than for personal
     convenience; information will be retained for audit and inspection purposes. GOVs
     permanently assigned to units are not excluded and these requests must also be
     forwarded. Each request is processed on a case-by-case basis, under its own merits and
     circumstances; blanket approvals will not be given. Units should coordinate requests
     with LRS Vehicle Operations section at least 72 hours in advance. Requests will be
     combined into a single movement if arrival or departure times are within 60 minutes of
     each other.
     5.7.6. Military Air Terminals. Military air terminals also fall under this guidance.
     Personnel will first utilize the 51 LRS DOD-scheduled bus service (base shuttle). When
     this service is not in operation, two other options are available (commercial taxi and
     GOV). Between these two, GOV use is more cost effective when the passenger count
     reaches twelve or more. Also, distance is a consideration; it is only 0.8 miles from the
     Turumi Lodge to the Air Mobility Command (AMC) terminal. It is reasonable to expect
     travelers to walk this distance if the weather is fair, they do not have excessive luggage,
     and the luggage they do have is wheeled and easily transportable. When GOVs are
     utilized, unit Vehicle Control Officers (VCOs) will maintain a historical record/log for
     audit and inspection purposes.
     5.7.7. Inspection Team Requests. Inspection team requests will be processed on their
     own merits and circumstances. Providing support based solely upon being a member of
     an inspection team falls under prestige, and is not authorized.
     5.7.8. Use of Terminal Service. When terminal support is authorized, personnel will
     ensure any perception of domicile-to-duty is avoided. Terminal service will not be
     provided to or from private quarters, and the pick-up and drop-off point must be at an
10                                                            51FWI36-2901 19 APRIL 2012


     official duty location on the installation. However, when transporting a visiting TDY
     member, service may be provided to or from assigned lodging, or place of temporary
     duty, and a terminal.
  5.8. Ration Control is in accordance with USFKR 60-1, Ration Control Policy – Access to
  Duty Free Goods.        For more information or to check individual rations go to
  https://pimsk.korea.army.mil/
     5.8.1. Exceptions to Ration Controls. If members are having a family gathering or unit
     function and need to exceed their monthly rations, they should provide a written
     memorandum endorsed by their unit commander to 51 SFS/S5B stating the reason prior
     to any purchases exceeding their ration amount. Exceptions to the standard shelf limits
     may be approved by the on-duty sales facility manager.
  5.9. Basic Allowance for Subsistence (BAS) and Essential Station Messing (ESM) Programs
  Policy. In addition to those individuals identified in AFI 34-239, Food Service Management
  Program, the following individuals are authorized to eat in on-base dining facilities:
     5.9.1. Commanders and other officers supervising enlisted personnel to evaluate meals
     and service.
     5.9.2. Officers receiving a meal portion of their per diem when authorization is included
     on their orders. TDY personnel must show a copy of their orders.
  5.10. DoD Priority Placement Program. DoD policy is to promote stability of employment
  for civilian employees affected by manpower requirements and to provide maximum
  opportunity for placement in other DoD positions. The DoD Program for Stability of
  Civilian Employment’s Priority Placement Program (PPP) minimizes the adverse effects on
  employees and provides an opportunity for employees to obtain offers of continued
  employment. 51 FW/CC expects all commanders, agency chiefs, and supervisors to be
  equally committed and willingly accept qualified displaced employees into your organization
  5.11. Reappointment of Korean National (KN) Employees after age 65.
     5.11.1. Beyond age 65, KN employees may be reappointed based on USFKR 690-1,
     Regulations and Procedures – Korean Nationals. Any request for reappointment after
     age 65 will be considered on a case-by-case basis and the approval authority is the 51st
     Fighter Wing Commander for all KN employees serviced by Osan Civilian Personnel
     Office. Decisions are final and not subject to appeal or grievance
     5.11.2. All reappointments beyond age 65 are restricted to situations when a qualified
     developmental level replacement cannot be found. The unit may request reappointment
     beyond age 65 by submitting a request and justification to the Civilian Personnel Office
     showing the bona fide recruiting efforts including external recruitment of KNs did not
     produce a qualified developmental-level candidate. The request must be endorsed by the
     respective Squadron Commander or Wing Staff Agency Director
     5.11.3. If a qualified developmental applicant is available, or recruiting actions were not
     initiated in a timely manner, reappointment beyond age 65 is inappropriate and request
     will be returned by the Civilian Personnel Office to the originator without action. Subject
     to funding, the unit may request an overhire position to reappoint the employee for a
     reasonable period to train the replacement employee (for example, 90 days). Questions
51FWI36-2901 19 APRIL 2012                                                                   11


     regarding this policy can be directed to the Osan AB Civilian Personnel Office at DSN
     784-4434/8177
  5.12. Facility Use and Siting. In accordance with Air Force guidance, installation
  commanders must ensure the effective use of real property (land, building, and infrastructure)
  under their command. Requests for facility use and siting shall be accomplished through the
  Facilities Board process managed by 51 CES. Additionally, the Air Force has established a
  goal to reduce the installation footprint by 20% and the facility sustainment budget 20% by
  2020. All organizations will assist in accomplishing these goals by incorporating the
  following guidelines into the facility use and siting requests
     5.12.1. Organizations should attempt to use existing assigned space to accommodate new
     facility requirements.
     5.12.2. Organizations should consolidate their use of space.
     5.12.3. Organizations should vacate facilities and areas that are no longer required.
  5.13. Environmental Policy.
     5.13.1. Osan AB is committed to pollution prevention, compliance with relevant Korean
     and U.S. environmental requirements, and continual improvement of our environmental
     programs. Through environmental leadership from our senior leadership team and unit
     environmental coordinators, and the combined efforts of every individual, Osan AB will
     honor its commitment to provide sound stewardship of our land, air, and water.
     5.13.2. Osan AB uses an Environmental Management System (EMS) framework for
     setting and reviewing environmental objectives and targets to manage environmental
     obligations and programs. The EMS Manual is posted on Osan’s eDASH website at:
     The basic tenets of our Environmental Policy Statement include:
         5.13.2.1. Compliance with the requirements of USFK PAM 200-1, Environmental
         Governing Standards, is paramount in all we do. Military, civilian, and contractor
         personnel must remain current with required EMS awareness training and carry out
         duties in accordance with Environmental Management Plans.
         5.13.2.2. Osan AB continually improves its EMS. Continuous updates, reviews, and
         enhancements improve overall environmental performance and pollution prevention.
         5.13.2.3. Compliance with Environmental Policy is the responsibility of every
         member of the Osan AB community and in accordance with organizational roles and
         responsibilities. Everyone must understand their role to protect the environment and
         execute their duties while supporting the mission.




                                           PATRICK T. McKENZIE, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
 12                                                       51FWI36-2901 19 APRIL 2012


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-29, Military Standards, 29 October 2009
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, 1 November 2008
AFI 33-112, Information Technology Hardware Asset Management, 7 January 2011
AFI 34-239, Food Service Management Program, 20 February 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
USFKR 60-1, Ration Control Policy – Access to Duty Free Goods, 23 May 2011
USFKR 600-52, Civilian and/or Family Member Misconduct, 27 February 2012
USFKR 690-1, Regulations and Procedures – Korean Nationals, 10 February 2011
51FWI 40-301, Family Advocacy Program (PA), 23 December 2010
USFK PAM 200-1, Environmental Governing Standards, 27 July 2010
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher, Dec 2003
USFK Forms 37 EK, USFK Pass/ID

Abbreviation and Acronyms
ADAPT—Alcohol Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AMC—Air Mobility Command
BAS—Basic Allowance for Subsistence
CAC—Common Access Cards
COB—Collocated Operating Bases
COMPUSEC—Computer Security
COMSEC—Communications Security
DFC—Defense Force Commander
DOD—Department of Defense
DUI/BUI—Driving/Biking Under the Influence
EMS—Environmental Management System
ESM—Essential Station Messing
EMSEC—Emissions Security
51FWI36-2901 19 APRIL 2012                       13


FOUO—For Official Use Only
GOV—Government Owned Vehicles
IAW—in accordance with
IC—Invited Contractor
KN—Korean National
MAJCOM—Major Command
NCOIC—Noncommissioned Officer in Charge
NAFIs— —Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OPSEC—Operations Security
ORM—Operational Risk Management
PPP—Priority Placement Program
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
ROK—Republic of Korea
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
USAF—United States Air Force
USFK—United States Forces Korea
SARC—Sexual Assault Response Coordinator
SOFA—Status of Forces Agreement
TIP—Trafficking in Persons
TRs——Technical Representatives
VCOs——Vehicle Control Officers
