BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                51ST FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION
51ST FIGHTER WING                                                                40-301

                                                                           23 DECEMBER 2010
                                                              Certified Current 28 February 2014
                                                                              Medical Command

                                                         FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAM (PA)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications is available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 51 MDG/SGOW                                                         Certified by: 51 MDG/CC
Supersedes: 51 FWI 40-301,                                                  (Col Gregory B. York)
            14 March 2008                                                                 Pages: 17


This instruction implements AFPD 40-3, Family Advocacy Program, DoDD 6400.1, Family
Advocacy Program (FAP), and AFI 40-301, Family Advocacy. It establishes policy and
procedures to identify, to respond, to minimize the negative impact of and, where possible, to
prevent family maltreatment at Osan Air Base, Republic of Korea (Osan AB, ROK). It further
requires the identification of all medically or educationally handicapped dependents of Air Force
members. It is directed to all base personnel. It establishes procedures to identify, report, assess,
and treat families having exceptional medical, educational, or emotional needs, children who are
at risk for neglect or maltreatment, and families experiencing domestic violence. It requires all
suspected reports of family maltreatment be referred to the Osan AB FAP office. This
instruction assigns responsibilities and explains procedures for the management of FAP. It
applies to all Active Duty Air Force (ADAF) members and their family members IAW Family
Advocacy Program Network (FAPNET) Memorandum of Agreement, and to all Air Force
organizations assigned or attached to Osan AB. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

This instruction requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy
Act of 1974. The authorities to collect and maintain the records prescribed are Title 10 USC
8013 and USC 3101. Privacy Act Statements are required by AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program.
“Air Force Privacy Act” Program will be incorporated in the body of the document or in a
 2                                                                                   51FWI40-301 23 DECEMBER 2010


separate statement accompanying each document. This instruction applies to all active duty
members assigned to Osan AB, ROK and all organizational units assigned to the base.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision updates
current FAP organizational structure to align. It has been revised according to the Family
Advocacy Standards (Oct 09) and maltreatment definitions, updating program information,
structure, and contact numbers for collaborative agencies.

        1.     Mission Statement: ................................................................................................          2
        2.     Organizational Structure ........................................................................................            2
        3.     Assigned Responsibilities: .....................................................................................             3
        4.     Duty to Report: ......................................................................................................      13
        5.     Procedures: .............................................................................................................   14
        6.     Orders Prohibiting Contact ....................................................................................             15
        7.     Prescribed and Adopted Forms: .............................................................................                 15

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                             16


1. Mission Statement: The mission of the Osan AB FAP is to promote family health, welfare,
and morale by preventing or treating cases of family maltreatment. Retirees and DOD civilians
may be served on an emergency basis via crisis intervention and referrals, and are offered
prevention programs on a space available basis. Family Advocacy acknowledges the importance
of a coordinated and consistent approach in reducing family maltreatment, and affirms its
commitment to providing every possible resource in building a healthy community.
2. Organizational Structure
     2.1. Installation Commander
     2.2. Community Action Information Board (CAIB)/ Family Advocacy Committee (FAC)
     2.3. 51st Medical Group Commander/Deputy, Chairperson (51 MDG/CC or CD)
     2.4. Central Registry Board (CRB)
     2.5. High Risk for Violence Response Team (HRVRT)
     2.6. Child Sexual Maltreatment Response Team (CSMRT)
     2.7. Incident Status Determination Review (ISDR)
     2.8. Family Advocacy Officer (FAO)
     2.9. Unit Commanders, First Sergeants, and Supervisors
     2.10. 51st FW/HC, Wing Chaplain
     2.11. 51st FW/JA, Staff Judge Advocate
51FWI40-301 23 DECEMBER 2010                                                                   3


   2.12. 51st Security Forces Squadron Commander (51 SFS/CC)
   2.13. Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) 5 FIS
   2.14. 51st Force Support Squadron Commander (51 FSS/CC)
   2.15. Airmen and Family Readiness Center Director
   2.16. Department of Defense Education Activity (DODEA)
3. Assigned Responsibilities:
   3.1. The 51st Fighter Wing Commander’s (51 FW/CC) Responsibilities:
       3.1.1. Designates the Military Treatment Facility (MTF)/CC to administer and monitor
       the installation FAP.
       3.1.2. Establishes an installation FAC and appoints the MTF/CC as chairperson. The
       Installation CC may chair the FAC if desired. The FAC may be a standalone meeting or
       a subcommittee of the CAIB. When FAC is subsumed as a subcommittee, the CAIB
       chair will ensure that all FAC requirements are met.
       3.1.3. Serves as a member of the FAC or delegates this responsibility to a key member of
       the senior staff (i.e., Vice Commander or a Group Commander).
       3.1.4. Reviews FAC minutes quarterly even if membership is delegated to senior staff.
       3.1.5. Promotes and ensures cooperation among installation organizations to build
       healthy, resilient communities in order to prevent and treat family maltreatment.
       3.1.6. When applicable, ensures Inter-Service Support Agreements (ISSA) are executed
       with other uniformed service helping agencies to achieve the FAP mission.
       3.1.7. Ensures all DoD personnel comply with mandatory reporting of suspected family
       maltreatment.
       3.1.8. Coordinates with local civilian agencies, including child protective and victim
       advocacy (VA) services, which support effective implementation of the FAP.
       3.1.9. Ensures execution of Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) outlining
       responsibilities.
       3.1.10. Appoints the Vice Wing CC as the CRB Chairperson and Mission Support Group
       (MSG) CC as the alternate chairperson.
       3.1.11. Ensures FAP facilities are adequate to provide appropriate client privacy, client
       and staff safety and handicapped accessibility.
       3.1.12. In collaboration with the CSMRT, considers requesting Family Advocacy
       Command Assistance Team (FACAT) assistance to address allegations of multi-victim
       child sexual maltreatment in DoD-sanctioned activities.
       3.1.13. Develops a process to ensure that the Family Advocacy Officer receives current
       monthly rosters of new installation commanders and First Sergeants (CCFs).
       3.1.14. Ensures new SQ/CCs and new CCFs receive training on family maltreatment
       through FAP within 90 days of assuming SQ command/position and annually thereafter
       IAW the DoD training metric and AF FAP.
4                                                         51FWI40-301 23 DECEMBER 2010


    3.2. FAC subsumed under the CAIB:
       3.2.1. Develops installation FAP guidance and procedures IAW DoD and AF directives
       including but not limited to: mandatory notification of appropriate agencies in incidents
       of suspected family maltreatment.
       3.2.2. Develops procedures to address the safety of victims of family maltreatment,
       alleged offenders, their family members, and the community at-large.
       3.2.3. Establishes written policies and procedures for local response to allegations of
       child sexual maltreatment utilizing the CSMRT and ensures that participating installation
       personnel are trained on their roles and responsibilities.
       3.2.4. Establishes written policies and procedures for notification of the FAP when there
       is a potentially dangerous situation involving FAP staff or clients. Ensures guidelines for
       utilization of the HRVRT are developed and HRVRT members are trained on their
       responsibilities.
       3.2.5. Ensures written policies and procedures are developed for response to incidents of
       death due to maltreatment and incidents of child sexual maltreatment in DoD-sanctioned
       activities.
       3.2.6. Ensures policies and procedures are developed for resolving conflicts between the
       prosecution and clinical intervention objectives in family maltreatment cases.
       3.2.7. Ensures at least two-thirds of appointed members are in attendance at each FAC
       meeting.
       3.2.8. The FAC includes these members:
          3.2.8.1. Installation/CC (or designee).
          3.2.8.2. MTF/CC or Deputy MTF/CC.
          3.2.8.3. FAO.
          3.2.8.4. Family Advocacy Outreach Manager (FAOM) or Family Advocacy
          Intervention Specialist (FAIS).
          3.2.8.5. Director, Airmen and Family Readiness Center (A&FRC) (or designee).
          3.2.8.6. Staff Judge Advocate (SJA) (or designee).
          3.2.8.7. SFS/CC (or designee).
          3.2.8.8. AFOSI Detachment/CC (or designee).
          3.2.8.9. Wing Chaplain (or designee).
          3.2.8.10. Command Chief Master Sergeant.
          3.2.8.11. DoDEA designated representative (AF bases with DoD schools).
          3.2.8.12. The FAC may add other members as appropriate, such as civilian agencies
          and community service organizations.
       3.2.9. The FAC meets at least quarterly. Additional meetings may be held at the call of
       the chairperson. The FAC accomplishes the following tasks:
51FWI40-301 23 DECEMBER 2010                                                                5


        3.2.9.1. Ensures implementation of the local FAP according to DoD and AF
        guidance including FAP Program Standards.
        3.2.9.2. Ensures a FAP Installation Instruction is developed to implement the FAP
        and is reviewed and updated every two years.
        3.2.9.3. Reviews, approves, and supports implementation of the Family Advocacy
        Prevention Action Plan (FAPAP).
        3.2.9.4. Provides FAP facilities to ensure staff and patient safety including a duress
        system and a secure point of entry.
        3.2.9.5. Ensures that all FAP personnel are co-located to facilitate communication,
        supervision, and collaboration
        3.2.9.6. Establishes a cooperative working relationship with all local key agencies
        involved in addressing family maltreatment prevention and intervention.
        3.2.9.7. Addresses barriers to access, screening, and participation in FAP services
        including Prevention/Outreach, New Parent Support Program (NPSP), and Family
        Advocacy Strength-based Therapy (FAST).
        3.2.9.8. Ensures MOUs with local child protective and domestic violence services
        including victim advocates and residential shelters are developed, maintained, and
        reviewed every two years IAW DoD directives and AF guidance. In areas of multiple
        installations, MOUs will be developed to ensure the efficient use of FAP resources
        and to define roles and responsibilities among installation personnel.
        3.2.9.9. In joint service areas, establishes a joint FAC with a joint NPSP
        subcommittee to plan, administer, and evaluate coordination processes IAW DoDI
        6400.05, New Parent Support Program (NPSP), Chapter 5, Section 5.2.4.
        3.2.9.10. Facilitates mandated CC/CCF/CCM training on family maltreatment IAW
        DoD policy. Identifies and addresses barriers to compliance.
        3.2.9.11. Ensures FAC members are trained on their roles and responsibilities at least
        annually.
        3.2.9.12. Maintains minutes of FAC meetings that reflect attendance, issues
        discussed, and decisions made. Ensures the installation CC reviews quarterly FAC
        minutes.
        3.2.9.13. Approves nominations for membership on the CRB, CSMRT, and HRVRT.
        3.2.9.14. Promotes and supports prevention of family maltreatment and addresses or
        elevates barriers and other FAP issues as warranted.
  3.3. The MTF Commander (51 MDG/CC). Assumes responsibility for these areas of FAP
  activity:
     3.3.1. Assumes responsibility for the following FAP activities:
     3.3.2. Staffing and training:
        3.3.2.1. Chairs the installation FAC (when not incorporated into the CAIB).
6                                                          51FWI40-301 23 DECEMBER 2010


           3.3.2.2. Appoints a clinical social worker to serve as the FAO. Designates and trains
           an alternate to ensure continuity and coverage. Other qualified mental health
           providers may fill these positions if qualified and appropriately trained.
           3.3.2.3. Develops procedures for managing restricted reports of domestic abuse.
           3.3.2.4. Develops a process to ensure the FAP receives the daily SFS blotter.
           3.3.2.5. Ensures all FAP management, response, and maltreatment intervention teams
           are trained on their roles and responsibilities and on the dynamics of family
           maltreatment.
           3.3.2.6. Ensures all FAP volunteers receive proper screening, training, and
           supervision and have received training from the American Red Cross or another
           organization authorized by the MTF.
           3.3.2.7. Ensures appropriate healthcare provider training on domestic and child abuse
           IAW DoD guidance.
    3.4. Provides Service Delivery:
       3.4.1. Ensures the MTF publishes guidelines, which clarify policies, responsibilities, and
       procedures for medical personnel who have a role in the FAP mission and services.
       3.4.2. Ensures policies and procedures are established for effective coordination of
       services between Mental Health, Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment
       (ADAPT) Program, and the FAP for continuity of care and risk management.
       3.4.3. Ensures medical personnel notify the FAP of all suspected incidents of family
       maltreatment.
       3.4.4. Where a Family Advocacy Nurse (FAN) is assigned, ensures the NPSP is
       managed IAW FAP Standards. Ensures the NPSP has access to names and contact
       information for all eligible beneficiaries with positive pregnancy test results. Ensures the
       TRICARE Service Center (TSC) or MTF Referral Management Center (RMC) provides
       patient names and contact information to NPSP when referring obstetric and pediatric
       patients (three years and younger) off-base.
       3.4.5. Ensures MTF providers refer eligible families to NPSP.
       3.4.6. Ensures medical information is accessible to support and facilitate continuity of
       care in FAP maltreatment and secondary prevention programs including NPSP.
       3.4.7. Ensures suspected family maltreatment victims receive medical and dental
       assessment when requested by the FAO.
       3.4.8. In cases of death due to suspected family maltreatment, ensures notification of the
       AFOSI Detachment and SFS, referral of the family to the FAP for assessment and
       supportive services, and notification to MAJCOM and AF FAP within twenty-four hours.
    3.5. Program Administration:
       3.5.1. Appoints the FAOM as the FAP representative to the Integrated Delivery System
       (IDS).
51FWI40-301 23 DECEMBER 2010                                                                 7


     3.5.2. Provides office space, equipment, furniture, operating supplies, utilities,
     maintenance, and other required resources.
     3.5.3. Provides computer hardware, software, and internet access to support the
     installation FAP requirements to access automated case and program management
     systems.
     3.5.4. Ensures MTF information technology staff promptly resolves FAP automated
     systems problems in order to meet congressional and DoD data collection mandates.
     3.5.5. Maintains equipment and systems purchased by AF FAP for installation FAP use.
     3.5.6. Establishes a Family Advocacy Quality Management Program integrated with the
     MTF.
  3.6. The CRB:
     3.6.1. CRB.      The CRB is a multidisciplinary team that makes administrative
     determinations for suspected family maltreatment meeting DoD/AF definitions;
     therefore, requiring entry into the AF Central Registry data base. These decisions are
     known as incident status determinations (ISDs). The CCS manages clinical and safety
     issues.
     3.6.2. The CRB operates according to AF FAP Standards and:
     3.6.3. All members will accomplish initial and annual CRB online training located on the
     AF FAP website prior to serving on the CRB.
     3.6.4. Meets monthly unless there are no new referrals.
     3.6.5. Makes an ISD on each allegation of maltreatment within 60-days of referral, using
     the incident and victim impact information and the FASOR automated decision tree.
     3.6.6. Ensures involved adult family members receive notification of CRB ISDs.
     3.6.7. Both the adult victim and adult offender will be notified of the ISD.
     3.6.8. Biological/adoptive parents are authorized to receive information on ISDs in
     which their child is a victim regardless of custodial arrangements. Note: no disclosure is
     permitted to biological/adoptive parents whose parental rights have been legally
     terminated.
     3.6.9. When an offender or client requests an appeal of the ISD, the CRB chairperson
     will determine if the request meets criteria for an ISDR IAW AF FAP Standards.
     3.6.10. The CRB should be held in the Wing Headquarters conference room. The CRB
     should not be held in the MTF.
     3.6.11. CRB discussions are confidential. The only information releasable from CRB
     proceedings are the ISDs. The CRB Chairperson will remind members of the
     confidential nature of the CRB at each meeting.
     3.6.12. Clients, family members, and attorneys representing offenders are not allowed to
     attend the CRB or the ISDR.
     3.6.13. Minutes of the CRB will be generated within 30-days and will reflect the CRB
     ISDs, and will be signed by the CRB Chairperson. The format of CRB minutes is
8                                                         51FWI40-301 23 DECEMBER 2010


       standardized across the AF by the Family Advocacy System of Records (FASOR)
       system. Minutes will be maintained for five years and then shredded.
       3.6.14. Medical Group CC is the ISDR reviewer.
       3.6.15. Additional requirements regarding how CRB meetings shall be conducted by the
       CRB Chairperson are described in the AF FAP Standards.
    3.7. HRVRT:
       3.7.1. The HRVRT will be activated when there is a threat of immediate and serious
       harm to family members or FAP staff.
       3.7.2. HRVRT is activated at the discretion of the FAO. Members are appointed by their
       CC and approved by the FAC. Membership includes the FAO, FAP clinician working
       with the family, sponsor’s SQ/CC, JA, SFS representative, Mental Health provider,
       AFOSI Detachment representative, and representatives from other agencies having legal,
       investigative, or protective responsibilities, as appropriate.
       3.7.3. Members must be trained prior to serving on the HRVRT. Team activation must
       be reported to and documented in the FAC minutes. The HRVRT:
          3.7.3.1. Addresses safety issues and risk factors.
          3.7.3.2. Develops a coordinated plan for immediate implementation to manage risk to
          the individual presenting the potential threat, the suspected or intended victims and
          the community at large.
          3.7.3.3. Ensures documentation of the HRVRT is placed in the client’s FAP record.
    3.8. CSMRT:
       3.8.1. CSMRT members are appointed by their CC and approved by the FAC.
       Membership includes the FAO, who serves as the chair, and representatives from AFOSI
       and JA. The CSMRT is activated immediately and manages the initial response to
       allegations of child sexual maltreatment. The goal of this team is to minimize risk and
       trauma to the victim and family and ensure coordinated decision making and case
       management. The CSMRT:
          3.8.1.1. Members must be trained by FAP prior to serving on the CSMRT. Team
          activation must be reported and documented in the FAC minutes.
          3.8.1.2. Reviews the allegation and coordinates a course of action. Determines how
          organizations will proceed in making required notifications, conducting interviews,
          scheduling medical exams, arranging for the safety of the victim and all family
          members, and conducting psychosocial assessments.
          3.8.1.3. Ensures documentation of the CSMRT is placed in the client’s FAP record.
    3.9. ISDR:
       3.9.1. Alleged offenders or victims may request, in writing, an ISDR request to the CAIB
       chairperson within 30 days of being notified of the CRB case status determination. A
       copy of the CRB incident status determination letter should be attached to the request.
51FWI40-301 23 DECEMBER 2010                                                                  9


     3.9.2. The 51 MDG/CC and FAO will review the request and make recommendations to
     the CRB chairperson as to whether the request meets the criteria for appeal.
     3.9.3. The CRB chairperson will consider the recommendations and will approve or
     disapprove the request for ISDR.
     3.9.4. If approved, the CRB will review the incident status determination IAW FAP
     Standard M-9 (Oct 09)
     3.9.5. If disapproved, a letter from the CRB chairperson will be sent to the member
     denying the ISDR request with a courtesy copy to the member’s commander and the
     FAO.
  3.10. The FAO Responsibilities:
     3.10.1. Manages the installation FAP according to AF FAP guidance:
         3.10.1.1. Ensures immediate notification to active duty AF member’s CC, SFS, and
         AFOSI Detachment of all suspected unrestricted reports of family maltreatment.
         3.10.1.2. Ensures that high risk FAP clients are placed on the Mental Health Flight
         high risk log and activates the HRVRT as appropriate to ensure a coordinated
         response to high risk situations.
         3.10.1.3. Coordinates the CRB, chairs the Clinical Case Staffing (CCS), CSMRT,
         HRVRT, Outreach Prevention Management Council (OPMC), and NPSP Case
         Staffing.
         3.10.1.4. Ensures prevention is integrated into all FAP components.
         3.10.1.5. Ensures assessment and management of all maltreatment referrals.
         3.10.1.6. Ensures all maltreatment referrals are presented to the CCS.
         3.10.1.7. Ensures all appropriate referrals are presented to the CRB.
         3.10.1.8. Formalizes a process for notifying the MTF/CC of all family maltreatment-
         associated deaths that occur on or off the installation.
         3.10.1.9. Ensures the civilian Child Protective Services (CPS) agency(ies) with local
         jurisdiction is/are immediately notified of all suspected child maltreatment incidents.
         3.10.1.10. Completes FAP prevention and outreach reports annually IAW AF FAP
         guidance.
         3.10.1.11. Develops a FAP safety plan that includes at a minimum: staff and patient
         safety in the FAP office(s) and for all home-based visitation services.
         3.10.1.12. Ensures FAP clinicians support the NPSP program through: consultation
         with the FAN on clinical issues, client consults at the request of the FAN, and home
         visits to NPSP clients.
     3.10.2. Supervises FAP staff:
         3.10.2.1. Ensures orientation and training of FAP staff to include completion of
         required online training modules.
10                                                         51FWI40-301 23 DECEMBER 2010


            3.10.2.2. Where a FAN is assigned, ensures the FAN interfaces with the MTF Chief
            Nurse (CN) regarding standards of nursing practice and integration into the MTF.
            3.10.2.3. Notifies AF FAP when a civilian position (civil service or contract)
            becomes vacant. Note: No hiring action can be taken until refill of the position is
            authorized by AF FAP.
            3.10.2.4. Maintains FAP records IAW AF FAP Standards and other DoD and AF
            guidance.
            3.10.2.5. Ensures the FAPAP is developed and reviewed internally prior to FAC
            review.
            3.10.2.6. Completes FAP reports and submits case data according to AF FAP
            guidance.
            3.10.2.7. Establishes procedures for the security of FAP records and resources
            including a double-lock system.
            3.10.2.8. Serves as a member of the FAC.
            3.10.2.9. Serves as consultant on family maltreatment to installation units and
            agencies.
            3.10.2.10. Serves as consultant on all suspected family maltreatment in DoD-
            sanctioned activities.
            3.10.2.11. Uses and ensures all FAP staff utilize the Family Advocacy Automation
            Systems (FAAS), relevant to their duties and professional role(s) including: FASOR
            and FAPNet, New Parent Support Program automated record, and the Outreach
            Prevention Automated Log (OPAL).
            3.10.2.12. Ensures the FAOM provides annual training to include the dynamics of
            family maltreatment, identification of suspected abuse, reporting protocols, restricted
            reporting, and prevention strategies to CCs and Senior Non-commissioned Officers
            (SNCOs), healthcare providers, IDS member agencies, Air Reserve Component
            Representatives, Sexual Assault Response Coordinators (SARCs), VA, community
            members DoD supplemental and contract appointed social support staff, and others as
            described in AF or DoD guidance.
            3.10.2.13. Utilizes only approved Family Advocacy forms.
     3.11. Unit Commanders, First Sergeants, and Supervisors (military or civilian):
        3.11.1. Completes the DoD-mandated FAP CC and SNCO training on family
        maltreatment, including identification and reporting protocols, within 90 days of
        assuming their positions and at least annually, thereafter.
        3.11.2. Reports all suspicions of family maltreatment to the FAP.
        3.11.3. Directs suspected active duty AF family maltreatment offenders to FAP for
        comprehensive assessment and service planning.
        3.11.4. Completes CRB computer-based training annually and participates in the CRB
        for incidents involving their Squadron/unit members.
51FWI40-301 23 DECEMBER 2010                                                                    11


  3.12. The Installation 51 FW/HC Responsibilities:
     3.12.1. Serves as a member of the FAC, encourages chapel organizations to support the
     FAP and provides support ministries, as needed.
     3.12.2. Ensures all chapel staff and volunteers receive FAP training on identification and
     reporting procedures for suspected family maltreatment when hired and annually,
     thereafter.
     3.12.3. In coordination with the FAC, develops effective policy for installation
     background checks and screening of applicants seeking employment or volunteer
     positions working with children and youth.
  3.13. The 51 FW/SJA Responsibilities:
     3.13.1. Serves, or designates an attorney to serve, on the installation FAC.
     3.13.2. Nominates an attorney to serve on the CRB, CSMRT, and HRVRT.
     3.13.3. Provides consultation to the FAC in the development of MOUs and ISSAs.
     3.13.4. Provides consultation services to the FAP in cases of domestic violence restricted
     reporting and state reporting requirements for intimate partner abuse.
     3.13.5. Coordinates with the FAO to ensure availability and effectiveness of Victim
     Witness Assistance Program (VWAP) services for qualifying families.
     3.13.6. Serves as risk management consultants to FAP on community prevention and
     outreach activity issues.
     3.13.7. Assesses the need to establish MOUs between the installation legal office and
     local (state, city, county) district attorney’s office applicable to family maltreatment cases
     involving military personnel assigned to the installation and their family members.
  3.14. The Commander, 51st Security Forces (51 SFS/CC) Responsibilities:
     3.14.1. Serves or designates a senior member to serve on the FAC.
     3.14.2. Serves or nominates a senior member of SFS as a representative to the CRB and
     HRVRT. SFS representative on the CRB serves as liaison between local law
     enforcement and the installation, securing police reports and other relevant information
     for the CRB process.
     3.14.3. Ensures SFS personnel responsible for responding to family maltreatment
     incidents attend annual FAP training on the identification and reporting protocols for
     suspected family maltreatment.
     3.14.4. Ensures FAP receives notification of all reports of family maltreatment received
     by law enforcement.
     3.14.5. Coordinates with investigative agencies and FAP on family maltreatment
     incidents under investigation.
     3.14.6. Supports investigative interviews of alleged criminal offenders in cases occurring
     in DoD-sanctioned activities.
12                                                        51FWI40-301 23 DECEMBER 2010


        3.14.7. Works with local AFOSI Detachment and JA to establish MOU(s) between
        installation law enforcement units and local (city, county, state) law enforcement
        agencies in family maltreatment cases involving military personnel and their family
        members.
     3.15. AFOSI Base Investigations Branch Chief Responsibilities:
        3.15.1. Appoints the Director, A&FRC (or designee) to serve on the FAC.
        3.15.2. Ensures staff and volunteers who work directly with children/youth receive
        training through the FAP to include identification, reporting procedures, and dynamics of
        family maltreatment when hired and annually, thereafter.
        3.15.3. Ensures staff working with children, ages birth to three years, are aware of the
        NPSP to include program services, eligibility, and referral procedures.
        3.15.4. Immediately reports suspected incidents of child maltreatment occurring in a
        DoD-sanctioned activity to the FAP, (e.g., family day care, child development and youth
        centers, or recreation programs).
        3.15.5. Develops effective policy, in coordination with the FAC, for installation
        background checks and screening of applicants seeking employment or volunteer
        positions working with children and youth.
        3.15.6. Consults with JA to determine proper jurisdiction and course of action for
        investigating and resolving situations where a child care provider or youth program staff
        member is suspected of child abuse and/or neglect in a DoD-sanctioned activity.
        3.15.7. Ensures family support agencies receive family maltreatment education and
        prevention training annually.
     3.16. The Commander of the Force Support Squadron (51 FSS/CC) Responsibilities:
        3.16.1. Appoints the Director, A&FRC (or designee) to serve on the FAC.
        3.16.2. Ensures staff and volunteers who work directly with children/youth receive
        training through the FAP to include identification, reporting procedures, and dynamics of
        family maltreatment when hired and annually, thereafter.
        3.16.3. Ensures staff working with children, ages birth to three years, are aware of the
        NPSP to include program services, eligibility, and referral procedures.
        3.16.4. Immediately reports suspected incidents of child maltreatment occurring in a
        DoD-sanctioned activity to the FAP, (e.g., family day care, child development and youth
        centers, or recreation programs).
        3.16.5. Develops effective policy, in coordination with the FAC, for installation
        background checks and screening of applicants seeking employment or volunteer
        positions working with children and youth.
        3.16.6. Consults with JA to determine proper jurisdiction and course of action for
        investigating and resolving situations where a child care provider or youth program staff
        member is suspected of child abuse and/or neglect in a DoD-sanctioned activity.
51FWI40-301 23 DECEMBER 2010                                                                     13


      3.16.7. Ensures family support agencies receive family maltreatment education and
      prevention training annually to the FAP.
      3.16.8. Develops effective policy, in coordination with the CAIB, for screening
      applicants seeking positions working with children and youth.
      3.16.9. Will consult with 51 FW/SJA to determine proper jurisdiction and course of
      action for investigating/resolving situations where a child care provider/youth program
      staff is suspected of child abuse and/or neglect at a base center or other DOD-sanctioned
      activity.
4. Duty to Report:
   4.1. All military and DoD personnel are required to report any suspected incident(s) of child
   abuse/neglect. Failure to do so can result in disciplinary actions. Incidents of suspected
   spousal violence must be reported to AFOSI or SFS. Such incidents must also be referred to
   the Family Advocacy Office for assessment. If AFOSI or SFS are the first agency to receive
   an allegation of family maltreatment they will refer the case to the FAP.
   4.2. The initial investigation of a report or allegation of family maltreatment shall be referred
   to AFOSI or SFS.
   4.3. Investigations by AFOSI or SFS investigators (S2I) will be initiated when needed,
   regardless of whether or not a civilian agency is investigating the matter.
   4.4. Commanders and First Sergeants shall only investigate such allegations after AFOSI
   and SFS have declined to investigate. Commanders and First Sergeants shall consult with
   FA prior to investigating such allegations after AFOSI and SFS refusal.
   4.5. FAP Staff: Whenever a report of suspected child maltreatment or family violence is
   received, the FAP staff will gather information to assess for possible abuse and
   determine/establish victim safety. FAP Staff will refer all allegations of family maltreatment
   to AFOSI and SFS.
   4.6. 51 SFS: All 51 SFS personnel are key members of the installation response to incidents
   of suspected Domestic Violence and/or child maltreatment.
   4.7. 51FW/JA: 51FW/SJA’s office will remain available to assist as needed.
   4.8. AFOSI: Detachment agents will be available to consult, advise and refer as needed. If
   AFOSI is the initial investigative agency on scene, they will notify the Family Advocacy
   Office or behavioral health on-call provider by telephone of the alleged maltreatment as soon
   as practicable.
   4.9. 51 Medical Group: The 51 Medical Group will provide medical care, consultation and
   treatment in support of the FAP.
   4.10. Exception to mandatory reporting includes chaplains receiving information through a
   penitent-clergy relationship or confidential communications in the course of their official
   chaplain duties, or JA receiving information from an established attorney-client relationship.
   Without an expressed consent to disclose they are not required to report this information.
 14                                                         51FWI40-301 23 DECEMBER 2010


5. Procedures:
   5.1. Normal Duty Hours: All reports of suspected child maltreatment or domestic violence
   will be accepted by the Family Advocacy Office at 784-5010.
   5.2. The Family Advocacy office will inform all involved Commanders and First Sergeants
   of a member’s involvement with the FAP.
   5.3. High Interest Cases: Special attention will be given to all suspected child maltreatment
   incidents occurring in DOD-sanctioned activities. Incidents resulting in major injury, death,
   or child sexual abuse will be coordinated with the base/community agency responsible for
   the investigation.
   5.4. Restricted Reporting: Restricted reporting of domestic violence allows adult victims the
   option of reporting an incident to the SARC, MTF Healthcare Providers and the FAP without
   initiating the investigative process, unless the restricted report meets criteria for an exception.
   Exceptions include: Victims authorizing disclosure of covered communications, serious or
   imminent threat to the health or safety of the victim or another, suspicion of child abuse,
   Military, Federal or State subpoena or when supervision of healthcare providers is required
   for direct service provision.
   5.5. After Duty Hours: All reports to FAP made after duty hours will be made to the
   Behavioral Health on-call provider by calling the Medical Group Emergency Room at 784-
   2500. In addition, the report shall be directed to Law Enforcement unless the alleged victim
   desires to make a restricted report. Security Forces will provide information for disposition
   and consult with the Behavioral Health on-call provider. A Behavioral Health provider is on-
   call for any consultation or referral to appropriate installation or community agencies. If
   there is a reason to believe that a child may be at risk, the Law Enforcement office must be
   contacted to evaluate the home to determine whether or not the condition of the home
   presents an immediate risk to the child’s physical well being.
   5.6. Photographs: In cases of apparent physical abuse/neglect, photographs will be taken to
   support evidence. Photos will be taken as soon as possible before external evidence of
   injuries subsides or to document damage or neglect to physical property. Follow-up
   photographs should be taken 24 hours after the incident and again at 48 hours after the
   incident, if possible. The Base Photo Lab/Alert Photographer can be contacted through SFS
   or AFOSI. Any photographs taken will also be made available to the Family Advocacy
   Office.
   5.7. Medical Evaluation and Treatment: In cases of suspected physical/sexual maltreatment,
   or neglect, when appropriate, a physician will evaluate, treat, document and if necessary refer
   for further evaluation and/or care. The FAP will make special efforts to protect the alleged
   victim in order to preserve evidence of a possible crime.
   5.8. Any interview of a minor child will be conducted with full coordination of agencies
   having a viable interest in the case, i.e., AFOSI, SFS, JA, and FAP. Interviewers will attempt
   to obtain all pertinent information in one interview of the minor child. Agency
   representatives who wish to participate may observe and suggest additional questions as
   deemed necessary. However, AFOSI, SFS, or civilian law enforcement personnel will
   decide on the appropriate method for interviewing the child.
51FWI40-301 23 DECEMBER 2010                                                                 15


6. Orders Prohibiting Contact
   6.1. Commanders and First Sergeants must first ensure the safety of potential victims. They
   should consider issuing verbal and/or written no contact orders to military personnel accused
   of domestic violence. Such orders should remain in effect until the allegations are resolved
   or until the commander consults with FAP and JA. Such orders may run concurrently with
   civilian restraining orders if applicable.
   6.2. All military personnel shall give full support and credit to civilian court orders
   prohibiting contact between family members. Military members who are not sure of the full
   force and effect of the order should consult with JA.
7. Prescribed and Adopted Forms:
   7.1. Prescribed Forms:
       No forms prescribed
   7.2. Adopted forms:
        AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                          PATRICK C. MALACKOWSKI, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
 16                                                  51FWI40-301 23 DECEMBER 2010


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 6400.1, Family Advocacy Program (FAP), 23 August 2004
DoDI 6400.05, New Parent Support Program (NPSP), 20 December 2005
AFPD 40-3, Family Advocacy Program, 10 March 2005
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 29 January 2004
AFI 40-301, Family Advocacy, 30 November 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADAF—Active Duty Air Force
ADAPT—Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
A&FRC—Airmen and Family Readiness Center
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
CAIB—Community Action Information Board
CCS—Clinical Case Staffing
CN—Chief Nurse
CPS—Child Protective Services
CRB—Central Registry Board
CSMRT—Child Sexual Maltreatment Response Team
DODEA—Department of Defense Education Activity
FAAS—Family Advocacy Automation Systems
FAC—Family Advocacy Committee
FACAT—Family Advocacy Command Assistance Team
FAIS—Family Advocacy Intervention Specialist
FAN—Family Advocacy Nurse
FAO—Family Advocacy Officer
FAOM—Family Advocacy Outreach Manager
FAP—Family Advocacy Program
FAPAP—Family Advocacy Program Action Plan
FAPNET—Family Advocacy Program Network
51FWI40-301 23 DECEMBER 2010                  17


FASOR—Family Advocacy System of Records
FAST—Family Advocacy Strength-based Therapy
HRVRT—High Risk for Violence Response Team
IDS—Integrated Delivery System
ISD—Incident Status Determination
ISDR—Incident Status Determination Review
ISSA—Inter-Service Support Agreement
JA—Judge Advocate
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
MSG—Mission Support Group
MTF—Medical Treatment Facility
NPSP—New Parent Support Program
OPAL—Outreach Prevention Automated Log
OPMC—Outreach Prevention Management Council
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RMC—Referral Management Center
ROK—Republic of Korea
SARC—Sexual Assault Response Coordinator
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
SNCO—Senior Non-commissioned Officers
TSC—TRICARE Service Center
VA—Victim Advocate, Victim Advocacy
VWAP—Victim Witness Assistance Program
