BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      51ST FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION 48-106
OF THE 51ST FIGHTER WING
                                                                              29 AUGUST 2012

                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                                        BASE HAZARD
                                                              COMMUNICATION PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 51 AMDS/SGPB                                                     Certified by: 51 MDG/CC
                                                                         (Col Gregory B. York)
Supersedes:   51 FWI 48-106,                                                           Pages: 11
              18 January 2007


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 48-1, Aerospace Medicine
Enterprise. It will serve as the workplace written Hazard Communication (HAZCOM) Program
when supplemented by Bioenvironmental Engineering surveys (if applicable), Air Force
Instruction (AFI) 90-821, Hazard Communication, the workplace hazardous chemical inventory,
the workplace specific training plan and a list of the non-routine tasks involving hazardous
materials. The supervisor in each workplace that uses hazardous materials will maintain a copy
of this instruction, with attachments. It applies to all military and Department of Defense (DoD)
civilian personnel assigned to the 51st Fighter Wing at Osan Air Base whose duties require the
use or handling of hazardous materials. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through Major
Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. The use of the name or
mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this
publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Paragraph 1.2.2. was
changed to reflect how Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) are accessible to employees.
 2                                                            51FWI48-106 29 AUGUST 2012


Paragraph 1.3.2., outlines where personnel can find assistance in conducting HAZCOM
employee training, including Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) expanded standard
training. Paragraph 1.4.2. was changed to more accurately describe what the Supply Distribution
Points do. Paragraph 3.1. correctly identifies Bioenvironmental Engineering’s role in relation to
MSDSs. Paragraph 4.1 and Attachment 2 were changed to implement a new and user friendly
workplace specific HAZCOM training template. Paragraph 6.3 was removed to relieve the work
area supervisor of unnecessary duties.
1. Responsibilities:
     1.1. Unit Commanders will ensure supervisors and employees who handle, use, or are
     potentially exposed to hazardous materials in the course of official Air Force duties are
     provided information and training on the Federal Hazard Communication Training Program
     (FHCTP), as specified in AFI 90-821, and the specific hazards in the workplaces under their
     control.
     1.2. Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) Flight (51 AMDS/SGPB) will:
        1.2.1. Evaluate workplace HAZCOM programs during routine periodic workplace
        assessments.
        1.2.2. Assist in MSDS reviews, including interpreting information, understanding health
        effects, and indentifying any necessary protective measures. If a MSDS is not available,
        the Hazmat Pharmacy (HAZMART) or BE will assist the supervisor in obtaining one.
        1.2.3. Assist supervisors, when requested, with their workplace specific HAZCOM
        program and training materials.
        1.2.4. Identify and maintain a current listing of all industrial workplaces that use
        hazardous materials and have a requirement to establish a HAZCOM program.
        1.2.5. Advise organizations or individuals concerning labeling of containers.
        1.2.6. Review and approve workplace AF Form 3952, Chemical/Hazardous Material
        Request Authorization Form, requests IAW AFI 32-7086, using the Enterprise
        Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health Management Information System
        (EESOH-MIS).
     1.3. Public Health (PH) Flight (51 AMDS/SGPM) will:
        1.3.1. Provide HAZCOM train the trainer course, as requested, to all new supervisors
        and trainers as required.
        1.3.2. Provide technical assistance, if required, in conducting HAZCOM employee
        training, including OSHA expanded standard training.
     1.4. Supply Distribution Points (Medical Logistics, CE Self-Help Store, and HAZMART)
     will:
        1.4.1. Maintain copies of manufacturer specific MSDS for all hazardous materials stored
        in their respective areas.
        1.4.2. Reject or suspend/hold material received without a manufacturer specific MSDS
        either on file or attached with shipment, and process a SF 364, Report of Discrepancy
        (ROD), and submit to HAZMART.
51FWI48-106 29 AUGUST 2012                                                                       3


     1.4.3. Reject or suspend/hold material received that is improperly labeled, and process a
     SF 364.
     1.4.4. Ensure material is properly labeled prior to issuing it to customers IAW AFI 90-
     821.
     1.4.5. Provide MSDS with each initial order.
  1.5. Workplace supervisors will:
     1.5.1. Prepare and maintain a workplace specific HAZCOM program binder.                   See
     Attachment 3 for the binder template.
     1.5.2. Maintain a workplace hazardous chemical inventory that includes the national or
     local stock number, nomenclature, and manufacturer.
     1.5.3. Ensure MSDS are current and readily available for each hazardous material used
     in the workplace. MSDS must be bilingual if the material is to be used by Korean
     National employees.
     1.5.4. Ensure the workplace hazardous chemical inventory is current at all times and that
     BE is informed of all additions and deletions to the inventory.
     1.5.5. Complete and submit an AF Form 3952 to Hazmart when ordering a new chemical
     in the workplace. Part I of the form should be filled out in its entirety and certified by the
     supervisor. Part II is filled out by BE, SE, and CEV.
     1.5.6. Ensure employees do not work with hazardous materials until HAZCOM training
     has been provided.
     1.5.7. Ensure all hazardous material containers are properly labeled IAW AFI 90-821.
     Labels must be in Korean if Korean National Employees use the containers.
     1.5.8. Ensure annual training is provided to employees for all routine and non-routine
     tasks performed in the workplace.
     1.5.9. Ensure all training is documented properly on the individual’s AF Form 55,
     Employee Safety and Health Record.
  1.6. US and Korean National Contractor Operations, to include both U.S. procured contracts
  will ensure contractors are aware of the following:
     1.6.1. It is the responsibility of the contractor to furnish MSDS, in English and Korean,
     for all hazardous materials used under the terms and conditions of their contract. The
     type of materials that the contractor shall submit an MSDS for will include, but is not
     limited to: glue, paint, cleaning compounds, etc., and any other type of product deemed
     necessary by the Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) or as required by U. S.
     Government Environmental Laws and Regulations or Korean Environmental Laws and
     Regulations.
     1.6.2. The contractor is responsible for processing MSDS on an AF Form 3000, Material
     Approval Submittal. The AF Form 3000 shall be submitted no later than fifteen calendar
     days after the Notice to Proceed is issued by the Contracting Officer. The contractor
     shall submit four copies of the AF Form 3000 with carbon paper. The contractor shall
     submit the AF Form 3000 to the COR for review prior to submitting the AF Form 3000
 4                                                                 51FWI48-106 29 AUGUST 2012


        for approval. It is the responsibility of the COR to verify the AF Form 3000 to ensure
        that all hazardous materials are submitted in the proper format.
        1.6.3. It is the responsibility of the contractor to list each type of the hazardous material
        on the AF Form 3000. The contractor is also responsible for listing the quantity, unit of
        measure (i.e., each, liter, gallon, etc.), and size of the container(s). It is the responsibility
        of the COR to verify these quantities and containers prior to initialing the AF Form 3000.
        1.6.4. After verification of all hazardous materials by the COR, the contractor is then
        responsible for processing the AF Form 3000 through 51 CES/CEAN, Environmental
        Element located in building 600, military telephone DSN 784-4272/8973, commercial
        telephone (031) 661-4272/8973, 51 FW/SE, Wing Safety located in building 781,
        military telephone DSN 784-4747/1842, commercial telephone (031) 661-4747/1842, and
        51 AMDS/SGPB, Bioenvironmental Engineering located in building 768, military
        telephone DSN 784-2326/4685, commercial telephone (031) 661-2623/4685, prior to
        bringing any hazardous materials onto Osan Air Base, Korea. After receiving approval
        for all hazardous materials, it is the responsibility of the contractor to bring a copy of the
        signed AF Form 3000 to the COR for filing in the contract folder.
        1.6.5. After receiving approval of all hazardous materials required under the terms and
        conditions of the contract, it is the responsibility of the contractor to process the MSDS
        through the HAZMART located in building 1631, military telephone DSN 784-9286,
        commercial telephone (031) 661-9286. The HAZMART is responsible for issuing bar
        codes that will be affixed to each container by the contractor. The contractor is
        responsible for posting an approved copy of the AF Form 3000 at the work site storage
        area as well as keeping a signed copy of the AF Form 3000 in the contractor field office.
        1.6.6. The COR will be responsible for ensuring that the Fire Department receives a copy
        of all AF Form 3000’s to include MSDS’s. A written description (building #, general
        location inside the building, etc.) shall also be included.
        1.6.7. It is the responsibility of the contractor to process a new AF Form 3000 for any
        additional hazardous materials brought onto Osan AB throughout the term of the
        contract. This shall include any new materials as well as any additional quantities above
        the originally approved quantities.
2. Hazard Determination
     2.1. 51 FW will rely on the hazard determination of the supplier and/or manufacturer of the
     chemicals purchased. For those HAZMATs produced by AF components, the activity
     controlling the formulation will make the hazard determination.
     2.2. Workplace supervisors are responsible for determining whether the type and quantity of
     a HAZMAT used in the workplace qualifies the item to be exempted as a “consumer use”
     item, in accordance with AFI 90-821, para. 2.2.9.1 and the 51 FW Exemption List, which can
     be located in the ESOH-MIS database or by contacting BE.
3. Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS)
     3.1. BE will maintain access to the installation MSDS contained in the Hazardous Material
     Information and Resource System (HMIRS) database. This information will be made readily
     available to all workers and emergency response agencies.
51FWI48-106 29 AUGUST 2012                                                                      5


   3.2. Workers who desire clarification concerning MSDS information will contact BE (784-
   2623, Bldg 768) to establish a time during the worker's shift to review the MSDS. BE
   personnel will review the MSDS with the employee and provide an explanation of MSDS
   information.
   3.3. All new chemicals or products having a new formula or manufacturer must be evaluated
   by BE. If BE determines the MSDS, or equivalent, is not available, BE will assist in
   obtaining an MSDS using established procedures. Additionally, product importers will
   request the supplier provide an MSDS before shipment of the product. To locate an MSDS,
   the following information must be provided: NSN, manufacturer (including full address and
   phone number), trade name, and part number.
4. Employee Information and Training
   4.1. Purpose. Supervisors and employees who handle, use, or are potentially exposed to
   hazardous materials in the course of official Air Force duties must be provided training on
   the AF HAZCOM program, including workplace specific training to address the hazards
   encountered in that particular work center. Supervisors will ensure the appropriate functional
   areas; PH, BE, Wing Safety, CE Environmental, and Fire Department, review and approve
   the workplace specific training program for technical accuracy and completeness prior to
   implementation in the workplace. A HAZCOM workplace specific training plan template is
   provided in attachment 2.
   4.2. Workplace supervisors will ensure workers are trained on all aspects of the HAZCOM
   program before the workers handle or are occupationally exposed to hazardous materials.
   4.3. Training must be provided to all personnel within 30 days of arrival to the workplace
   and prior to the person starting routine job tasks. Documentation of training will be
   accomplished via Core Automated Maintenance System (CAMS), AF Form 55 or other
   approved system.
5. Workplace Hazardous Chemical Inventory
   5.1. Workplace supervisors develop a hazardous chemical inventory as part of their
   workplace specific HAZCOM program. BE will review this inventory during routine
   periodic workplace assessments and will assist shops in finding MSDS.
   5.2. The HAZCOM binder will be maintained in the workplace and will be updated by
   supervisors as necessary. When new chemicals are introduced into and/or removed from the
   workplace, the supervisor shall ensure chemicals are added or deleted from the hazardous
   chemical inventory. Each supervisor is responsible for ensuring the information in the
   HAZCOM binder is current and readily available to each worker.
   5.3. As a minimum, the inventory will include the identity of each chemical used in the
   workplace, National Stock Number (NSN) or Local Purchase Number (LPN), and
   manufacturer.
6. Labeling and Other Forms of Warning
   6.1. All containers containing hazardous materials will be labeled as outlined in AFI 90-821.
   This includes items transferred from their original container (except into a portable container
   for immediate use for the same employee that made the transfer) and any illegible or defaced
   labels.
 6                                                                 51FWI48-106 29 AUGUST 2012


     6.2. Labels or other markings on each container of hazardous material must include the
     material's identity and appropriate hazard warnings. Labels on shipped containers must also
     include the name, address, and phone number of the chemical manufacturer, importer, or
     other responsible party.
     6.3. If a container is too small to affix a label, an appropriate label can be attached as a tag.
     6.4. Workplace supervisors and BE can evaluate the effectiveness of labeling systems
     through a review of workplace specific training program and MSDS procedures. Interviews
     with workers should be conducted to determine their awareness and knowledge of the
     chemical hazards present in their workplace. Ensure personnel know how to interpret
     chemical labels and whether the chemicals are an inhalation, skin or contact, or ingestion
     hazard.
7. Non-Routine Tasks Involving Hazardous Materials
     7.1. The workplace supervisor will list all known non-routine tasks in the written workplace
     specific HAZCOM program along with the hazards and the Personal Protective Equipment
     (PPE) required for each non-routine task. For tasks that are non-routine, workers and
     supervisors will conduct a Job Hazard Analysis prior to performing the task. Supervisors
     will ensure all equipment, PPE, and chemicals required for the task have been adequately
     covered in a written training program. After receiving proper training, the training will be
     documented on the AF Form 55.
     7.2. Operating instructions, technical orders, or lesson plans will be provided for all non-
     routine tasks as part of the written training program.
     7.3. Workplace supervisors will ensure personnel are trained prior to performing non-routine
     tasks.
     7.4. Supervisors will ensure that personnel are informed of the chemical hazards, protective
     precautions, and emergency procedures associated with non-routine tasks.




                                                PATRICK T. McKENZIE, Col, USAF
                                                Commander
51FWI48-106 29 AUGUST 2012                                                           7


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Enterprise, 23 August 2011
AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management, 1 November 2004
AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication, 30 March 2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record, 5 August 2011
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF Form 3000, Material Approval Submittal, 3 November 2003
AF Form 3952, Chemical/Hazardous Material Request Authorization Form, 1 March 2005
SF 364, Report of Discrepancy (ROD), February 1980

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
BE—Bioenvironmental Engineering
CAMS—Core Automated Maintenance System
COR—Contracting Officer’s Representative
DoD—Department of Defense
EESOH—MIS —Enterprise Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health Management
Information System
FHCTP—Federal Hazard Communication Training Program
HAZCOM—Hazard Communication
HAZMART—Hazmat Pharmacy
HMIRS—Hazardous Material Information and Resource System
LPN—Local Purchase Number
MAJCOM—Major Command
MSDS—Material Safety Data Sheets
NSN—National Stock Number
 8                                        51FWI48-106 29 AUGUST 2012


OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Act
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PH—Public Health
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
51FWI48-106 29 AUGUST 2012                                                                    9


                                        Attachment 2
             HAZCOM WORKPLACE SPECIFIC TRAINING TEMPLATE

A2.1. To access the HAZCOM workplace specific training template see Osan’s ESOHTN
website at http://www.esohtn.com/ and click on “Installation Specific Information” or use the
following link to access the template on the http://www.osan.af.mil/units/index.asp website, and
click on the Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) link under 51st Medical Group.
 10                                                            51FWI48-106 29 AUGUST 2012


                                          Attachment 3
                 HAZCOM PROGRAM BINDER TABLE OF CONTENTS

Figure A3.1. Hazcom Program Binder Table of Content
Tab A: Workplace Specific Training Plan. The workplace specific training plan covers how the
workplace will implement the program and is the outline for the employee information and
training program. Using the workplace hazardous chemical inventory, any chemical item that
requires the use of safety equipment, engineering or administrative controls must be a topic of
the workplace specific initial and annual HAZCOM training. Chemical items that do not require
safety equipment or the use of controls should be discussed in general terms. The location of
training documentation can be referenced.

Tab B: 51 FWI 48-106, Base Hazard Communication Program. This instruction covers base-
level responsibilities, guidance, and program requirements for Osan AB, Korea.

Tab C: Bioenvironmental Engineering Assessment(s). Workplaces that are periodically
evaluated by BE are required to maintain copies of assessments that address worker exposures
(i.e., periodic, baseline, and special surveys). Areas that are not routinely visited by
Bioenvironmental Engineering (non-industrial areas) should only keep surveys that have been
done to assess exposures.

Tab D: Training Documentation. An AF Form 55 must be filled out for each individual in the
workplace. Block V will be filled out properly with the appropriate acronyms. All training will
be signed-off by the individual and the supervisor. Computer programs can be used to track and
manage training. If the AF Form 55s are not maintained in Tab D, a cross reference sheet must
be filed in Tab D stating where the AF Form 55s are maintained.

Tab E: Workplace Hazardous Chemical Inventory. The workplace hazardous chemical
inventory provides a reference that identifies the chemicals procured or tracked through the
HAZMART Pharmacy. The inventory must include national or local stock number and
nomenclature. For those items currently on hand it must also include the manufacturer.

Tab F: Non-Routine Tasks. A listing of non-routine tasks that use hazardous materials must
clearly identify specific safety equipment and control requirements (PPE, ventilation, etc.). If
there are no non-routine tasks in the workplace, write a memo for record, stating this.

Tab G: MSDS. Chemicals listed on the workplace’s hazardous chemical inventory must have a
respective manufacturer specific MSDS as part of the program binder. It is not uncommon to
have multiple MSDS for a given NSN item. MSDS can be kept in a separate binder and in
another location as long as the location is cross-referenced and the MSDS are easily accessible to
the workers. A translated copy must be included if the material is to be used by Korean National
employees.

Tab H: Certified PPE listing. The certified PPE listing for this workplace is an attachment to
your last Bioenvironmental Engineering Assessment.
51FWI48-106 29 AUGUST 2012                                                                    11



Tab I: Spill Response Plan/Emergency Exit Plan. A plan should be in place that shows what
procedures to take in case personnel need to respond to a spill. A diagram of the workplace
should be available that shows all the exits of the facility.

Tab J: Appointment Letter. A letter appointing primary and alternate HAZCOM monitors, with
a telephone number and DEROS.

Tab K: General Information. Miscellaneous information, such as workplace diagrams, training
programs, and regulatory references, are placed here.
