BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               51ST FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION
OF THE 51ST FIGHTER WING                                                        90-103

                                                                                  25 APRIL 2013

                                                                            Special Management

                                                          OSAN PATRIOT EXCALIBUR (PEX)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasable restrictions on this publication

OPR: 51 OSS/OSCTS                                                         Certified by: 51 OG/CC
                                                                         (Col. Keith D. McBride)
                                                                                          Pages: 8


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-1, Policy Formulation. The
purpose of this instruction is to provide specific responsibilities for all personnel involved with
Patriot Excalibur (PEX) at Osan AB, Korea. This instruction facilitates coordination between
the users and managers of the program, and applies to all PEX users at Osan AB, Korea. It
applies to all units assigned to 51st Fighter Wing (51 FW) Osan Air Base (AB), Korea. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS). The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer,
commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by
the Air Force

1. General:
   1.1. This instruction outlines the responsibilities, Operations (Ops), Training and
   Communication support of the PEX unit management software tool.
   1.2. PEX is the general term applied to an enterprise management system comprised of a
   database server, a web server, numerous client machines, network infrastructure, and the
   appropriate software. WinPex is the name of the software that is installed on individual
   desktop (client) computers to access the PEX database. The PEX database is hosted on a
   server configured with Microsoft Structured Query Language (SQL) ePex is the name of the
 2                                                               51FWI90-103 25 APRIL 2013


     web application which accesses the same PEX database, but via Internet Explorer. The PEX
     Database Manager is the application used to manage the PEX database at the Server.
     1.3. PEX is an Air Force owned software application it is a software suite of applications
     used by the combined and joint air operations community to manage wing level and below
     scheduling, and Training and Stan/Eval tasks. It is designed for military flying units and
     associated organizations such as Intelligence, Air Operation Centers, Aero Medical, Pare-
     Rescue, Air Control; Squadrons and Tactical Air Control units
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. 51 FW/CV will establish and chair or designate a chair for a PEX Working Group. The
     PEX Working Group will be comprised of representatives from each unit that uses PEX.
     2.2. 51 OSS responsibilities:
        2.2.1. 51 OSS/OSCTS is responsible, through the assigned contracted PEX managers,
        for overall management of PEX to include hardware and software installation,
        management and upkeep, software update installation, software baseline change
        requests, implementation, administration policy, account administration, and system user
        training. The contracted PEX managers are responsible for server reboots and
        replacement in case of failure. However the USAF is responsible to acquire replacement
        hardware. The software is USAF owned and provided.
        2.2.2. 51 OSS/OSCTS will ensure smooth operation and training of PEX on Osan AB
        and coordinates the efforts of wing leadership, SAIC contractors, and 51 CS. 51
        OSS/OSCTS ensures wing leadership is fully briefed on all capabilities of PEX and
        serves as the Quality Assurance Evaluator (QAE) for the two contracted Senior Staff
        Analysts.
        2.2.3. 51 OSS/OSCTS PEX Managers will review and validate the installation, testing,
        and operational use of new versions of PEX software and recommend to 51 OG/CC when
        to install the new version.
        2.2.4. 51 OSS/OSCTS with the assistance of the 51 FW PEX Managers will identify
        PEX program objectives and requirements; and will develop and implement standards
        and guidelines for PEX program activities; and plan for integration, upgrade, and
        employment.
     2.3. 51 CS will provide connectivity for PEX to the appropriate domain (NIPR/SIPR), and
     assist in obtaining PEX NIPR and SIPR server rack space for the PEX administrators if they
     are unable to find appropriate space for Primary SQL server, Primary IIS server, and Backup
     SQL server.
     2.4. Squadron Commanders of units that use PEX will:
        2.4.1. When utilizing PEX, appoint two or more representatives to the PEX Working
        Group. Representatives will ensure system content accuracy and provide feedback on
        system performance and ability to meet individual unit needs. Additionally, they will
        identify problems and desired changes in the configuration of PEX, or its associated data,
        to 51 OSS/OSCTS for resolution.
51FWI90-103 25 APRIL 2013                                                                   3


      2.4.2. Ensure that newly assigned personnel requiring PEX user accounts contact the
      PEX Help Desk to schedule training.
      2.4.3. Ensure that PEX Weekly Schedule function is utilized IAW 51FWI 21-165,
      Aircraft Flying and Maintenance Scheduling Procedures, for all flying scheduling
      activities.
3. PEX Operations and Training
   3.1. PEX Operations:
      3.1.1. To use PEX you must first log in. To log in, you must either be at a desktop
      computer which has “WinPEX” client installed (double click the desktop launch icon) or
      use a web browser and navigate to the server which hosts the “ePEX” web application
      (link). Both WinPEX and ePEX take you to the same database. PEX uses Windows
      Authentication to identify and authenticate you into the database. You need two pieces
      of information to log in: server name (OSPEX01) and database name is either (PEX, 51
      FW) or (DGS 694th). Having successfully logged in once, subsequent attempts will
      retain the server and database selected.
      3.1.2. WinPEX should only be installed on Scheduling, Tower (SOF), Training, Top-3 &
      Squadron Aviation Resource Managers (SARM), 51 OGV and Stan Eval computers. All
      other PEX users will utilize ePEX to perform PEX activities. Exceptions to this policy
      will be coordinated through the PEX administrators.
   3.2. Operational Support.
      3.2.1. Contractor employees, working with technical guidance from 51 OSS/OSCTS
      will provide PEX training support at Osan AB. The contact information is on My Page
      of both WinPEX and ePEX. Direct or by email at support of the contract will include:
          3.2.1.1. Maintaining a library of directives, resources and training materials.
          3.2.1.2. Developing, publishing, and maintaining a PEX training plan for the 51 FW.
          3.2.1.3. Developing and maintaining lesson plans for training.
          3.2.1.4. Evaluating and documenting training accomplished.
          3.2.1.5. See the Engineering and Technical Services (ETS) contract Statement of
          Work for a complete list of contractor responsibilities.
   3.3. PEX Interfaces: Patriot Excalibur imports U.S. DoD data with interfaces to the
   following Programs: Aviation Resource Management System (ARMS), Air Tasking Order
   (ATO), TaskView, Horseblanket, Core Automated Maintenance System (CAMS), Portable
   Flight Planning System (PFPS), and Unit-Level/Unit Command and Control (UL/UC2).
      3.3.1. The ARMS Interface *.dis browsers, provided in the CD installation files (See
      ARMS Help for instructions on installing these files to the proper system.), will create
      browser output data files for PEX to update the personnel, currency, and flying hours
      portions of its database.
      3.3.2. The ATO Interface reads a US Message Text Format (USMTF) ATO 2000, 2004,
      and/or North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) ATO to create PEX missions.
 4                                                               51FWI90-103 25 APRIL 2013


        3.3.3. The TaskView Interface reads an Airspace Control Order (*.aco) file and imports
        Air Combat Order (ACO) locations into the PEX database.
        3.3.4. The Horseblanket Interface reads the HQ AMC (TACC) Horseblanket (*.xls) file
        and creates mission shells.
        3.3.5. The Computer Automated Management System (CAMS) Interface reads a CAMS
        data (*.txt) file and imports squadron aircraft data into the PEX database.
        3.3.6. PEX and PFPS can be connected through the Mission Board, Mission Builder tab
        whereby a PFPS flight-planned sortie will create the shell of a PEX sortie.
        3.3.7. The PEX Single Scheduler Interface (SSI) provides an adaptor with notifications
        to share data with Unit Level/Command and Control. See the Scheduling>UC2(SSI)
        Help Topic for a complete list of data shared by the interface.
3.4. PEX can operate on NIPR and SIPR classification levels.
     3.5. Training Support.
        3.5.1. Individual units will identify and coordinate PEX training for unit members with
        the 51OSS/OSC PEX coordinators. No person shall be allowed to utilize PEX without
        first obtaining training.
        3.5.2. Training Courses. 51 OSS/OSCTS will develop courses tailored to 51 FW users.
        The following paragraphs list courses that are offered; other courses will be developed as
        needed.
            3.5.2.1. PEX Basic User Course: This course is designed for personnel who require
            basic/read-only permissions. Attendees will learn how to use the Displays,
            Scheduling, Training, and Ops viewing functions utilizing WinPEX or ePEX.
            Course length will be one hour.
            3.5.2.2. PEX Flying Operations Utilization Course: This course is designed for
            aviation resource managers and aircrew members working in an operational flying
            squadron, and includes detailed instruction in duty desk operations when utilizing
            Windows PEX or ePEX. Attendees will learn how to use the Displays, Ops,
            Scheduling, Training Reports, and Security Identifier functions. Course length
            will be one – two hours.
            3.5.2.3. PEX Flight Scheduler & Flying Hours Course: This course is designed for
            Wing and Flight Schedulers working in a support or operational flying squadron, and
            includes how to perform daily flying scheduling and flying hours functions when
            utilizing Windows PEX. Attendees will learn how to utilize the Setup, Displays,
            Ops, Scheduling, and Maintenance functions. Course length will be two - four
            hours.
            3.5.2.4. PEX Basic Scheduler and Flight Following Course: This course is designed
            for Wing and Flight Schedulers working during exercise/contingency support
            performing daily flying scheduling functions when utilizing Windows PEX.
            Attendees will learn how to utilize the Setup, Displays, Ops, and Scheduling (ATO
            import) functions. Course length will be two - four hours.
51FWI90-103 25 APRIL 2013                                                               5


        3.5.2.5. PEX Ground Scheduler Course: This course is designed for ground
        schedulers in support or operational squadron who perform ground scheduling duties
        when utilizing Windows PEX. Attendees will learn how to use the Displays,
        Scheduling, Personnel/Availability, Training, and Reports functions. Course
        length will be one - two hours.
        3.5.2.6. PEX Plans and Scheduling: This course is designed for maintenance
        schedulers performing daily scheduling and flying hours working in maintenance
        operations utilizing Windows PEX and ePEX. Attendees will learn how to use the
        Displays, Ops, Scheduling and Maintenance functions. Course length will be one -
        two hours.
        3.5.2.7. PEX Maintenance Operations Center Course: This course is designed for
        Maintenance Operations Center personnel who perform maintenance operations
        duties utilizing Windows PEX and ePEX. Attendees will learn how to use the
        Displays, Scheduling, and Maintenance functions. Course length will be one - two
        hours.
        3.5.2.8. PEX Training Manager/Officer Course – (Includes Intel Trainers): This
        course is designed for Flying or Ground Training Managers performing training
        functions utilizing WinPEX and ePEX. Attendees will learn how to use the Displays
        and Training functions. Course length will be one – two hours.
        3.5.2.9. PEX Stan Eval Course: This course is designed for personnel performing
        duties in a Stan/Eval capacity utilizing ePEX. Attendees will learn how to use the
        Displays, Stan Eval, and Ops functions. Course length will be two - three hours.




                                        PATRICK T. McKENZIE, Colonel, USAF
                                        Commander
 6                                                          51FWI90-103 25 APRIL 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 90-1, Policy Formulation, 6 October 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
51FWI 21-165, Aircraft Flying and Maintenance Scheduling Procedures, 7 April 2010
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACO—Air Combat Order
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ARMS—Aviation Resource Management System
ATO—Air Tasking Order
CAMS—Computer Automated Management System
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
Ops——Operations
PEX—Patriot Excalibur
PFPS—Portable Flight Planning System
QAE—Quality Assurance Evaluator
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAIC—Science Application International Corporation
SARM—Squadron Aviation Resource Management
SQL—Structured Query Language
SSI—Single Scheduler Interface
UL/UC2—Unit-Level/Unit Command and Control
USMTF—US Message Text Format
51FWI90-103 25 APRIL 2013                                                                           7


                                          Attachment 2
                     PATRIOT EXCALIBUR STATEMENT OF WORK

Figure A2.1. Patriot Excalibur Statement of Work
Patriot Excalibur Statement of Work: Osan Korea.

The contractor shall perform system administration, database management, operational training
and program requirements management for all versions of the designated UL/UC2 Unit
Scheduler; Patriot Excalibur (PEX) software.

System Administration support will include the following tasks; software installation,
applications server configuration, and system performance monitoring/ troubleshooting. Support
for MS SQL Server 2005 or 2008 will include database backups, recovery, installing new
databases, migrating databases upon new software version releases, performance monitoring,
storage allocation, and database/server distribution monitoring. Database administration will
include maintaining database configurations, parameters, tables, perform queries using SQL
(Structured Query Language), generating forms, reports and related scripts. System
Administrator will report and resolve database problems using methods consistent with site
Configuration Management restrictions.

The contractor shall communicate and coordinate PEX user requirements with HQ PACAF and
implement direction/guidance there from. Shall coordinate all PEX activities with the base user
community and brief the program status to the Vice Wing Commander and Deputies regularly.
When directed by HQ PACAF, shall perform surveys, studies, and analyses of PEX
requirements/operational policies, and prepare/submit appropriate technical reports detailing the
results (CDRL # D0004)

The shall design, organize, develop, coordinate, and conduct training for operational users of
PEX. Trainees include newly assigned Wing and Squadron level personnel, those requiring
difference or refresher training on a continual basis. Training shall be conducted to maintain the
highest level of user proficiency. Shall modify training curriculum and materials to incorporate
Wing specific training requirements, using existing government workstations to conduct hands-
on training. May develop and administer written or practical student examinations/evaluations
as part of a trainee progress and proficiency monitoring program. Copies of all training materials
shall be submitted to the on-site COR. (CDRL #00005)

When tasked, shall provide technical support during military exercises to ensure continuity of
operations. The level of effort, location, and time of the requested support shall be provided to
the contractor at least 30 days prior to the requirement.

Maintenance services include performing remedial maintenance, preventive maintenance
inspections, repairs of critical system components within 2 hours after notification when spares
are available, repairs of non-critical system components within 7 calendar days after receipt of
spares; conducting acceptance tests of repaired items in accordance with the Acceptance Test
Procedures established by the Original Equipment Manufacturer or in accordance with a site
 8                                                                 51FWI90-103 25 APRIL 2013


developed validation and verification process approved by the on-site COR; performing
technical maintenance support during military exercises to ensure continuity of operations;
performing fault isolation (trouble shooting); removing faulty equipment and parts; and
relocating equipment components to support facility reconfigurations. On equipment repairs,
Science Application International Corporation (SAIC) shall repair equipment and components
only if the repair cost does not exceed 75% of the cost of the replacement component. If repair
cost exceeds 75%, then the component part shall be replaced. The decision to repair or replace
shall be coordinated with the on-site COR.

Repair of critical and non-critical malfunctioning equipment (break/fix maintenance) shall take
precedence over all other maintenance tasking in order to comply with the 2-hour or 7-day
restoration requirement. Shall perform cost trade-offs prior to repairing any repairable item. If a
serviceable replacement part can be procured for less than $500, then the malfunctioning part
shall be replaced rather than repaired. If the cost of a serviceable replacement part exceeds $500,
then the contractor shall repair the part only if the repair cost does not exceed 75% of the cost of
the replacement component. If repair cost exceeds 75%, then the component part shall be
replaced. The decision to repair or replace shall be coordinated with the on-site COR.
Condemned or excess equipment shall be reported to the task order funding manager for
disposition instructions. SAIC shall ensure that equipment requiring vendor or third party repair
is processed immediately and the status of repair by the vendor is monitored to ensure the
repaired item is returned within a reasonable time period.

The Contractor shall note and enforce vendor/manufacturer warranties on all equipment
malfunctioning or failing within the warranty period.
