BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                51ST FIGHTER WING
51ST FIGHTER WING                                                       INSTRUCTION 32-1001

                                                                                   12 MAY 2010
                                                            Certified Current 16 September 2013
                                                                               Civil Engineering

                                                              FACILITY MANAGER’S GUIDE

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications is available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no restrictions on this publication

OPR: 51 CES/CEO                                                         Certified by: 51 MSG/CC
Supersedes: 51 FWI 32-1001,                                        (Col Roland K. Van Deventer)
            10 April 2000                                                                Pages: 29


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-10, Installations and
Facilities. It is provided to help Facility Manager’s (FM) understand their role and explain the
procedures required to perform FM duties. Understanding how Civil Engineering (CE) can
assist in maintaining facilities is critical to improving the quality of life in facilities.
Organizational commanders are responsible for the care, custody, and protection of facilities,
grounds, and pavement under the control of their unit. This guide details the FM’s
responsibilities and is designed to serve as a quick reference. The FM serves as the focal point
for all CE work. He/she is critical in ensuring their facility is in satisfactory condition and all
work required to maintain that condition is reported to the 51st Civil Engineer Squadron (51
CES). They are responsible for reporting all CE requirements to the Customer Service Unit
(CSU). They are required to track all open work requests and maintain constant communication
with the CSU. The FM or alternates are the only people permitted to call in (784-4304) or e-mail
(51 CES Service Call Desk@osan.af.mil) routine work orders or submit AF Form 332, Base
Civil Engineer Work Request. Anyone may call in an emergency Direct Scheduled Work Order
(DSW). Dorm residents may call in an emergency work request; however, residents must
coordinate routine work with the Dorm Manager to ensure they are documented on the AF Form
1219, BCE Multi-Craft Job Order, so the CE Dorm Maintenance Team can take care of all
deficiencies during the routinely scheduled visit. It applies to all personnel assigned or attached
to the 51st Fighter Wing (51 FW). Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims. The use of the
 2                                                                                           51FWI32-1001 12 MAY 2010


name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this
publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. It updates,
clarifies, and streamlines previous guidance on facility manager’s guide. Most notably are
significant changes to the facility manager’s responsibilities, the Work Priority System (WPS)
and energy conservation. Minor adjustments were made to the Self Help process, description of
work classification and general clarification of the work process system. Additionally,
attachments were updated to include the most current tank and secondary confinement inspection
checklist and fire protection checklist. Attachment 1 has been added as AF Format and original
attachments have been rearranged.

       1.     Appointment of Facility Managers: .......................................................................                3
       2.     Interface with Key CE Sections: ............................................................................             7
       3.     New Construction: .................................................................................................      9
       4.     CE Procedures: ......................................................................................................    9
       5.     Self-Help Center and Self-Help Program: .............................................................                   10
       6.     Self-Help Work: .....................................................................................................   11
       7.     Service Contracts Section: .....................................................................................        11
       8.     Cleaning Guidelines: ..............................................................................................     12
       9.     Energy Conservation: ............................................................................................       12
       10.    Space Utilization and Control: ...............................................................................          13
       11.    Building Security and Fire Prevention: ..................................................................               14
       12.    Real Property Installed Equipment and Real Property Similar Equipment: ..........                                       14
       13.    Facility Manager’s Records. ..................................................................................          15
       14.    Terms Explained: ...................................................................................................    15
       15.    Prescribed and Adopted Forms: .............................................................................             16

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                        17

Attachment 2—SAMPLE OF FACILITY MANAGER ASSIGNMENT LETTER                                                                             19

Attachment 3—MAINTENANCE CHECKLIST                                                                                                    20

Attachment 4—REAL PROPERTY CHECKLIST                                                                                                  21

Attachment 5—TANK AND SECONDARY CONTAINMENT INSPECTION CHECKLIST
             (FROM AFI 23-204 AND 51 LRS’S TANK CUSTODIAN TRAINING SLIDES) 22

Attachment 6—FACILITY MANAGER’S ENERGY CHECKLIST                                                                                      23
51FWI32-1001 12 MAY 2010                                                                          3


Attachment 7—FIRE PROTECTION CHECKLIST                                                           25

Attachment 8—KEY TELEPHONE NUMBERS                                                               29


1. Appointment of Facility Managers:
   1.1. Criteria: Trained and experienced FMs are the most successful in obtaining timely and
   complete CE services. FMs are responsible for the following: care, custody, and protection
   of real property; active participation in the utilities conservation program; fire-safe condition
   of the building or facility; and proper use of the building or facility assigned to them. To
   fulfill these responsibilities, they must have cooperation of all occupants and users of their
   buildings and facilities. They should make every effort to safeguard the property from
   damage or loss. They will attend the Facility Managers orientation and will serve in an
   administrative and advisory role in all real property facility matters. Unit commanders will
   designate a primary and alternate FM for each building or facility assigned to the
   organization or agency. Individuals designated as an alternate act on behalf of absent
   primary FMs. When a building or facility is used by more than one organization or staff
   agency, the main user will designate the primary FM. However, an alternate should be
   appointed from the other agency/agencies using the facility. Unit commanders and staff
   agency chiefs will make sure, by personal inspections, FMs are doing their job.
   1.2. The person designated as the primary/alternate FM will be someone with enough
   authority and ability to do the job, preferably E-5 or higher. When designated, each should
   have at least nine months time remaining with their organization. FMs will not be made
   responsible for more buildings or facilities than they can manage.
   1.3. Changes in FMs must be made in writing to the Civil Engineer Production Control
   Center (PCC) 10 days before the desired change date (see Attachment 2). FMs should clear
   through the PCC before departing the base.
   1.4. The PCC will maintain a list of the FMs for each building and facility and will update it
   as required.
   1.5. FMs are responsible for the following use and care of real property:
      1.5.1. Brief occupants and users on their collective responsibility for care, custody and
      protection of the property. Brief them about the pecuniary liability for loss and damage
      in excess of fair wear and tear resulting from acts not beyond their control.
      1.5.2. Ensure occupants do not tamper with, replace or repair installed electrical
      equipment (electrical wiring, exhaust fans, etc) except those items considered occupant’s
      responsibility, e.g. light bulbs under 10 feet, resetting circuit breakers, labeling circuit
      breaker panels.
      1.5.2.1. The FM is responsible for replacing light bulbs in fixtures less than 10 feet
      high. CE craftsman are responsible for replacing bulbs in fixtures over 10 feet high.
      Procurement of all bulbs is the FM’s responsibility, and for fixtures over 10 feet high, the
      bulbs must be on hand before CE craftsman respond. Building managers can procure
      light bulbs through General Service Administration Store (GSA) or locally through a
      source downtown.
4                                                              51FWI32-1001 12 MAY 2010


           1.5.2.1.1. Spent fluorescent lamps of all sizes and shapes (tubes, U-tubes,
           compact bulbs) must be disposed at the Hazardous Waste (HazWaste) Shop (784-
           6508) in Building 833 because of the mercury contained inside. Spent fluorescent
           lamps awaiting transport to Bldg 833 should be stored in a cardboard box to
           prevent breakage, and kept closed when not adding or removing lamps. The FM
           should collect the spent fluorescent lamps and take them to Building 833
           frequently enough to not exceed one (1) box of spent lamps awaiting disposal.
           Boxes of spent lamps should be marked with the words ―Universal Waste
           Lamps.‖
           1.5.2.1.2. When using new compact fluorescent lamps (CFL) in fixtures designed
           for old-style incandescent bulbs, ensure that the CFL bulb is appropriate for the
           position of bulb in the fixture. Some bulbs cannot be used in the upside-down
           position or inside enclosed/recessed fixtures, due to fire hazards.
    1.5.2.2. High voltage systems (600 volts or higher) requiring special equipment or
    outside lighting systems, such as poles, signs, street and security lighting will be
    maintained solely by CE.
    1.5.3. Set up a daily cleanup/inspection schedule for the area around the facility.
       1.5.3.1. The area of responsibility for each FM is fifty feet (50’) from the facility or
       half the distance to the next building. Maintenance of this area includes, but is not
       limited to, removing weeds around a facility, proper care of plants and shrubs, and
       removing snow and ice from sidewalks. A maintenance checklist is provided at
       Attachment 3. For additional FM responsibilities, Attachment 4 provides a real
       property checklist.
       1.5.3.2. Ensure plants and shrubs receive proper care, i.e. trimmed, watered, garbage
       and debris removed.
       1.5.3.3. Begin snow and ice removal after snowfall stops. It is the FM’s
       responsibility to remove snow/ice from all sidewalks within 50 feet of the facility.
    1.5.4. Maintain an Open Work Request Log. Facility managers should keep a log on an
    AF Form 3136 to ensure all maintenance and repair requirements are identified,
    requested, and completed. This will help avoid duplicate work requests and provide a
    more accurate means of tracking facility work. As needed, conduct an inspection of the
    building or facility and its Real Property Installed Equipment (RPIE). Submit AF Form
    332 for routine maintenance and/or repair.
    1.5.5. Security of all keys. FMs are required to establish security procedures that will
    ensure no keys are duplicated without official approval in writing. FMs are not
    responsible for keys controlling specialized areas within the facility, areas maintained by
    using organizations for safeguarding their specialized equipment, sensitive documents,
    personal tool kits, or similar items. FMs will repossess all keys from personnel PCSing,
    and will hold for safekeeping all keys issued to personnel going on extended leave or
    TDY for over 30 days.
       1.5.5.1. Should a facility key(s), including master key, be lost or be found to have
       been reproduced by an unauthorized source (any location other than the 51 CES
51FWI32-1001 12 MAY 2010                                                                      5


        Locksmith Shop), the individual responsible for the key(s) will accept pecuniary
        liability for having the lock(s) replaced or rekeyed. An AF Form 332 must be
        initiated to provide a cost estimate for replacing and rekeying the lock. The funds
        will be collected via DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher. Statement of Charges
        are not required for this action. Duplication of master keys requires an AF Form 332
        signed by the unit commander and approved by the Base Civil Engineer (BCE).
        1.5.5.2. Additional keys for a facility will only be issued to the FM or alternate from
        the 51 CES after an AF Form 332 has been submitted and approved through the CE
        Customer Service Unit.
        1.5.5.3. One master key is issued when the building is first assigned to a using
        organization or when the building lock system is "rekeyed".
        1.5.5.4. All actions involving key control will be recorded in the key control register.
        Broken, damaged, or inoperative locks will be reported to the CSU.
     1.5.6. Appoint a fuel tank custodian through LRS if the facility relies on a boiler for
     heat/hot water.
        1.5.6.1. Fuel Tank custodians are responsible for ensuring the tank’s fill port is
        locked and checking fuel levels daily to ensure the tank does not run out of fuel. If
        the fuel level less than half full, the tank custodian must call Fuels Control Center at
        784-5631 to schedule delivery of fuel. The tank custodian is required to perform
        weekly inspections of the tank and the surrounding containment floor and berm. If a
        leak is detected, report it to CE Customer Service immediately. Tank custodian
        training is offered by Fuels Management. A tank custodian checklist is provided at
        Attachment 5.
        1.5.6.2. The custodian must also ensure that uncontaminated rain water is drained
        from the tank berm (secondary containment) and the drain valve is locked closed at
        all times except when removing rain water. Guidance on inspecting and maintaining
        fuel support tanks is in AFI 23-204, Organizational Fuel Tanks.
        1.5.6.3. The fuel tank custodian/occupying unit is financially responsible for any
        damages caused by negligence of these duties.
     1.5.7. FMs will be the primary point of contact for power outages and scheduling
     generator runs per AFI 32-1064. It is imperative for 51 CES Power Production to run the
     generator during normal duty hours at 75%-100% load to properly exercise the generator.
     Frequency of inspections will be determined by Power Production shop, and executed by
     the Recurring Work Program.
        1.5.7.1. FMs will be present to ensure all load in the building is utilized (to simulate
        peak hour usage).
        1.5.7.2. FMs will contact the Power Production, 784-5212, shop whenever their
        generator is running for accountability.
        1.5.7.3. FMs will designate personnel to be trained on emergency generator start
        procedures and coordinate with Power Production to schedule generator training
        during scheduled monthly generator runs.
6                                                             51FWI32-1001 12 MAY 2010


    1.5.8. FM will repare the facility for turnover prior to vacating the premises. An
    inspection must be conducted with the Real Property Officer (RPO) from CE before
    vacating. All organizational equipment shall be removed and the area thoroughly
    policed. Door keys shall be taped to each door and the facility secured. All exterior door
    keys shall be turned over to the RPO at the time of the joint inspection.
    1.5.9. FMs should encourage facility occupants to recycle aluminum and tin cans,
    plastics bottles, paper (white/mixed/shredded/magazines) and cardboard, and ensure
    recycling containers and dumpsters are available for the collection of these materials.
    Recycle containers may be requested from 51 CES/CEAN (784-4272).
       1.5.9.1. Recyclables may be bagged and placed in the trash dumpster. This process
       helps separate the recyclables from the garbage and reduces cross-contamination.
       This in turn increases the amount of materials the contractor is able to divert from
       disposal. The refuse contractor operates a waste sorting facility off-base and reports
       the tons of Osan’s materials recycled.
       1.5.9.2. Contact 51 CES/CEAN for assistance or questions about the Osan Recycling
       Program.
    1.5.10. FMs perform monthly inspections of oil/water separators (OWS), grease traps,
    grit chambers, sumps, septic tanks, trench drains, maintenance pits, etc. and report all
    deficiencies to the CE Service Call Desk and request a job order. Document inspections
    for OWS facilities using forms provided in the Osan AB Storm Water Pollution
    Prevention Plan.
       1.5.10.1. These types of facilities and equipment can allow water contaminated with
       fuel, grease, chemicals, sewage and other substances to enter our sewage lines or
       storm drainage channels if FMs do not monitor carefully for operational problems.
       Misuse of OWS can result in danger of fire, explosion, generation of poisonous gases,
       or violation of environmental standards.
       1.5.10.2. For OWS facilities, notify 51 CES/CEAN, Natural Resources
       (Environmental staff, 784-4272) when the waste-oil compartment is getting full (i.e.
       liquid surface is high, approaching top of the compartment) or if accumulated
       sludge/solids at the bottom of the OWS is getting thick (several inches).
       Environmental staff will then visit the OWS to check and advise Service Contracts if
       pump-out is required.
       1.5.10.3. FMs should advise maintenance/shop personnel to use dry cleanup methods
       whenever possible, and to minimize use of wash-down water where runoff will enter
       floor or storm drains, OWS, etc. Soap and detergents may not be used where water
       will run into OWS facilities, as this will emulsify the oils and allow them to pass
       through the OWS.
       1.5.10.4. OWS are designed to collect and hold incidental releases of POL
       materials/wastewater mixtures until removed by contractor. OWS are not treatment
       units and FMs must ensure no one is using the OWS for disposal of POL
       materials/wastes.
51FWI32-1001 12 MAY 2010                                                                         7


          1.5.10.5. Notify 51 CES Natural Resources when maintenance/shop personnel need
          training on the use of OWS facilities. Training will be conducted on-site, and will
          last approximately 1 hour.
2. Interface with Key CE Sections:
   2.1. Production Control Center (PCC): The PCC contains the Customer Service Unit (CSU)
   and the Service Call function. The PCC manages the FM’s Program and coordinates actions
   required for the following:
      2.1.1. Monitors appointment of FMs for all facilities on base.
      2.1.2. Conducts FM training quarterly. Training will consist of a review of material
      contained within this brochure and a question and answer session. FM’s will receive a
      mandatory initial training as well as a mandatory annual refresher in the event that an FM
      is on station assigned to a facility for more than 12 months.
          2.1.2.1. Customer Service Unit: The CSU, which contains the Service Call function
          during duty hours, is located within the PCC in building 657. Routine work orders
          are placed in the CSU during normal operating hours. Emergency requests may be
          called in to the Service Call function at any time. Only emergency calls (see
          paragraph 2.1.2.2.1. for the definition of an emergency) are accepted outside of
          normal duty hours, including weekends. The CSU accepts and controls all work
          requirements until they are completed or are in a firm contract program for
          completion. The CSU provides a single point of contact between CE and the
          customer to:
             2.1.2.1.1. Help customers prepare work requests, including requests for self-help
             work.
             2.1.2.1.2. Accept, review, process, and control work requests.
             2.1.2.1.3. Answer customer inquiries and provide status of work requests.
          2.1.2.2. Service Call function: The service call is located within the CSU in building
          657. A 24-hour-a-day, 7-day-a-week emergency service call operation is provided by
          CE. The operation is geared for immediate response under emergency conditions and
          priority scheduling in those situations that are URGENT, but less than an emergency.
             2.1.2.2.1. Emergency. Work required to eliminate an emergency condition
             within 24 hours of notification that is detrimental to the mission or reduces
             operational effectiveness. Examples of emergencies are work required to provide
             adequate security to areas subject to compromise, to eliminate immediate hazards
             to health, fire protection, safety, or to protect valuable property and equipment.
             Emergency will always include, but is not limited to: Failure of any utility, fire
             protection, environmental control, or security alarm system, e.g., loss of heat,
             steam, gas, liquid fuels or water, clogged plumbing when there is only one toilet
             in the facility, failure of an air conditioning system that may lead to the failure of
             mission critical equipment, power failure, faulty electrical systems and fire
             hazards. The Service Call function will accept notification that an emergency
             condition exists from anyone who has knowledge of that emergency condition.
             FM should be familiar with location and operation of utility controls so they may
8                                                                 51FWI32-1001 12 MAY 2010


              react properly and quickly should an emergency develop in their facility.
              2.1.2.2.2. Urgent. Work that is not an emergency, but must be responded to and
              completed, or materials ordered, within 7 calendar days of receipt. If materials
              are ordered, completion shall be within 7 calendar days after receipt of materials.
              2.1.2.2.3. Routine. Work that does not qualify as emergency or urgent work, but
              must be accomplished within 30 calendar days after identifying the requirement
              or receipt of material. Material requirements must be processed within 14
              calendar days of receipt. When practical, group routine requirements into work
              packages and accomplish as a single undertaking. Routine work is maintenance
              and repair work that is required to preserve or restore an existing facility; in other
              words, to "fix" what is already there. Examples: Painting, replacing floor tiles,
              replacing light bulbs over 10’ high, repairing heating systems, etc. Such
              requirements can be readily identified by conducting regular monthly inspections
              of the facility and its real property installed equipment. When requesting
              maintenance or repair, an AF Form 332 will be prepared with three copies and
              submitted by the FM. A correct and complete AF Form 332 will save valuable
              time in the accomplishment of the request. When preparing an AF Form 332, the
              FM should thoroughly describe the work required, including location within the
              facility, color, type, size, quantity, urgency, etc. Attach sketches, plans, or
              diagrams to the request as an aid in locating or describing the work requirement.
              Referenced inspection reports which justify the work (i.e., safety, fire deficiency,
              etc.) must be submitted with the AF Form 332. When the AF Form 332 is
              received, it will be processed to determine the complexity of the work to be done.
              The original and two copies are kept by the CSU and a copy returned to the FM.
              It will be assigned a work request number. Record this number in the request
              register and refer to it when making follow-up inquiries. Allow about one month
              before taking any follow-up action. All actions pertaining to the work request
              from submittal to job completion should be noted in the FM’s request register.
              Additionally, AF Form 1219 should be used by dorm managers to document
              routine repair requirements. Use of this form alleviates unnecessary clutter of the
              job order system while still documenting needed repairs. Examples of jobs to
              annotate on this form are paint touch-up, broken floor tiles, broken ceiling tile,
              etc.
    2.2. Work Request Review Board (WRRB). The purpose of the WRRB is to validate and
    track all incoming AF Form 332 requests submitted. Composition will consist of the
    following representatives: 51 CES/CEO (Chairperson), CEOS, CEOSP, CEOH, CEOF,
    CEOI, CEP, CEAN, 51 FW/SE, 51 MDG/SGPB, and all other interested tenant units. AF
    Form 332s are then tracked to the proper responsible CE agencies for action or placed on
    WPS hold until prioritized by the base work prioritization system. The customers are
    notified of the action taken by the CSU. Requests which require more than 120 days to
    accomplish will require 51 CES/CC approval.
    2.3. Work Priority System (WPS). CE Operations Support is responsible for establishing
    and maintaining the 51 FW work order prioritization list. The list will contain the top 51
    work order priorities to be executed as funding is available.
51FWI32-1001 12 MAY 2010                                                                         9


       2.3.1. Work orders will be prioritized by owning groups as outlined below, and groups
       are responsible for maintaining a minimum of 25 prioritized work orders to ensure the
       prioritized list remains populated. Groups will assign a work order monitor for the WPS.
       This monitor will be O-3 and above, or E-7 and above, and will validate and prioritize all
       projects in the group. Each group’s projects will be consolidated and prioritized based on
       the weighted work order totals to produce the top 51 wing priorities.
       2.3.2. Work Prioritization Groups:

               7 AF      51 FW     51 MXG     51 OG     51 MSG     51 MG    Tenant Units
              5 Work     5 Work    10 Work   10 Work    12 Work    3 Work      6 Work
              Orders     Orders     Orders    Orders     Orders    Orders      Orders

NOTE: It is not necessary for groups to prioritize unit funded work requests that are executed
via contract.
   2.4. Work requests that have been assigned a Risk Assessment Code (RAC) 1, 2, 3 or Fire
   Safety Deficiency Code (FSD) 1 or 2 will be worked into the work order system for
   accomplishment. All RAC 4 or 5 and FSD 3 or higher is routine work and must be
   prioritized by the responsible group.
3. New Construction: New construction is defined as modifying, adding to, or otherwise
altering the existing facility. Example: installing new walls, relocating real property installed
equipment, cutting doorways, installing additional lighting, etc. When new construction is
required in a facility, an AF Form 332 must be submitted. When requesting construction,
alterations and improvements, self-help work and work required to repair damage where
pecuniary liability may be involved, it is very important to provide an explicit description of the
work to be accomplished and a valid justification for the requirement. The justification must be
clear, concise, and factual. Reference to a regulation or IG write-up does not constitute
justification by itself. Include a statement to indicate what the effect would be if the work were
not accomplished. Occupants or users of the building may prepare work requests and forward
them to the FM for coordination. Once the AF Form 332 is completely filled out, the unit
Commander must sign and date the form. FMs will be responsible for obtaining required
coordination prior to submittal to PCC. This coordination is critical to ensure compliance with
prescribed building, safety, and environmental policies, regulations, and criteria. The main
agencies for coordination are Fire Department, Base Safety, Natural Resources Management
(previously CES Environmental), and Bio-environmental. The AF Form 332 will be reviewed
by CE for completeness and if satisfactory, will be assigned a work request number, and
submitted to the WRRB for approval. One copy of the work request number will be returned to
the FM. When the work request is approved or disapproved, second copy of the AF Form 332
will be returned to the FM with the approval or disapproval signature. If approved, the work
request number will become the work order number (WO#). If disapproved, there will be an
attached letter stating why the request was disapproved.
4. CE Procedures:
   4.1. General. This section provides general information on how work requests are classified,
   processed, and accomplished by CE.
   4.2. Work Classification Definitions:
 10                                                                 51FWI32-1001 12 MAY 2010


       4.2.1. Maintenance. Work to preserve the existing structure or system.
       4.2.2. Repair. Work to replace or restore a failed or failing facility or system component.
       4.2.3. Construction. Work to erect, add, alter, or modify.
   4.3. Direct Scheduled Work Orders (DSW). This is normally work accomplished by one
   shop. Materials are typically on hand or locally available and there is little or no planning
   required.
   4.4. Work Order. Work involving planning, a variety of trades, many materials, and a
   potentially high cost. This type of work will be prioritized and executed in accordance with
   the Work Prioritization System.
   4.5. Recurring Work: For in-house work, each shop foreman has a list of work that requires
   accomplishment on a recurring basis. Examples are maintenance of heating and air
   conditioning systems.
   4.6. Contracts. Work beyond the scope and/or capability of the in-house work force. This
   may include maintenance, repair or construction work.
5. Self-Help Center and Self-Help Program:
   5.1. The Self-Help Center is set up to allow and encourage designated personnel to do minor
   maintenance and repair work on facilities.
   5.2. FMs, commanders, & first sergeants are authorized to voluntarily do minor maintenance
   and repair work on their facilities. They are also responsible for making sure materials
   obtained from the store are used in the facility for which they are obtained. The use of these
   materials for other purposes is misuse and may result in disciplinary action.
   5.3. The nature of self-help work is painting, replacement of hinges, replacement of floor
   tiles, hasps, shower heads, door stops and other like items that do not require the skills of
   crafts personnel. All electrical and plumbing work, except replacement of shower heads,
   stoppers and like items, must be accomplished by authorized CE personnel.
   5.4. Construction materials may be obtained from the store to do small minor construction
   projects or minor alteration work to facilities. Work of this type and requests for large
   amounts of materials must be submitted on an AF Form 332. After approval, materials that
   are not on-hand in the Self-Help Center will be ordered. All materials procured from the
   Self-Help store must be used only by U.S. government employees.
   5.5. Store Location: Building 657. Duty phone: 784-8498/5793.
   5.6. Procedures:
       5.6.1. FMs will show their identification card and tell the store attendant which facility
       the materials will be used to accomplish the project.
       5.6.2. FMs will sign for all materials received from the store.
NOTE: When ordering equipment through base supply that will be connected to any utility (i.e.,
electrical, plumbing, steam etc.), the AF Form 332 must indicate the need for utility
support/evaluation. Plungers for unplugging toilets, sinks, drains etc. will be provided by Self-
Help Center Manager. All FMs will have at least one plunger per facility.
51FWI32-1001 12 MAY 2010                                                                     11


6. Self-Help Work:
   6.1. Self-Help was established as a means for organizations to accomplish minor
   improvements within a facility which would either be unfunded or deferred within the work
   order priority system due to level of work or limited funding/man-hours by CE. The
   requester has the option to quickly accomplish work through self-help work. Requests for
   self-help work are closely reviewed by 51 CES personnel to ensure the requester has the
   technical ability to complete the work. The FM is responsible for all work done on real
   property including self-help. More complex work gets detailed reviews before approval to
   prevent accidents and to determine requester's capability to do the work.
   6.2. Self-Help Procedures:
      6.2.1. Requests to do self-help work are submitted to Self-Help Center on AF Form 332.
      6.2.2. In-house support from the Operations Flight may be authorized, e.g., support of
      electrical work.
      6.2.3. Self-Help materials must meet Air Force standards.
      6.2.4. Self-Help work will not begin until the requester receives an approved AF Form
      332 f.
      6.2.5. After Self-Help work begins, the work will be inspected by a Self-Help inspector
      to ensure it meets the scope of the approved project and CE work standards. If oil-based
      paint or other hazardous materials are used, the excess hazardous materials must be
      returned to Self-Help or disposed as hazardous waste at the HazWaste Shop (784-6508)
      in Building 833.
      6.2.6. Self-Help work plans (rough sketch) will be brought to 51 CES/CEAN, Natural
      Resources Office (Environmental, Bldg 600) so that a check of records can be made for
      asbestos-containing material (ACM) before any work begins. Personnel must return to
      the Environmental Office for additional review after the work has started if any change is
      made to the work plan. Note: ACM can only be removed or disturbed by
      trained/qualified persons, usually specialty contractors.
7. Service Contracts Section:
   7.1. The Service Contracts Section is responsible for overseeing service contracts around the
   base. These include refuse collection, custodial services, grounds maintenance, hood and
   duct cleaning, oil/water separator servicing, and appliance maintenance. The FM is in the
   best position to help monitor service contract support in their building. They should ensure
   building occupants report to them, prior to going directly to CE or base contracting with
   complaints. FMs must contact a Service Contracts representative to review any service
   contracts performed in his/her facility. FMs also need to be aware of proper documentation
   for contractor deficiencies. Questions regarding base service contracts should be directed to
   CE Service Contracts section at 784-6644.
   7.2. The FM is responsible to the unit commander for cleanliness and appearance of a
   building.
 12                                                              51FWI32-1001 12 MAY 2010


   7.3. Janitorial services are provided where authorized. CE relies on FMs to help ensure
   contract requirements are met and the Air Force is getting its money worth in janitorial
   services performed in each facility.
   7.4. FMs must inspect their assigned buildings daily or as frequently as services are
   provided. Each FM should become familiar with AFI 63-124, Performance-Based Services
   Acquisition (PDSA). FM’s should understand the floor plan, schedule of services, and
   specifications in the FM folder. If a schedule of services or specifications is not available,
   contact CE Service Contracts for a copy.
   7.5. The Service Contracts section must ensure that items under the contract are being
   accomplished in a satisfactory manner. CE Quality Assurance Evaluators (QAE) inspects the
   contractor’s performance on random and 100% inspections. It is important for these
   individual to make accurate and concise inspection. The FM’s support is critical in that they
   are the eyes and ears to these contracts. Discrepancies should be passed on to our QAEs as
   soon as possible to correct any unsatisfactory work performance. It is the responsibilities of
   CE QAEs, FMs, and contractors to work together and get the service the government is
   paying for.
   7.6. FMs and occupants will not instruct any janitorial employee(s) to accomplish any work.
   If the employee does not perform the services as scheduled or as the specifications require,
   the FM will immediately notify CE Service Contracts Section. The inspector from this
   section is the only individual authorized to direct/discuss contract requirements with the
   contractor. Any individual directing the contractor's employees to perform any services will
   be responsible to reimburse the government for potential expenses claimed.
8. Cleaning Guidelines:
   8.1. Newly-installed vinyl composite tile flooring should not be cleaned or waxed for seven
   days after installation.
   8.2. A damp mop should be used to clean tile or linoleum flooring; excessive water, is not
   good for the floor.
   8.3. Cleaning compounds containing fats, oils, alkalis, gasoline, turpentine, or solvents, ruin
   floor coverings and should not be used.
   8.4. A mechanical buffer may be needed to clean floors where re-waxing is not necessary.
   Always sweep and damp mop before buffing. Buffing without cleaning causes dirt to be
   ground into the flooring that destroys the surface.
   8.5. Use adequate protective devices to prevent marking, dents, or other damage to flooring.
   8.6. Walls may be washed with an all purpose detergent using a large sponge or soft cloth.
   8.7. Blinds may be washed with an all purpose detergent using a damp sponge.
9. Energy Conservation:
   9.1. FMs are responsible for monitoring energy conservation efforts. This does not require a
   great understanding of energy technology or special training. Simply follow a few common
   sense steps to ensure the facility is within energy regulations and saving as much energy as
   possible.
51FWI32-1001 12 MAY 2010                                                                        13


   9.2. Know the Energy Publications. AFPD 90-17, Energy Management, Engineering
   Technical Letter (ETL) 98-4, Building Manager Energy Conservation Hanbook, and AFI 32-
   1064, Electric Safe Practices, are the main guidelines in energy conservation. Refer to
   Attachment 6 for a FMs Energy Checklist.
   9.3. Keep the facility within the proper temperature settings. ETL 98-4 gives the
   temperatures that are allowed by the Air Force for different facilities. Certifiable medical
   and equipment requirements may warrant otherwise, but only certifiable requirements.

Facility Classification                                           Minimum Air        Maximum
                                                                  Conditioning        Heating

Offices, classrooms, laboratories, showers, recreational               78° F            68° F
facilities, dining facilities, chapels

BOQs, VOQs, VAQs, and dormitories                                      76° F            68° F

Shops, hangars, warehouses, and other facilities where                No A/C            55° F
employees work is physically active

Supply buildings and mechanical rooms – heat required to              No A/C            40° F
protect material and installed equipment from freezing. No
heat will be permitted where stocking and withdrawal is the
only operation. Heat equipment spaces as specified in
manufacturer’s warranty, service manual, or equipment service
contract.


   9.4. Turn off lights that are not needed or being used. Encourage others to do the same.
   Ensure that all lights are off during non-duty hours.
   9.5. Be Smart: Look for energy waste. Check around entryways and windows for cracks
   that allow air infiltration into the facility. If individuals have energy saving ideas, call the
   Customer Service Unit.
   9.6. Most Important: Keep people in the facility "energy aware."
10. Space Utilization and Control:
   10.1. FMs must monitor the assigned building to ensure that utilization of assigned space
   does not change without proper approval; meaning, do not allow units to drift into currently
   vacant areas unless prior coordination and approval is granted from the Facility Board.
   10.2. The Facility Board (FB) is the channel through which additional building space is
   assigned or currently assigned space is approved for a change in use. The following
   conditions must be met prior to approval:
       10.2.1. Maximum use made of each facility.
       10.2.2. The request must be consistent with space requirements in AFI 32-1084, Facility
       Requirements.
 14                                                                 51FWI32-1001 12 MAY 2010


   10.3. All requests will be submitted on a properly routed AF Form 332. They will be routed
   to the Asset Management Flight, 51 CES/CEA, after review of the WRRB. Asset
   Management will present the request to the Facilities Board Working Group (FBWG). The
   FBWG will recommend approval/disapproval to the FB. A representative from the
   requesting organization must attend the FBWG to support the request.
   10.4. Procedures for requesting changes in building use such as administrative, storage,
   shop, hangar, or operations space is the same procedure as requesting additional space.
       10.4.1. The FB will make the final determination on use of space and any changes in the
       use of existing space. To maintain control and accountability, no one may alter the use of
       building space or relocate functions within existing space without FB approval. This is
       essential to ensure records properly reflect correct usage of existing space and to support
       future construction.
       10.4.2. If facilities have excess space, notify 51 CES/CEAO. FMs must put forth a
       concerted effort to allocate our present space effectively and accommodate all of the
       mission requirements. We cannot afford the luxury of organizations under-utilizing
       space while others are crowded.
11. Building Security and Fire Prevention: Building security and fire prevention are the FM’s
responsibility. FMs will establish standard procedures and routine checks to ensure their
building is secure from illegal entry and the facility is kept in a fire-safe condition at all times.
Combine security checks with fire safety and closing inspection procedures. Attachment 7
contains a fire protection checklist and 51 FWI 32-2001, Fire Prevention and Protection,
provides additional details and responsibilities. Post rules for use of the building or facility. Be
sure to describe security measures and facility admittance after-duty hours. Identify any
unprotected equipment, and move it to a secured area to prevent theft or vandalism. The use of
lighting and fencing can help protect equipment that must be left outdoors or otherwise
unprotected. Look for items that might assist a person in gaining entry to the facility. Ladders
are an open invitation to look for air vents or other entry points on the roof. Unsecured window
air conditioners that can be pulled or pushed through a window should be firmly secured. Items
left lying around which can be used to break a window or force open a door should be removed.
Security Forces Law Enforcement Patrols conduct regular security checks on base facilities. If a
facility is found to be not properly secured, the FM will be required to report to that facility
immediately to correct the situation. Impress all personnel with the importance of building
security and fire prevention.
12. Real Property Installed Equipment and Real Property Similar Equipment:
   12.1. Real Property Installed Equipment (RPIE) are items of government-owned or leased
   accessory equipment, apparatus and fixtures that is essential to the function of the facility.
   Excluded is organizational or collateral equipment reflected in the equipment authorization
   inventory data (EAID). Items that are on a Table of Allowance are not RPIE, but EAID
   through Base Supply. Also excluded are other technical, medical, commissary, aircraft
   installed, fixed laundry and dry cleaning, MARS, cryptographic, automatic data processing,
   rental equipment, research and development and communications equipment. CE is
   responsible for the sustainment of RPIE. Organizational equipment, even when installed
   (bolted or fixed to the structure, with or without utilities connected) is not RPIE. AFI 32-
51FWI32-1001 12 MAY 2010                                                                       15


   9005, Attachment 2, provides additional guidance on and a more complete list of examples of
   RPIE and non-RPIE.
   12.2. Real Property Similar Equipment (RPSE) is non-RPIE structures and equipment
   deployed or permanently assigned to an installation as facility substitutes that support a
   MAJCOM mission. RPSE is not considered real property, as accountability will be strictly in
   the control of the user. Examples include (but are not limited to) hush houses, Survivable
   Collective Protective Systems (SCPS-2 and SCPS-M), uninterruptible power supplies (UPS),
   KMU-450 Chemical Protective Systems, Tactical Shelter Systems, and Chemically Hardened
   Air Transportable Hospitals. Civil Engineer support for RPSE should be provided according
   to a memorandum of understanding with the owning organization, reimbursable, and subject
   to man-hour availability. Recurring requirements should be addressed and negotiated for
   contractual support.
13. Facility Manager’s Records.
   13.1. FM records are the chronological history of the facility. A review of a FM's records
   file provides trends in maintenance and repair requirements. It can identify potential problem
   areas so CE can correct them before they become major problems. These records also
   indicate when it is time to start thinking new construction rather than maintenance and repair.
   13.2. FMs must maintain a record file using a six-compartment file folder or a standard
   three-ring binder. Set up the file in this order:
      13.2.1. FM guide.
      13.2.2. FM register.
      13.2.3. Work request register.
      13.2.4. Key control register.
      13.2.5. Miscellaneous records.
   13.3. The miscellaneous records section of the file is not an official record. It simply
   provides a place to keep various papers concerning the facility and the work being done on it.
   These are temporary records and can be discarded when no longer needed. If there are any
   questions on setting up or maintaining FM records, contact the Production Control Center for
   assistance.
14. Terms Explained:
   14.1. Primary Facility Manager. Person having the primary responsibility for specified real
   property. This person is concerned with the care, custody, and protection of the assigned real
   property. He or she serves as the point of contact for their organization or staff agency for
   facility services required from CE.
   14.2. Alternate FM. The person assigned to assume full responsibilities in the absence of the
   Primary FM.
   14.3. Production Control Center (PCC). The office in CE responsible for managing the FM
   program. The PCC contains the Customer Service Unit and the Service Call function during
   duty hours. The PCC also manages all in-house work orders.
 16                                                              51FWI32-1001 12 MAY 2010


   14.4. Customer Service Unit (CSU). The CSU helps FMs that require work or need the
   status of requested work. The single point of contact between the FMs and CE.
   14.5. Facility Board (FB). A board made up of the Wing Commander, Group Commanders,
   Base Civil Engineer, and the chief of each major staff function. It provides corporate review
   and judgment on real property buildings.
   14.6. New Construction. Putting something there that is not currently there (i.e., a new door,
   wall, or outlet).
   14.7. Real Property. Includes lands and interests therein, buildings, structures, improvement
   and appurtenances thereto, warehouses, rights-of-way, easements, and permanently attached
   improvements. It does not include machinery, equipment, or tools not affixed to any such
   lands or buildings or removed from them.
   14.8. Self-Help Work. Work falling under a CE responsibility but done by the requesting or
   using organization with donated labor or materials.
   14.9. Service Call. A 24-hour-a-day, 7-day-a-week service designed to receive, authorize,
   and respond to EMERGENCY work only. Key telephone numbers are provided at
   attachment 8.
15. Prescribed and Adopted Forms:
   15.1. Prescribed Forms:
   No forms prescribed
   15.2. Adopted Forms:
   AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
   AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
   AF Form 1219, BCE Multi-Craft Job Order
   AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report
   AF Form 3136, General Purpose
   DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher




                                            PATRICK C. MALACKOWSKI, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
51FWI32-1001 12 MAY 2010                                                   17


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 90-17, Energy Management, 16 July 2009
AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities, 4 March 2010
AFI 23-204, Organizational Fuel Tanks, 24 June 2009
AFI 32-1001, Operations Management, 1 September 2005
AFI 32-1024, Standard Facility Requirements, 31 May 1994
AFI 32-1064, Electric Safe Practices, 25 May 2006
AFI 32-2001, Fire Emergency Services Program, 9 September 2008
AFI 32-9005, Real Property Accountability and Reporting, 14 August 2008
AFI 63-124, Performance-Based Services Acquisition (PBSA), 1 August 2005
ETL 98-4, Building Manager Energy Conservation Handbook, 16 January 1998

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACM—Asbestos Containing Material
AAFES—Army Air Force Exchange Service
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
CE—Civil Engineering
CFL—Compact Fluorescent Lamp
ECU—Environmental Control Unit
CHATH—Chemically Hardened Air Transportable Hospital
CPS—Collective Protection Systems
CSU—Customer Service Unit
DSW—Direct Scheduled Work Order
ECO—Energy Conservation Officer
FB—Facilities Board
FBWG—Facilities Board Working Group
FD—Fire Deficiency
FM—Facility Manager
FSD—Fire Safety Deficiency
GSA—General Service Administration
HVAC—Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning
 18                                                51FWI32-1001 12 MAY 2010


OI—Operating Instructions
OWS—Oil/Water Separator
PCC—Production Control Center
QAE—Quality Assurance Evaluators
RAC—Risk Assessment Code
RPIE—Real Property Installed Equipment
RPO—Real Property Officer
RPSE—Real Property Similar Equipment
SCPS—Survivable Collective Protection Systems
TBTC—Transportable Blood Transshipment Center
TCPS—Transportable Collective Protection Systems
TSS—Tactical Shelter Systems
UPS—Uninterruptible Power Supply
WO—Work Order
WPS—Work Priority System
WRRB—Work Request Review Board
51FWI32-1001 12 MAY 2010                                                                     19


                                        Attachment 2
             SAMPLE OF FACILITY MANAGER ASSIGNMENT LETTER

                                                                                 (Date)

MEMORANDUM FOR 51 CES/CEOSC

FROM: (Requesting Organization/Office Symbol)

SUBJECT: Appointment of Facility Manager

The following personnel are appointed the positions of primary and alternate Facility Managers
for Buildings:

Primary: (Name, last, first, MI, Rank, Duty Phone, Home Phone, DEROS)

Alternate: (Name, last, first, MI., Rank, Duty Phone, Home Phone, DEROS



                                                   [Signature of Organization Commander]
 20                                                               51FWI32-1001 12 MAY 2010


                                            Attachment 3
                                  MAINTENANCE CHECKLIST

A3.1. As required:
      A3.1.1. Police grounds within 50 ft of facility.
   A3.1.2. Remove ice and snow from stairs and walkways within 50 ft of the facility. It is the
   responsibility of the FM to obtain all snow removal equipment.
A3.2. Weekly:
   A3.2.1. Tighten or replace screws, and oil the mechanism on door hardware and panic bar
   latches.
   A3.2.2. Fasten loose tread nosing and tighten handrails on stairs. Keep stairs clear of
   unnecessary objects which may cause accidents.
   A3.2.3. Inspect light fixtures for proper bulb size and replace with proper size if necessary.
   A3.2.4. Ensure fuel tank custodian is monitoring tanks as required.
   A3.2.5. Inspect trash enclosure for cleanliness and serviceability. If trash enclosure is shared
   with other facilities, a rotational inspection schedule should be mutually agreed upon. Report
   all problems with trash collection to CE Operations Support.
A3.3. Monthly:
   A3.3.1. Check windows for damage or loose glass. Check screens for damage.
   A3.3.2. Inspect for loose and damaged door and window casings.
   A3.3.3. Renail loose baseboards or moldings.
   A3.3.4. Drive loose nails and tighten screws on doors and windows as required.
   A3.3.5. Inspect walls and ceilings for loose or broken plaster or gypsum.
   A3.3.6. Inspect tile floors for loose tiles.
   A3.3.7. Tighten loose cabinet fastenings, replace missing hardware, oil hinges and lock
   mechanisms.
   A3.3.8. Inspect sidewalks for cracks and sunken walkways. Remove weeds from in and
   around sidewalks within 50 ft of the facility.
A3.4. AF Form 1219 for FMs:
   A3.4.1. Routine Maintenance repair work can be annotated on the AF Form 1219. This
   form is used to record minor routine repairs that do not need to be called in to service call.
   The repair work listed under this form will be performed by CE on a regular scheduled basis.
   Dorm Managers will be provided with a building schedule to plan ahead of the visit.
   A3.4.2. Reminder, if there is a job that needs immediate attention please call it in. The AF
   Form 1219 is only for routine work that is not classified as an emergency or urgent.
51FWI32-1001 12 MAY 2010                                                              21


                                         Attachment 4
                             REAL PROPERTY CHECKLIST

A4.1. Are the following items in good repair and operating condition
   A4.1.1. Doors.
   A4.1.2. Windows.
   A4.1.3. Glass.
   A4.1.4. Lights.
   A4.1.5. Plumbing equipment.
   A4.1.6. Heating equipment.
   A4.1.7. Ventilating equipment.
   A4.1.8. Air conditioning equipment.
A4.2. Are the following items free from unauthorized work?
   A4.2.1. Electrical equipment.
   A4.2.2. Heating equipment.
   A4.2.3. Ventilating equipment.
A4.3. Is self-help work approved by CE?
A4.4. Is janitorial service work satisfactory?
A4.5. Are all doors and windows secured in the daily closing procedures?
A4.6. Is policing of grounds done daily?
A4.7. Are motor vehicles parked off grassed or seeded areas?
A4.8. Are plants and shrubs being given proper care, i. e. properly trimmed, watered, and
free of garbage and debris? Is watering of lawns done only in seeded or sodded areas? (No
watering is authorized in other areas.)
A4.9. Is hand watering done only with a spring-activated nozzle?
 22                                                               51FWI32-1001 12 MAY 2010


                                         Attachment 5
        TANK AND SECONDARY CONTAINMENT INSPECTION CHECKLIST
      (FROM AFI 23-204 AND 51 LRS’S TANK CUSTODIAN TRAINING SLIDES)

Tank ID No. __________________                      Month/Year _______________________
Week 1 Inspected by ____________________            Inspection date __________________
Week 2 Inspected by ____________________            Inspection date __________________
Week 3 Inspected by ____________________            Inspection date __________________
Week 4 Inspected by ____________________            Inspection date __________________
Week
1234    Storage Tank Inspection (use a check mark or N/A for each item)
____    Ensure fill ports are closed and effectively locked so that no fuel delivery can be made
____    Check tanks and piping for leaks at seams, rivets, gaskets, nozzle, etc.
____    Ensure tank has signage with tank number, capacity, FM’s name/phone/DEROS
____    Ensure proper ―No Smoking Within 50 Feet‖ signs are posted in English and Korean
____    Ensure tanks are grounded and painted
____    Ensure the visual tank level gauge/sensor is functioning properly
____    Ensure overfill alarms are properly functioning on underground storage tanks
____    Keep inspection sheets in the Facility Manager’s continuity binder
____    Keep AF Form 332 Work Order Requests in the Facility Manager’s continuity binder

Call CE Customer Service (784-6226) to place a work order request to correct discrepancies

Week
1 2 3 4 Secondary Containment Inspection (use a check mark or N/A for each item)
_ _ _ _ Ensure secondary containment drain valve is in a closed position and locked
_ _ _ _ Check secondary containment for deterioration, corrosion & cracks (weeds growing)
_ _ _ _ Ensure secondary containment area is clean and free of water
_ _ _ _ Check for evidence of spills or leaks in or around the secondary containment
_ _ _ _ Check water contained in secondary containment for an oily sheen. If no oil sheen, drain
        water out on the ground; if oil sheen, place absorbent pads.

Call CE Customer Service (784-6226) to place a work order to repair secondary containment or
to remove water in a secondary containment area that contains oil product. Dispose absorbent
pads as HAZWASTE.

WEEK
1 2 3 4 Fuel deliveries (use a check mark or N/A for each item)
        Call the Fuels Service Center (784-5631) to request fuel delivery when fuel is needed.
        If no tank gauge is available, use a calibrated ―stick‖ to determine fuel level in tank.
_ _ _ _ Unlock the tank fill-port and observe fuel deliveries (51 LRS schedules deliveries)
_ _ _ _ Ensure an escort is present for each POL delivery by private contractor
_ _ _ _ Ensure tank is only filled to the 90% line
_ _ _ _ Ensure the amount of fuel received is the amount reported by the fuel contractor (FM
        should know the approximate volume of fuel needed to fill the tank to the fill line)
51FWI32-1001 12 MAY 2010                                                                       23


                                           Attachment 6
                    FACILITY MANAGER’S ENERGY CHECKLIST

A6.1. This is a guideline to use in assessing and improving the energy efficiency of
facilities.
   A6.1.1. Lighting: Remove all unnecessary lights in halls, utility rooms and outside. Replace
   150 watt flood light with the new 75 watt ER type will save $15.00 per year. Replacing old
   fluorescent bulbs with newer high efficiency bulbs can save money with no loss in lighting.
Note, all fluorescent lamps must be turned in to Bldg 833 for disposal after change-out (see
section 1.5.2.1.1). Ballasts NOT labeled as "No PCB" may contain polychlorinated biphenyls
(PCBs) and must also be turned in to Bldg 833 for disposal. Ballasts labeled as ―No PCB‖
should be turned in to Bldg 833 as scrap metal.
   A6.1.2. Set up a regular maintenance schedule for time clocks that control lights and
   heating/air conditioning equipment. Be sure that these clocks are reset after each power
   outage.
   A6.1.3. Occasionally, walk through the facility at night. Look for lights left on and things
   that ―sound‖ like they might be using energy needlessly (hissing, humming and fans). If
   something is found that needs repair, call CE Customer Service.
   A6.1.4. Where outside lighting is necessary, be sure that photoelectric cells are used to turn
   them on and off automatically. Inspect regularly to ensure that no outside lights are left on
   during the day.
   A6.1.5. Keep lighting fixtures clean.
   A6.1.6. If fluorescent lights need to be permanently removed, call CE to have an electrician
   disconnect the ballast. Ballasts still consume power even if light bulbs are not plugged in.
   A6.1.7. Replace outside lights with lights of lower wattage where practical.
   A6.1.8. If the facility has incandescent lighting, consider converting to fluorescent.
   Fluorescent lighting uses less than 1/2 the energy of conventional bulbs. Refer to paragraph
   1.5.2.2.2, regarding bulbs
A6.2. Hot Water: Be sure the hot water in the facility is not too hot. ETL 98-4 requires that
hot water not exceed a temperature of 110 degrees F in most facilities. Energy will be saved in
reduced heat losses in the distribution system and in a reduction of the cold water used to cool
the hot water. For the specific temperature setting consult ETL 98-4, or ask the Energy Manager
(EM), 51 CES/CEAO.
   A6.2.1. If Controls for the hot water system are not working properly, have them checked.
   A6.2.2. Check hot water pipes to be ensure that insulated. If not, report them to CE.
   A6.2.3. Have water leaks repaired. A leak that can fill a coffee cup in ten minutes wastes
   over 3,200 gallons of water a year.
A6.3. Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning (HVAC): There are many factors that, if
ignored, will reduce the efficiency of an HVAC system. Among these are dirty coils and filters,
infiltration, improper thermostat settings, unoccupied operation of HVAC system, and improper
 24                                                               51FWI32-1001 12 MAY 2010


balancing. Balancing of the HVAC system is disrupted mainly by two causes. First, the
unauthorized adjustment of the balancing damper louvers at the air supply diffuser. Second,
open windows. Both can cause additional heating or cooling to the rest of the building that
shares the same HVAC system.
   A6.3.1. Close all windows. If the isolated temperature in any room is unusually high or low,
   contact the CE Customer Service Unit.
   A6.3.2. Never run exhaust fans when buildings are unoccupied.
   A6.3.3. Keep surfaces of radiators, convectors, baseboards, and finned tube heaters clean for
   efficient operation.
   A6.3.4. Clean filters and coils in window units.
   A6.3.5. Remove obstructions that restrict free flow of air through heating and air
   conditioning vents and returns.
   A6.3.6. If the building HVAC system is not properly balanced or adjusted, or it requires
   repair, contact the CE Customer Service Unit.
   A6.3.7. If a room is no longer being used, have CE close off the air ducts and balance the
   system.
   A6.3.8. Inspect thermostats at least twice a week. If thermostats are within reach of the
   occupants they will be tampered with. Post temperature settings near the thermostats. If
   there is a continuing problem maintaining thermostat settings, have a locking cover installed
   over the thermostat to prevent tampering.
A6.4. Self-Help: CE may find it difficult to do all energy retrofits in a timely manner. This is
where the FM can obtain commander support to do some of the work in-house using the Self-
Help program. Of course FMs can’t do all the work themselves, but they can do a large part of it
by repairing and replacing weather stripping, leaky faucets, setting thermostats, and adjusting hot
water temperatures. If FMs need assistance to identify areas that need attention with respect to
energy, call on the EM. The EM will be more than happy to assist in any way possible to
conserve energy.
51FWI32-1001 12 MAY 2010                                                                          25


                                           Attachment 7
                              FIRE PROTECTION CHECKLIST

A7.1. FACILITY MANAGERS are responsible to their unit commanders for the fire-safe
condition of each facility under their jurisdiction.
A7.2. The FM, or a responsible person appointed by the FM, will accompany the Fire Inspector
during scheduled fire prevention inspections and initiate immediate corrective action of fire
deficiencies noted during inspection.
A7.3. If fire hazard discrepancies noted by the fire inspector require the services of CE
craftsmen, initiate an AF Form 332 immediately. All AF Form 332's must be coordinated with
the Fire Prevention Office to include Self-Help requests.
A7.4. FMs will be expected to have a thorough working knowledge of their duties and
responsibilities for maintaining a fire-safe facility. These duties and responsibilities are outlined
in AFI 32-2001, Fire Emergency Services Program.
A7.5. REMEMBER the FM’s five "PRIME" duties:
―P‖    Promote fire safety.
―R‖    Report all fires.
―I‖    Inspect for fire hazards.
―M‖    Monitor to ensure people are practicing fire safety.
―E‖    Examine their knowledge of fire safety procedures.
A7.6. If a fire occurs, remember "SPEED":
―S‖    Sound the alarm bell, siren, voice.
―P‖    Phone call to 911.
―E‖    Evacuate the area and facility.
―E‖    Extinguish, if can be done safely.
―D‖    Direct the firemen where the fire is.
A7.7. Anytime FMs have questions concerning fire prevention, call Fire Prevention Section,
Fire Protection Flight, DSN 784-4835.
A7.8. Fire Prevention: Post a copy of this pamphlet in a conspicuous place inside the building.
FM responsibilities include but are not limited to the following:
   A7.8.1. Fire prevention inspections. The AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report, will
   be used to document all fire hazards/deficiencies noted during fire prevention inspections. If
   all fire hazards/deficiencies cannot be corrected and the Fire Prevention Visit Report cannot
   be returned within the suspense date indicated, please notify the Fire Emergency Services,
   Fire Prevention Section for assistance or guidance.
   A7.8.2. Fire Safety Deficiency (FSD):
       A7.8.2.1. Regrettably, some facilities were designed and constructed without full regard
       to required fire safety features. When these deficiencies are finally discovered they must
       be programmed for correction. In particular existing facilities which were constructed
       years ago and not provided with fire suppression or detection systems cause are serious
       concern throughout the Air Force.
26                                                               51FWI32-1001 12 MAY 2010


     A7.8.2.2. AF Form 1487 is used to identify FSDs. Specifically, FSDs are identified on
     AF Form 1487 by a fire inspector who fully describes the FSD and the specific action
     required for correction. If an AF Form 332 is required to correct a fire safety deficiency
     for code 1 or 2 FSDs, the fire prevention office will accomplish the AF Form 332 to
     ensure the deficiency and corrective action(s) are adequately described and justified. It is
     signed by the responsible FM or commander and submitted to CE for programming. The
     FM will be provided with a copy of the AF Form 1487 and AF Form 332, if generated,
     for his/her records.
     A7.8.2.3. FSD I: A severe deficiency that would result in a catastrophic loss of mission
     capability, facility or contents, or high loss of life.
     A7.8.2.4. FSD II: A serious deficiency that would have a significant impact on mission
     capability, facility or contents, or a significant probability of loss of life.
     A7.8.2.5. FSD III: A deficiency they may constitute a risk to life or property.
     A7.8.2.6. FSD IV: A deficiency that may contribute to only minor damage or slight risk
     to personnel.
     A7.8.2.7. FSD V: A deficiency that has little impact on personnel, facilities, or contents.
  A7.8.3. Operating Instructions (OI): Develop an appropriate OI to be followed by all
  personnel in case of fire. These OIs will be coordinated through the unit commanders and
  the fire prevention office, and can be used to examine the knowledge of your personnel in
  regards to fire reporting procedures.
  A7.8.4. Fire evacuation plans: Develop and post fire evacuation plans for buildings where
  the means of egress is not visible.
  A7.8.5. Fire extinguishers:
     A7.8.5.1. FMs are responsible to ensure fire extinguishers are sealed, kept in serviceable
     condition, and in readily accessible or marked locations at all times. FMs will ensure
     extinguishers are inspected monthly. These inspections will be annotated through the use
     of tags. FMs must ensure this equipment is not moved, for any purpose other than
     firefighting, and all personnel under their jurisdiction are familiar with the location and
     proper use. A minimum clearance of 18 inches will be maintained on each side of all
     portable fire extinguishers.
     A7.8.5.2. When fire extinguishers have been used, accidentally discharged, have broken
     seals, require testing, or become out-of-service for any reason, it is the using organization
     responsibility to exchange the fire extinguisher for a serviceable fire extinguisher.
     A7.8.5.3. Fire extinguishers will not be used for any purpose other than fighting fires.
     They must be protected from damage, securely placed in an accessible area, and kept in
     good operating condition at all times.
     A7.8.5.4. Unit commanders having jurisdiction over buildings and areas, to including
     aircraft maintenance and parking areas, and will assume responsibility for fire
     extinguishers located in their respective areas. Establish procedures to hold persons
     liable for damage to extinguishers due to negligence or willful acts.
51FWI32-1001 12 MAY 2010                                                                      27


   A7.8.6. Enforce safe smoking habits and ensure smoking is permitted only in designated
   smoking areas. Make sure that smoking receptacles are provided and used in areas where
   smoking is permitted.
A7.9. Check fire extinguishers, fire doors, panic hardware, exit and emergency lights, and so
forth, to make sure they are all in proper working condition.
   A7.9.1. Dry Chemical extinguishers:
       A7.9.1.1. Check for accessibility.
       A7.9.1.2. Check for physical damage, corrosion, and cleanliness.
       A7.9.1.3. Check the nozzle for obstructions.
       A7.9.1.4. Check the gauge for proper operating pressure.
       A7.9.1.5. Check the safety pin for proper installation and ensure it is sealed.
   A7.9.2. 150 lb. halon flightline extinguishers:
       A7.9.2.1. Check for accessibility and positioning.
       A7.9.2.2. Check for physical damage, corrosion, and cleanliness.
       A7.9.2.3. Check the nozzle for obstructions and operation.
       A7.9.2.4. Check the gauge for proper operating pressure.
   A7.9.3. When a fire alarm sounds, make sure all personnel leave the facility in a quick and
   orderly fashion.
   A7.9.4. Enforce sound fire prevention practices, both in and outside of assigned buildings
   and areas.
   A7.9.5. When a fire lane is blocked by a vehicle or other obstruction, call Security Forces at
   once.
   A7.9.6. Make sure exits are not blocked in any way.
   A7.9.7. Check for proper signs on doors (such as "DOOR BLOCKED").
   A7.9.8. Check the building and area for safe housekeeping practices.
   A7.9.9. Extension cords are for temporary uses only. It is recommended that "power strips"
   with circuit breakers be used instead of extension cords.
   A7.9.10. Make sure vegetative growth around the building is policed and trimmed at all
   times.
   A7.9.11. Check for improper use and storage of flammable liquids. All flammable liquids
   MUST be stored in approved flammable storage lockers.
   A7.9.12. Check for improper storage of cleaning compounds.
   A7.9.13. Check for improper use of heating appliances or electrical appliances.
   A7.9.14. Dormitories: When inspecting dormitories, commanders and representatives of
   units will:
28                                                               51FWI32-1001 12 MAY 2010


     A7.9.14.1. Check panic hardware on all exit doors for proper operation.
     A7.9.14.2. Ensure door closing devices are in place and operational. Stairwell and
     hallway doors will not be chocked or secured opened.
     A7.9.14.3. Make sure exits are not blocked in any way.
     A7.9.14.4. Check exit lights for proper operation.
     A7.9.14.5. Make visual inspections on fire extinguishers.
     A7.9.14.6. Make sure no combustible items are kept or stored under or behind stairways.
     All combustible items MUST be stored in an approved flammable storage lockers.
     A7.9.14.7. Check for missing and damaged fire protection devices. Contact the Fire
     Prevention Section at once when any discrepancies are noted concerning these devices.
     A7.9.14.8. Check for any evidence of frayed, deteriorated, spliced or tampered electrical
     wiring. If found, discontinue use and have them fixed at once to prevent an electrical
     fire.
     A7.9.14.9. Make sure no one is using fish nets or similar material for decorating ceilings.
     This is a serious fire hazard. A small spark from a cigarette lighter could cause the rapid
     spread of a fire. Additionally, netting suspended from a ceiling presents an entrapment
     hazard in the event of a fire.
     A7.9.14.10. Make sure a clearance of 18 inches is kept around each detector and
     sprinkler head at all times.
     A7.9.14.11. Ensure electrical wiring is not stapled, thumb-tacked, or nailed to the wall.
     A7.9.14.12. When using a coffee maker, make sure it is on a noncombustible surface
     and has adequate air clearance. Coffee makers will be disconnected after use.
     A7.9.14.13. Ensure no one keeps more than one pint of flammable liquid (lighter fluid,
     starter fluid for model airplanes, etc.) in their room. Also, make sure users keep
     flammable liquid containers away from all heat sources and observe safety precautions at
     all times.
     A7.9.14.14. Ensure no smoking material is discarded in waste receptacles.
     A7.9.14.15. Ensure waste receptacles are of a noncombustible type and are not
     overfilled.
51FWI32-1001 12 MAY 2010                                             29


                             Attachment 8
                       KEY TELEPHONE NUMBERS

FIRE, SECURITY FORCES DESK, AMBULANCE SERVICE   911
HOSPITAL EMERGENCY ROOM                         784-2500
WING SAFETY                                     784-1842
CABLE TV, TELEPHONE REPAIR                      784-4117
FUELS MANAGEMENT                                784-4062
FUELS CONTROL CENTER (DELIVERIES)               784-5631
               CIVIL ENGINEER KEY TELEPHONE NUMBERS:
OPERATIONS FLIGHT COMMANDER                     784-4145
CSU, PCC                                        784-4304/784-5732
SERVICE CALL FUNCTION                           784-5395/6226/5254
SELF-HELP STORE                                 784-8498
APPLIANCE REPAIR                                784-4304/6226
REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT                          784-6955
PROGRAMS FLIGHT COMMANDER                       784-6601
CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT                         784-4458
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                    784-4272
FIRE PROTECTION                                 784-4710
FIRE DEPART, FIRE EXTINGUISHER MAINT SHOP       784-4862
HOUSING ASSISTANCE                              784-5317
FURNISHINGS MANAGEMENT OFFICE                   784-5181
CE OPERATIONS SUPPORT (SERVICE CONTRACTS)       784-6644
