BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              51ST FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION 21-106
OF THE 51ST FIGHTER WING
                                                                                            18 MAY 2009
                                                                       Certified Current, 4 October 2011
                                                                                            Maintenance

                                                         CRASH DAMAGED DISABLED AIRCRAFT
                                                                RECOVERY (CDDAR) PROGRAM

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:            Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
                          Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY:            There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 51 MXS/MXMTT                                        Certified by: 51 MXG/CC (Col Robert J. West)
                                                                                          Pages: 11


This instruction implements AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance. It establishes policy and
procedures to support Crash, Damaged or Disabled Aircraft Recovery (CDDAR) operations and
implements. In situations where the crash recovery team chief determines this instruction does not
adequately cover procedures for the particular situation, authority is granted to add to or deviate from
the procedures when safety of personnel or damage to equipment is involved. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication; route the AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional
chain of command.
It applies to all personnel and units assigned, attached or tenant to the 51st Fighter Wing (51 FW) at
Osan Air Base (AB), Korea. Commanders and supervisors are responsible for ensuring personnel are
familiar with and comply with the provisions of this publication.

1. General.
   1.1. In-flight or ground emergencies involving aircraft require prompt, coordinated actions from
   many agencies to prevent unnecessary loss of life, damage to equipment or interference with other
   flying operations. This instruction is not intended to replace detailed guidance given by technical
   orders, other instructions or regulations, but rather to serve as a coordination tool to ensure all
   agencies are aware of their responsibilities during aircraft emergency situations.
   1.2. Only required vehicles and personnel will respond to aircraft emergencies (with Ultra High
   Frequency (UHF) radios if available). Vehicles will position themselves behind responding crash
   vehicles and not impede movement or vision. Personnel not required to respond will clear the area
   so as not to interfere with emergency operations. If necessary, the Incident Commander (IC) will
   direct the Security Forces to clear the area of non-essential personnel.
2                                                                            51FWI21-106 18 MAY 2009


    1.3. During initial response to an aircraft emergency, the Senior Fire Officer (SFO) is the IC and
    will determine if the aircraft is safe prior to releasing the aircraft for maintenance or recovery. Until
    the aircraft has been released by the IC, no one will approach the aircraft without permission from
    the IC. All vehicles, except Fire Emergency Services, will remain clear of the aircraft. This does
    not prohibit essential vehicles (such as tugs) from positioning themselves nearby for immediate use.
    The IC must release the aircraft or direct specific actions before any vehicles, other than a Fire
    Emergency Services Vehicle, approach the aircraft. This restriction does not prevent emergency
    actions prior to Fire Emergency Services arrival.
    1.4. For emergencies involving a prior-announced barrier engagement, all response vehicles (except
    Fire Emergency Services and crash recovery vehicles) and non-essential vehicles will remain clear
    of emergency aircraft until Fire Emergency Services and crash recovery actions are complete.
    1.5. The 51st Maintenance Squadron (51 MXS) CDDAR Team Chief will coordinate with Wing
    Plans and Readiness office to perform a crash recovery exercise annually in accordance with AFI21-
    101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, para 14.10.5.9. & 14.10.7.3. Transient
    Aircraft/Crash Recovery section may perform additional in-house training exercises as required for
    currency/proficiency purposes.
    1.6. Rapid removal of aircraft on a runway or taxiway. During normal flying periods, disabled
    aircraft will be removed as quickly and safely as possible after touchdown. Damaged aircraft will be
    removed as soon as possible depending on structure condition, equipment requirements, etc.
    Damaged aircraft will be removed from the runway in a minimum time period consistent with the
    following:
       1.6.1. Requirement to open the runway for operational use.
       1.6.2. Prevention of unnecessary secondary damage.
       1.6.3. Prevention of destruction of evidence for accident investigation.
       1.6.4. Personnel safety.
    1.7. For mishaps involving Air Mobility Command (AMC) or AMC contracted aircraft; the 51MXS
    CDDAR Team Chief will coordinate with the 731st Air Mobility Squadron (731 AMS), to determine
    the best course of action. The 731 AMS senior maintenance representative will, in turn, coordinate
    assistance through 731 AMS Air Mobility Control Center (731 AMS/AMCC). 731 AMS will
    contact HQ AMC Tanker Airlift Control Center (TACC)/XOCL for further assistance if indigenous
    recovery capabilities are exceeded. For AMC-contracted aircraft, 731st AMS will contact the carrier
    representative directly or through Headquarters (HQ) AMC and request/obtain guidance/authority to
    move the disabled aircraft.
    1.8. For mishaps involving 5th Reconnaissance Squadron (U-2) aircraft, the 51MXS CDDAR Team
    Chief will coordinate with the 5 RS (U-2) to determine the best course of action. The 5 RS will
    provide qualified Crash Recovery personnel, tech data, and airframe specific crash recovery
    equipment, as required in the base support agreement. The 5 RS will provide quarterly aircraft
    familiarization/crash recovery training sessions for the 51 MXS/MXMTT.
    1.9. For mishaps involving Republic of Korea or other non U.S. Air Force aircraft, 51 FW
    Installation Control Center (ICC) will notify the appropriate agencies of the aircraft mishap. If the
    IC determines recovery is beyond the scope of 51 FW’s capabilities, due to lack of specific Mission
    Design Series (MDS) equipment or airframe expertise, he or she will notify the 51 FW Emergency
    Operations Center for coordination with the appropriate unit that has specific MDS expertise. This
51FWI21-106 18 MAY 2009                                                                                 3


   unit must ensure adequate personnel and support equipment are made available for recovery
   operations.
2. Declaration of Emergencies.
   2.1. The aircrew is primarily responsible for declaring ground or in-flight emergencies.
   Emergencies may also be declared by Air Traffic Control (ATC) personnel or officials responsible
   for the operation of the aircraft, e.g. Supervisor of Flying (SOF), 51 OG/CC, 731 AMS/AMCC, and
   mission director. The agencies listed above will not normally declare emergencies without
   concurrence of the aircrew, unless circumstances require immediate action.
   2.2. Individuals, other than those mentioned in paragraph 2.1., who become aware of aircraft
   emergency situations, will use any means available to relay the necessary information to any agency
   capable of initiating emergency procedures (Tower, SOF, Radar Approach Control, Fire Emergency
   Services, Installation Command Post, Airfield Management Operations(AM Ops), Maintenance
   Operation Control (MOC), etc.).
   2.3. Persons declaring emergencies (ground or in-flight) should provide the following information:
       2.3.1. Aircraft identification and type.
       2.3.2. Nature of emergency.
       2.3.3. Pilot’s desires/intentions.
       2.3.4. Aircraft altitude, position, and Estimated Time of Arrival (ETA) or location on airfield for
       ground emergencies.
       2.3.5. Number of people on board.
       2.3.6. Fuel remaining (in-flight emergencies only).
       2.3.7. Number and type of ordnance on board.
       Note: Pass information available, including ordnance on board. Do not delay declaring the
       emergency.
   2.4. Ultimately, emergency information must be passed to the Control Tower to activate the Primary
   Crash Alarm System (PCAS). If unable to contact the Tower, notify AM Ops, who will activate the
   Secondary Crash Net. AM Ops, in turn, will notify the Tower by landline.
3. Specific Responsibilities and Procedures.
   3.1. 51st Operations Group Commander (51 OG/CC).
       3.1.1. Is responsible to 51 FW/CC for all operational matters and decisions affecting handling of
       aircraft emergencies.
       3.1.2. Directs the activation of Taxiway F Alternate Combat Runway (ACR), for aircraft
       emergencies when the situation dictates.
       3.1.3. Works with the SOF or ATC facilities to obtain information or give directions.
   3.2. 51st Mission Support Group Commander (51 MSG/CC):
       3.2.1. Will act as the Emergency Operations Center (EOC) Director and be the liaison between
       the IC and the ICC.
       3.2.2. Coordinates and controls all necessary support activities based upon the operational
       situation and /or decisions by IC or 51 OG/CC
4                                                                          51FWI21-106 18 MAY 2009


    3.3. Control Tower (51 OSS/OSAT):
       3.3.1. Assists in operational decisions to engage barriers, designate landing runway for
       emergency aircraft, shutdown of aircraft engines, taxi aircraft clear of runway, aircraft diverts
       and other operational actions. Suspends runway operations after the emergency aircraft lands
       until a Foreign Object Damage (FOD) inspection can be conducted by AM Ops.
       3.3.2. Monitors designated frequencies for aircraft emergency information whenever aircraft are
       operating.
       3.3.3. Declares emergency for aircraft, when situation warrants.
       3.3.4. Activates the PCAS whenever they receive information that would indicate an emergency
       is developing or in progress.
       3.3.5. Obtains status of all airborne aircraft and advises them if the emergency may cause them
       to divert or affect their flight.
       3.3.6. Activates the PCAS when directed by SOF or 51 OG/CC to activate the ACR.
       3.3.7. Provides priority handling for emergency aircraft as outlined in ATC directives, and uses
       121.5 or 243.0 as the emergency recovery frequency when able.
       3.3.8. Provides approval for emergency responders to enter the Controlled Movement Area
       (CMA)/runway as required to follow/respond to the emergency aircraft.
       3.3.9. Relays termination information to all concerned personnel and agencies when the
       emergency is terminated. Relays emergency termination for aircraft on the ground when the IC
       declares termination and, if the aircrew indicates no further assistance is needed. Relays requests
       for further assistance to the IC.
       3.3.10. Notifiesthe PCAS when the emergency is terminated.
    3.4. 51 CES/CEF:
       3.4.1. SFO assumes IC responsibility until relieved.
       3.4.2. Positions Fire Emergency Services vehicles according to nature of emergency.
       3.4.3. Provides fire protection or standby vehicle coverage until IC determines aircraft is safe.
       3.4.4. In cases where the aircraft is stopped but the engines are running, coordinates emergency
       activities with the aircrew until the aircraft is turned over to maintenance.
       Note: Use UHF Communications only with prior coordination from ATC and when critical.
       3.4.5. Advises Tower when the emergency is terminated and Fire Emergency Services actions
       are complete.
       3.4.6. Assumes responsibility for barrier maintenance functions when barrier maintenance crews
       are not on duty (Exception: only barrier maintenance crews are authorized to declare/certify
       barrier systems in service).
       3.4.7. Ensures hydrazine response, purge, and cleanup.


    3.5. AM Ops (51 OSS/OSAM):
51FWI21-106 18 MAY 2009                                                                                  5


     3.5.1. Relays all information received from Primary Crash Alarm System via the Secondary
     Crash Net (SCN).
     3.5.2. Responds to all in-flight and ground emergencies that impact airfield operations.
     3.5.3. Determines and informs Tower of airfield conditions and takes action to close or suspend
     runway or affected taxiway operations as deemed necessary.
     3.5.4. Makes a visual inspection of the runway and affected taxiways for airfield damage or
     FOD, requests airfield sweeper as necessary.
     3.5.5. Ensures the runway is clear of all vehicles, equipment and personnel. Advises the Tower
     and IC, (if necessary), when runway operations can be resumed.
     3.5.6. Secures activation/deactivation of ACR when required.
  3.6. 51st Security Forces Squadron (51 SFS):
     3.6.1. Responds to emergencies with sufficient personnel and vehicles to provide initial security
     for a crash site or damaged aircraft.
     3.6.2. For in-flight emergencies, responds to appropriate taxiway intersections. Vehicles will
     remain short of the Foxtrot Taxiway unless instructed otherwise by Security Forces Control
     Center (SFCC) or the IC.
     3.6.3. Follow directions given by IC to limit access, secure aircraft or crash site.
  3.7. 51 MXS/MXMTT
     3.7.1. The section supervisor will initiate a section recall determined by the type and scale of the
     emergency.
     3.7.2. Dispatches CDDAR team to all aircraft related emergencies to remove aircraft from the
     active runway and taxiways. Transfers responsibility for aircraft marshaling to the aircraft flying
     unit maintenance personnel when released by the IC.
     3.7.3. Instructs responding personnel to initially follow instructions of the IC until the aircraft is
     released to Crash Recovery maintenance supervisor.
     3.7.4. Prepares personnel from the CDDAR team to marshal, chock, pin and prepare the aircraft
     for towing when an aircraft must be shut down on the runway or taxiway. Aircraft must be
     released by the IC to maintenance.
     Note: Aircraft must be safed by unit’s de-arm crew prior to towing unless emergency
     circumstances dictate otherwise.
     3.7.5. Coordinates with Maintenance Operations Center for the owning organization to provide a
     de-arm crew for all munitions on the aircraft.
  3.8. 51st Medical Group (51 MDG):
     3.8.1. Responds to a position (normally near Base Ops) as directed by the IC with an ambulance
     and personnel necessary to provide emergency medical care.
     3.8.2. Remains at the scene until the emergency is terminated.
     3.8.3. Situations involving aircrew/passenger physiological problems, a flight surgeon will meet
     the aircraft and ensure the affected personnel are examined once cleared by the IC. If
6                                                                          51FWI21-106 18 MAY 2009


       physiological problem is confirmed or suspected and due to possible Liquid Oxygen (LOX) or
       cabin pressure problem, notify owning organizational MOC or 51 MXG/QA.
       3.8.4. Base Bio-Environmental Engineering (BEE) office will respond to the scene and perform
       health risk assessments, monitoring (if necessary) and advise the IC on health related issues i.e.
       hydrazine, composites, etc.
    3.9. 51 CES/CEOIP:
       3.9.1. For emergencies involving barrier engagements or possible barrier damage, responds to
       the affected barrier and is prepared to rewind or inspect for damage.
       3.9.2. For in-flight emergencies (IFE) involving anticipated barrier engagements, respond to and
       prepare if necessary, the barrier most likely to be engaged (if known) or to a location on the
       airfield where immediate response can be made to any involved barrier.
       3.9.3. Advises ATC of changes to barrier status.
    3.10. 51 CES/CED:
       3.10.1. Responds with Explosives Ordnance Disposal (EOD) team when requested by IC via the
       ICC and will advise location upon arrival.
       Note: 51 FWI 21-112, End of Runway/Explosives Loaded Aircraft, Hung Ordnance/Gun System
       Malfunction Procedures, and Hung Ordnance/Gun System Malfunction Impoundment, when an
       incident involves hung/unsafe ordnance, EOD personnel will remain on standby until such time
       weapons personnel requests EOD presence through the IC.
    3.11. 51 MXG/MOCC:
       3.11.1. Coordinates all operational matters, guidance and assistance on all aircraft.
       3.11.2. Implement emergency checklists as necessary.
       3.11.3. Notifies all ground maintenance personnel of the emergency. Notifies appropriate unit’s
       production superintendent to provide de-arm and tow crews.
    3.12. 51 FW Safety Office (51 FW/SE):
       3.12.1. Monitor, assess, and advise on response to aircraft emergencies.
       3.12.2. Initiates mishap investigation and reporting as required by AFI 91-204, Safety
       Investigations and Reports, Investigating and Reporting US Air Force Mishaps and forms an
       Interim Safety Board with the owning unit.
    3.13. TDY Units:
       3.13.1. Flying units deployed to Osan Air Base will provide qualified crash recovery personnel,
       de-arm/tow teams and MDS specific equipment for emergency response when called upon by the
       51 MXS CDDAR Team Chief.
       3.13.2. Will respond to appropriate end of runway and safe aircraft when directed by IC.
       3.13.3. Unit personnel responding to the emergency will switch to ramp net (if available) and
       prepare to assist the crash crew as required. If they do not have ramp net, they will standby until
       escorted to the scene by Crash Recovery/Transient Aircraft (TA) personnel.
51FWI21-106 18 MAY 2009                                                                                    7


      Note: It is each TDY Unit’s responsibility to contact AM Ops immediately upon arrival at Osan
      Air Base to get flight line drivers licenses and 51st Communications Squadron (51 CS) to have
      their radio’s programmed for ramp net capability.
      3.13.4. After termination of the emergency and removal of the aircraft from the active runway,
      unless there is a determination to initiate a mishap investigation, responsibility for towing and
      maintenance of the aircraft reverts to the owning unit.
   3.14. 51 CES/CEOHP
      3.14.1. Maintains and responds with heavy lifting equipment required to tow or push a crashed
      aircraft from the runway. Equipment is only required on an as needed basis when directed by the
      IC to clear the runway by any means necessary.
4. Termination of Emergencies.
   4.1. Aircrews may terminate emergencies of airborne aircraft.
   4.2. When aircraft are on the ground, the emergency may only be terminated by the IC with
   concurrence of the aircraft commander.
   4.3. Fire Emergency Services will notify the tower who, in turn, will contact AM Ops to terminate
   the emergency over the secondary crash net.
5. Crash Recovery.
   5.1. Crash recovery efforts are directed at returning the airfield to operational status after an aircraft
   mishap on, or in close proximity to the runway.
   5.2. Crash Recovery supervisor will be the ranking qualified Transient Alert person responding to
   the incident.
   5.3. Crash Recovery supervisor, in coordination with the IC, will take appropriate action to clear the
   runway. The IC will determine the degree of urgency.
   5.4. The Incident Commander will:
      5.4.1. Have attended the Air Force On Scene Commander Course.
      5.4.2. Maintains on-scene tactical control of all assets at the accident site.
      5.4.3. Coordinate with 51 FW/SE before moving any damaged aircraft (time permitting).
      5.4.4. In the event of an accident, release wreckage to the Interim Mishap Investigation Board
      President when initial crash recovery efforts are complete.
   5.5. The 51 MXS Crash Recovery Supervisor will:
      5.5.1. Be responsible to assist in recovery of all TDY and transient disabled aircraft, as outlined
      in AFI 21-101.
      5.5.2. Conduct/participate in annual training exercises.
      5.5.3. Maintain crash recovery equipment in a serviceable condition, ready for immediate use.
      5.5.4. Ensure crash recovery vehicles are manned. Proceed in a radio-equipped vehicle to the
      emergency staging area (Doorstop Ramp).
      5.5.5. Upon notification of an on-base aircraft accident:
8                                                                           51FWI21-106 18 MAY 2009


           5.5.5.1. Assemble Crash Recovery crew/equipment at designated point and await
           instructions from IC.
           5.5.5.2. Recall 51 MXS/MXMTT personnel in the event runway clearance is beyond the
           scope of the on-duty crash recovery crew.
       5.5.6. Upon notification of an off-base accident, standby and await dispatch instructions from
       the IC and be prepared to initiate the crash recovery recall plan.
6. Aircraft Removal.
    6.1. The following general procedures will apply for aircraft removal from the runway. In the event
    of a crash on the airfield, no part of the aircraft will be moved without concurrence of the Interim
    Mishap Investigation Board President. Only the minimum essential personnel will respond to an
    aircraft incident. Observers not required in command/removal operations are not permitted.
    6.2. Prior to starting removal operations on any aircraft:
       6.2.1. The IC will release aircraft to appropriate Crash Recovery supervisor.
       6.2.2. EOD personnel will render safe hung/damaged ordnance. EOD will standby outside of
       the immediate recovery area and will perform safing procedures when directed by the IC.
           6.2.2.1. Under normal operating procedures, the Crash Recovery supervisor will coordinate
           with owning unit weapons crew to safe the aircraft prior to performing aircraft towing
           operations.
           6.2.2.2. Crash Recovery technicians will disengage the barrier from the aircraft.
           6.2.2.3. On an aircraft declaring hot brakes, Crash Recovery team will confirm the hot brake
           condition. If a hot brake condition exists, follow hot brake procedures. If no hot brake
           condition exists, the aircraft will be released by the IC to taxi to its parking location.
           6.2.2.4. Under emergency circumstances (must clear off active runway immediately) the
           Crash Recovery supervisor may tow the aircraft to the nearest taxiway prior to having the
           unit safe the aircraft. Once aircraft is removed from active runway, the ordnance will be
           safed, either by EOD, or by the unit weapons crew depending on condition of the ordnance.
           6.2.2.5. Crash Recovery will tow aircraft off the runway and park at the nearest location,
           meaning Doorstop, EOR, or Base Operations Ramp. Crash Recovery will not tow aircraft
           back to original parking spot unless the IFE aircraft is the last aircraft down for local flying.
           6.2.2.6. The IC will authorize emergency removal operations.
    6.3. Applicable -2 and -3 maintenance manuals will be used for specific crash recovery procedures.
    If specific MDS maintenance manuals are not available locally, owning organizations will provide
    them, time permitting.
       6.3.1. Recovery personnel will never approach burning/smoldering aircraft until completely
       extinguished and cleared to by the IC.
       6.3.2. For aircraft containing composite materials, where there is the possibility of airborne
       particles, Crash Recovery members will wear full personal protective equipment (PPE) T.O. 00-
       105E-9, Aerospace Emergency Rescue and Mishap Response Information (Emergency Services).
       6.3.3. PPE gear consists of a full body suit (TYVEK type), full-face respirator, safety toe boots,
       NOMEX gloves, and leather gloves.
51FWI21-106 18 MAY 2009                                                                               9


   6.4. If the crashed aircraft cannot be removed using a crane or lifting bags, and conditions warrant
   immediate runway clearance, the IC will direct all available equipment to be used to move the
   aircraft off the runway by any means possible.
   Note: Removal of Republic of Korea or other non U.S. Air Force aircraft, when further damage is
   probable, will be coordinated with the proper agency, time and circumstances permitting.
7. Crash, Damaged and Disabled Aircraft Recovery, Personnel and Equipment Requirements.
   7.1. Minimum personnel required for specified CDDAR operations are outlined in AFI 21-
   101/51FW SUP, and T.O. 1A-10-2, Maintenance Manual A-10 Aircraft, T.O. 1A-10-3, Structural
   Repair A-10 Aircraft, T.O. 1F-16C-2, Maintenance Manual F-16 Aircraft and T.O. 1F-16C-3,
   Structural Repair F-16 Aircraft.
   7.2. Transient Alert maintains general purpose crash recovery equipment, i.e., lifting bags, matting,
   landscaping equipment, crash trailer, response vehicles, etc. Transient Alert section maintains a
   detailed list of available CDDAR equipment, tools, vehicles and other supplies/consumables.




                                            THOMAS H. DEALE, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
10                                                                 51FWI21-106 18 MAY 2009


                                        Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
51 FWI 21-112, End of Runway/Explosives Loaded Aircraft, Hung Ordnance/Gun System Malfunction
Procedures, and Hung Ordnance/Gun System Malfunction Impoundment
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management
AFI 21-101/51FW SUP, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance,
T.O. 00-105E-9, Aerospace Emergency Rescue and Mishap Response Information
T.O. 1A-10-2, Maintenance Manual A-10 Aircraft
T.O. 1A-10-3, Structural Repair A-10 Aircraft
T.O. 1F-16C-2, Maintenance Manual F-16 Aircraft
T.O. 1F-16C-3, Structural Repair F-16 Aircraft

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACR—Alternate Combat Runway
AM—Airfield Management
AM Ops—Airfield Management Operations
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AMCC—Air Mobility Control Center
AMS—Air Mobility Squadron
ATC—Air Traffic Control
BEE—Base Bio-Environmental
CDDAR—Crash Damaged or Disabled Aircraft Recovery
CEMP—Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan
CES—Civil Engineering Squadron
CMA—Controlled Movement Area
CONS—Contracting Squadron
CS—Communications Squadron
CSC—Central Security Control
ELS—Emergency landing Surface
EOC—Emergency Operations Center
EOD—Explosive Ordinance Disposal
ETA—Estimated Time of Arrival
FOD—Foreign Object Damage
HQ—Headquarters
51FWI21-106 18 MAY 2009                 11


IC—Incident Commander
ICC—Installation Control Center
IFE—In-Flight Emergency
LCL—Local Checklist
LOX—Liquid Oxygen
MDG—Medical Group
MDS—Mission design Series
MOC—Maintenance Operation Control
MOI—Maintenance Operating Instruction
MXG—Maintenance Group
MXS—Maintenance Squadron
OPLAN—Operations Plan
OS—Operations Squadron
PCAS—Primary Crash Alarm System
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
QA—Quality Assurance
SCN—Secondary Crash Net
SE—Safety Office
SFCC—Security Forces Control Center
SFO—Senior Fire Officer
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
SOF—Supervisor of Flying
TA—Transient Aircraft
TACC—Tanker Airlift Control Center
TDY—Temporary Duty
UHF—Ultra High Frequency
USAF—United States Air Force
