BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 53d WING INSTRUCTION 99-104
53D WING
                                                                       30 NOVEMBER 2009

                                                                          Test and Evaluation

                                                               COMPLEX TEST MISSION
                                                           PREPARATION AND CONTROL

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is digitally available at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
               af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?channelPageId=-2105616

RELEASABILITY: There are no restrictions on releasing this publication.

OPR: 53 TMG/TA                                                        Certified by: 53 WG/CC
Supersedes: 53 WGI 99-104,                                          (Colonel Michael E. Gantt)
            1 July 2005                                                              Pages: 15


This instruction implements some aspects of 53d Wing Instruction (53 WGI) 99-103, 53WG
Capabilities-Based-Test and Evaluation. This instruction addresses the preparation for and the
control of complex flight and ground tests for which the 53d Wing, United States Air Force
Warfare Center, Air Combat Command, is responsible. It specifies applicability, policy
guidelines, qualification and training requirements, test card development and review
procedures, control room responsibilities, and ground-to-air standard communications
terminology. This instruction applies to all units within the 53d Wing (WG). It does not apply
to tests where 53 WG members participate in a supporting role, including those of Air Force
Material Command and the Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center (AFOTEC).
Maintain records created as a result of prescribed processes IAW AFMAN 33-363, Management
of Records, and dispose of them IAW the AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) at
https://AFRIMS.amc.af.mil. Contact supporting records managers as required. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the office of primary
responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation of Change of Publication.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is an administrative update. It reflects first page format changes, as well as
wording revisions to paragraphs 1.2.3 and 2.1.3. Paragraphs 1.2.4 and 4.2.7 were added.
Attachment 1 now includes references.
2                                                         53WGI99-104 30 NOVEMBER 2009



                                           Chapter 1

                                       INTRODUCTION

1.1. General. Test organizations in the 53rd Wing (53 WG) shall conduct complex flight and
ground tests within approved test plans and safety plans in accordance with (IAW) 53WG
Instruction (53 WGI) 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation, and this publication. Unit
commanders and Project Managers (PM) are responsible for implementing the provisions of this
instruction for the test projects they plan and execute.
1.2. Applicability. This instruction only governs the preparation for and control of complex
flight or ground test missions.
    1.2.1. For the purposes of this instruction, complex test missions are defined as those
    missions that require the monitoring of on-board aircraft, sensor or weapons performance
    data and/or safety of flight/flight termination systems via telemetry to a mission control
    room.
    1.2.2. Complex test missions do not normally include missions whose primary purpose is
    one of tactics development. They also do not normally involve facilities whose “control”
    capability only provides for simple monitoring/controlling of the “fight” geographical
    location of participating aircraft and/or providing shot assessment for kill removal [i.e. Air
    Combat Maneuvering Instrumentation (ACMI), Nellis Air Combat Training System
    (NACTS), etc.].
    1.2.3. Although not released from meeting the intent of this instruction’s guidelines, mission
    control room procedures and training implementation specifics of 53d Weapons Evaluation
    Group COMBAT ARCHER and COMBAT HAMMER Weapons System Evaluation
    Programs (WSEP); and 49th/72nd Test and Evaluation Squadron Nuclear Weapons System
    Evaluation Program (NUCWSEP) are delegated to those responsible organizations.
    1.2.4. This applicability paragraph should not be construed as precluding test project
    managers and/or test unit commanders, at their discretion, from applying the procedures of
    this wing instruction to tests not strictly meeting the criteria of complex test missions.
1.3. Safety. Complex test missions, as defined by this instruction, usually present special
planning and execution challenges, particularly if these types of missions are not executed by the
responsible unit on a frequent basis. Test personnel should recognize that no guidance on test
preparation or control room operation can be sufficient enough that test execution becomes
mechanical. Test card content and control room procedures should not be taken as direction or
permission to do something unwise. Crew Resource Management (CRM) considerations dictate
that any test aircrew member or control room participant should not hesitate to point out
circumstances that will -- in his/her judgment -- put the aircraft or crew in an unplanned or
hazardous situation. In short, each member of the test team must communicate, even beyond
normal challenge and response levels, to resolve unforeseen situations that may occur.
1.4. Security. Test team personnel must follow good security practices in order to protect
sensitive and/or classified telemetry information. Classified data will be properly marked,
handled, and shared with appropriately cleared individuals on a “need to know” basis. Mission
control room access will only be granted to individuals with the appropriate security credentials.
53WGI99-104 30 NOVEMBER 2009                                                                    3


                                           Chapter 2

                                          POLICIES

2.1. Qualifications and Training.
   2.1.1. Test management and test execution organizations will ensure that personnel are
   current and qualified in the duties they are required to perform in support of complex test
   operations.
   2.1.2. Test execution units will document aircrew training, qualifications and currency to
   perform specialized flight test events. Test execution units will ensure that aircrew members
   operating on-board data acquisition and telemetry systems receive training in the proper
   operation of these systems. Test execution units will ensure that maintainers and
   instrumentation technicians are qualified to perform their required duties through appropriate
   training prior to working on test articles and conducting ground or logistics tests. Test
   execution units will ensure that all ground technical personnel operating on-board aircraft
   data acquisition and telemetry systems have received training in the proper operation of these
   systems.
   2.1.3. Test management and test execution units will establish a training and checkout
   program for mission control room test directors and test conductors. Unit commanders will
   approve qualifications and authorize test directors/test conductors to perform their duties.
   Unit commanders will designate instructor test directors to conduct and document initial
   checkout of new test directors and test conductors. As a minimum, upgrading test
   directors/conductors will attend 53 WG Test Team Training (class room academics) and Test
   Control and Conduct Training (web based academics) and participate in at least two
   supervised control room test missions as an upgrade test director/test conductor, prior to
   assuming duties as an unsupervised test director/conductor. In situations where test
   management and test execution organizations reside at the same geographical location, it is
   highly encouraged that these units establish a common test director/test conductor checkout
   program, using a common pool of approved instructor test directors.
   2.1.4. Project Managers will verify that test directors and test conductors assigned to their
   projects have received appropriate academics and on-the-job training.
   2.1.5. Test directors will ensure that all other essential mission control room participants
   have received training appropriate to their assigned control room responsibilities. Essential
   mission control room participants are defined as those designated subject matter experts
   whose active participation in the control room are essential to safety of flight and/or mission
   execution and data collection success.
   2.1.6. Depending on the complexity of the test mission, test directors should conduct a
   “dress rehearsal” with all test mission participants in the actual control room to be utilized,
   prior to executing the test mission.
2.2. Test Results.
   2.2.1. Preparation for and execution of complex test missions are costly and time consuming.
   Therefore, while adhering to all the “operationally representative” test mandates provided by
   Public Law and DOD/AFI guidance, 53 WG complex test missions should not be executed
4                                                           53WGI99-104 30 NOVEMBER 2009


    with a known test item deficiency that could jeopardize successful test mission
    accomplishment. However, if the deficiency is locally correctable prior to test (improper
    configuration, revised mission planning load, modified technical order procedures, etc.) the
    correction may be made and the mission accomplished, but the original discrepancy should
    be documented and assessed in the final report as to impact on overall operational
    effectiveness and/or suitability. This paragraph does not apply to any testing whose purpose
    is to uncover or characterize suspected deficiencies (captive carries, investigative firings,
    etc).
    2.2.2. All complex test missions will be sufficiently debriefed to ensure that test results are
    properly documented. To the maximum extent possible, all essential mission personnel, to
    include the test aircrew, the test director, test conductor, control room engineering
    representatives, cognizant contractor representatives, and chase/support aircrew, should
    attend the debriefing. Significant deficiencies discovered and confirmed during testing will
    be documented, as a minimum, IAW T.O. 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting and
    Investigating System.
    2.2.3. Project Managers are responsible for ensuring that lessons learned from the test are
    captured and incorporated into the test plan, test report, and/or follow-on mission test cards,
    as applicable.
    2.2.4. Any safety-related events (to include any software/integration anomalies preventing a
    planned munition’s release) must be reported to local base and 53 WG safety offices and
    investigated IAW local, major command, and Air Force guidance, as appropriate.
2.3. Mission Control Room Access
    2.3.1. The test director is responsible for reconciling 53 WG mission control room
    operations procedures, including control room access policy, with local range control room
    guidance.
    2.3.2. The test director is the final authority on test team access to the control room for all 53
    WG missions.
       2.3.2.1. The only personnel normally admitted into a 53 WG test mission control room
       are those test team members who are both active participants in the test mission and who
       have attended the test mission mass pre-flight briefing. The test director has discretion to
       waive this policy on a case-by-case basis for control room participants whose presence at
       the pre-flight mission briefing would not have been constructive.
       2.3.2.2. If a range mission control facility does not have an adequate “very important
       person” (VIP)/observer location to view the mission, the test director may grant a waiver
       to normal 53 WG control room access policy at his/her discretion for select observers.
       2.3.2.3. The test director may waive control room access restrictions for VIPs (O-6s or
       above and contractor/civilian equivalents), as well as test execution/test management unit
       commanders, at his/her discretion.
2.4. Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) Oversight Test Programs.
    2.4.1. Title 10 US Code Section 139 specifies that any observers designated by Director,
    Operational Test and Evaluation (DOT&E) must be allowed to attend the conduct of an
    operational test.
53WGI99-104 30 NOVEMBER 2009                                                                 5


  2.4.2. Any DOT&E representative attending a 53 WG test of a system that is on the OSD
  Oversight List should be considered a “designee” of DOT&E for observing the test. It is the
  responsibility of the Project Manager to know if his/her project is on the OSD Oversight List
  and to convey that information to the test director.
  2.4.3. Although mission control room facility VIP/Observer areas should provide adequate
  viewing for DOT&E representatives; the test director, at his/her discretion, is encouraged to
  grant DOT&E individuals access to the main mission control room if it will not compromise
  successful mission accomplishment.
6                                                           53WGI99-104 30 NOVEMBER 2009


                                             Chapter 3

                              PROCEDURES AND PERSONNEL

3.1. Test Preparation.
    3.1.1. For complex test missions, a final test card review will be held by the unit project
    officer (UPO) and the test director/conductor at least 48 hours prior to test mission execution.
    Test card runs will be briefed in the planned testing sequence, to include a review of all flight
    test maneuvers and procedures. Major changes (adding runs, adding additional test aircraft,
    changing ordnance, etc) to the card deck are not allowed at the final run card review; if major
    changes are required, the cards must be re-approved via the initial execution unit test card
    approval process.
    3.1.2. However, “redline” changes may be made at the final review, without undergoing a
    formal coordination and re-approval process. Redlines are appropriate in the following
    cases: 1) correcting errors that were not caught during the review cycle, 2) accounting for
    mission support driven changes, and 3) making clarifications. Correction of errors is a
    primary reason for the card review and it is the last chance to ensure flight conditions, limits,
    procedures, etc., are all as desired to meet test objectives. Mission support changes include
    such things as radio frequencies, aircraft tail numbers, aircrew members, support aircraft call
    signs, takeoff times, etc. Clarifications include such topics as the specifics of executing a
    particular test procedure and changing aircraft configurations between test points.
    3.1.3. The preferred process for this final test card review is for the test director to brief the
    test cards directly to all test team members, en masse. Special planning considerations must
    be taken into account when test team members are geographically separated or when they
    need to travel to an off-site range prior to test execution. Teleconferencing capabilities may
    be used to simultaneously brief as many of the test team members as possible, but in all
    situations, it is incumbent upon the UPO or test director to ensure that all test team members
    are made aware of any and all run card changes in sufficient time for their review and
    comment. All test team members must agree to all “redline” changes.
    3.1.4. Test runs cannot be added at the final test card review without repeating the entire test
    card review and approval process, but runs may be deleted or the run card order may be
    changed. It is imperative, when deleting test runs or changing the run card order, to consider
    any potential impacts to chronologically connected or otherwise related test points. The test
    director has final approval authority on any suggestion to delete test runs or change run card
    order.
3.2. Mission Control Rooms. A mission control room is defined as any facility, ground or
airborne, that provides two-way communication with the aircrew and real-time telemetry
capability to monitor safety of flight and/or test data. The following procedures apply to all
ground mission control room operations and to most situations where the test director/conductor
and other key personnel are airborne in a test or a test support aircraft.
    3.2.1. Every individual in the control room must be trained in his or her responsibilities and
    should be familiar with the responsibilities of all others in the control room.
53WGI99-104 30 NOVEMBER 2009                                                                    7


   3.2.2. There is always a single, highly experienced individual designated as the test director,
   who acts as supervisor of the mission control room test team and has emergency direct
   communication with the mission test aircrew.
   3.2.3. There may be a single, experienced individual designated as the test conductor who is
   the primary communicator with the test aircrew. The test conductor will clear the test pilot to
   proceed from one test point to the next. The test conductor may be the test director for less
   complex test missions.
   3.2.4. All essential control room personnel will be in direct communication with each other
   and with the test director/conductor. All essential control room personnel will monitor
   aircrew-to-control room communications. In-flight video of the aircraft and/or its released
   munition may be required to enhance the situational awareness of control room personnel.
   Any member of the aircrew or control room team may recommend termination of a test point
   to the test conductor. Teamwork is paramount.
   3.2.5. Unambiguous radio communications with the test aircrew must be used (see Chapter
   4).
   3.2.6. All safety or mission critical steps (e.g. weapons switch positions) in complex test
   missions must be “challenge and response,” (i.e. the test director/conductor challenges and
   the test aircrew responds) and written/highlighted on the test cards/test procedures sheet that
   the aircrew uses to execute the mission. The test director/conductor must be familiar with
   mission specific aircrew workload so challenge and response items will not interfere with
   critical cockpit activities.
   3.2.7. All telemetered safety-of-flight and mission critical test data will be continuously
   monitored and a procedure shall be in place to immediately notify the test aircrew if safety
   limits are approached or if critical data reception malfunctions for any reason.
   3.2.8. Test run and/or mission termination criteria will be covered in the mission pre-
   briefing. Test run and/or mission termination decisions will be made by the test
   director/conductor, as briefed. For remotely operated air vehicle (ROA) tests, the chase
   aircrew or ROA operator may take control of the vehicle, as applicable, for safety reasons,
   without concurrence from the control room.
   3.2.9. All test directors and test conductors, as well as any essential control room
   participants directly responsible for monitoring safety-of-flight related information, will
   observe a 10 hour rest period prior to reporting for duty and participating in a test mission.
   This rest period requirement may be waived by the test execution unit’s group commander or
   above. In addition, the duty day for all control room personnel will not exceed 12 hours,
   from the time the individual reports for duty until active mission control room monitoring is
   no longer required. For long duration test missions, test organizations should consider
   rotating control room personnel. The test execution unit commander may extend the control
   room crew duty day up to 18 hours. All participating 53 WG personnel will not drink
   alcoholic beverages within a 12 hour period prior to entering the control room for a test
   mission.
3.3. Mission Duties. The following key personnel duties are typical for a large test using a
ground control room. Depending on the complexity of the test mission, certain positions may
not be required and/or individuals may fulfill more than one key mission duty; e.g. PM, UPO,
8                                                           53WGI99-104 30 NOVEMBER 2009


rated project officer (RPO), operations analyst (OA)/operational suitability analyst (OSA), or test
engineer (TE) may also act as the test director or test conductor. In tests where a multi-person
aircraft itself is the control room, modifications to these key personnel duties may be required.
Contractual requirements or test activities involving multiple government agencies may also
necessitate some modification of the responsibilities listed. Test organizations may modify the
key duties below, as necessary, but should ensure that all essential control room responsibilities
are assigned to specific individuals. Depending on the nature and complexity of the test, the list
of mission control room personnel referred to in this instruction may not be all inclusive and
should not be perceived as excluding additional control room participants.
    3.3.1. Test Director. Responsible for the technical quality, security, safety, and support
    aspects of the mission as identified in the test plan. The test director:
       3.3.1.1. Verifies that the test cards and/or procedures have been properly reviewed and
       approved.
       3.3.1.2. Ensures key personnel attend both pre- and post-test briefings. The test director
       will ensure that test cards and safety packages are fully briefed and will ensure that test
       results are properly documented. Briefs any applicable operations risk management
       (ORM) mitigations required by the test plan.
       3.3.1.3. Emphasizes applicable CRM guidance to the entire test team.
       3.3.1.4. Supervises the mission control room and verifies qualifications of all test
       personnel in the control room.
       3.3.1.5. Possesses the authority to terminate the test point or mission if the technical
       validity of the test is in question or safety is jeopardized.
       3.3.1.6. Makes the final decision on the real-time selection of test run options during the
       test mission.
       3.3.1.7. Has emergency direct communication with test mission aircrew.
    3.3.2. Pilot. Responsible for the safe operation of the test aircraft and successful completion
    of the test mission. If the pilot is not the pilot-in-command, the pilot-in-command will be the
    final authority on aircraft safety and the test pilot will be responsible for the execution of the
    test points. The pilot and/or his designated rated aircrew representative:
       3.3.2.1. Assists the PM, UPO, OA/OSA, and TE in preparation and review of the test
       plan.
       3.3.2.2. Prepares or assists the PM and/or UPO in the preparation of ORM and safety
       reviews.
       3.3.2.3. Assists the UPO, OA/OSA, and TE in the preparation of test cards and reviews
       test points and test mission profile for safety and execution practicality.
       3.3.2.4. Reviews test cards for compliance with range safety review package.
       3.3.2.5. Will be provided written information and be briefed on the entire horizontal and
       vertical flight profile of any free-flight weapon the mission aircraft is expected to release.
       3.3.2.6. Possesses the authority to terminate the test point or mission for any safety of
       flight reason.
53WGI99-104 30 NOVEMBER 2009                                                                     9


     3.3.2.7. Performs test maneuvers as briefed, or in the case of multi-crew aircraft,
     oversees test maneuvers, as appropriate.
     3.3.2.8. Leads the mission execution portion of the briefing and debriefing.
     3.3.2.9. Ensures test aircraft crewmembers understand their duties for the mission and
     reviews aircrew duties in the event of an emergency in the test, chase or other support
     aircraft.
     3.3.2.10. Completes post-mission questionnaires and/or reports, as required.
     3.3.2.11. Assists OA and TE in analyzing test data by filling out post-mission
     questionnaires and providing assessments as to test system effectiveness and mission
     suitability.
  3.3.3. Chase Pilot. Responsible for clearing airspace, being in position to take photographs
  (as applicable), checking over the test aircraft between test points, and assisting the test
  aircraft in an emergency. The chase pilot:
     3.3.3.1. Attends mission briefings.
     3.3.3.2. Reviews all mission maneuvers with test aircrew and ensures that the following
     items are briefed: chase position, expected test results, photography requirements,
     minimum anticipated altitudes and terrain clearance, aircraft limits for both test and chase
     aircraft, fuel management plan, altitude deconfliction and plan for lost sight, and
     rendezvous/rejoin plan.
     3.3.3.3. Will be provided written information and briefed on the entire horizontal and
     vertical flight profile of any free-flight weapon that chase is expected to observe.
     Briefing will include minimum altitudes below which the weapon will not be followed.
     3.3.3.4. Ensures chase aircraft crewmembers (to include photographers) understand their
     duties for the mission and reviews aircrew duties in the event of an emergency in the test,
     chase or other support aircraft.
     3.3.3.5. Completes post-mission questionnaires and/or reports, as required.
  3.3.4. Test Conductor. Responsible for real-time coordination of ground activities with the
  aircrew, paces progression through the test cards as agreed to in the mission pre-briefing,
  defers to the test director for decisions, as appropriate, and is the primary communicator with
  the test aircraft. The test conductor may be airborne in a test or test support aircraft. In less
  complicated tests, the test conductor may also be the test director. The test conductor:
     3.3.4.1. Works with the OA/OSA and UPO to provide approved test cards to the PM, test
     execution unit approval chain-of-command, test aircrew, test engineers, and others as
     applicable, prior to test mission pre-briefing.
     3.3.4.2. Coordinates control room setup, as required.
     3.3.4.3. Briefs technical requirements of the test cards during mission briefing.
     3.3.4.4. Briefs applicable test risk mitigation procedures, to include specific ORM
     requirements, during mission briefing.
10                                                          53WGI99-104 30 NOVEMBER 2009


        3.3.4.5. Makes test-point terminate and go or no-go calls based on real-time analyses of
        control room data. Terminates test points if the technical validity of the test is in question
        or safety is jeopardized.
     3.3.5. Test Engineer. Responsible for the technical adequacy of the test. The TE:
        3.3.5.1. Is responsible for assisting the PM, UPO, test aircrew, and OA/OSA in preparing
        the test plan.
        3.3.5.2. Assists the PM and UPO in the preparation of any required safety or risk
        assessment review packages.
        3.3.5.3. Works with the UPO and OA/OSA to prepare test procedures or test cards.
        3.3.5.4. Determines what control room data are required. Participates in control room
        configuration determination.
        3.3.5.5. Ensures test item is correctly configured and operationally representative.
        3.3.5.6. Monitors critical data from safety and technical standpoints.
        3.3.5.7. Determines if executed test point was technically adequate and gives test
        conductor recommendation to repeat point or proceed.
        3.3.5.8. Informs test director/test conductor if telemetry data is unusable.
        3.3.5.9. Assists OA/OSA and test aircrew in analyzing test data and provides
        assessments as to test system effectiveness and mission suitability.
        3.3.5.10. Works with the PM and OA/OSA to ensure test item deficiencies are
        appropriately catalogued in a watch item (WIT) list or the AF Deficiency Reporting
        System, as appropriate.
     3.3.6. Operations Analyst/Operational Suitability Analyst. Responsible                 for   test
     preparation, post-flight analysis, and post-test data reporting. The OA/OSA:
        3.3.6.1. Works with the PM, UPO, TE, and test aircrew to prepare and review the test
        plan.
        3.3.6.2. Constructs test cards and/or test procedures in coordination with the UPO, TE,
        and test aircrew. Works with the test conductor and UPO to provide approved test cards
        to the PM, test execution unit approval chain-of-command, test aircrew, test engineers,
        and others as applicable, prior to test mission pre-briefing.
        3.3.6.3. Works with the UPO to provide coordination between operations, engineering,
        and maintenance to schedule the test article, support aircraft, and test ranges. The
        OA/OSA works with the TE and instrumentation engineer to ensure proper test article
        configuration and data acquisition system configuration.
        3.3.6.4. Gathers post-mission reports, video tapes, and instrumentation information, as
        applicable, and accomplishes the appropriate data analysis and reporting activities.
        3.3.6.5. Assists test aircrew and TE in analyzing test data; provides assessments as to test
        system effectiveness and mission suitability
53WGI99-104 30 NOVEMBER 2009                                                                       11


     3.3.6.6. Works with the PM and TE to ensure test item deficiencies are appropriately
     catalogued in a watch item (WIT) list or the AF Deficiency Reporting System, as
     appropriate.
  3.3.7. Instrumentation Engineer and/or technician are responsible for the pre-flight, post-
  flight, and real-time operation of the data acquisition system.
  3.3.8. Range Control Officer (RCO) is responsible to the test director for the mission profile
  the real-time placement of the test and test support aircraft. The RCO coordinates all range
  support both inter- and intra-range. The RCO prepares and coordinates documentation and
  procedures with range users and other support ranges, where necessary, to satisfy test
  mission requirements. The RCO is normally provided by the host range and is not formally
  part of the test director’s mission test team.
  3.3.9. Data Production Analyst (DPA) is responsible for development of real-time and post-
  flight data products; pre-mission preparation of mission control rooms and computer
  systems; and operation of the mission control rooms and associated data processing systems
  during test mission support (real-time and post-flight). The DPA is the liaison between users
  of the data support systems, instrumentation engineer, and the data processing staff. The
  DPA has overall responsibility for ensuring compatibility between the airborne
  instrumentation and ground data processing systems and interfaces.
  3.3.10. Range Safety Officer (RSO) is responsible for protection of the general public.
  During real-time operations, the RSO provides an independent safety assessment for the
  flights of unmanned vehicles and weapons. The RSO may cancel or terminate test missions
  that violate range safety criteria or pose a potential threat to personnel, facilities, or property.
  In the event of imminent danger or errant flight of these systems, the RSO may directly
  invoke recovery or destruct actions on these vehicles using the ranges flight termination
  systems or by direction to project personnel. The RSO is normally provided by the host
  range and is not formally part of the test director’s mission test team.
12                                                          53WGI99-104 30 NOVEMBER 2009


                                             Chapter 4

                                      COMMUNICATIONS

4.1. General. The test conductor will brief appropriate communications between the mission
control room and the aircrew for conduct of the test. The following terms will apply when
standard communications are in effect. Non-standard terminology will be briefed, as required.
See 53 WEGI 11-250, Operations, for additional specialized terminology used by air-to-air
WSEP missions.
4.2. Terminology.
     4.2.1. “Abort, Abort, Abort. ” This is an urgent call made when time is critical conveying
     the information. It usually occurs in safety-of-flight situations or as a result of a late
     malfunction on a weapons delivery run. This call is normally made in an attempt to preclude
     an unsafe situation from developing further or to prevent an ineffective weapons release.
     Upon hearing the call, the test pilot will cease maneuvering, as appropriate, and immediately
     safe all weapons switches. This is a priority call that may be made by the mission control
     room, the test aircraft, or the chase aircraft. This call may or may not end the mission, but as
     a minimum, it will at least necessitate resetting the entire test run.
     4.2.2. “Knock-it-off. ” Normally an AIRCREW ONLY term to cease maneuvering for
     safety of flight reasons in accordance with applicable Air Force published training rules.
     This call will necessitate resetting the entire test run. Control room personnel should use the
     abort or terminate calls lieu of the knock-it-off call unless knock-it-off is specifically
     warranted by a safety-of-flight concern.
     4.2.3. “Terminate. ” Cease executing the planned maneuver. Actions may include
     unloading to 1g and decreasing airspeed. A reason usually follows the terminate call;
     however, the terminate call is not as urgent as an abort or a knock-it-off call and may not
     require resetting the entire test run. Examples include TM dropout, weather, off planned test
     parameters, inaccurate switch settings, etc.
     4.2.4. “Cease Fire (drone operations only). ” If a cease fire is issued, shooters lose any
     previous clearance to fire. If shooters were armed hot, they may remain so. They may
     continue to intercept/maneuver against the drone. Shooters will immediately acknowledge
     the cease-fire call or a knock-it-off will be issued.
     4.2.5. “Arm Safe (drone operations only)”. Shooters lose any previous clearance to fire
     and arm. Shooters will immediately safe their weapons systems and acknowledge the arm
     safe call. Failure to do so will result in a knock-it-off. Shooters may continue to
     intercept/maneuver against the drone. Arm safe will be called if any aircraft is positioned or
     will fly in front of an armed aircraft's 3/9 line within the missile footprint.
     4.2.6. “Stand-by. ” Hold the current conditions and do not execute additional steps in the
     test run. Used for data analysis or test set-up reconsideration, unless otherwise stated.
     4.2.7. “Continue. ” Confirms that previously issued directions are still in force. Often used
     when a “Stand By” (see paragraph 4.2.6) of extended duration is in effect.
53WGI99-104 30 NOVEMBER 2009                                                                 13


  4.2.8. “Point Complete. ” Current test point complete. Stand-by for clearance to proceed to
  the next test point, air refuel, return to base, etc.
  4.2.9. “Cleared to (the next test condition). ” Cleared to the specified test point or
  maneuver.
  4.2.10. “On Conditions. ” Stabilized on the test point. Used for good data collection.
  4.2.11. “Skip It. ” Do not release on this pass; go through dry and safe the system. Skip it
  applies to testing where stores are released from the test aircraft. It is often used when the
  test aircraft has not achieved the proper weapons delivery parameters, where a chase aircraft
  is out of position for the release, or where the proper data will not be captured (to include
  required chase photos). Skip it is not used in any situation where safety is a concern or
  where time is critical in conveying a directive.
  4.2.12. “Loiter. ” Slow to maximum endurance and wait for further instructions.
  Frequently used prior to entering a range or when range safety or the mission control room is
  not ready to proceed with the test.




                                           MICHAEL E. GANTT, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
14                                                    53WGI99-104 30 NOVEMBER 2009


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
53 WGI 99-103 (https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?channelPageId=-
2105616), Capability Based Test and Evaluation, 1 October 2008
53 WEGI 11-250
(https://wwwd.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASPs/docman/DOCMain.asp?Tab=0&FolderID=OO-
TE-AC-02&Filter=OO-TE-AC-02), Operations, 1 July 2008
T.O. 00-35D-54 (https://wwwmil.tinker.af.mil/til/tild/0035d54.pdf), USAF Deficiency
Reporting and Investigating System, 15 March 2006

Abbreviations and Acronyms
WG—-53rd Wing
ACMI—-Air Combat Maneuvering Instrumentation
AFI—-Air Force Instruction
CRM—-Crew Resource Management
DPA—-Data Processing Analyst
DOD—-Department of Defense
DOT&E—-Director, Operational Test and Evaluation
IAW—-In Accordance With
NACTS—-Nellis Air Combat Training System
NUCWSEP—-Nuclear Weapons System Evaluation Program
OA—-Operations Analyst
OSA—-Operational Suitability Analyst
OSD—-Office of Secretary of Defense
ORM—-Operations Risk Management
OSD—-Office of the Secretary of Defense
PM—-Project Manager
RCO—-Range Control Officer
ROA—-Remotely Operated Air Vehicle
RPO—-Rated Project Officer
RSO—-Range Safety Officer
TE—-Test Engineer
TO—-Technical Order
53WGI99-104 30 NOVEMBER 2009            15


UPO—-Unit Project Officer
VIP—-Very Important Person
WIT—-Watch Item
WEG—-Weapons Evaluation Group
WSEP—Weapon System Evaluation Program
