BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                           552D AIR CONTROL WING
552D AIR CONTROL WING (ACC)                                                INSTRUCTION 10-601
                                                                                   13 January 2009
                                                                  Certified Current 07 March 2011


                                                                                         Operations
                                                                        WING REQUIREMENTS


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       http://www.epublishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 552 ACW/XPR                                                       Certified By: 552 ACW/CC
Supersedes 552ACWI 10-22, 14 January 2003                                                   Pages: 6
This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-6, Capabilities-Based
Planning & Requirements Development. This instruction defines the requirements function in
the 552 ACW, levies responsibilities, sets forth procedures, and describes products. For the
purpose of this instruction, requirements activities are limited to the E-3 aircraft, operational and
mission support software, direct mission support equipment, and training devices. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Information Management Tool (IMT) 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication; route AF IM 847s from the filed through Major Command
(MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. This instruction is
directive and applies to the 552 ACW and subordinate groups.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision updates the instruction to reflect organizational responsibilities within the 552
ACW regarding requirements activities.

1. General. Requirement activities impact every aspect of the Wing. The timely identification,
validation, and prioritization of requirements are essential to supporting the continued
accomplishment of the 552d Air Control Wing’s mission.

   1.1. Requirements Activities: All activities necessary to state a coordinated Wing need
   (requirement) that has an acquisition solution and all activities necessary to monitor and guide
   the acquisition community as it responds to a stated Wing need. Further, it encompasses all
552ACWI 10-601 13 January 2009                                                                     2

  activities necessary to prepare Wing organizations to implement and take ownership of the
  solution once fielded. Programs/Projects are defined as requirements which have secured a
  funded acquisition solution.

     1.1.2. Concept of Operations: It is incumbent on all managers to review mission
     capability and supportability requirements in order to plan for and implement
     modernization programs. Since, requirement activities involve Wing personnel from every
     level and function it is necessary to have an agency at Wing level to coordinate and direct
     Wing functions and processes to the extent they involve requirements activities.

     1.1.3. On behalf of the commander, 552d ACW, Requirements (XPR) will monitor and
     direct the performance of requirements activities. XPR will be the single point of contact
     to higher headquarters and/or acquisition agencies for all programs/projects requiring an
     acquisition solution, and as such will function as the Office of Primary Responsibility
     (OPR) for long-term requirements programs such as block upgrades and modernization
     efforts. Once projects/ programs migrate to operational/fleet installation status, OPR will
     be transferred to the appropriate group(s), as outlined in the associated program System
     Activation Plan (SAP). XPR will then function as Office of Corollary Responsibility
     (OCR).

2. Organization:

  2.1. At the Wing level, requirements activities will be supervised and directed by 552
  ACW/XPR, Chief of Requirements. This instruction does not specify a formal
  organizational structure below the Wing level. Requirement activities are an inherent part of
  management responsibilities and are left to the Group Commanders to provide the best means
  of accomplishment.

  2.2. XPR will establish working groups to focus on establishing high-level
  needs/requirements and to develop a roadmap for future capabilities. Members of the
  working group will be comprised of action officers from the Operations Group, Maintenance
  Group and Communications Group. The working groups will meet quarterly or as required
  and report activities to the Wing Requirements Working Group (WRWG). The WRWG, in
  turn, reports status and requests direction from Wing leadership via the Wing Requirements
  Review Board (WRRB). The WRRB will be held quarterly.

  2.3. Once a need/requirement receives funding a program Integrated Product Team (IPT) will
  be established. XPR will lead the team consisting of subject matter experts and action
  officers from each affected group and/or function within the Wing. These IPTs function at
  the Wing level. Group Commanders may have group teams for projects that have an
  extensive impact on their organizations to ensure a coordinated effort. Group Commanders
  may establish a requirements section and delegate authority to the section leaders to carry out
  the responsibilities of this instruction.

     2.3.1. Upon formation of the program/project IPT, a SAP will be written and maintained
     by the team. This document provides a top level program overview and outlines the
3                                                   552ACWI 10-601 13 January 2009

      implementation strategy, schedule, funding and issues/concerns. The SAP is a living
      document and should continually reflect significant changes and updates throughout the
      life cycle of the program/project. See Attachment 1 for Sample Program/Project SAP. All
      active SAPs will be available to senior leadership via the XPR web site and serve as the
      basis for continuity and uniformity of purpose in requirement activities.

3. Responsibilities:

    3.1. The 552 ACW/CC will:

      3.1.1. Provide overall guidance on requirements issues.

      3.1.2. Upon recommendation of the Group Commanders and XPR, validate the semi-
      annual Wing requirements priority list and forward to appropriate MAJCOM agencies.

      3.1.3. Appoint the Chief of Wing Requirements and empower him/her to manage and
      resolve requirement issues; and speak for the Wing on requirements issues in
      correspondence and at meetings with higher headquarters and/or acquisition agencies.

    3.2. 552 ACW/XPR will:

      3.2.1. Provide overall management for all funded and unfunded requirements needing
      acquisition solutions, coordinate between the various groups, maintain an integrated and
      coordinated plan for all funded programs/projects and keep senior leadership informed of
      significant issues and events.

      3.2.2. Lead the WRWG, which will meet quarterly or as required to address requirements
      issues. Membership will include representatives from each group and all IPT leaders.
      Other organizations/offices will be invited as required.

      3.2.3. Lead the WRRB to present senior leadership with significant program developments
      and issues, to obtained consolidated Wing positions and to prepare leadership for the ACC
      Requirements Review Board (RRB).

      3.2.4. Serve as the Wing representative on the ACC Requirements Working Group, which
      meets quarterly or as required to address requirements issues. XPR will ensure all Wing
      concerns/issues are brought forward for MAJCOM-level review and discussion.

      3.2.5. Coordinate with ACC and ESC to support the ACC RRB, an executive level review
      of all programs/projects.

      3.2.6. Lead appropriate program IPTs, which will meet at least quarterly and report
      status/results to WRWG.
      3.2.7. Prepare semi-annual priority list of desired weapon system enhancements and
      Reliability, Maintainability and Availability products based on current and projected
      missions/threats. This list will be coordinated through all Group Commanders and
552ACWI 10-601 13 January 2009                                                                4

    forwarded to ACC with 552 ACW/CC signature. The approved priority list will be posted
    on XPR web page

    3.2.8. Maintain SAP and other program/project documentation for all funded
    programs/projects falling under the purview of this instruction.

    3.2.9. Request/recommend to Group Commanders or their authorized representatives the
    appointment of Wing program/project team members. Maintain a current roster of all
    program/project leaders and team members within the respective program SAP.

    3.2.10. Coordinate between program/project teams to ensure their work does not adversely
    impact the work of other IPTs and optimize plans and schedules requirement activities in
    terms of impact to the Wing.

    3.2.11. Serve as focal for receipt, staffing and validating needs/requirements submitted by
    552 ACW organizations.

    3.2.12. Support E-3 software requirements IAW 552 ACWI 63-101.

    3.2.13. Attend MAJCOM and Air Logistic Center level Configuration Control Board
    meetings in support of acquisition products.

    3.2.14. Ensure compliance with established Memorandum of Agreements/Understanding
    with external agencies maintaining E-3 operational software, i.e., OC-ALC, WR-ALC on
    software configuration management procedures and processes.

    3.2.15. Serve as single point of contact on products (hardware/software/firmware/
    documentation) requested for distribution outside the Wing. XPR will interface with
    MAJCOM and local releasability and disclosure representatives to secure approval.

    3.2.16. Serve as the primary focal point for developing capabilities based road mapping
    with ACC and ESC.

  3.3. Group Commanders will:

    3.3.1. Provide new requirements or changes to existing requirements to XPR for
    coordination and action.

    3.3.2. Use XPR to address issues, concerns and/or questions to MAJCOM relative to
    Wing program/projects or unfunded requirements.

    3.3.3. Ensure organizational personnel work closely with XPR on Wing
    programs/projects.
    3.3.4. Incorporate appropriate Wing agencies to advance programs/projects for operational
    fielding.
5                                                    552ACWI 10-601 13 January 2009

       3.3.5. Upon request by XPR, appoint program/project team members to carry out
       requirements activities.

       3.3.6. Upon request by and in coordination with XPR, send functional experts to meetings
       requiring specialized or technical knowledge to properly represent the interests of the
       Wing.

    3.4. Working Group Members will:

       3.4.1. Work with XPR to review, monitor, and evaluate high-level system needs and
       desired weapon system enhancements.

       3.4.2. Develop a roadmap with pathways aimed at providing senior leadership
       information based on goals, timelines and benchmarks

    3.5. IPT Members will:

       3.5.1. Use XPR as the focal for addressing issues, concerns, and/or questions regarding
       requirements programs/projects.

       3.5.2. Assist in the production and coordination of applicable program SAPs.

       3.5.3. Evaluate the level of impact and possible support needed from an organizational
       level and provide assessment to XPR.

4. Products:

    4.1. 552 ACW Semi-Annual Priority List: A consolidated list of Wing requirements, funded
    and unfunded, that fall under the purview of this instruction. It is originated/updated by XPR
    semi-annually or sooner, if required.

    4.2. SAP: A plan for coordinated Wing effort to implement a program(s)/project(s) within
    the Wing. The format for SAPs can be found at attachment 1 and posted on the XPR web
    page.

5. Adopted Forms:
AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication



                                                         Lori Robinson, Brigadier General, USAF
                                                           Commander, 552d Air Control Wing
552ACWI 10-601 13 January 2009                                          6


                                         Attachment 1
                        Sample Program/Project System Activation Plan

1. Program/Project Overview
2. Implementation Strategy
2.1. Logistics Support (if applicable)
2.2. Ground Support (if applicable)
2.3. Training (if applicable)
2.4. Sustainment (Transfer of Ownership) (if applicable)
2.5. Hardware/Software (if applicable)
2.6. Technical Data (if applicable)
3. Funding
4. Schedule/Milestones
5. Issues/Resolutions
6. Program/Project Leader, Team Members, Key External Contacts
