                           DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                      HEADQUARTERS 552d AIR CONTROL WING (ACC)
                          TINKER AIR FORCE BASE OKLAHOMA




                                                                        552ACWGM2013-21-01

                                                                              27 November 2013

MEMORANDUM FOR ALL 552 ACW PERSONNEL

FROM: 552 ACW/CC
      7481 Sentry Boulevard
      Tinker AFB OK 73145

SUBJECT: 552 Air Control Wing (ACW) Guidance Memorandum (GM) to AFI 21-101,
Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management

       By Order of the Commander, 552d Air Control Wing this Guidance Memorandum
immediately supplements, AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26
July 2010. Compliance with this memorandum is mandatory. To the extent its directions are
inconsistent with other 552d Air Control Wing publications, the information herein prevails, in
accordance with AFI33-360, Publications and Forms Management.

This Guidance Memorandum includes changes satisfying the requirement of a Wing-level
supplement to AFI 21-101 with respect to standardization of tool control for all agencies
operating on the flightline as well as multiple other changes. In advance of publishing AFI21-
101_ACWSUP_1, the attachment to this memorandum provides guidance that is effective
immediately. An asterisk (*Added) indicates new material.

This memorandum becomes void after one year has elapsed from the date of this memorandum,
or upon publication of an Interim Change or rewrite of the affected publication, whichever is
earlier.




                                                    JAY R. BICKLEY, Colonel, USAF
                                                    Commander, 552d Air Control Wing


Attachment:
Guidance Changes




                                      America’s Wing
                                       ATTACHMENT
                                       Guidance Changes

10.2.1.1. (*Added) Blue dye will be controlled in each squadron's support section. The support
section will only allow 7-level technicians qualified to blend engine blades to sign out blue dye.
These technicians will be identified on the special cert roster.

10.2.1.2. (*Added) Inventory requirements. As a minimum, conduct and document an annual
inventory of all tools and equipment. Ensure a 30-day and 180-day inspection is performed on
all CTKs and is documented on an AF Form 2411 or in an automated system. Inventory
spare/replacement tool stocks quarterly and validate the quantity of tools/items within each bin.

10.2.1.3. (*Added) Warranty tools will be bought through a GSA contracted supplier. Warranty
tools (serviceable or unserviceable) will be isolated from other replacement tools. Unserviceable
(broken/damaged) warranty tools will be isolated and under strict control until properly replaced.
Unserviceable warranty tools will be exchanged with the supplier as soon as possible. Removed
and/or broken tools will be documented on AF IMT 3126.

10.2.1.4. (*Added) Positive control of spare/replacement, expendable and consumable hand
tools will be maintained at all times. Access to spare/replacement tools will be limited to the
shift supervisor (or equivalent) and CTK custodians. Tools in these categories will be tracked
and stored in a manner that prevents pilferage. Expendable tools will be treated as replacement
tools and will be issued by custodians to the user, or as they are expended, be replaced by
custodians in individual CTKs. Consumables placed in CTKs will be replaced on an as needed
basis. Only support section personnel are allowed to replace and or issue consumables and only
when the empty container, roll or defective item is returned. Consumables that are not feasible to
mark (e.g. petrolatum, grease, light bulbs) will be placed in a suitable container that can be
marked. CTK custodians will inventory spare/replacement tool stocks quarterly and validate the
quantity of tools/items within each bin. Removed and/or broken tools will be documented on AF
IMT 3126.

10.2.1.5. (*Added) On-site transfer of equipment/tools will only be accomplished during
mission critical work in progress. The terminology “mission critical work” applies only to jobs
on non-mission-capable aircraft that are on the flying schedule the following day or when
dedicated maintenance teams are assigned to an aircraft for a prolonged duration. Only the on-
duty Production Officer/Superintendent may authorize an on-site transfer of equipment/tools.
When on-site transfers occur, the person relinquishing tools/equipment and the one assuming
control will perform a thorough inventory. Support Section personnel will make the appropriate
changes in a Lead Command approved tool accountability system.

10.2.1.5.1. (*Added) The Production Superintendent will:

10.2.1.5.1.1. (*Added) Notify the support section of the required on-site turnover.

10.2.1.5.1.2. (*Added) Perform tool inventory with the losing and gaining 5- or 7-level
technician and support section representative.

10.2.1.5.1.3. (*Added) Ensure tools are returned to support section at least once every 24-hour
period.
10.2.1.5.2. (*Added) The support section technician will:

10.2.1.5.2.1. (*Added) Bring a printout of all of the tools signed out by the losing technician to
the on-site turnover location.

10.2.1.5.2.2. (*Added) Perform a complete inventory with the losing and gaining 5- or 7-level
technician and the Production Superintendent. In the event the Production Superintendent is not
available, a maintenance officer or maintenance superintendent may act on their behalf.

10.2.1.5.2.3. (*Added) Ensure the gaining technician signs for all equipment remaining on-site
using an AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt.

10.2.1.5.2.4. (*Added) Place the time, date, name and employee number of the on-duty
Production Superintendent, maintenance officer or maintenance superintendent on the AF Form
1297 and maintain it on file until the tools/equipment are turned in.

10.2.1.5.2.5. (*Added) Note: To properly control dome access equipment or monorails, these
items will be signed out long term using an AF Form 1297 when required for use beyond one
shift. The originating shift’s Radar Expediter will sign out the equipment at the support section
and each following shift’s Expediter will inventory the items and initial the original AF Form
1297 during their shift. This process will repeat until the items are returned to support section.

10.2.1.5.3. (*Added) On-site transfer procedures DO NOT apply to COMSEC items and
removable media assemblies. These items must be returned to support section at the end of
every shift.

10.2.1.6. (*Added) In conjunction with procedures in AFI21-101 Chapter 10, paragraph 10.8.,
the following procedures will be followed for lost or missing tools/objects. Any individual, to
include contractors and their employees, discovering a lost tool or missing object will
immediately notify the Production Supervisor who will in turn notify MOC and state whether
any aircraft flying/taxiing aircraft are affected. MOC will run the applicable quick response
checklist. Life support technicians and aircrew members will notify Aircraft Commander (AC)
or Mission Commander for item(s) lost post taxi, prior to take-off or in-flight. WCP will take the
action required to have the taxiing aircraft return to parking. If the aircraft is airborne, the WCP
will notify the 552 OG/CC and relay the pertinent information. The MXG/CC and OG/CC will
decide whether or not to recall the aircraft.

10.2.1.6.1. (*Added) When a tool/object is discovered missing, regardless of the circumstance,
the Maintenance Operations Officer, Maintenance Superintendent or production supervisor will
notify either MXG CC, CD, or CEM of the lost item(s).

10.2.1.6.2. (*Added) Squadron Maintenance Operations Officer, Maintenance Superintendent
or production supervisor will stop any maintenance impeding the search, terminate all
maintenance engine runs and hold engine start on scheduled flyers as applicable. All personnel in
applicable unit(s) will begin a search. Document all areas searched. Operations will only be
resumed with approval of the MXG CC/CD or designated representative.

10.2.1.6.3. (*Added) Squadron supervision in coordination with QA will provide the details
surrounding the initial search to the MXG CC/CD so they may determine if one or more aircraft
should be impounded. A CAF IMT 145 will be initiated by the person that lost the item/object.
Maintenance debrief personnel will supply the aircrew personnel with the proper forms and
ensure the aircraft records are updated to reflect an item was lost on the aircraft.

10.2.1.6.4. (*Added) When the CAF IMT 145 is complete; it will be delivered to the Wing FOD
NCO (for tracking purposes) within one duty day of the search or impoundment release. A copy
will be filed with the applicable support section.

10.2.1.7. (*Added) Ensure all tools assigned to each CTK are etched with the alphanumerical
code of the CTK as follows:

Table 10.1.1. Assigned EID Numbers.

 WORKCENTER                                          ASSIGNED EID
 MXG/MXGQGF                                          TEMGxxxxx
 MXG/MXGTP                                           TECMxxxxx
 AMXS/MXAX                                           TE9Fxxxx,
 MXS/MXMCE                                           TECExxxxx
 MXS/MXMCP                                           TECPxxxxx
 MXS/MXMCF                                           TECFxxxxx
 MXS/MXMCV                                           TECAxxxxx
 MXS/MXMJ                                            TECSxxxxx
 MXS/Radar ILVL                                      TECRxxxxx
 MXS/MXMZ                                            TECCxxxxx
 MXS/Computer Mission Sims                           TECMxxxxx
 MXS/MXMG                                            TEEAxxxxx
 MXS/MXMTC                                           TEEIxxxxx
 MXS/MXMTR                                           TEERxxxxx
 MXS/MXMFM                                           TEEMxxxxx
 MXS/MXMFS                                           TEESxxxxxx
 MXS/MXMFR                                           TEEXxxxxx
 373 TRS                                             TETDxxxxx
 Aircrew Flight Equipment (AFE)                      TEALxxxxx

Note: Units will designate remaining characters.

10.2.1.8. (*Added) All PPE, tools or equipment that a workcenter assigns/issues to individuals
(e.g., ear protectors, reflective belts, headsets) will be controlled and issued by a unit custodian.
Units will develop procedures that ensure efficiency of issue and positive control. Once issued,
PPE must be marked IAW Lead Command procedures. Currently CAF directs all individually
issued equipment be marked with the owner’s first initial, last name, and employee number (i.e.
J. Doe, 1234). Personnel without employee numbers will mark their professional items and PPE
with name and unit information or phone number.
10.2.1.9. (*Added) Procedures to ensure positive control of rags.

10.2.1.9.1 (*Added) At the beginning and end of each shift, rags will be inventoried and
documented on the rag control log.

10.2.1.9.2. (*Added) Rags will be issued in pre-packaged containers with the number of rags
marked on each container. Quantities are determined by support flight/section chiefs. The rag
contractor will pick up soiled rags once a week or as designated by support flight supervision.
The amount of soiled rags taken must equal the amount of clean rags being delivered. A sign-out
sheet will be provided to the driver to help maintain inventory validity.

10.2.1.10. (*Added) Support section supervision will maintain a memorandum detailing
personnel authorized to procure tools.

10.2.1.11. (*Added) The MXG/CC or CD is the local manufacture approval authority for
locally fabricated items, tools, and equipment not specified by technical orders (TOs).

10.2.1.11.1. (*Added) The requester will:

10.2.1.11.1.1. (*Added) Confirm the item is not procurable. If not, validate the Source,
Maintenance and Recoverability code (SMR) using Table 4-3 of TO 00-25-195 illustrated
parts breakdown. If the item does not have a valid SMR code, contact the Item Manager, System
Program Office, or depot engineering for approval. Note: For items not covered by these sources,
written approval for the use of the specified item must be obtained from the MXG/CC.

10.2.1.11.1.2. (*Added) Fill in blocks l through 9 on 552 MXG Local Manufacture Form
10. Items with recurring demand are coordinated with 72 LRD Stock Control to establish the
next L or P serialized number as the National Stock Number (NSN). Process the issue request for
local manufacture end item and fill out the DD 1348-6, Department of Defense Single Line Item
Requisition System Document.

10.2.1.11.1.3. (*Added) Obtain engineering drawings, material specifications, or samples as
applicable. Drawings and specifications can be obtained through Engineering Data Services
Center, operated by Air Force Engineering Technical Services representative.

10.2.1.11.1.4. (*Added) Identify and annotate the NSN/Part Numbers and quantities of the
materials on block 12 of the 552 MXG Local Manufacture Form 10. The requester verifies parts
availability and orders all necessary parts. If the items are procured with a Government Purchase
Card, the requestor is responsible for providing written confirmation that material meets military
specifications stated in TOs or engineering authorizations when material is obtained outside of
AF supply channels. The manufacturing section chief or designee signed/dates the appropriate
coordination fields. The requestor will store materials ordered and notify the manufacturing
shops to arrange delivery when all required materials are on hand.

10.2.1.11.1.6. (*Added) Route 552 MXG Local Manufacture Form 10 through appropriate
squadron supervision, the manufacturing section, Quality Assurance (QA), the manufacturing
squadrons approving authority, and the requester’s supply section and MXG (recurring items
only). NOTE: All locally designed/modified tools or equipment requests not authorized by TOs
must be routed through QA prior to manufacture.

10.2.1.11.1.6. (*Added) Process the request using screen #85 in IMDS. The requestor creates a
job for all work centers involved in the manufacture process, prints out screen #122 and
completes an Air Force Technical Order Form 350, Repairable Item Processing Tag. Take the
drawings/samples and all materials to the manufacturing activity.

10.2.1.11.2. (*Added) The manufacturing section will:
10.2.1.11.2.1. (*Added) Review all local manufacture requests and sign in block 10 of the 552
MXG Local Manufacture Form 10.

10.2.1.11.2.2. (*Added) Assist the requestor with validating required materials and quantities.

10.2.1.11.2.3. (*Added) Change job status in IMDS when materials are received and work is
started.

10.2.1.11.2.4 (*Added)     Coordinate with requester's resource advisor to ensure funds are
transferred.

10.2.1.11.2.5. (*Added) Maintain the 552 MXG Local Manufacture Form 10 and all relevant
information on file for one year or until the locally assigned NSN is deleted, whichever comes
first.

10.2.1.11.3. (*Added) QA will:

10.2.1.11.3.1. (*Added) Review and coordinate on requests for locally designed and/or
manufactured tools or equipment not authorized by TOs to ensure validity.

10.2.1.11.3.2. (*Added) Maintain records of locally approved manufactured tools and
equipment including pictures, drawings, description of use for each item and the owning work
center. Maintain records until item is deleted from work center/tool control listing..

10.2.1.12. (*Added) Procedures for depot teams, factory representatives, and CFTs when
working on equipment within the unit are as follows:

10.2.1.12.1. (*Added) Quality Assurance Product Improvement personnel will ensure depot
teams, factory representatives, and contract field teams are briefed on tool control/lost tool
procedures prior to working on 552 MXG aircraft.

10.2.1.13. (*Added) An Aircraft Support Flight (MXAS) will be established to provide support
to flightline maintenance and generation activities IAW AFI31-108. The Flight’s functions
include: maintaining technical orders, hazardous materials and bench/operating stocks; preparing
equipment/supplies for deployment; controlling and maintaining Test Measurement and
Diagnostic Equipment; and ensuring maintenance, control and storage of Alternate Mission
Equipment, Dash-21 equipment and Maintenance, Safety and Protective Equipment for low-
density/high-demand Aircraft Maintenance Units (AMU). When multiple AMUs exist, personnel
will be subject to procedures established by the MXAS. CTKs, TKs and equipment dispatched
to decentralized locations for efficiency will be governed with the same requirements in this
guidance memorandum, Air Force and Lead Command instructions.

10.2.1.14. (*Added) 552 ACW personnel will assist in enforcement of procedures with respect
to control and storage of CDDAR and hydrazine response equipment as applicable in TAFBI21-
43.

10.2.1.15. (*Added) The applicable production supervisor will be the “second party” for sign-in
and sign-out of tool kits/equipment items when normal support section or shop tool issue
procedures are not available (e.g. weekend duty when only one individual is available for
dispatch). At no time will a single person be permitted to sign out and sign in a CTK/equipment
item they have maintained in their possession or used to perform maintenance.

10.2.1.16. (*Added) As applicable, each unit’s support section supervision will maintain a
memorandum detailing personnel allowed within the controlled area.

10.2.1.17. (*Added) AFE personnel will adhere to all policies concerning tools in this and Lead
Command instructions when on the flightline. Any CTK/equipment dispatched to the flightline
will be marked with the prescribed EID for the workcenter, if applicable. In the event AFE/Life
Support does not maintain dispatchable CTKs, any tools, peripheral support equipment or PPE
(e.g. ear defenders, flashlights) required during flightline maintenance will be checked out from a
MXG CTK and returned after use.
