BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    552D AIR CONTROL WING (ACC)
552D AIR CONTROL WING (ACC)                                           INSTRUCTION 10-2501

                                                                           10 SEPTEMBER 2014

                                                                                        Operations

                                                              552 ACW ATHOC PROCEDURES


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and forums are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 552 ACW/CP                                                        Certified by: 552 ACW/DS
                                                                         (Lt Col Carol L. O’Neil)
                                                                                          Pages: 5




This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-25, Air Force Emergency
Management Program Planning and Operations. It provides guidance on how the AtHoc
Installation Warning System (IWS) will be utilized by the 552d Air Control Wing (ACW) and
directions on how and when it is required to be updated with personal information. It also
implements policies to allow for rapid dissemination of emergency and essential information
required by AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management Program Planning and
Operations, and Tinker Air Force Base Instruction 10-205, Emergency Notification Procedures.
This instruction is directive and applies to all units assigned to the 552 ACW. It does not apply to
Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units, except where noted
otherwise. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF IMT 847s through publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW AF Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
Information System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) or any updated statement
provided by the AF Records Management office (SAF/CIO A6P).


1. General Information.
   1.1. All Air Force installations must have the capability to disseminate emergency
   information and warn all personnel immediately, which is defined as no longer than 10
 2                                                    552ACWI10-2501 10 SEPTEMBER 2014


     minutes after incident notification and verification. Such emergency information includes
     Force Protection Conditions (FPCON), watches, warnings, evacuation routes and other
     alerting information to meet DOD and Federal warning requirements. Personnel notification
     is accomplished using the Installation Notification and Warning System (INWS). The INWS
     is comprised of a combination of methods and systems for notifying installation personnel.
     1.2. AtHoc is one component of the Tinker AFB INWS and provides the installation
     populace with essential emergency notifications such as: FPCON/readiness condition
     changes, anti-terrorism warnings, emergency public safety announcements, personnel
     recall/accountability requirements, severe weather occurrences, and other critical information
     at the direction of the 552 ACW/CC or 72 ABW/CC.
     1.3. AtHoc offers a broad range of capabilities to quickly disseminate information to
     include: computer pop-up messages, giant voice announcements, email messages, text
     messages and automated calls to work/home/mobile devices. Mass notifications utilizing the
     automated calling and text messaging features will be restricted to dangerous and time
     critical situations that require immediate action (tornado warnings, active shooter events,
     base closures/evacuations, etc.).
     1.4. Privacy Act 1974 as amended applies to information input into AtHoc and will be
     protected IAW AFI 33-332 and DoD 5400.11-R. Personal contact information is for Official
     Use Only (FOUO) and will not be released to any other party.
2. 552 ACW Command Post (CP) Responsibilities. The 552 ACW CP will:
     2.1. Ensure all Quick Reaction Checklist (QRC) scenarios are pre-built on the AtHoc server
     to expedite notifications.
     2.2. Implement AtHoc notifications IAW AFIs, base plans, and wing instructions.
     2.3. If requested, provide leadership AtHoc end user reports. The CP can provide SQ
     commanders, deployment/readiness shops, etc. with reports that indicate what contact
     information individuals have provided.
     2.4. If requested, provide leadership AtHoc notification and acknowledgement logs. AtHoc
     is capable of providing reports indicating what time individuals were notified, what methods
     were used to notify them and if that person acknowledged the notification (if applicable).
     2.5. Notify 72 ABW/CC and 552 ACW/CC if AtHoc becomes unavailable (NIPR outage,
     server connectivity, etc.).
     2.6. Send a monthly AtHoc computer pop-up reminder for all personnel to verify their
     contact information in AtHoc.
3. 552 ACW Personnel Responsibilities.
     3.1. Personal AtHoc accounts are automatically created once personnel log onto the Tinker
     NIPR network, however, personal contact information is initially blank. All 552 ACW
     personnel will provide contact information for the following devices: work phone, work
     email, home and/or mobile phone, personal email, and text message number if applicable. If
     devices are not applicable (i.e. someone does not have a home phone), personnel will input
     “N/A” for that device. Individuals will verify the accuracy of their personal contact
     information monthly.
552ACWI10-2501 10 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                 3


   3.2. AtHoc user accounts are managed by an automated function that deletes accounts if
   users do not log onto the Tinker NIPR network for 30 days. When a user returns from a
   deployment or TDY greater than 30 days and logs into the Tinker network their account will
   automatically be recreated. Although they may have provided contact information in the past,
   they must re-input their contact information since it is deleted along with their account after
   30 days of inactivity.
   3.3. AtHoc allows users to prevent notifications being sent to personal devices when in crew
   rest, on alert and while deployed. Users must log into the AtHoc system and select one of
   these options when applicable as well as unselect it when these categories no longer apply.
   Routine notifications (winds, lightning, recalls, exercise data, etc.) will be filtered when one
   of these options is selected. The CP will override this filter for real world emergency
   situations (tornado warnings, active shooter, etc.) to ensure maximum dissemination.
       3.3.1. Crew Rest. Individuals in crew rest will select this category to prevent routine
       notifications being sent to their personal devices. Users must deselect this option upon
       return to normal duty.
       3.3.2. RP-15/RP-3. Individuals filling these roles will select the appropriate category
       upon assumption of alert duty. Selecting one of these alert choices will prevent routine
       notifications from being sent to personal devices. Additionally, selecting the appropriate
       alert option gives wing leadership the ability to send notifications/activation messages
       directly to those on alert via AtHoc. Crewmembers who have not selected one of the alert
       options will not receive these AtHoc messages targeted specifically to alert
       crewmembers. Crewmembers must deselect this option upon return to normal duty.
       3.3.3. Deployed. Users can select this option when deploying or going TDY in order to
       prevent routine notifications being sent to personal devices. Users must deselect this
       option upon return if the deployment/TDY is less than 30 days. If the deployment/TDY is
       greater than 30 days, the account will be automatically deleted and individuals must re-
       enter their personal contact information when logging into the Tinker NIPR network
       again.
4. AtHoc Update Procedures. The following are instructions on how to update a user’s
information (name, rank, organization, phone numbers, email, etc.) and current duty status (crew
rest, alert, deployed/TDY):
   4.1. In the lower right hand corner of the task bar (immediately left of the time and date),
   click on the small up arrow to show hidden icons. A window will expand showing the hidden
   icons. Left or right click on the purple glove icon to display a list of options. Select “Update
   My Info,” “Access Self Service,” or “Update My Device Info” and you will be taken to a
   web page to update your personal information.
   4.2. “My Info” Tab. All information in this tab is required. Update/verify the following are
   correct:
       4.2.1. First and last name. Username will be the DOD ID number on the back of the
       CAC card.
       4.2.2. Organization Hierarchy. The blue link to the right of “Tinker AFB” is your
       organization hierarchy. Click the link, navigate to your organization and click save.
4                                                    552ACWI10-2501 10 SEPTEMBER 2014


       4.2.3. Affiliation Information. This includes duty status, branch, and pay grade.
       4.2.4. Organization Information. This includes your organization and office symbol.
       4.2.5. Base Location Information. This includes building and room numbers.
       4.2.6. Click “Save” at the bottom of the window before proceeding to the next tab.
    4.3. “My Device Info” Tab. Fill in all applicable data (work phone, mobile phone, home
    phone, text message number, work and home emails). Do not enter the same number in the
    mobile and home phone fields or you may get called twice on the same device. If you do not
    have one of the listed devices put “N/A” in the appropriate field. Click “Save” at the bottom
    of the window before proceeding to the next tab.
    4.4. “Crew Rest / RP” Tab. As duty status changes, individuals will check the appropriate
    field to indicate if they are on crew rest, alert status or deployed/TDY. Click “Save” at the
    bottom of the window before exiting the web page.
    4.5. After all updates are complete, verify that all of your information has saved to each tab
    before you close the AtHoc self-service window.




                                             JAY R. BICKLEY, Col, USAF
                                             Commander, 552d Air Control Wing
552ACWI10-2501 10 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                      5


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management Program Planning and Operations, 10 May
2013
AFPD 10-25, Air Force Emergency Management Program, 28 April 2014
TAFBI 10-205, Emergency Notification Procedures, 25 June 2014


Prescribing Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
