BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 44-110
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                                      4 JUNE 2014

                                                                                            Medical

                                                                 LATEX ALLERGY PROTOCOL




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 59 MDOG/SG07A                                                      Certified by: 59 MDSP/CC
                                                                          (Lt Col Carol Copeland)
                                                                                          Pages: 8
Supersedes:    59MDWI 44-110, 2
               December 2011


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 44-1, Medical Operations. It establishes
policies and procedures for care of the patient or health care worker with known or suspected
latex allergies/sensitivities and guidelines for the creation of a latex-safe environment within the
59th Medical Wing (MDW). This publication requires the collection and or maintenance of
information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 55, Medical and
Dental Care, and E.O. 9397 (SSN). The applicable SORN F044 AF SG D, and Automated
Medical/Dental               Record            System             is           available          at:
http://dpclo.defense.gov/privacy/SORNs/SORNs.html.               This instruction applies to all
personnel assigned, attached, or on contract to the 59 MDW. This instruction does not apply to
the 959th Medical Group, 359th Medical Group, Air National Guard, or Air Force Reserve.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Requests
for waivers must be submitted to the OPR listed above for consideration and approval. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System Records Disposition
Schedule. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                                  59MDWI44-110 4 JUNE 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The publication has been revised. This rewrite of 59 MDWI 44-110 includes updated references.
1. Overview. Latex allergy has been recognized as a significant problem for healthcare workers
as well as patients.
     1.1. By minimizing exposure to latex to the greatest extent possible, the chance of
     developing an allergic reaction will be minimized in those allergic individuals, and by
     decreasing latex exposure to those at risk, the problem may never develop. A latex-safe
     environment should be provided for any patient with a known or suspected allergy to latex.
     A latex-safe environment should be provided for any patient who may be at risk for allergy to
     latex because of a pre-existing medical condition known to predispose to latex allergy (e.g.,
     myelomeningocele, extrophy of the bladder, etc.).
     1.2. Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center (WHASC) will be a latex-safe environment
     and as such powder-free, low protein sterile and unsterile gloves will be used whenever
     possible.
2. Prevention of Latex Allergy in the Workplace.
     2.1. Latex allergy in the workplace can result in potentially serious health problems for
     workers. These health problems can be minimized or prevented by reducing exposure to latex
     as much as possible. The following recommendations should be implemented whenever
     possible to protect workers from latex exposure and to reduce the presence of latex allergens
     in the work place.
        2.1.1. Choose the right glove for the right task: Glove selection should be based on the
        task being performed taking into consideration whether or not standard precautions or
        chemical protection is necessary.
            2.1.1.1. Blood borne pathogen exposure control. Using only low-protein, powder-
            free latex gloves significantly reduces exposure to latex allergens while providing an
            effective barrier, and should be worn by all workers not allergic to latex whenever
            appropriate barrier protection against infectious materials is necessary. Alternatively,
            appropriate non-latex gloves can be routinely and exclusively utilized.
            2.1.1.2. Latex gloves should not be used routinely by dietary, housekeeping, or
            medical personnel that perform activities with minimal risk of exposure to blood or
            body fluids. Rather, latex-free (vinyl or synthetic) gloves are a more appropriate
            selection for activities that are not likely to involve contact with infectious materials.
            2.1.1.3. Chemical protection: Latex gloves do not provide adequate protection for
            chemical exposures via skin contact and absorption.
                2.1.1.3.1. Using an inappropriate glove for protection against chemical exposures
                will increase the risk of an occupational overexposure, and if the glove is used
                simultaneously for protection against blood and body fluids, the glove’s ability to
                provide an adequate barrier may be jeopardized.
                2.1.1.3.2. Proper glove selection depends on numerous factors, such as chemical
                constituent, chemical concentration, exposure time and required dexterity. The
                following table is a list of the most common hazardous chemicals in WHASC and
59MDWI44-110 4 JUNE 2014                                                                         3


              respective glove type(s) which provide the best protection.

Table 2.1. Common Hazardous Chemicals in WHASC.
 Chemical               Glove Type
 acetonitile            butyl/neoprene/nitrile
 formaldehyde           butyl/neoprene/nitrile
 glutaraldehyde         butyl/nitrile
 hydrochloric acid      butyl/neoprene/nitrile/natural rubber latex*
 methanol               butyl
 methylene chloride     butyl/viton
 phenol                 butyl/neoprene/natural rubber latex*
 sodium hydroxide       butyl/nitrile
 sulfuric acid          butyl/neoprene/nitrile/natural rubber latex*
 toluene                butyl/nitrile/viton
 xylene                 nitrile/viton
*Note: To minimize exposure to latex, it is recommended that staff and patients use latex-free
gloves with these chemicals.
              2.1.1.3.3. To ensure adequate protection for employees, all chemical protective
              glove selections must be coordinated through Bioenvironmental Engineering.
       2.1.2. Use appropriate work practices to reduce the risk of reactions to latex or failure of
       barrier protection.
           2.1.2.1. Do not use creams or lotions that contain oil (e.g., mineral, jojoba, coconut,
           or palm), petroleum (gels or salves), or lanolin under latex or vinyl gloves. These
           products can degrade the gloves, compromising barrier integrity.
           2.1.2.2. After removing latex gloves, wash hands with a mild soap and dry
           thoroughly before donning another pair, touching patients who may be latex sensitive
           or objects used in the care of latex sensitive patients.
           2.1.2.3. Frequently clean areas that may be contaminated with latex-containing dust
           (i.e., nurses station, upholstery, carpets, ventilation ducts etc.). Environmental
           contamination can occur when powdered latex gloves are donned and doffed. To
           minimize the aerosolation of latex, never dry mop or sweep the work area.
       2.1.3. Recognize symptoms of latex allergy (i.e., skin-rash, hives, flushing, itching, and
       nasal, eye or throat symptoms, asthma, and shock). If latex allergy is suspected, avoid
       contact with latex gloves and other latex-containing products until evaluated by a
       physician. Refer to section 3.
3. Evaluation of Latex Allergies.
   3.1. All personnel will report suspected allergic reactions or hypersensitivity to latex in the
   workplace to their supervisor immediately. Active duty members will be referred to their
   Primary Care Manager (PCM) and civilian employees will be referred to the Occupational
   Medicine Clinic at the WHASC for evaluation and referral. The Allergy/Immunology or
   Dermatology clinics will provide a consultation service for all suspected latex allergic
   patients.
 4                                                                   59MDWI44-110 4 JUNE 2014


        3.1.1. Recommendations from Allergy/Immunology or Dermatology will be forwarded
        to the referring PCM or Flight Surgeon to complete an AF Form 422, Physical Profile
        Serial Report.
     3.2. Active duty latex-allergic personnel will comply with the work restrictions outlined on
     AF Form 422. Supervisors of civilian personnel will consult with the Civilian Personnel
     Office for proper guidance. On occasion, when the clinical course is not satisfactory, the
     worker may be removed from the workplace.
     3.3. The PCM, Flight Surgeon, Allergist or Dermatologist will refer confirmed cases to
     Public Health, Reid Health Services Center to initiate an occupational exposure investigation.
4. Patient Screening at Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center.
     4.1. During initial assessment for ambulatory procedures, all patients will be screened by a
     health care provider, either physician, dentist or nurse, for allergies to include latex allergies.
     Ambulatory procedure patients will have a positive allergy documented in Essentris.
     Outpatient clinics will have a positive allergy documented in Armed Forces Health
     Longitudinal Technology Application (AHLTA) or AF Form 696, Dental Patient Medical
     History in the dental clinic. For patients being transferred or admitted to an outside facility a
     positive allergy documentation should be on the following appropriate forms SF 600,
     Chronological Record of Medical Care.
     4.2. In order to identify high-risk patients, the following suggested questions specific to latex
     allergies could be utilized by the medical/dental treatment team.
        4.2.1. Have you had any reaction to latex or rubber products?
        4.2.2. Do you have any of these pre-existing medical conditions; spina bifida,
        myelomeningocele, or urogenital abnormalities that have required repeated
        catheterization or multiple surgeries?
        4.2.3. Have you had unexplained anaphylaxis during surgery, childbirth, urinary
        catheterization, rectal or vaginal exam, barium enema, or dental exam?
        4.2.4. If the patient answers yes to any of the above questions, initiate an
        Allergy/Immunology consult and avoid latex exposure.
            4.2.4.1. All areas that may encounter patients that require latex avoidance should
            have area specific protocols or procedures to that area, which addresses how they will
            care for those patients.
5. Prevention of Allergic Reactions to Latex among Personnel with Known or Suspected
Latex Allergies.
     5.1. Latex sensitivity or allergy must be confirmed and documented by an Allergist or
     Dermatologist.
     5.2. Personnel that are known to be sensitive to latex should use the following
     recommendations to reduce the risk of a reaction to latex in the workplace.
        5.2.1. Avoid contact with latex gloves or latex-containing products. Acceptable glove
        alternatives for latex sensitive personnel include nitrile (exam and surgical) gloves,
59MDWI44-110 4 JUNE 2014                                                                          5


      whenever appropriate barrier protection against infectious materials is necessary, and
      vinyl or synthetic gloves for activities that do not require such protection.
          5.2.1.1. Recognize signs and symptoms of latex allergy (i.e., skin-rash, hives,
          flushing, itching, and nasal, eye or throat symptoms, asthma and shock). Seek
          immediate medical attention for treatment of allergic reactions.
   5.3. Personnel with latex allergy will notify their supervisor and healthcare provider(s) of
   their allergy.
      5.3.1. The facility will ensure that latex-free gloves are available to sensitized personnel.
      5.3.2. The healthcare provider, PCM, Flight Surgeon, Allergist/Dermatologist will be
      responsible for providing latex allergic personnel with counseling on latex allergy and
      instructions for dealing with allergic reactions to latex. The PCM in consultation with the
      consultant, may recommend removal of the worker from the workplace if the condition
      progresses.
   5.4. Personnel identified as having a latex allergy are encouraged to wear a MedicAlert
   bracelet or necklace and carry an EpiPen.
      5.4.1. Attend appointments as identified by Occupational Health.
      5.4.2. Provide their flight commander with a copy of the completed consult so latex
      recommendations can be followed.
      5.4.3. General patient care procedure.
          5.4.3.1. See 4. to 4.2.4.1. for patient screening.
6. Latex Precautions.
   6.1. Perioperative Issues.
      6.1.1. When possible, schedule the patient as the first case in the morning to allow
      airborne latex from the previous day to settle. If a case cannot be scheduled as the first
      case, to the greatest extent all latex items must be removed from the operating room or
      treatment area, then there should be an hour wait to allow all latex particles to settle and
      finally the room will be terminally cleaned.
7. Intravenous (IV) Line Preparation Issues.
   7.1. Do not inject or withdraw fluid through the latex port; use a three-way stopcock when
   connecting the tubing.
   7.2. Consider starting IV line on unit pre-surgery.
   7.3. Arm boards should be covered with Kerlix prior to use.
8. Medication Issues.
   8.1. Use medication from a glass ampule using a micro filter needle for withdrawal, or if
   such ampules are not available, remove the stopper and draw medication directly from an
   opened multidose vial. Only preservative free local medications will be utilized for patients
   receiving local anesthesia.
 6                                                                 59MDWI44-110 4 JUNE 2014


     8.2. Minimize mixing/agitating lyophilized drugs (examples are antibiotic drugs in powder
     form that require reconstitution in multidose vials with rubber stoppers).
     8.3. Use stopcocks rather than latex ports to inject drugs.
     8.4. Administer chemoprophylaxis as directed.
9. Additional Health Care Worker Considerations. To the greatest possible extent:
     9.1. Remove all latex products from the room. If there is a question about a product, remove
     it from the room, and consult Materials Management. Avoid the use of all latex products.
     When in doubt, don’t use the product.
     9.2. Use non-latex tourniquets only.
     9.3. Use non-latex blood pressure cuffs.
     9.4. Ensure the oxygen masks, face masks, oxygen tubing, Jackson-Reese, pulse oximetry
     probes, etc are latex-free.
     9.5. Use only latex-free gloves, sterile and non-sterile.
     9.6. Use only latex-free IV tubing with non-latex ports and heplocks.
     9.7. Use stopcocks to inject drugs into the IV. DO NOT USE LATEX PORTS, LATEX
     HEPLOCKS, OR T-CONNECTORS. The Baxter Interlink IV System is latex-free.
     9.8. Use a latex-free stethoscope. Cover tubing if unable to locate a latex free scope.
     9.9. Cover mattress carefully and completely (they contain latex products). Cover rubber
     bumpers with tape.
     9.10. Use latex-free syringes. Ampules should be used if possible for medication
     administration.
     9.11. Use only silicon or latex-free catheters and drains.
     9.12. Ensure all tape in the room is latex-free.
     9.13. Instruct patient and family on precautions and their active participation. Annotate
     patient and/or family latex teaching in Essentris for ambulatory procedure patients and
     AHLTA for outpatient clinics. For patients being transferred and admitted to an outside
     facility documentation should be on AF Form 3256, Patient/Family Teaching Flow Sheet.
10. Education.
     10.1. Staff Educational Program:
        10.1.1. All individuals newly assigned to the 59 MDW will receive latex allergy
        education during annual refresher training.
     10.2. Patient Education (individuals identified as having latex allergy, or those at
     increased risk of developing a latex allergy):
        10.2.1. The education (and assessment of understanding) ideally should be ongoing
        during outpatient visits. Family members may be included in the education process.
        10.2.2. Patient (at risk, as identified above) and family education should be documented
        in the electronic medical record or on AF Form 696.
59MDWI44-110 4 JUNE 2014                                                                  7


11. Dental Group follows USAF Guidelines for Infection Prevention and Control for
treatment of latex allergic patients as directed by the Air Force medical Service Dental
Clinical Practice Guidelines.
   11.1. Dental will maintain an standard operating procedures checklist for specific dental
   treatment room procedural steps to be used when treating latex allergic patients.




                                          NICOLA A. CHOATE, Colonel, USAF, MC
                                          Chief of the Medical Staff, 59 MDW
 8                                                            59MDWI44-110 4 JUNE 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations, 1 September 1999
AORN Latex Guideline, Standards, Recommended Practices, and Guidelines, 2004
Dental Clinical Practice Guidelines, 2014
USAF Guidelines for Infection Prevention and Control in Dentistry, January 2012
Adopted Forms
AF Form 422, Physical Profile Serial Report
AF Form 696, Dental Patient Medical History
AF Form 3256, Patient/Family Teaching Flow Sheet
SF Form 600, Chronological Record of Medical Care

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AHLTA—Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application
IAW—In Accordance With
IV—Intravenous
MDG—Medical Group
MDW—Medical Wing
PCM—Primary Care Manager
WHASC—Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center
