BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 41-119
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                          19 DECEMBER 2013

                                                                                Health Services

                                                            OUTPATIENT REFERRALS AND
                                                                       CONSULTATIONS


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 59 MDSS/SGSBTA                                                  Certified by: 59 MDSS/CC
                                                                      (Lt Col William J. Fecke)
Supersedes:   59MDWI 41-119, 3 March                                                   Pages: 9
              2009


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 41-1, Health Care Programs and
Resources. This instruction provides guidance and establishes procedures to ensure the proper
coordination and processing of Outpatient Referrals and Consultations. This instruction applies
to all personnel assigned, attached, or under contract to the 59th Medical Wing (59 MDW),
except those attached to the 59th Dental Group, 959th Medical Group (MDG) and 359 MDG.
This instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. The
authority to waive requirements is the publication approval authority. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
(IAW) Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force
Records Information Management System Records Disposition Schedule.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include the routing and approval/disapproval process for referrals, electronic processing of
referrals and guidance updates.
1. Responsibilities.
   1.1. Each provider must adhere to these policies and procedures when requesting and
   receiving consultations or referrals.
   1.2. Each functional clinic and appointment scheduling area must adhere to this policy.
 2                                                       59MDWI41-119 19 DECEMBER 2013


     1.3. The Consult and Appointment Management Office (CAMO) is responsible for
     providing the oversight necessary to optimize referral management services and the
     processing of both internal and external referrals (including referrals for civilian traumas,
     Secretarial Designees, and ineligible patients) for medical care in the San Antonio Military
     Health System (SAMHS). SAMHS includes Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center
     (WHASC), San Antonio Military Medical Center (SAMMC), 359 MDG and 559 MDG. For
     questions related to a referral processed by CAMO, call (210) 916-9900.
     1.4. The WHASC Referral Management Center (RMC) will be responsible for the
     processing of all outpatient durable medical equipment (DME), Physical Therapy/
     Occupational Therapy (PT/OT) for TRICARE for Life/Plus patients, direct care only
     patients, all active duty members assigned to Defense Medical Information System (DMIS)
     0117 (WHASC), and Supplemental Health Care Program (SHCP) referrals (such as
     behavioral health, obstetrics and gynecology (OB/GYN) and other specialties). Additionally,
     all as soon as possible (ASAP)/STAT/today and 72 hour referrals assigned to DMIS 0117
     will be processed by the WHASC RMC.
2. Electronic Consults.
     2.1. Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application (AHLTA) or Composite
     Healthcare System (CHCS) are the prescribed mechanisms and must be used by all clinics or
     service areas referring patients to target clinics. Clinics receiving referrals from other
     Military Treatment Facility (MTF) clinics will not accept hard copy or handwritten consults.
     Hardcopy referrals from sources outside SAMHS will be faxed to CAMO RMC at 1-877-
     861-5369.
     2.2. Each clinic will ensure any hardcopy referrals received in their clinic from civilian
     providers are faxed to CAMO RMC at 1-800-548-1547.
3. Procedures for Preparing Electronic Consultation Requests.
     3.1. Each requesting provider will ensure an electronic consult is entered in CHCS. All data
     entry fields in the “Consult Order” screen of the electronic consult will be completed.
        3.1.1. Special additional entries are required in the “Reason for Consult” field. Each
        entry is to include:
            3.1.1.1. Name of the consult (e.g., Cardiology Consult).
            3.1.1.2. Provisional diagnosis that matches the type of service that is being requested
            (e.g., a request for Dermatology with a provisional diagnosis of Lumbago).
            3.1.1.3. Brief history on the patient.
            3.1.1.4. Whether the request is for evaluation only or evaluation and treatment.
            3.1.1.5. Provider’s name and phone or pager number.
            3.1.1.6. All referrals for DME must include: the patient’s height and weight (in
            pounds). There must also be a current visit in AHLTA documenting the need for the
            requested items. The ordering provider’s National Provider Identifier (NPI) will
            automatically be added to the referral. If the requesting provider is different, add the
            requesting provider’s name, pager, and NPI.
59MDWI41-119 19 DECEMBER 2013                                                                   3


      3.1.2. All consultations are prioritized using the category selected in the “priority” field
      by the ordering provider. All routine consults will be screened for completeness and
      processed by CAMO RMC or WHASC RMC IAW each clinic’s standard operating
      procedures. Routing is internally programmed in CHCS and reflects rules and policies
      set by TRICARE, Department of Defense (DoD), and the WHASC. All consults, except
      DME, will be routed to the CAMO RMC first for screening, then to the appropriate clinic
      location.
      3.1.3. Providers requesting STAT, ASAP, or “today” consultations will call the
      consulting clinic’s on-call provider directly to clarify and confirm the need for other-
      than-routine consideration. The accepting clinic is responsible for scheduling these
      urgent requests. If ordering DME with “other-than-routine” as the priority, the ordering
      provider must ensure that the service has been set up for the patient by contacting the
      DME provider or the WHASC RMC for assistance in locating one. The provider then
      enters the information into the consult for the WHASC RMC to process. To avoid
      processing delays, the provider needs to ensure the patient’s demographic information is
      correct.
      3.1.4. Consults must contain detailed information. Providers may recommend a vendor,
      but this does not guarantee the vendor will be used. Not all vendors are part of the
      TRICARE network, nor do they all accept Medicare.
4. Procedures for Processing/Scheduling Electronic Consultation Requests.
   4.1. All clinics still booking their own appointments must develop procedures to triage or
   screen the consult for appropriateness, access, and eligibility. Clinics are required to make
   patient contact prior to booking the patient’s appointment to ensure the appointment does not
   conflict with the patient’s schedule and cause the patient to no-show.
   4.2. Consults Screening, Patient Contact and Appointing and Patient Priority at MTF.
      4.2.1. IAW the following guidance: the Military Health System’s (MHS) Guide to
      Access Success, TRICARE Provider’s Handbook, Health Affairs Policy 11-005,
      TRICARE Policy for Access to Care, Access to Care (ATC) standards are as follows:
          4.2.1.1. The wait time for an appointment for a well-patient visit or a specialty-care
          referral shall not exceed 4 weeks (28 days); for a routine visit, the wait time for an
          appointment shall not exceed 1 week (7 calendar days); and for an urgent care visit,
          the wait time for an appointment shall not exceed 24 hours. Access standards for
          behavioral health visits: 1 day for the initial urgent behavioral health care
          appointment with a behavioral health care provider and 1 week for the initial routine
          behavioral health care appointment with a behavioral health care provider.
      4.2.2. Patient Priority at MTFs. Authorized patients are to be seen and treated in the
      following prioritization:
          4.2.2.1. Active duty service members seen within SAMMC or WHASC clinics.
          4.2.2.2. Active duty family members enrolled in TRICARE Prime (includes
          TRICARE Prime enrolled survivors of military sponsors who died on active). Active
          duty family members who are enrolled in TRICARE Plus fall into this category for
          primary care appointments only.
 4                                                       59MDWI41-119 19 DECEMBER 2013


            4.2.2.3. Retirees, their family members, and survivors enrolled in TRICARE Prime.
            4.2.2.4. Active duty family members NOT enrolled in TRICARE Prime (including
            survivors of military sponsors who died on active duty who are not enrolled in
            TRICARE Prime).
            4.2.2.5. Retirees, their family members and survivors who are not enrolled in
            TRICARE Prime.
            4.2.2.6. All other eligible persons.
            4.2.2.7. There are certain special provisions in MTF access policy in relation to
            patient priority. Please contact your local TRICARE Service Center (TSC), or MCSC
            Representative, for all other provisions. Also, priority access rules are not applicable
            to bona fide medical emergencies, or cases in which the providing of certain medical
            care is required by law, or applicable DoD Directive or Instruction. This includes
            care for civilian employees who are exposed to health hazards in the workplace or
            injured on the job.
        4.2.3. All consults deemed appropriate by first level review will be booked with an
        appropriate appointment and the appointment date shall be within TRICARE/MHS ATC
        standards (refer to Paragraph 4.2.1.1.). Note: “Day 1” for access calculation is the date
        initially transmitted.
        4.2.4. Specialty clinic review of consults will be completed within 1 duty day of receipt.
        Consults deemed inappropriate by the specialty reviewer should be returned to the
        referring provider and clinic via the CHCS Consult Module with a status of “INFO
        NEEDED.” Providers will receive notification of this return via the AHLTA Consult
        Log. The ordering provider must determine whether these referrals need further action
        and respond appropriately. Replies through CHCS Mailman are not acceptable. If a
        modification is required, the provider must modify the original consult.
        4.2.5. Patients may choose to waive their right to access standards, but such a waiver
        must be documented on the consult by the individual booking the appointment. Note: No
        patient may be asked to call back for an appointment (when appointments are not
        available).
        4.2.6. TRICARE Prime. Consults for TRICARE Prime patients (other than those
        described in paragraph 1.4.) must be routed or forwarded to CAMO RMC for
        management within 5 days of receipt when access standards cannot be met.
        4.2.7. Non-Enrolled. Consults for non-enrolled patients must be either returned to the
        referring provider for disposition with an explanation of why the consult was returned or
        sent to CAMO, within 5 duty days of receipt of consult when access standards cannot be
        met.
5. Supplemental Health Care Program Referrals.
     5.1. Supplemental Health Care Program Referrals are requests for Active Duty service
     members to receive health care outside the MTF. These requests must be approved by the
     appropriate Chief of Medical Staff (SGH) or Utilization Management (UM) team prior to
     care being received (as directed in paragraphs 5.1.1. and 5.1.2.). The requests for approval
59MDWI41-119 19 DECEMBER 2013                                                                 5


   must include a stamp and wet signature along with the date they were signed prior to being
   returned to WHASC RMC.
       5.1.1. SGH Approval/Disapproval. All SHCP behavioral health requests will be
       reviewed for approval/disapproval by the WHASC/SGH. This is accomplished by
       routing the hardcopy referral to SGH for approval/disapproval and signature. The review
       and approval process will be completed and returned to the WHASC RMC within 5 duty
       days.
       5.1.2. Utilization Management Approval/Disapproval. SHCP specialty requests (e.g.
       PT/OT, OB/GYN and other specialties) will be reviewed by the UM team. This is
       accomplished electronically through e-mail for approval/disapproval and signature. The
       review and approval process will be completed and returned to the WHASC RMC within
       5 duty days.
   5.2. If the SHCP request is approved, an annotation is made by the WHASC RMC in CHCS.
   The consult is then forwarded to the Managed Care Support Contractor (MCSC) and the
   requested provider.
   5.3. If the SHCP request is disapproved, an annotation is made in CHCS. The WHASC
   RMC will return the consult via CHCS to the originating provider and the provider will
   inform the patient that consult/request has been denied. Patients should be directed to their
   provider if they have questions.
6. Disposition of Electronic Consults by Referral Source or Specialist.
   6.1. Results of consult examination or visit must be documented in the outpatient medical
   record.
       6.1.1. Communication of the results of the consult must be made to the originating
       provider and posted in AHLTA.
       6.1.2. Clear and Legible Reports are given to the ordering providers to be signed and are
       tracked on a WHASC RMC spreadsheet. Moreover, RMC is required to send T-cons in
       AHLTA notifying the ordering provider of results within 2 business days. Providers
       must review received referral and consult results within 3 duty days for network and
       direct care.
       6.1.3. Minimum data entry for electronic consults is not determined and may be as little
       as “consult received” or as much as entry of the entire examination. It is preferable to
       enter as much data as possible.
       6.1.4. Urgent findings and recommendations must be communicated to the ordering
       provider in the most expeditious mechanism available.
       6.1.5. Electronic consults should be closed out or dictated within 72 hours of the
       appointment. It is preferable to complete and close the consult the same day, at the end
       of the appointment.
7. Requests for Follow Up and Additional Care Referrals.
   7.1. For internal referrals: If a previously referred patient requires a referral to another
   specialist, the patient’s PCM should be notified of the requested consult by the first
   specialist. Notification may be by e-mail, fax or telephone.
 6                                                       59MDWI41-119 19 DECEMBER 2013


        7.1.1. If a specialist needs additional visits with an enrolled patient, the PCM will request
        additional visits via referral sent to the CAMO RMC. The CAMO RMC must request
        approval of the additional visits or referral if the referral cannot be met internally.
        However, the SGH (or their designee) must approve new referrals for ADSMs.
        7.1.2. The referring provider will be notified by the WHASC RMC regarding
        disapproval for a TRICARE Prime patient via CHCS for internal providers and via fax or
        call for network providers.
        7.1.3. The MCSC’s first choice of action or assignment priority for any type of referral is
        as follows: WHASC, SAMMC, Randolph, network, then non-network providers.
        7.1.4. If a patient is assigned to a civilian PCM (TRICARE Prime) and requires specialty
        care, the patient may be returned to the MTF system for that care, if available, as
        indicated by the Right of First Refusal report.
8. Retroactive Consults.
     8.1. A retroactive consult is a consult that is written by the patient’s PCM after the patient
     has already received care and must include the following information: date of service, place
     of care, provider’s name, Current Procedural Terminology code from the invoice, and the
     network medical facility’s tax identification number (which is obtained by MCSC). If the
     patient received care from more than one facility and/or provider, there must be separate
     consults for each encounter.
     8.2. A retroactive consult should not be written for instances where there were appointments
     available at the MTF, but the patient preferred to be seen by a civilian provider. The PCM
     should ensure that their patients are instructed to contact the CAMO at (210) 916-9900 when
     seeking non-emergent care. Patients who receive non-emergent care without prior approval
     may be billed as point of service care.
9. Tracking and Closure of Consult Reports.
     9.1. Memorandums are sent to vendors to get status of patient appointments, results and
     equipment. This information is input in CHCS and on the WHASC RMC spreadsheet. Once
     results are received, the RMC technician will scan the results into AHLTA clinical notes and
     update CHCS to close out the referral. If a referral appointment is open or un-kept, the
     vendor will notify WHASC RMC and the staff will close out the referral in CHCS with “no
     appointment required” and with a note of “patient refused referral” or “patient no-showed.”
     CHCS will automatically send a message to the provider notifying him/her of these updates.
     Provider notifications and referral status is tracked through completion/closure on the
     WHASC RMC spreadsheet. Additionally, an “Appointment Order Review Report” is pulled
     from CHCS to audit outstanding referrals.
59MDWI41-119 19 DECEMBER 2013                                                           7


  9.2. For DME, once the patient receives their equipment, the vendor will fax a delivery
  ticket to WHASC RMC. The referral is then closed out in CHCS with a note on the delivery
  of the equipment. Delivery tickets are kept for 3 months and tracked on a WHASC RMC
  spreadsheet.




                                        GLENN A. YAP, Colonel, USAF, MSC
                                        Administrator, 59th Medical Wing
 8                                                   59MDWI41-119 19 DECEMBER 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 41-1, Health Care Programs and Resources, 15 April 1994
AFI 41-210, TRICARE Operations and Patient Administration Functions, 6 June 2012
AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, 20 January 2012
AFI 44-176, Access to the Care Continuum, 12 September 2011
Assistant Secretary of Defense Health Affairs Policy 97-041, Policy Memorandum to Refine
Policy for Priority Use of Medical Treatment Facilities by TRICARE Prime Enrollees, 18 March
1997
59MDWI 41-213, Management of health Records and Documentation, 20 February 2009
59MDWI 41-116, Secretary of the Air Force Designee Program, 22 December 2011
Military Health System’s Guide to Access Success, 15 December 2008
MTF Referral Management Center (RMC) User’s Guide 8.0, 17 January 2013
SAMHS CAMO RMC Business Rules, September 2013
TRICARE Provider Handbook, April 2013
32 CFR 199.17, TRICARE Program, 1 July 2011
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AHLTA—Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application
ASAP—As Soon as Possible
ATC—Access to Care
CAMO—Consult and Appointment Management Office
CHCS—Composite Health Care System
CONUS—Continental United States
DME—Durable Medical Equipment
IAW—In Accordance With
MCSC—Managed Care Support Contractor
MDG—Medical Group
MDW—Medical Wing
MDWI—Medical Wing Instruction
59MDWI41-119 19 DECEMBER 2013                   9


MHS—Military Health System
MTF—Military Treatment Facility
MTF/CC—Military Treatment Facility Commander
NPI—National Provider Identifier
OB/GYN—Obstetrics and Gynecology
PCM—Primary Care Manager
PT/OT—Physical Therapy/Occupational Therapy
RMC—Referral Management Center
SAMHS—San Antonio Military Health System
SAMMC—San Antonio Military Medical Center
SGH—Chief of Medical Staff
SHCP—Supplemental Health Care Program
TSC—TRICARE Service Center
UM—Utilization Management
WHASC—Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center
