BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                              59TH MEDICAL WING
59TH MEDICAL WING                                                       INSTRUCTION 41-103

                                                                         8 SEPTEMBER 2005
                                                           Incorporating Change 1, 2 June 2011
                                                          Certified Current, 18 September 2012
                                                                                Health Services

                                                  AMBULATORY NUTRITION SCREENING

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 59MDTS/SGVDD                                                    Certified by: 59 MDTS/CC
                                                                        (Lt Col Danelle Roddy)
                                                                                       Pages: 7


This instruction implements AFPD 41-1, Health Care Programs and Resources. This medical
wing instruction (MDWI) describes the responsibilities and procedures for screening and
assessing the nutritional status of outpatients and ensures that nutrition screening and Medical
Nutrition Therapy (MNT) are intrinsic components of clinical practice in the ambulatory setting.
This MDWI ensures compliance with the Joint Commission standard. This instruction applies to
all personnel assigned, attached, or under contract to the 59th Medical Wing (MDW). This
instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve. Note: Requests to
release Protected Health Information must be in accordance with DoD 6025.18-R, DoD Health
Information Privacy Regulation, and AFI 41-210, Patient Administration. . Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using the
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition       Schedule       on      the       Air     Force       Portal     available   at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Changed verbiage from nutritional to nutrition throughout, where applicable.
 2                                                         59MDWI41-103 8 SEPTEMBER 2005


1. Program Responsibilities. This instruction applies to outpatient clinic personnel throughout
the 59 MDW. It provides recommended criteria regarding the nutritional screening of
outpatients to evaluate nutrition risk and the need for MNT or nutrition education, as appropriate.
Patients identified to be at nutrition risk and referred to the Outpatient Nutrition Clinic will be
assessed and followed by a registered dietitian or certified diet therapy technician.
2. Program Policy. Outpatient clinics will screen outpatients for nutrition risk and document
findings during the initial patient assessment. Surgical sub-specialty clinics, interventional
radiology, and dermatology typically will not screen outpatients for nutritional risk because these
clinics are accessed only through referrals and do not represent the initial patient assessment. If
a patient is screened to be at nutritional risk, the health care provider will determine if a consult
to the Nutrition Clinic is warranted. Nutritional Medicine staff will also conduct nutrition
screening on outpatients attending multidisciplinary classes in which Nutritional Medicine
routinely participates, as appropriate.
3. Program Procedures.
     3.1. Outpatient clinic personnel and health care providers will accomplish nutrition
     screening as appropriate using clinical parameters for medical conditions outlined in AFI 44-
     102, Community Health Management or parameters for other medical conditions deemed
     appropriate for this facility in attachment 2 of this instruction. The attachment lists age- and
     population-specific criteria for the Pediatric and Obstetrics and Gynecology (OB/GYN)
     Clinics.
     3.2. The following data sources may be used in nutrition screening: findings on physical
     examination or other medical record entries, nutrition screening tools (i.e., 59 MDW
     approved overprints), Health Enrollment Assessment Review/Preventive Health Assessment
     health screening data.
     3.3. If the findings from the above data suggest a patient is at nutrition risk, then a consult to
     the Outpatient Nutrition Clinic for MNT or nutrition education should be considered. A
     nutrition consultation for MNT or nutrition education will include nutrition assessment,
     nutrition counseling, and a plan for reassessment, if applicable.
        3.3.1. Consults to the Nutrition Clinic are sent electronically via the Composite Health
        Care System.
        3.3.2. The consult should list nutritionally relevant diagnoses and the diet instruction
        ordered. The current control of chronic disease and previous diet instruction should be
        documented in the medical record entry as factors in deferring a nutrition consult.
4. Clinical Guidelines for Nutrition Screening.
     4.1. The guidelines noted on attachment 2 indicate what diagnoses or conditions may
     warrant a MNT or nutrition education referral, or which may only require nutrition education
     handouts provided by the Nutrition Clinic staff. Medical Nutrition Therapy or nutrition
     education will also be provided whenever deemed necessary by the health care provider and
     is not limited to the diagnoses listed in the attachment.
59MDWI41-103 8 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                     3


   4.2. Outpatient Nutrition Clinic personnel will provide education to 59 MDW outpatient
   clinic personnel on nutrition screening requirements by giving information at the new
   resident orientation, annual professional staff briefings, or by other effective methods to raise
   awareness and promote the nutrition screening process.
5. IMTs Adopted.
None.




                                             MICHAEL SCHELL, Colonel, USAF, MSC
                                             Administrator
 4                                                       59MDWI41-103 8 SEPTEMBER 2005


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 41-210, Patient Administration, 22 March 2006
AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, 1 May 2006
AFPD 41-1, Health Care Programs and Resources,15 April 1994
AFMAN 44-144, Nutritional Medicine
American Dietetic Association (ADA), Medical Nutrition Therapy Evidence-Based Guides for
Practice
American Dietetic Association (ADA), Medical Nutrition Therapy Evidence-Based Guides for
Practice, (current edition)
DoD 6025.18-R, DoD Health Information Privacy Regulation, 24 January 2003
JCAHO Accreditation Manual for Hospitals (current edition)
Council on Practice (COP) Quality Management Committee
Identifying patients at risk: ADA's definitions for nutrition screening and nutrition assessment.
Journal of the American Dietetic Association. 1994; 94:838-839
The Joint Commission Accreditation Manual for Hospitals, (current edition)
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADA—American Dietetic Association
COP—Council on Practice
MDW—Medical Wing
MDWI—Medical Wing Instruction
MNT—Medical Nutrition Therapy
OB/GYN—Obstetrics and Gynecology

Terms
Medical Nutrition Therapy—An assessment of a patient’s nutritional status followed by
therapy ranging from diet modification and counseling to administration of specialized nutrition
products. In military treatment facilities, MNT is available when patients are referred to a
credentialed registered dietitian or authorized nutrition care provider.
59MDWI41-103 8 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                      5


Nutrition Assessment—A comprehensive approach, completed by a registered dietitian or
authorized diet therapy technician, to define nutrition status; uses medical and dietary histories,
physical examination, anthropometric measurements, and laboratory data.                   Includes
interpretation of information from the screening process. The assessment process includes a
review of data from other disciplines that may affect the assessment process
Nutrition Screening—The process of identifying characteristics known to be associated with
nutrition problems. Its purpose is to pinpoint individuals who are malnourished or at nutrition
risk.
Nutritional Assessment—A comprehensive approach, completed by a registered dietitian or
authorized diet therapy technician, to define nutritional status; uses medical and dietary histories,
physical examination, anthropometric measurements, and laboratory data. Includes interpretation
of information from the screening process. The assessment process includes a review of data
from other disciplines that may affect the assessment process.
Nutrition Education—General nutrition information that differs from MNT in that it is
population-based risk reduction versus intervention and does not include an in-depth assessment.
Nutritional Screening—The process of identifying characteristics known to be associated with
nutrition problems. Its purpose is to pinpoint individuals who are malnourished or at nutritional
risk.
 6                                                       59MDWI41-103 8 SEPTEMBER 2005


                                          Attachment 2
                  CLINICAL GUIDELINES FOR NUTRITION REFERRAL

AMBULATORY CLINICS
Cancer and/or cancer treatment
Celiac sprue/gluten enteropathy
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Congestive heart failure
Cystic fibrosis
Dependence on nutrition support (enteral or parenteral nutrition)
Diabetes
Disordered eating / unusual dietary or food limiting practices
Dyslipidemia/Coronary artery disease/Cardiovascular disease
Excessive use of dietary supplements
Gastrointestinal disorders interfering with food intake or nutrient absorption
General nutrition education / wellness
HIV/AIDS
Hypertension
Inadequate financial resources for food
Iron deficiency anemia
Liver disease
Malnutrition Failure to thrive/Involuntary weight loss
Obesity
Renal disease
Substance abuse
Vegan or restriction of all foods of animal origin
Any other nutritional concerns that the provider would like assessed by a dietitian
59MDWI41-103 8 SEPTEMBER 2005                               7




OB/GYN SPECIFIC*                      PEDIATRIC SPECIFIC*
Adolescent pregnancy          Failure to thrive
Gestational or overt diabetes Food allergy / intolerance
High-risk pregnancy           Hyperemesis gravidarum
Inadequate or excessive weight gain
Low pre-pregnancy weight
Multipara



*In addition to parameters for Ambulatory Clinics'
