BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 44-128
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                                21 JANUARY 2014

                                                                                            Medical

                                                      UNIVERSAL PROTOCOL: PROCEDURE
                                                       AND SURGICAL SITE VERIFICATION


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 59 MDW/SGHP                                                      Certified by: 59 MDW/SGH2
                                                                        (Colonel Markham Brown)
Supersedes:    59MDWI44-128, 26 April                                                    Pages: 12
               2011


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 44-1, Medical Operations. This
instruction establishes proactive, interdisciplinary guidelines directed to prevent wrong-site,
wrong procedure, wrong patient surgery within the 59th Medical Wing (MDW). It applies to all
operative and other invasive procedures, outpatient, including procedures done in settings other
than the operating room such as a special procedures area, the Urgent Care Clinic, endoscopy
clinic, or interventional radiology. This facility has set a goal of zero-tolerance for surgeries on
the wrong site, on the wrong person, or the performance of the wrong surgical procedure. This
instruction does not apply to the 359th Medical Group and 959th Medical Group. This
instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve. The authority to
waive requirements is the publication approval authority. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. This publication requires the collection and or
maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 55,
Medical and Dental Care, and E.O. 9397 (SSN). The applicable SORN F044 AF SG D, and
Automated           Medical/Dental        Record         System         is       available        at:
http://dpclo.defense.gov/privacy/SORNs/SORNs.htm. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air
Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
Information Management System Records Disposition Schedule.
 2                                                          59MDWI44-128 21 JANUARY 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: updated references and removed spinal surgery marking procedural site.
1. Overview.
     1.1. The purpose of this instruction is to describe the process for procedure/site verification
     in all settings where procedures are performed to ensure the correct patient has the correct
     procedure at the correct site. The Universal Protocol applies to all surgical and non-surgical
     invasive procedures including procedures done in settings other than the operating room
     (OR) such as a clinic, special procedures unit, endoscopy unit, or interventional radiology.
2. Goal.
     2.1. To ensure the correct patient is getting the correct procedure at the correct procedure
     site.
3. Scope.
     3.1. This instruction provides the necessary guidance for a pre-procedure/preoperative
     verification process, a process to mark surgical/invasive procedure sites and a process by
     which to perform a final verification or “time-out” to confirm the correct patient, procedure
     and site prior to the beginning of any operative/invasive procedure.
     3.2. There is no specified period between steps; if a step required by this instruction has not
     been performed, the next step must be delayed until the previous step has been completed. In
     rare cases where the steps are not all followed, the justification for the deviations must be
     documented in the notes section of the used form (see paragraph 3.4.) or in a progress note if
     the space is not sufficient. The final time-out, however, must be conducted immediately
     before starting the invasive procedure or making the incision.
     3.3. Routine minor procedures such as venipuncture, peripheral intravenous line placement,
     insertion of nasogastric tube, or Foley catheter insertion are not within the scope of this
     instruction.
     3.4. The 59 MDW Form 97, Universal Protocol: Procedure Verification Record will be
     used for all applicable procedures in the OR. The 59 MDW Form 123, Universal Protocol:
     Non-OR Procedure Verification Record will be used for all procedures outside of the OR;
     with the exception of procedures requiring conscious sedation and those performed in the
     Dental Clinics and other clinics which already have an equivalent documentation process for
     timeouts. Procedures requiring conscious sedation will use 59 MDW Form 35, Procedural
     Sedation Record instead of 59 MDW Form 123.
4. General.
     4.1. Wrong-person, wrong-site, and wrong-procedure surgery can and must be prevented.
     4.2. Each member of the procedural team is essential to this process. Any member of the
     team may question the decision of any other member of the team, at any time, regarding the
     surgical/procedural site, the type of procedure to be performed or the identity of the patient.
59MDWI44-128 21 JANUARY 2014                                                                      3


  4.3. If the patient/guardian cannot participate in the verification process, but the consent
  matches the pre-operative progress note or history and physical (H&P), then the verification
  process can be accomplished by two qualified health care providers.
  4.4. Inconsistencies will be reported immediately to the involved provider and corrective
  actions taken before the procedure continues. All discrepancies will be resolved prior to
  progressing to the next verification process. All discrepancies and their resolution will be
  reported via the web based Department of Defense (DoD) Patient Safety Reporting (PSR)
  application which can be accessed via the 59 MDW SharePoint or a desktop PSR Outlook
  icon.
  4.5. Surgeries/procedures that require multiple procedures on different sites by different staff
  to be performed on the same patient during one encounter will follow each of the verification
  steps for each of the procedures/surgeries; e.g., a patient having knee surgery and a
  cholecystectomy will undergo a pre-op site marking and final verification by a member of
  each surgical/procedure team performing a procedure on a different part of the body. The 59
  MDW Form 97 has two surgeon site verification areas and two time-out sections for this
  occurrence. If additional procedures by additional teams are required, supplemental 59
  MDW Form 97 may be used, filling out the additional areas as needed. Multiple procedures
  by the same staff in succession do not require multiple time-outs or verifications; all
  appropriate site markings should be visible at the time of the time-out.
  4.6. All personnel will ensure that x-rays are properly marked with the correct patient name
  and date of birth and that all references to the pertinent sites are correctly and clearly
  indicated in the patient’s records. Procedures for ensuring correct site radiographic films are
  addressed in radiology flight operating instructions.
  4.7. For all parts of this instruction indicating verification of correct patient, 59 Medical
  Wing Instruction (MDWI) 44-165, Patient Identification, will be followed using the two
  patient identifiers as indicated, the patient’s full name (including suffix, Jr, Sr, III, etc) and
  date of birth as the standard for non-emergency events. For any questions about patient
  identification, use 59MDWI 44-165 as a reference.
  4.8. The verification process is designed with redundancy as a safety mechanism to ensure
  multiple checks. Every member of the healthcare team has the responsibility to actively
  engage in the process consistent with his/her position on the team.
     4.8.1. Verification of the correct person, correct site, and correct procedure occurs at the
     following times:
         4.8.1.1. At the time the procedure is scheduled.
         4.8.1.2. At the time of pre-admission testing and assessment.
         4.8.1.3. Upon admission or entry into the facility.
         4.8.1.4. Any time a caregiver transfers responsibility of the patient to another clinical
         staff member.
         4.8.1.5. Before the patient        leaves   the    preoperative   area   or   enters   the
         operating/procedural room.
 4                                                            59MDWI44-128 21 JANUARY 2014


            4.8.1.6. Immediately before the provider begins the procedure, as part of the time-
            out.
5. Pre-Procedure Verification or First Verification for OR procedure verification, 59
MDW Form 97. The intent of this process is to verify that all appropriate documents pertinent
to the procedure are available and consistent.
     5.1. Each area that performs invasive procedures is responsible for performing and
     documenting a pre-procedure verification that will include, at a minimum, the following
     items:
        5.1.1. Verification of the correct person, procedure site and side (if applicable) must
        occur with the patient involved, awake and aware, if possible or using a parent or
        guardian (as applicable) by licensed personnel. Have the patient point to the site and
        state the expected procedure.
        5.1.2. Use 59 MDW Form 1202, Disclosure and Consent-Medical and Surgical
        Procedures, for all procedures where written consent is indicated. If the provider or
        procedure has changed from the original consent, a new 59 MDW Form 1202 will be
        completed. The surgery site/level/side will be written on the consent form by the
        operating provider, it will be signed and dated by the provider, the patient and witnessed.
        The witness must not be a part of the procedure team, IAW 59MDWI 51-302, Informed
        Consent Refusal of Treatment, Diagnostics and Blood or Blood Products.
        5.1.3. Ensure that the informed consent note is documented and placed in the patient’s
        medical record in accordance with IAW 59MDWI 51-302.
        5.1.4. Service appropriate history and physical must be accomplished and will include
        the diagnosis and procedure to be accomplished which will be consistent with the
        surgical/procedure consent. Any “add-on” procedure or surgery requires a new consult
        from the requesting service to the operating service. This consult may be electronic. A
        new 59 MDW Form 1202 will be accomplished IAW 59MDWI 51-302.
        5.1.5. All necessary medical information will be available to include x-rays and lab
        results. With the exception of emergent procedures, radiology films used to determine
        the site of a procedure, i.e. which lung, can only be utilized after a radiologist has read
        them.
        5.1.6. Documentation. In cases performed in the OR (excluding those performed under
        conscious sedation) the staff member who verifies the above processes are complete will
        sign, date and time the first row of the 59 MDW Form 97 in the ‘1st verification’ section.
        Procedures performed under conscious sedation will have the time-out procedure
        documented on 59 MDW Form 35.
     5.2. Verification/Documentation Exception. If the patient/parent/guardian is unable to
     state/point to the surgical/procedural site for any reason, enter “not able to confirm with
     patient” in the margin to the right of the first block of the ‘1st verification’ section’ and affix
     your signature with a date and time and proceed to the second verification. Document the
     issue with patient confirmation in the lower right corner of the 59 MDW Form 97 and state
     whether the H&P and/or progress notes and consent match intent for the indicated procedure.
6. Second Verification OR procedure verification 59 MDW Form 97 or Marking of Site.
59MDWI44-128 21 JANUARY 2014                                                                    5


  6.1. Marking the Operative/Procedural Site.
     6.1.1. Each area performing the procedures will establish a process to accomplish, at a
     minimum, the following. Prior to the administration of pre-operative or pre-procedural
     medication such as sedatives, hypnotics or anesthetic drugs, a licensed independent
     practitioner (LIP) who will be performing the procedure (or designated resident) will
     place his/her initials on or adjacent to the site. In cases where the patient will be moved
     to another procedure area (such as in the OR) the site marking must be done prior to
     moving the patient to the procedure area. In the instance when a patient cannot
     participate (and a guardian is not available) document the issue with patient confirmation
     in the lower right corner of the 59 MDW Form 97 and state whether the H&P and/or
     progress notes and consent match intent for the indicated procedure.
     6.1.2. A skin marker will be used; the mark is made at or near the procedure site and is
     sufficiently permanent to be visible after skin preparation and draping. The mark should
     not be covered up by any drapes that may be applied at the time of the procedure unless
     the drape material is transparent.
     6.1.3. There is no evidence that markers transmit disease from one patient to another as
     long as there is intact skin. If the patient has a known contagion, dispose of the marker
     after used. With a patient with broken skin which cannot be avoided and a site marking
     is required, use a fresh marker or the alternate armband method used for patient refusal.
     6.1.4. Do not mark any non-operative sites unless necessary for some other aspect of
     care (such as to warn against using a particular extremity for venous access because of a
     prior surgical procedure). The mark for this facility is the signer’s initials. Note: If the
     operating LIP/designated resident’s initials are “N.O.”, utilize three initials.
     6.1.5. Marking the site is required for procedures involving right/left distinction, multiple
     structures (such as fingers and toes), or levels (as in spinal procedures) to identify the
     intended site of incision or insertion.
     6.1.6. Procedures done through a mid-line incision or port which are intended to treat a
     paired organ, that is "right" or "left", must have a site mark indicating the side. This
     mark, as for other site marks, must be positioned to be visible after the patient is prepped
     and draped unless it is technically or anatomically impossible or impractical to do so.
  6.2. Exemptions from Site Marking.
     6.2.1. Procedures/interventions at/near a natural body orifice (e.g., GI endoscopy,
     tonsillectomy, hemorrhoidectomy, or procedures on the genitalia) and other situations in
     which marking the site would be impossible or technically impractical do not need a site
     marking.
     6.2.2. Site marking is not required (nor is it prohibited) for cases such as midline
     sternotomy, and other interventional procedures that the site of incision is not pre-
     determined.
     6.2.3. Obvious surgical sites do not require marking. Site marking is not required if
     there is an obvious wound or lesion that is the site of the intended procedure (e.g.,
     removal of external fixator). If there are multiple wounds or lesions and only some are to
     be treated, the specific site markings are required before the start of the procedure.
 6                                                          59MDWI44-128 21 JANUARY 2014


     6.3. Dental/Oral Surgery Procedures. There does not appear to be a practical or reliable
     method to actually mark surgical sites or teeth to be extracted or restored. Therefore, dental
     procedures will be considered exempt from the site-marking requirement (as are other
     procedures done through or immediately adjacent to a natural body orifice) on the
     tooth/tissue.     Dental Group personnel involved with orofacial surgery, extraction or
     restoration of teeth will follow Air Force Medical Service Dental Clinical Practice Guidelines
     and local operating instructions discussing correct-patient/correct-site procedures in our
     efforts to ensure safe site surgery.
     6.4. For Ophthalmologic procedures; the surgeon will initial the patient’s skin adjacent to the
     surgical eye.
     6.5. Alternate Marking Method. For use when patients refuse site marking or when it is
     technically or anatomically impossible or impractical to mark the site.
        6.5.1. The operating provider will write the location (side/level/site) of the procedure
        incision/entry site on the procedure identification band (as opposed to marking it on the
        patient’s skin). In this case, the operating provider must be privileged to perform the
        procedure and he/she must be directly involved and/or present during the procedure.
        Residents in graduate medical education programs may use the alternative marking
        method if the resident will be present and actively involved in the procedure.
        6.5.2. The operating provider will place the procedure identification band on the patient
        (typically on the patient’s wrist). For patients who are not candidates for the procedure
        identification band placement on their body (for example, missing limbs), the band will
        be collocated with the patient during the pre-procedure verification and the time-out.
        6.5.3. The operating provider will annotate alternative marking use in the notes section
        of the 59 MDW Form 97 located on the lower right corner of the page.
     6.6. For OR procedures, after the LIP (or designated resident) has verified the procedure and
     appropriately marked the surgical site with the non-sedated patient or guardian participation,
     they will sign the 59 MDW Form 97 in the Operating Provider signature block with the date
     and time.
     6.7. The perioperative nurse/licensed staff member will verify: patient identification,
     presence of H&P which corresponds with consent and availability of blood products,
     implants, devices or equipment needed for the procedure prior to the administration of pre-
     operative or pre-procedural medication such as sedatives, hypnotics or anesthetic drugs. This
     will be documented on the 59 MDW Form 97 in the Perioperative Registered Nurse (RN)
     signature block with the date and time.
     6.8. Anesthesia Provider. Prior to administration of pre-operative or pre-procedural
     medication such as sedatives, hypnotics or anesthetic drugs, the anesthesia provider will
     verify: patient identification, presence of H&P which corresponds with consent, availability
     of blood products, presence of pertinent tests, and appropriate marking of the site and
     verification by the LIP (or designated resident). This will be documented on the 59 MDW
     Form 97, in the 2nd verification section Anesthesia Provider Signature block section with the
     date and time.
7. Third Verification for 59MDW Form 97 and/or Final Time-Out.
59MDWI44-128 21 JANUARY 2014                                                                    7


  7.1. The time-out is required for all invasive procedures and must be completed by the
  operating or procedural team immediately prior to the incision, insertion, or start of the
  procedure. This generally occurs after the prep and drape, in most cases.
  7.2. In cases when a local anesthetic is injected for block or surgical purposes prior to
  prepping and draping, a verification of patient identity, procedure and site verification will
  occur before the injection. This pause will not count as the final time-out unless at least one
  surgeon is already scrubbed in, and does not leave the room before the start of the procedure.
  7.3. The time-out is consistently led by the designated member who is the operating provider
  and involves the entire team but may be initiated by any member of the team at the
  appropriate time. It is done using active verbal communication conducted in a "fail-safe"
  mode, i.e., the procedure is not started until any questions or concerns are resolved. All team
  members must be actively engaged in the time-out and all other activity is stopped. Team
  members include (but are not limited to) the operating provider, anesthesia provider,
  circulating nurse, and the operating room technician. The operating provider must remain in
  the procedure room between the time-out and the start of the procedure (that is, the provider
  must be gowned and scrubbed in the OR).
  7.4. The time-out confirms that: the correct patient is in place, the correct procedure and site
  verified by the consent is the plan and team members agree on the planned procedure.
  7.5. All members of the healthcare team have the responsibility to stop the procedure and
  request clarification if there is any question, difference, or discrepancy.
  7.6. Once all team members are in complete agreement that all elements of the time-out are
  complete, the surgical scrub technician will hand the knife blade or initiating instrument to
  the operating LIP (or designated resident).
  7.7. Documentation. In the OR the perioperative nurse/licensed staff member will document
  completion of the third site verification process/final time-out on the 59 MDW Form 97, by
  signing, dating, and timing the Licensed Staff (or designated resident) signature block in the
  3rd verification section. The nurse is ensuring that all prescribed processes have been
  completed and verified.
  7.8. Regional Anesthesia Procedure Verification.
     7.8.1. Regional anesthesia procedures performed in conjunction with other procedures
     are subject to the following:
         7.8.1.1. Regional anesthetic procedures require a procedure verification process and
         time-out separate from the operative verification process.
         7.8.1.2. The perioperative nursing and anesthesia pre-procedural verifications must
         be completed and documented prior to performing the regional procedure time-out.
         In the instance when the site marking and verification by the surgical provider has not
         yet occurred, the anesthesia provider performing the block will initial the block site
         with patient participation before the patient has sedation and is moved to the block
         location.
         7.8.1.3. Regional anesthetic procedures require a second clinical verifier. Examples
         of a second verifier include but are not limited to another anesthesia provider, a
 8                                                          59MDWI44-128 21 JANUARY 2014


            registered nurse, an operating room technician, an anesthesia technician, or a pain
            technician.
        7.8.2. The regional time-out should be documented by a licensed staff member (or
        designated resident). This may be completed by a clinical non-licensed staff member
        only if normal and customary practice involves a non-licensed assistant. Regional
        procedures followed by an operative procedure will be documented in the Regional
        Anesthesia Procedure Verification Process section of the 59 MDW Form 97. Regional
        anesthesia procedures performed on patients not going to the OR may be documented on
        59 MDW Form 97.
     7.9. Emergency Procedures. The overarching goal is patient safety; therefore no precautions
     should interfere with the timely care of the patient in an emergency situation. During
     emergencies, marking the site may not be necessary, although the “time-out” to verify the
     correct patient, procedure, and site would still be appropriate (unless it was such an
     emergency that even the time-out would add more risk than benefit).
8. 59 MDW Form 123, Universal Protocol: Non-OR Procedure Verification Record.
     8.1. For procedures outside of the operating room, the time-out is required for all invasive
     procedures and must be completed by the operating provider immediately prior to the
     incision, insertion, or start of the procedure except in an emergency/resuscitation situation.
     For procedures in which a written consent is accomplished, time-out documentation will be
     accomplished either on 59 MDW Form 35 (if performed under conscious sedation), or on 59
     MDW Form 123 for all other invasive procedures in clinics which don’t already have their
     own unique process for time-outs such as the dental (SF 603/603a, Health Record—Dental)
     and dermatology clinics. For procedures in which verbal consent is deemed appropriate,
     time-out verification should be documented in the Armed Forces Health Longitudinal
     Technology Application procedure note.
     8.2. The team members will include at minimum the operating provider and one other
     clinical staff member (nurse, technician, or provider). The exception is when the procedure
     is usually performed by a sole provider. The operating provider must remain in the
     procedure room between the time-out and the start of the procedure.
     8.3. Site marking is not required when the individual doing the procedure is continuously
     with the patient from the time of the decision to do the procedure through to the performance
     of the procedure. If the person performing the procedure leaves the presence of the patient
     for any amount of time during that interval, then the site should be marked before leaving the
     patient.
     8.4. Procedures/interventions at/near a natural body orifice (e.g., endoscopy, tonsillectomy,
     hemorrhoidectomy, or procedures on the genitalia) and other situations in which marking the
     site would be impossible or technically impractical do not need a site marking.
     8.5. Site marking is not required (nor is it prohibited) for interventional procedures that the
     site of incision is not pre-determined.
9. Discovery that a Wrong-Site Surgery has occurred.
     9.1. In all situations of wrong-site surgery the staff surgeon should notify Risk Management
     at 292-6004 or Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center pager 594-1116 and the chain of
59MDWI44-128 21 JANUARY 2014                                                                   9


  command. An actual wrong site surgical procedure should be reported immediately but no
  later than 24 hours after the event to the Risk Management Office. If possible, consult with
  Risk Management prior to discussing the issue with the patient/family. Disclosure of
  information will be done in accordance with 59MDWI 44-130, Patient Safety Program. The
  surgeon will document the facts of the event in the progress note to include a course of action
  and the patient’s stated wishes. This event will be reported via the web based DoD PSR
  application which can be accessed via the 59 MDW SharePoint or a desktop PSR Outlook
  icon.




                                           NICOLA A. CHOATE, Colonel, USAF, MC
                                           Chief of the Medical Staff
 10                                                      59MDWI44-128 21 JANUARY 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations, 1 September 1999
59MDWI 44-130, Patient Safety Program, 16 July 2013
59MDWI 44-165, Patient Identification, 14 November 2011
59MDWI 51-302, Informed Consent/Refusal of Treatment, Diagnosis and Blood or Blood
Products, 12 March 2010
DoD 6025.18-R, DoD Health Information Privacy Regulation, 24 January 2003
Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC) Accreditation Handbook
(current issue)
The Joint Commission Patient Safety Goals Current Year
Prescribed Forms
59 MDW Form 97, Universal Protocol: Procedure Verification Record
59 MDW Form 123, Universal Protocol: Non-OR Procedure Verification Record
Adopted Forms
SF 603/603A, Health Record—Dental
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
59 MDW Form 1202, Disclosure and Consent-Medical and Surgical Procedures
59 MDW Form 35, Procedural Sedation Record

Abbreviations and Acronyms
DoD—Department of Defense
H&P—History and Physical
IAW—In Accordance With
ICU—Intensive Care Unit
LIP—Licensed Independent Practitioner
MDW—Medical Wing
MDWI—Medical Wing Instruction
OR—Operating Room
PACU—Post-Anesthesia Care Unit
PSR—Patient Safety Reporting
RCA—Root Cause Analysis
59MDWI44-128 21 JANUARY 2014                                                                     11


RN—Registered Nurse

Terms
Active Communication—Means an affirmation, orally that the patient, procedure, and site are
correct. The members of the team will signal their agreement by a brief oral acknowledgement.
Absence of a response should not be interpreted as agreement. It is not mandatory for the patient
to participate in the final verification process although it may occur.
Correct Site—A procedure or surgery upon an organ or body part where the approach is specific
to a particular location of the body.
Discrepancy—Variance in the planned procedure.
Invasive Procedure—Any procedure exposing patient to more than minimal risk. Includes, but
not limited to, surgical entry, puncture or insertion of an instrument or foreign material into
tissues, cavities or organs.
Laterality—Any anatomical structure that occurs on both sides of the body, both internally and
externally identified as “right”, “left”, “bilateral”, or “midline”.
Level—Any anatomical structures that include multiples linearly (e.g. spinal vertebrae, ribs).
Licensed Independent Practitioner—Any physician, dentist or allied health provider
(audiologists, dieticians, nurse anesthetists, nurse mid-wives, nurse practitioners, occupational
therapists, optometrists, pharmacists, physician assistants, physical therapists, psychologists,
social workers, and speech pathologists) permitted by law and by the organization to provide
care and services, without direct supervision, within the scope of the individual’s
license/certification and consistent with individually granted clinical privileges.
Licensed Staff Member—An example would include the DDS, MD, or RN.
Near Miss—Any process variation or error or other circumstance that could have resulted in
harm to a patient but through chance or timely intervention did not reach the patient or did not
harm the patient. Such events or circumstances have also been referred to as "close calls."
Examples include a procedure almost being done on the wrong patient but being “caught” before
patient injury; a medication almost given to the wrong patient/wrong route/wrong dose, etc, but
being “caught” before reaching the patient.
Patient Involvement in Marking the Procedure/Surgical Site—Every effort will be made to
mark the surgical/procedure site with the patient’s involvement, prior to the patient receiving
pre-procedure sedation. If the patient cannot be involved due to sedation, metabolic or
physiologic processes, the provider will mark the intended site in accordance with this policy.
Procedure—A diagnostic or therapeutic intervention.
Procedural Area—An operating room, cardiac/angiographic catheterization or interventional
suite, gastroenterology suite, radiation or nuclear medicine area, treatment or procedure room,
patient room, emergency room, and any other location where procedures may occur.
Verification—A process that involves validating consistency between various sources, such as
the information contained on the consent form, diagnostic study reports, the preoperative
checklist, the marked anatomical site and the response of the patient and /or guardian.
 12                                                       59MDWI44-128 21 JANUARY 2014


Wrong—Site Surgery—Any surgery or invasive procedure that is performed on a site that was
not the originally anticipated or intended site, or performed on a patient for whom that procedure
was not intended. Categories of “wrong-site surgery” include wrong-side surgery, wrong-
level/part surgery, and wrong patient.
