BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 41-116
59 MEDICAL WING
                                                                           20 DECEMBER 2013

                                                                                  Health Services

                                                            SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                    DESIGNEE PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 59 MDSS/SGSBT                                                     Certified by: 59 MDSS/CC
                                                                          (Lt Col William Fecke)
                                                                                         Pages: 6
Supersedes:    59MDWI 41-116, 22
               December 2011


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 41-1, Health Program and Resources.
This instruction establishes procedures for administratively processing requests for persons being
submitted for Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF) Designee status. It also establishes
procedures to control patient treatment after designee status has been approved. This instruction
applies to all personnel assigned, attached, or under contract to the 59th Medical Wing (MDW).
This instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve. This publication
requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974
authorized by 10 U.S.C. 55, Medical and Dental Care, and E.O. 9397 (SSN). The applicable
SORN F044 AF SG D, and Automated Medical/Dental Record System is available at:
http://dpclo.defense.gov/privacy/SORNs/SORNs.htm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. The authority to waive requirements is the
publication approval authority. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
System Records Disposition Schedule.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been substantially revised. Deleted Trauma Coordinator’s responsibilities;
corrected office symbols and approving officials to reflect current status.
 2                                                       59MDWI41-116 20 DECEMBER 2013


1. Responsibilities.
     1.1. The 59th Medical Support Squadron, Member Services (59 MDSS/SGSBTA) is
     responsible for ensuring proper control procedures are followed in requesting SECAF
     Designee Status for patients and ensuring proper administrative management of approved
     cases.
        1.1.1. No medical treatment will be provided until a request is processed and approved in
        writing by SAF/AA. Approval of designee status entitles a patient to receive space
        available medical care where approval was granted, and is limited to the designated scope
        of care. All approved designee statuses are Department of Defense-wide per 32 Code of
        Federal Regulations, Section 108.4 (p). Approval from one branch of service, base, or
        post grants a patient designee status in different facilities and/or branches of service
        subject to capabilities of the professional staff and availability of space and facilities.
     1.2. The 59 MDW/CC will grant SECAF designee status, pursuant to his/her local authority,
     as follows:
        1.2.1. Providers are responsible for submitting requests and clinically managing each
        case within the scope of treatment and time period approved by the Secretary of the Air
        Force.
2. Procedures for Submitting SECAF Designee Status (Standard Package).
     2.1. Standard packages include requests for SECAF Designee status based on continuity of
     care, best interest of the Air Force and teaching case requests.
     2.2. Applications for SECAF Designee status must contain all information as prescribed in
     AFI 41-210, TRICARE Operations and Patient Administration Functions. The package must
     be submitted no later than (NLT) 90 days prior to expiration of patient’s eligibility to ensure
     time is allotted for the approval process. Upon the provider’s notification that a Secretarial
     Designee request is necessary, Member Services will forward a template of the “Secretarial
     Designee Request Letter” to the provider for help in accomplishing a SECAF Designee
     request.
     2.3. Providers identify candidates by submitting a package to the Member Services.
     Member Services will process requests and route for the 59 MDW/SGH and 59 MDW/CC
     approvals. Approved requests are routed to (SAF/AA) through the Air Force Medical
     Operations Agency (AFMOA)/Health Benefits Division (SGAT).
        2.3.1. The requesting physician will submit the prescribed information using basic
        terminology to explain medical procedures, processes and diagnosis, and by omitting
        medical terminology.
        2.3.2. In addition to the information prescribed in AFI 41-210, Section 4F; the request
        must also contain:
            2.3.2.1. Third Party Insurance Carrier.
            2.3.2.2. Third Party Insurance Carrier Policy Number.
            2.3.2.3. Space Availability: Our clinic does/does not have “Space Available”
            appointments.
59MDWI41-116 20 DECEMBER 2013                                                                     3


          2.3.2.4. Like-care for TRICARE Prime patients is/is not being deferred to the
          network.
          2.3.2.5. Right of First Refusals (ROFRs) status: Our clinic is/is not accepting
          ROFRs.
      2.3.3. Teaching cases will be endorsed by the Director, Graduate Medical Education
      (GME), and must include a statement specifically explaining how the case enhances
      particular teaching programs.
      2.3.4. Best interest cases will be reviewed by the Medical Law Consultant (MLC), and
      the MLC legal review must be included in the request package.
   2.4. Member Services will compile the request package, consisting of the designee request
   from the physician, an endorsement by the appropriate division chief, and endorsement by
   GME and legal review by a MLC (if applicable).
   2.5. Attachment 2 shows a flowchart for processing Secretarial Designee Requests. The
   goal is to have the completed package submitted to AFMOA/SGAT within 18 days from the
   time Member Services is notified of the need for a request.
3. Procedures for Submitting SECAF Designee Status Request (Retroactive Package).
   3.1. A retroactive package must be accomplished when an ineligible patient was treated, and
   for which a Secretarial Designee (SECDES) request is appropriate. This should be rare and
   should be produced immediately after treatment has begun. Retroactive packages include
   requests for SECAF Designee status based on continuity of care, best interest of the Air
   Force and teaching case requests. In addition to the mandatory requirements for a standard
   package (see paragraphs 2.2. through 2.3.4.) listed above, the retroactive package also
   includes an official memorandum requesting retroactive SECAF Designee status signed by
   the 59 MDSS/CC and endorsed by the 59 MDW/CC. When a memo is required, a template
   will be provided by 59MDSS/SGSBTA.
4. Approved SECAF Designee Requests and Management of Care Provided as Authorized.
   4.1. Standard and Retroactive Designee Requests: Upon approval by SAF/AA, Member
   Services will do the following:
      4.1.1. Contact Composite Health Care System support to change patient’s Family
      Member Prefix/Patient Category and merge the prior account with the new account
      (under patient’s social security number).
      4.1.2. Forward a letter to the requesting physician describing the limits of the patient’s
      designee status and the physician's responsibilities for ensuring proper management of
      the treatment provided.
      4.1.3. Give the SECDES identification (ID) card and approval letter to the patient
      explaining limitations of their designee status. The card and letter must be presented by
      the patient in order to receive medical care.
      4.1.4. Notify Medical Records Department (MRD) of the approval. The MRD will
      initiate an outpatient record, or if one has already been initiated, will change the pertinent
      data on the record jacket to reflect the patient as a SECAF Designee. A 59 MDW Form
      68, Secretary of the Air Force Designee Record Identifier will be attached to the front of
 4                                                         59MDWI41-116 20 DECEMBER 2013


        the record, and a copy of the approval letter will be placed inside the record. All SECAF
        Designee records will be maintained by the MRD.
     4.2. A copy of the approval letter will be obtained from the patient each time he/she has been
     admitted for inpatient care, and/or placed in the in-patient record.
     4.3. If the SECAF Designee request is disapproved by SAF/AA, Member Services will
     notify the requesting physician of the disapproval, who then notifies the patient. A copy of
     the denial letter will be placed in the patient’s out-patient record.
     4.4. Member Services will maintain a suspense log of all approved/disapproved and pending
     SECAF designee requests and will track expiration dates of all approved requests.
        4.4.1. Approximately 4 months prior to expiration of SECAF designee status, Member
        Services will contact the physician treating the patient and ask him/her to submit
        paperwork to ensure the treatment is terminated or an extension of benefits is requested.
        If the physician decides an extension is warranted, the physician will submit the
        extension request no later than NLT 90 days prior to expiration of the previous period of
        approval. Responsibility rests with the attending physician to ensure patient eligibility is
        based on a current approval letter and by verifying the designee’s ID card expiration date.
     4.5. When treatment is terminated, the attending physician will prepare a narrative summary
     describing the period of treatment, indicating disengagement from military care.
     Furthermore, the narrative summary will also describe transferring responsibility for any
     follow-up treatment to civilian sources, as instructed in the cover letter to physicians which
     accompanies the original approval letter.
     4.6. Medical staff and clinic personnel will be briefed periodically to ensure eligibility letters
     and ID cards are checked prior to providing treatment to designees and to ensure proper
     procedures are followed in managing these cases. Questions will be referred to Member
     Services for resolution.
5. Procedures for Requesting SECAF Designee Status (Local Approval).
     5.1. The Obstetrics Department and the Gynecology Department will refer all eligible
     dependent daughters and former active duty or dependent spouses requesting SECAF
     Designee status to Member Services for completion of the application process.




                                                GLENN A. YAP, Colonel, USAF, MSC
                                                Administrator
59MDWI41-116 20 DECEMBER 2013                                                      5


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 41-210, TRICARE Operations and Patient Administration Functions, 6 June 2012
AFPD 41-1, Health Program and Resources, 15 April 1994
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program, 16 May 2011
Prescribed Form
59 MDW Form 68, Secretary of the Air Force Designee Record Identifier
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMOA—Air Force Medical Operations Agency
GME—Graduate Medical Education
IAW—In Accordance With
ID—Identification
MDW—Medical Wing
MLC—Medical Law Consultant
MRD—Medical Records Department
NLT—No Later Than
PATCAT—Patient Category
ROFR—Right of First Refusal
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SECDES—Secretarial Designee
 6                                                                                 59MDWI41-116 20 DECEMBER 2013


                                                                Attachment 2
         SECDES PROGRAM STANDARD/RETROACTIVE PACKAGE FLOWCHAR

Figure A2.1. SECDES Program Standard/Retroactive
Package Flowchart.

 1a      Ineligible patient requires treatment; provider contacts Mbrs Svcs

 2a      Mbr Svcs emails SecDec template to provider
 2b      Sends info copy to: Sq CC, Grp CC, 59 MDW/SGH, GP/SGH & MLC

  3a     Provider completes application plus retroactive memo & timeline;
 3b.     submits via email to Mbr Svcs
 3c.     Sends info copy to: Sq, Grp CC, 59 MDW/SGH, GP/SGH & MLC

     4   Mbr Svcs performs a review & if necessary returns to provider for correction

     5   Being package internal routing with Patient Administration Director

     6   E-copy sent to 59 MDSG/CC for review

 7a.     Provider signs package
 7b.     Attach cover letter signed by CC or CV (Retroactive packages only)

     8   Department Chair endorses

     9   Teaching/GME-------Continuity of Care/MLC------Best Interst/MLC

 10      59 MDW/SGH (MDW/CC Designee)

 11      59 MDSG/CC

 12      59 MDW/DS

 13      59 MDW/CV

 14      59 MDW/CC

15a      Mbr Svcs sends approved package to AFMOA/SGS;
15b      Cc to: TOPA Flt /CC MDSS/CC & MDSG/CC

 16      AFMOA/SGST

 17      AFMSA/SGSA

 18      HA SAF/AA



 19      Approved-------notified of Decision------Disapproved
