BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 23-103
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                              5 MARCH 2010
                                                        Incorporating Change 1, 15 August 2013

                                                                                          Supply

                                                            PRECIOUS METALS RECOVERY
                                                                             PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 59 MLRS/SGSKS                                                    Certified by: 59 MLRS/CC
                                                                        (Major Randall G. Ivall)
Supersedes:    59MDWI23-501,                                                            Pages: 7
               12 February 2007


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 23-1, Material Management. This
instruction establishes procedures and guidelines for conducting the Precious Metals Recovery
Program (PMRP) and outlines the duties and responsibilities to identify, collect, control, and
turn-in precious metals generated by the 59th Medical Wing (MDW). It applies to all personnel
assigned, attached, or contracted to the 59 MDW. This instruction does not apply to the Air
National Guard or Air Force Reserve. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule on the Air Force
Portal available at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Updated unit designation and changed instruction number.
1. Responsibilities. The Defense Reutilization and Marketing Service (DRMS) manages the
Department of Defense (DoD) Precious Metals Recovery Program (PMRP). The medical
treatment facility (MTF) commander appoints a Precious Metals Recovery Program Monitor
(PMRPM) and an alternate by letter. The 59 MDW/PMRPM will monitor all aspects of the
recovery program, to include the harvesting and turn-in of precious metal waste. The 59th
Medical Logistics & Readiness Squadron (59 MLRS) will provide assistance as required by the
PMRPM.
 2                                                              59MDWI23-103 5 MARCH 2010


     1.1. Objective. The objective of the PMRP is to ensure that precious metals are recovered,
     controlled and turned-in to DRMS for proper disposition.
2. Procedures.
     2.1. The PMRPM will maintain a record of precious metals bearing scrap by type and
     weight.
     2.2. Cooperate to the fullest extent with the Base PMRPM/DRMS PMRP Monitor.
3. Precious Metal Scrap Recovery. All precious metal recovery generating activities within 59
MDW, to include the dental clinics, laboratories, radiology units, and catherization lab will
adhere to the following procedures.
     3.1. The MTF commander will appoint by letter an activity PMRPM, alternate, and two
     disinterested persons approved by section commander. A copy of this letter goes to the
     following sections: Base PMRPM, 59 MDW PMRPM, and in account PMRP book.
     3.2. Precious metal bearing waste will be separated by locally established stock number (see
     Attachment 2), weighed, and turned into the controlled medical item vault custodian who is
     also appointed as the PMRPM. Upon turn-in to the vault, all scrap will be weighed again in
     the presence of the using activity PMRP monitor, disinterested witness, and vault custodian
     in accordance with (IAW) DoD 4160.21-M, Defense Materiel Disposition Manual.
     3.3. The term “silver-bearing scrap” as applied in this instruction, shall pertain to expanded
     hypo-acid solution, silver extracted from expended hypo-acid solution, and any other
     precious metal bearing scrap which is feasibly recoverable. Those activities without silver
     recovery units will turn-in spent hypo-acid solution to Biomedical Maintenance for
     harvesting and turn-in. Other than Mammography, activities do not have silver recovery
     units. The Biomedical Equipment Technicians (BMET) remove the canister from the
     Mammography unit. The canister contains a filter that contains silver bearing scrap. The
     canister is transported to the BMET shop. A disinterested witness is present at the time when
     the filter is removed from the canister and placed in a sealed plastic container. A DD Form
     1348-6, DOD Single Line Item Requisition System Document is signed by the witness and the
     BMET. Turn-in is made by the BMET to the vault custodian with the filter in the sealed
     container.
        3.3.1. All generating activities will turn-in hypo-acid solution with a duplicate completed
        copy of DD Form 1348-6 to the BMET Section. The BMETs are then responsible for
        processing the solution through their Silver Recovery System.
        3.3.2. When the silver recovery unit is ready for harvest, the BMET section will request
        a disinterested witness from the 59 MDW to be appointed by the Commander Support
        Staff to observe the harvest of filters and the placing of the filters in a sealed container.
        The BMET and disinterested witness will transport the sealed container to the Medical
        Logistics’ Vault Custodian to have the container weighed and recorded on the DD Form
        1348-6 for turn-in. The BMET will also provide a copy of the DD Form 1348-6 Log that
        supports what each individual department turned in.
     3.4. Dental amalgam will not be recovered as a precious metal. It contains lead making it a
     hazardous material. Dental clinic directly turns it in to the Base HAZMAT Pharmacy.
59MDWI23-103 5 MARCH 2010                                                                  3


     3.4.1. The Dental Laboratory Precious Metals Custodian will turn in all unusable gold
     bearing material to the Medical Logistics Vault Custodian annually, or when 60 grams of
     unusable scrap gold is accumulated, on a DD1348-6, with weight of material annotated.
     At turn-in, the material will be weighed again by the vault custodian and witnessed by a
     disinterested individual. The second weight will be annotated. The vault custodian will
     sign the DD1348-6 accepting receipt. Copies will be given to Dental and a copy will be
     maintained in the vault.
         3.4.1.1. The same procedures indicated in paragraph 3.4.1 apply to the turn-in of
         platinum electrodes harvested from electrophysiology catheters used in the
         Catheterization Laboratory.
  3.5. Technical guidance and assistance in determining the feasibility of recovery and types
  of equipment or systems required may be obtained from DRMS. The PMRPM is also
  available for assistance.
  3.6. Precious metals recovery equipment and supplies for recovery will be obtained by the
  59th Medical Logistics Readiness Squadron, Biomedical Engineering Flight (59
  MLRS/SGSKM) from DRMS on a free issue basis as required. Items available are: recovery
  equipment, silver estimating paper (Litmus paper), and plastic collection containers.
  3.7. Each generating activity monitor will check the hypo-acid solution for silver on a
  routine basis (twice a week) to determine if equipment is malfunctioning. See AFMAN 23-
  110, USAF Supply Manual for additional information. Activity monitors will be responsible
  for training in the above instance.
4. DELETED.




                                          GLENN A. YAP, Colonel, USAF, MSC, FACHE
                                          Administrator
 4                                                            59MDWI23-103 5 MARCH 2010


                                         Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 23-1, Material Management, 15 February 2011
AFPD 23-5, Reusing and Disposing of Material, 26 March 2001
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, 1 April 2009
DoD Manual 4160.21-M, Defense Materiel Disposition Manual, 18 August 1997
AFI 41-209, Medical Logistics Support, 30 June 2006
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 1348-6, DOD Single Line Item Requisition System Document

Abbreviations and Acronyms
BMET—Biomedical Equipment Technicians
DEA—Drug Enforcement Administration
DOD—Department of Defense
DRMS—Defense Reutilization and Marketing Service
IAW—In Accordance With
MDW—Medical Wing
MTF—Medical Treatment Facility
PMRP—Precious Metals Recovery Program
PMRPM—Precious Metals Recovery Program Monitor

Terms
Defense Reutilization and Marketing Service (DRMS)—The single authorized activity,
located at Fort Sam, responsible for receipt and accountability for all precious metals or scrap
turned in by all AF DOD activities under the Precious Metals Recovery Program.
Disinterested Individual—An officer, senior NCO, or civilian of equivalent grade, appointed in
writing, to perform those duties required during the collection, transport, or turn-in of precious
metals or scrap to the controlled medical item vault custodian.
Electrolytic Recovery Unit—An item of equipment designed to recover silver, in the form of
high purity, silver flake from spent hypo solution by means of electrolysis.
Generating Activity—Any functional area or activity which uses precious metals or precious
metal bearing substances and/or generates precious metal bearing scrap materials.
59MDWI23-103 5 MARCH 2010                                                                      5


Hypo Acid Fixing Solution—Solution that has been in the photographic developing process to
stabilize the exposed image and wash away unexposed silver particles, and which through such
use becomes a relatively rich source of silver.
Precious Metals—Listed with name and elemental symbol; Gold (Au), Silver (Ag), Platinum
(Pt), Palladium (Pd), Rhodium (Rh), Ruthenium (Ru), Iridium (Ir), Osmium (Os).
Precious Metals Recovery Program (PMRP)—A Department of Defense (DOD) program for
the identification, accumulation, recovery, and refinement of precious metal from any excess and
surplus items, scrap, hypo solution, and other precious metal bearing materials, when feasible.
Precious Metals Recovery Program Monitor (PMRPM)—An individual appointed at the base
and activity levels to ensure that a precious metals recovery program is established and operated
in an effective manner.
Vault Custodian—The controlled medical item vault custodian appointed by the Medical
Materiel Manager.
 6                                                    59MDWI23-103 5 MARCH 2010


                                   Attachment 2
              PMRP SCRAP STOCK NUMBERS AND DESCRIPTION

Table A2.1. PMRP Scrap Stock Numbers
6525P04SCRAP         Film, scrap (exposed, unexposed film and photographic paper)
6525VSFSCRAP         Silver flake, scrap
6520VGMSCRAP         Gold, Scrap
6520VCSSCRAP         Gold Dust, Scrap (vacuumed)
59MDWI23-103 5 MARCH 2010                              7


                            Attachment 3
          PRECIOUS METALS RECOVERY PROGRAM CHECKLIST
