BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 40-403
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                                 2 JUNE 2009
                                                       Incorporating Change 1, 30 August 2013
                                                           Certified Current on 20 August 2013
                                                                            Medical Command

                                                 HUMAN RESEARCH PARTICIPANT AND
                                               ANIMAL SUBJECT PROTECTION, QUALITY
                                                  ASSURANCE/QUALITY IMPROVEMENT
                                                                        PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-ublishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 59 CSPG/SGVU                                                      Certified by: 59 CRD/CC
                                                                    (Colonel Katherine Rearden)
                                                                                         Pages: 5




This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 40-4, Clinical Investigation and Human
Use in Medical Research. This instruction establishes policy and procedures for the
implementation and execution of the Quality Assurance/Quality Improvement (QA/QI) Program
for the Human Research Participant and Animal Subject Protection Program supporting clinical
investigations conducted by personnel assigned to the 59th Medical Wing (MDW). This
instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Requests for waivers must
be submitted to the OPR listed above for consideration and approval. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
(IAW) Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force
Records Information Management System Records Disposition Schedule.


1. Purpose. The human research participant and animal subject protection Quality
Assurance/Quality Improvement (QA/QI) Program is a component of Wilford Hall Ambulatory
Surgical Center’s (WHASC) Clinical Research Division. The purpose of this QA/QI Program is
to benefit and support the clinical investigations and research programs at WHASC involving
human and animal subjects to:
 2                                                                 59MDWI40-403 2 JUNE 2009


     1.1. Achieve quality, performance and efficiency;
     1.2. Ensure compliance with Department of Defense (DoD) policies and federal laws and
     regulations;
     1.3. Identify education/training initiatives for investigators, their research staff and others;
     and
     1.4. Assist in obtaining and maintaining accreditation for research programs that involve the:
        1.4.1. Protection of human subjects in research.
        1.4.2. Use of animals in research activities (Association for Assessment and
        Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International). The goal of this program is to
        promote a working relationship among the principal investigator; his/her research staff,
        the applicable oversight Committee, [Institutional Review Board (IRB) or Institutional
        Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC)] and the QA/QI Program staff. It is designed
        to identify regulatory noncompliance and protect human and animal subjects at WHASC.
2. QA/QI Program Structure.
     2.1. Description of Program Structure.
        2.1.1. The QA/QI Program consists of three elements:
            2.1.1.1. Requested (For-cause) Protocol Audits/Site Visits.
            2.1.1.2. Random (No-cause) Protocol Audits/Site Visits.
            2.1.1.3. Continuous Education for Quality Assurance.
     2.2. Role of the Quality Assurance Monitor: The Quality Assurance (QA) Monitor directly
     evaluates and monitors the QA/QI Program. The QA Monitor arranges and performs
     monitoring visits (on-site and off-site), performs protocol reviews or reviews of the consent
     process, and oversees the continuous education for quality assurance in research at WHASC.
     The QA Monitor will assist in the selection of research protocol(s) for quality assurance
     monitoring or review and may make recommendations to the Chief, Clinical Research
     Division (CRD) for protocol(s) follow-up for quality assurance monitoring. The QA Monitor
     directly reports to the Chief, CRD. At the discretion of the Chief, CRD the QA Monitor may
     work with the WHASC’s IRB and the IACUC to monitor the quality of research, the
     protection of human and animal subjects and use of animals in research. Include the Quality
     Improvement & Compliance Office on all potential/scheduled audits/site visits.
3. Quality Assurance Program Elements.
     3.1. Requested (For-cause) Protocol Audits/Site Visits.
        3.1.1. The QA Monitor conducts Requested “For Cause” Protocol Audits/Site Visits at
        the request of the Chief, Clinical Research Division, the IRB or the IACUC for reasons
        including, but not limited to:
            3.1.1.1. Receipt of an internal complaint (i.e. Medical Center Hotline, anonymous
            report) or internal concern (i.e., human subject or family member, research staff or
            personnel) of possible protocol violation or regulatory non-compliance;
59MDWI40-403 2 JUNE 2009                                                                       3


         3.1.1.2. Receipt of an external complaint (i.e., Office for Human Research
         Protections, the Food and Drug Administration, Sponsor, Office of Laboratory
         Animal Welfare or United States Department of Agriculture) of potential protocol
         violation or regulatory non-compliance;
         3.1.1.3. Increase of added risk to the human research subjects (i.e. serious adverse
         events);
         3.1.1.4. Investigator history of poor adherence to DoD and Medical Center
         policies/procedures or regulatory requirements.
     3.1.2. The Requested “For Cause” Protocol Audits/Site Visits may be conducted on-site
     or off-site and may consist of a full record or partial record review, or a review of the
     consent process. Requested “For Cause” Protocol Audits/Site Visits require the
     participation of the Principal Investigator and/or the Designated Research Personnel.
  3.2. Random (No-cause) Protocol Audits/Site Visits.
     3.2.1. The QA Monitor conducts Random (No-cause) Protocol Audits/Site Visits at the
     direction of the Chief, Clinical Research Division to evaluate on-going research
     compliance. Routine reviews may include, but are not limited to, reviews of:
         3.2.1.1. Oversight Committee (IRB or IACUC) records and activities to ensure that
         its policies and procedures are consistent with regulatory requirements and federal
         assurances;
         3.2.1.2. Risk areas identified during periodic risk assessments of the QA/QI Program;
         3.2.1.3. Risk areas identified during requested “for cause” audits;
         3.2.1.4. Protocols randomly selected by the QA Monitor for on-site review.
     3.2.2. The Random (No-cause) Protocol Audits/Site Visits may be conducted on-site or
     off-site and may consist of a full record or partial record review, or a review of the
     consent process. Random (No-cause) Protocol Audits/Site Visits requires the
     participation of the Principal Investigator and/or the Designated Research Personnel.
  3.3. Responsibilities of the Principal Investigator and Research Staff.
     3.3.1. The Principal Investigator and/or Oversight Committee Chair or their designees
     shall meet with the Research Compliance QA Monitor at the beginning of any Requested
     (For-cause) Protocol Audits/Site Visits or Random (No-cause) Protocol Audits/Site Visits
     to answer any questions. The principal investigator shall receive a copy of the final QA
     Monitor’s report as it relates to his/her research protocol. A courtesy copy of reports will
     be provided to the Quality Improvement & Compliance Office.
  3.4. Access to Documents, Records and Staff.
     3.4.1. The QA Monitor shall have access to all documents and information maintained
     by the investigator and/or applicable oversight committee (IRB/IACUC) as part of any
     Requested (For-cause) Protocol Audits/Site Visits or Random (No-cause) Protocol
     Audits/Site Visits. The Research Compliance QA Monitor shall have access to any
     research staff, Committee members or Committee oversight staff to conduct interviews as
 4                                                                59MDWI40-403 2 JUNE 2009


        part of any Requested (For-cause) Protocol Audits/Site Visits or Random (No-cause)
        Protocol Audits/Site Visits.
     3.5. Quality Assurance Monitor’s Report.
        3.5.1. The QA Monitor will submit a report of his/her findings to the Chief, Clinical
        Research Division, with a copy to the investigator and applicable oversight committee.
        The report will state any identified violations or areas of research non-compliance, or
        scientific misconduct including the basis of any identified violations and/or areas of non-
        compliance. The report, where appropriate, shall list areas that demonstrate quality
        research compliance and provide recommendations for quality and/or compliance
        improvement. A courtesy copy of reports will be provided to the Quality Improvement &
        Compliance Office.
4. Continuous Education for Quality Assurance.
     4.1. Principal Investigator (PI) Self Assessment Program. The PI Self Assessment Program
     is a tool for human and animal research investigators to use in an effort to effect quality
     improvement at the study-site level and enhance continuous education of investigators. It is
     designed for use by both biomedical and social science researchers and focuses upon issues
     regarding quality documentation and recordkeeping consistent with managing overall IRB
     compliance (for non-exempt IRB-approved protocols) and IACUC compliance. The goal of
     the PI Self Assessment Program is to improve quality by identifying issues that may have
     come up during the IRB or IACUC review cycle and reporting them promptly to the
     WHASC IRB or IACUC. Specific uses by the investigator and/or research staff include: (a)
     training new research personnel; (b) preparing for WHASC, sponsor, or regulatory agency
     site visits; or (c) a routine quality improvement exercise.
     4.2. Research Education. Research education already exists at WHASC and is offered to
     Principal Investigators and/or Research Personnel as outlined in Operating Instruction 40A-
     017, Investigator Training Letter and IACUC Policy 2004-15, Requirements for Personnel
     Qualifications and Training. The Quality Assurance Program may offer additional,
     voluntary programs or seminars to discuss hot topics in research compliance or research
     quality improvement.




                                             *GLENN A. YAP, Colonel, USAF, MSC
                                             Administrator, 59th Medical Wing
59MDWI40-403 2 JUNE 2009                                                             5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 40-4, Clinical Investigation and Human Use in Medical Research, 11 May 1994
IACUC Policy 2004-15, Requirements for Personnel Qualifications and Training, 2004
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CRD—Clinical Research Division
DoD—Department of Defense
IACUC—Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee
IAW—In Accordance With
IRB—Institutional Review Board
MDW—Medical Wing
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PI—Principal Investigator
QA—Quality Assurance
QA/QI—Quality Assurance/Quality Improvement
WHASC—Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center
