BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 44-137
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                           20 DECEMBER 2013

                                                                                         Medical

                                                             POLICY AND PROCEDURE FOR
                                                                   MODERATE SEDATION


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 59 SGC/SG01M                                                       Certified by: 59 SGC/CC
                                                                        (Lt Col Brenda I. Waters)
Supersedes:    59MDWI 44-137, 21                                                        Pages: 12
               December 2010


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 44-1, Medical Operations. This
instruction establishes policy and procedure for the elective use of moderate sedation for adult
patients to facilitate patient comfort and voluntary cooperation during diagnostic and therapeutic
interventions, which would otherwise be intolerable. This publication applies to all personnel
assigned, attached, or under contract to the 59th Medical Wing (MDW) with the exemption of
the 359th Medical Group-JBSA-Randolph. This publication also applies to all personnel of the
959 MDG only while performing duties at Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center (WHASC).
This instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve. This publication
requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974
authorized by 10 U.S.C. 55, Medical and Dental Care, and E.O. 9397 (SSN). The applicable
SORN F044 AF SG D, and Automated Medical/Dental Record System is available at:
http://dpclo.defense.gov/privacy/SORNs/SORNs.htm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. The authority to waive requirements is
the publication approval authority. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: removed of references to: in-patient services, Wilford Hall Medical Center, Pain Clinic
 2                                                      59MDWI44-137 20 DECEMBER 2013


and trauma services, added Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care requirements
for moderate sedation program.
1. Scope of Practice.
     1.1. Moderate Sedation is limited to patients 13 years of age and older. Patients under 13
     years of age will not receive moderate sedation at Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center.
     1.2. Covered Clinical Departments. This policy addresses moderate sedation administered
     by representatives of clinical departments other than the Department of Anesthesiology
     (including the perioperative Post Anesthesia Recovery area) and Oral and Maxillofacial
     Surgery (OMFS). Note: Activities of the Departments of Anesthesiology, to include OMFS,
     are governed by their own policies, procedures and privileges, which establish an equivalent
     standard of care.
     1.3. Deep Sedation: Deep Sedation should not be performed outside the following clinical
     departments: Anesthesia (Operating Room) and OMFS Clinic. Note: This policy does not
     establish requirements for deep sedation.
     1.4. Exclusions. Due to the setting and the nature of care provided, the following situations
     in which other clinics’ procedures meet the standard of care are not governed by this policy:
        1.4.1. Dental Services performing moderate sedation in the outpatient setting are exempt
        from using the prescribed 59 MDW Form 35 Procedural Sedation Record. Instead they
        may use AF Form 1417, Sedation Clinical Record used for all appropriately credentialed
        dental providers performing moderate sedation within an Air Force Medical Treatment
        Facility, IAW AFI 47-101, Managing Air Force Dental Services, and the Air Force
        Medical Service Dental Clinical Practice Guidelines. This meets the requirements set
        forth in this instruction and is an equivalent community standard of care.
2. Sedation Terminology.
     2.1. Minimal Sedation or anxiolysis is a drug-induced state during which patients respond
     normally to verbal commands. Although cognitive function and coordination may be
     impaired, ventilatory and cardiovascular functions are unaffected. Patients who have a
     Modified Aldrete score of “2” for Consciousness criteria (total score:10 or at baseline) is
     considered minimally sedated. Note: This policy does not establish requirements for
     minimal sedation/anxiolysis.

Table 1. Modified Aldrete Score.
     CRITERIA                           ABILITY                       SCORE
                     Able to move 4 extremities on command              2
      Activity       Some weakness in movement of extremities           1
                     Unable to voluntarily move extremities             0
                     Ability to breathe deeply                          2
     Respiration     Tachypnea with good cough                          1
                     Dyspneic with weak cough                           0
                     BP < 15% of baseline MAP value                     2
     Circulation     BP 15%-30% of baseline MAP value                   1
                     BP 30% below baseline MAP value                    0
59MDWI44-137 20 DECEMBER 2013                                                                  3


                   Awake and Oriented                                   2
  Consciousness    Arousable with minimal stimulation                   1
                   Responsive only to tactile stimulation               0
                   Maintains value > 90% on room air                    2
  O2 Saturation    Requires supplemental oxygen (nasal cannula)         1
                   Saturation < 90% with supplemental oxygen            0
   2.2. Moderate sedation is a drug-induced depression of consciousness during which patients
   respond purposefully to verbal commands, either alone or accompanied by light tactile
   stimulation. No interventions are required to maintain a patent airway, and spontaneous
   ventilation is adequate. Normal cardiovascular function is usually maintained. Patients who
   have a Modified Aldrete Score of “1” for Consciousness criteria (total score: 8-10) are
   presumed to be moderately sedated.
      2.2.1. Moderate sedation includes the use of reversible agents, such as an opioid or
      benzodiazepine.
   2.3. Deep Sedation is a drug-induced depression of consciousness during which patients
   cannot be easily aroused, but respond purposefully following repeated or painful stimulation.
   The ability to independently maintain ventilatory function may be impaired. Patients may
   require assistance in maintaining a patent airway and spontaneous ventilation may be
   inadequate. Normal cardiovascular function is usually maintained. Patients who have a
   Modified Aldrete Score of “0” for Consciousness criteria (total score: < 8) are presumed to
   be deeply sedated. Note: This policy does not establish requirements for deep sedation.
      2.3.1. Deep sedation includes the use of any sedative agent that does not have a direct
      reversal agent (i.e. Propofol). Use of such agents must be administered by a fully
      credentialed anesthesia provider or Oral and Maxillofacial (OMF) surgeon with
      anesthesia privileges or by a registered nurse (RN) under the direct supervision of a fully
      credentialed anesthesia provider or OMF surgeon with anesthesia privileges.
   2.4. General anesthesia is a drug-induced loss of consciousness during which patients are not
   arousable, even by painful stimulation. The ability to independently maintain ventilatory
   function is often impaired. Patients often require assistance in maintaining a patent airway,
   and positive pressure ventilation may be required because of depressed spontaneous
   ventilation or drug-induced depression of neuromuscular function. Cardiovascular function
   may be impaired. General anesthesia is administered only by fully credentialed anesthesia
   providers or OMF surgeons with anesthesia privileges. Note: This Instruction does not
   apply to general anesthesia.
3. Eligibility and Qualification for Administering Moderate Sedation and Analgesia.
   3.1. Candidates for managing and/or administering moderate sedation are selected based on
   clinical need, departmental recommendation, training, applicable life support certifications
   and/or Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) waiver, and licensure IAW AFI 44-102,
   Medical Care Management, and AFI 44-119, Medical Quality Operations.
   3.2. Licensed Independent Practitioners (LIP). As used in this instruction is defined as a
   physician, dentist, physician assistant, nurse practitioner or certified registered nurse
   anesthetist that has met education requirements set up within their specific training program
   for moderate sedation. Moderate sedation may be independently performed or supervised by
 4                                                      59MDWI44-137 20 DECEMBER 2013


     properly licensed LIPs with adequate training, experience, and appropriate privileges IAW
     AFI 44-119.
        3.2.1. Licensed Independent Practitioners who order, furnish, or transmit orders for
        medication intended to induce moderate sedation shall have current moderate sedation
        privileges IAW AFI 44-119. These practitioners shall be qualified to rescue patients
        from deep sedation and shall be competent to manage a compromised airway, provide
        adequate oxygenation and ventilation and oversee other appropriately trained medical
        support staff. This training can be accomplished through each practitioner’s respective
        post-graduate training program. If not accomplished, this requirement may be satisfied
        through any accredited continuing medical education course covering administration of
        moderate sedation.
        3.2.2. Recertification of credentialed providers for moderate sedation will be
        accomplished on a biennial basis in conjunction with the review of the provider’s
        credentials. An annotation will be made in the “Privileges List” in the Centralized
        Credentials Quality Assurance System requesting credentials for “Moderate Sedation.”
        A records review of moderate sedation cases will be documented on the AF Form 22,
        Clinical Privileges Evaluation Summary, Block 12D annotating number of cases and
        number of quality assurance events as defined in section 9.1.2. Any need for refresher
        training will be determined by the service chief.
4. Registered Nurses.
     4.1. The 59 MDW recognizes that it is within the scope of practice of an RN to administer
     pharmacologic agents for moderate sedation, as long as they have the appropriate training,
     experience and a LIP is present and in close proximity to provide supervision.
     4.2. Initial moderate sedation competency verification for RNs shall be accomplished prior
     to the RN administering moderate sedation.
        4.2.1. Mosby’s Conscious Sedation training module shall be utilized to ensure
        standardized training through the 59 MDW. Certificate of Completion will be filed and
        annotation of training shall be documented on the AF IMT Form 1098, Special Task
        Certification and Recurring Training in the RN’s Competency Assessment Folder
        (CAF).
        4.2.2. Each RN shall administer 5 supervised sedations in order to be signed off on
        administering moderate sedation.
            4.2.2.1. Gastroenterology RNs will supervise RNs obtaining initial moderate sedation
            training and RNs receiving their annual skills reverification.
            4.2.2.2. The moderate sedation function chairman or his/her designee will recertify
            Gastroenterology RNs for their annual skills reverification; the supervision must be
            done by a credentialed anesthesia provider.
            4.2.2.3. The WHASC OMFS Department Chairman, or designated officer in charge
            (OIC), will track OMFS RNs trained in moderate sedation to ensure their annual
            skills verification and annual training is documented in the CAF. Their supervision is
            done by a credentialed OMFS anesthesia provider.
59MDWI44-137 20 DECEMBER 2013                                                                  5


           4.2.2.4. The OMFS OIC will supervise RNs obtaining moderate sedation initial
           training and their annual skills reverification.
           4.2.2.5. Peer review for OMFS RNs trained in moderate sedation will be
           accomplished by the OMFS OIC for Moderate Sedation.
       4.2.3. The 59 MDOG will track RNs trained in moderate sedation to ensure their annual
       skills reverification is accomplished and documented in the CAF.
   4.3. It is recommended, that RNs administering moderate sedation perform a peer review
   IAW AFI 46-101. Peer review results should be forwarded to the 59 MDOG/SGN and
   reported at the NEF.
5. Dental Technicians.
   5.1. Dental Technicians assisting in the monitoring of dental patients receiving moderate
   sedation shall be trained in accordance with Air Force Medical Service Dental Clinical
   Practice Guidelines and AFI 47-101. This training shall be documented in the technician’s
   training record. Periodic retraining requirements may be accomplished at the discretion of
   the Department Chairman.
6. Life Support Certification Requirements.
   6.1. LIPs and RNs must have attended a Basic Life Support (BLS) course as well as an
   ACLS course and possess current ACLS and BLS cards unless a waiver is approved by the
   59 MDW/CC and is filed within the specific department. Refer to AFI 44-102 for additional
   detailed information.
7. Clinical Setting.
   7.1. Scheduling Coordination of moderate sedation cases.
       7.1.1. Due to fire codes (IAW National Fire Protection Association 101, Life Safety
       Code), only 3 moderate sedation cases can be ongoing at any given time in areas of a
       facility designated as “business occupancy”.
   7.2. Reversal Agents. Reversal drugs shall be immediately available at bedside in locations
   where moderate sedation is being performed (including naloxone and flumazenil).
   7.3. Emergency equipment. The following equipment shall be immediately available at the
   bedside in each location where moderate sedation is being performed:
       7.3.1. A self-inflating resuscitator (ambu) bag and reliable source of oxygen (wall source
       preferred).
       7.3.2. Monitor with electrocardiogram, noninvasive blood pressure, and continuous pulse
       oximetry capability; monitoring of end-tidal carbon dioxide is recommended and should
       be used as clinically indicated for moderate sedation.
       7.3.3. A reliable source of suction (wall suction preferred).
   7.4. Emergency Medications, Equipment and Supplies. Emergency medications, equipment
   and supplies (i.e. crash cart) approved by the Resuscitation Committee shall be immediately
   available when moderate sedation is induced IAW 59 MDWI 44-142, Wilford Hall
   Ambulatory Surgical Center Code Blue Management.
 6                                                       59MDWI44-137 20 DECEMBER 2013


8. Before, During and After Moderate Sedation.
     8.1. Oral Sedatives. Oral agents intended to induce moderate sedation (e.g., chloral hydrate)
     may not be prescribed or dispensed to outpatients for self medication prior to arrival at the
     facility (including medication to be given by a parent or guardian to a child or other
     dependent patient). Oral medications intended for anxiolysis (i.e. valium) are not included in
     this directive.
     8.2. Nitrous Oxide. Nitrous Oxide used as a single agent for sedation in dentistry is not
     considered equivalent to intravenous moderate sedation. Use of nitrous oxide shall be
     utilized in accordance with current Air Force Medical Service Dental Clinical Practice
     Guidelines.
     8.3. Pre-Sedation History and Physical (H&P) Examination/Assessment, 59 MDW Form 35,
     Page 1, Section I, Pre-Sedation Assessment or via AF Form 1417 for dental providers.
        8.3.1. The pre-sedation H&P examination/assessment shall be performed by a LIP; a RN
        may complete the history portion of 59 MDW Form 35, Page 1, Section I or AF Form
        1417. This section contains standard of care content and must be filled out in its entirety.
        8.3.2. The RN interviewing the patient for their history shall note any significant adverse
        findings (i.e., affirmative responses to the questions concerning “Medical History”).
            8.3.2.1. The LIP performing the assessment and physical examination shall note any
            significant findings (i.e., positive findings of “Airway” and negative findings to
            “Assessment/Physician Examination” questions).
        8.3.3. The H&P examination/assessment described in this policy meets the Medical
        Staff’s expectation for a formal H&P examination (as outlined in 59 MDWI 41-213,
        Management of Health Records and Documentation) prior to an outpatient procedure
        involving moderate sedation . However, when a pre-procedure H&P examination is
        otherwise required by the Medical Staff, the medical history portion of the H & P shall be
        updated and noted by asking the patient whether they have experienced any changes
        since the initial examination. The physical examination will be conducted by a LIP with
        privileges to perform an H&P examination.
        8.3.4. Patient and Procedure identification. Both the patient’s identity, using two patient
        identifiers; patient’s name and date of birth and the procedure to be performed (including
        side and site as applicable) IAW 59 MDWI 44-128, Universal Protocol and Surgical Site
        Verification must be validated (59 MDW Form 35 and 59 MDW Form 123 Medical
        Record-Universal Protocol: Non-OR Procedure Verification Record or AF Form 1417
        may be used in lieu of 59 MDW Form 97, Universal Protocol: Procedure Verification
        Record only when providing moderate sedation outside the main operating rooms).
        Procedures not utilizing moderate sedation only require the completion of 59 MDW Form
        123 IAW MDWI 44-128. Dental providers will ensure safe site surgery IAW AFI 47-101
        and the Air Force Medical Service Dental Clinical Practice Guidelines.
        8.3.5. The patient’s allergies will be annotated and medications reconciled IAW MDWI
        44-115, Pharmacy and Medication Management and documented as indicated on page
        one, Section I of 59 MDW Form 35 or AF Form 1417.
59MDWI44-137 20 DECEMBER 2013                                                                    7


       8.3.6. Nothing by Mouth (NPO) Guidelines. The patient should be without oral intake
       prior to receiving sedation according to the guidelines in Table 8.1.

Table 2. NPO Guidelines (per American Society of Anesthesiologists Guidelines).
 Solids           Non-Clear Fluids         Clear Fluids
 8 hours          6 hours                  2 hours
   8.4. Risk Assessment and Plan (59 MDW Form 35, Page 1, Section II).
       8.4.1. A LIP with moderate sedation privileges corresponding to the level of sedation
       planned shall review the findings of the pre-sedation H&P examination/assessment (refer
       to paragraph 8.3.), including notation of any changes reported by the patient since any
       prior pre-procedure H&P examination.
       8.4.2. The LIP shall complete Section II of the Risk Assessment and Plan portion of 59
       MDW Form 35 or equivalent section on the AF Form 1417 which documents the
       patient’s American Society of Anesthesiologists status, a review of the pre-sedation H&P
       examination, any changes reported by the patient since any required pre-procedure H&P
       examination, informed consent (IAW 59 MDWI 51-302, Informed Consent and Refusal
       of Care) for the procedure and the sedation and the plan for anesthesia care.
   8.5. Immediately Prior To and During Sedation (59 MDW Form 35, Page 2: Sections II-IV).
       8.5.1. A staff member shall document the pre-procedure time out IAW 59 MDWI 44-
       128. Note: 59 MDW Form 35 may be used in lieu of 59 MDW Form 123 only during
       procedures utilizing moderate sedation. If moderate sedation is not administered, 59
       MDW Form 123 may be used for pre-procedural time out IAW 59 MDWI 44-128. All
       applicable fields must be completed as prescribed in this instruction to include vital signs
       and other elements specified on the form. For dental moderate sedation, a time out will
       be recorded per AFMS Clinical Practice Guidelines which require a dental record entry
       for documentation of Time Out procedures.
       8.5.2. The patient’s vital signs and Aldrete Score (reference Table 2.1 for the Modified
       Aldrete Scoring legend and description) shall be documented immediately prior to the
       first dose of sedative. The LIP or RN who will administer the sedative shall use this as
       an opportunity to ensure that there have been no last-minute adverse changes in the
       patient’s condition and that it is safe for the procedure to continue. Although this pre-
       procedure reassessment has a number of elements, only the patient’s vital signs and pre-
       sedation Modified Aldrete Score (or equivalent for dental) need be documented.
       8.5.3. Moderately-sedated patients shall be subject to ongoing monitoring. The
       assignment to observe or monitor the patient may be supplemented by other duties, as
       long as they can be interrupted to continue the monitoring process. If a medical
       technician or licensed vocational nurse with appropriate training and competencies fulfill
       this roll, procedures and competencies shall include their proper response and role during
       an emergency situation.
       8.5.4. The patient’s blood pressure, pulse, respiratory rate, Modified Aldrete score (or
       equivalent measure of sedation) and oxygen saturation shall be monitored by an
       appropriately-trained care giver and DOCUMENTED at least every five minutes. End-
8                                                        59MDWI44-137 20 DECEMBER 2013


       tidal carbon dioxide shall be documented as present by recording a “+” versus a numeric
       value since monitoring of end tidal carbon dioxide in an open breathing system (face
       mask, or nasal cannula) is not as accurate as a closed system. Such monitoring shall
       continue throughout the procedure and the patient’s pre-sedation Aldrete Score has
       returned to baseline. Pain will be assessed, reassessed, and managed IAW 59 MDWI 44-
       124, Pain Management.
       8.5.5. Deeper than intended sedation.
           8.5.5.1. Should the patient’s level of sedation increase to the point that the patient
           becomes unresponsive and/or the patient is unable to maintain their own airway; the
           following actions are required.
              8.5.5.1.1. Inform the provider performing the procedure; consider pausing the
              procedure if possible.
              8.5.5.1.2. Call for assistance. If patient is unstable and/or assisted ventilations is
              difficult; call 911 and initiate appropriate measures (BLS or ACLS).
              8.5.5.1.3. Increase the patient’s inspired oxygen concentration to 100%
              nonrebreather face mask or ambu bag. Consider the use of a nasal or oral airway.
              8.5.5.1.4. Monitor end-tidal carbon dioxide if available.
              8.5.5.1.5. Administer reversal agents if appropriate.
              8.5.5.1.6. Monitor, treat and recover in place. If the patient requires urgent
              transfer and admission to a hospital, reference procedures in 59 MDWI 41-122,
              Patient Transfers. The LIP must stay with the patient until care is transferred.
    8.6. LIP will complete 59 MDW Form 35, Page 2, Section V or equivalent section on the AF
    Form 1417 to include the following:
       8.6.1. Immediately following the conclusion of sedation and the procedure, the LIP shall
       authenticate any verbal orders, document medications administered during the procedure,
       order discharge or transfer (when appropriate) and enter the post-procedure note. This
       may also be accomplished through the dictation and transcription services as an
       addendum to the 59 MDW Form 35 or AF Form 1417. Dictation, transcription, and
       timeline availability for report will be accomplished IAW MDWI 41-213.
    8.7. Disposition and/or Transfer of Patient, refer to 59 MDW Form 35, Page 2, Section VI or
    equivalent section on AF Form 1417.
       8.7.1. Patients shall be recovered with the same clinic in which they received moderate
       sedation or in the Post-Anesthesia Care Unit if available. If reversal agents were
       required, the patient will not be discharged earlier than two hours after the last dose of
       reversal agent. Patients shall not be discharged home from the recovery or procedure
       area until their Aldrete score returns to baseline. A physician must be immediately
       available (within the clinic) until the last patient receiving moderate sedation is
       discharged.
           8.7.1.1. If a patient fails to meet discharge criteria, the LIP must arrange for transfer
           and admission to a hospital. The LIP is responsible for filling out a memorandum of
           transfer and procedures IAW 59MDWI 41-122.
59MDWI44-137 20 DECEMBER 2013                                                                  9


       8.7.2. An LIP or RN may discharge the patient once the indicated criteria are met if a
       responsible adult chaperone is present to accompany the patient home.
9. Quality Assurance and Performance Improvement Initiatives.

Table 3. Moderate Sedation Clinical Areas.
 Dentistry & Subspecialties
 Gastroenterology
 ENT Clinic
 Pulmonology Clinic
 Radiology (Procedures Clinic)
 Cardiology Echocardiography
   9.1. Process Improvement initiatives through the identification of adverse events and/or
   complications are recommended by each department and service that administers moderate
   sedation. All remarkable adverse events and/or complications must be reported through the
   chain of command and the Report a Patient Safety Event link located on the 59 MDW
   Sharepoint or copy and paste the following link into Internet Explorer::
   https://patientsafety.csd.disa.mil/datix/live/ for possible further investigation, corrective
   action plan(s) and educational initiatives. This report should be submitted in accordance with
   the timelines as defined in AFI 44-119 and 59 MDWI 44-130 Patient Safety Program.
       9.1.1. Mandatory quality assurance items that need to be reported include: Return to pre-
       sedation Modified Aldrete >1 hour, admission related to complications from sedation,
       assisted ventilation was required, use of reversal agents, Aldrete Score <8 during
       procedure. See Attachment 2 for further quality assurance guidance.
       9.1.2. Quality assurance items are tracked via the Operative Invasive Procedure Peer
       Review Program or its equivalent and is reported quarterly to the ECOMS, and ultimately
       to the 59 MDW Board of Directors. If indicated, further monitoring, follow-up and
       education will be conducted in conjunction with the member, unit, leadership, and the
       committee chairman.
       9.1.3. Ongoing peer review of charts for moderate sedation will be required for providers
       in accordance with AFI 44-119. Nurses are prohibited to perform peer review on
       credentialed providers. Peer review status will be reported quarterly to the ECOMS via
       the Chairman of the 59 MDW Moderate Sedation Working Group.




                                            NICOLA A. CHOATE, Colonel, USAF, MC
                                            Chief of the Medical Staff
 10                                                   59MDWI44-137 20 DECEMBER 2013


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations, 1 September 1999
AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, 20 January 2012
AFI 44-119, Medical Quality Operations, 16 August 2011
AFI 47-101, Managing Air Force Dental Services, 1 June 2009
AF Medical Service Dental Clinical Practice Guidelines, 1 June 2012
59 MDWI 41-122, Patient Transfers, 23 June 2009
59 MDWI 44-115, Pharmacy and Medication Management, 20 August 2013
59 MDWI 41-213, Management of Health Records and Documentation, 20 February 2009
59 MDWI 44-124, Pain Management, 21 June 2013
59 MDWI 44-128, Universal Protocol and Surgical Site Verification, 26 April 2011
59 MDWI 44-130, Patient Safety Program, 16 July 2013
59 MDWI 44-142, Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center Code Blue Management, 10 April
2013
59 MDWI 51-302, Informed Consent and Refusal of Care, 18 October 2013
Accreditation Handbook for Ambulatory Healthcare, 2013
National Fire Protection Association 101, Life Safety Code, 2012
Prescribed Form
59 MDW Form 35, Procedural Sedation Record
Adopted Forms
AF Form 22, Clinical Privileges Evaluation Summary
AF IMT 1098, Special Task Certification and Recurring Training
AF Form 1417, Sedation Clinical Record
59MDW Form 97, Universal Protocol: Procedure Verification Record
59MDW Form 123, Medical Record-Universal Protocol: Non-OR Procedure Verification
Record

Acronyms and Abbreviations
ACLS—Advanced Cardiac Life Support
BLS—Basic Life Support
CAF—Competency Assessment Folder
59MDWI44-137 20 DECEMBER 2013                    11


DoD—Department of Defense
ECOMS—Executive Committee of the Medical Staff
H&P—History and Physical
IAW—In Accordance With
LIP—Licensed Independent Practitioners
MDW—Medical Wing
NPO—Nothing by Mouth
OIC—Officer In Charge
OMF—Oral and Maxillofacial
OMFS—Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RN—Registered Nurse
WHASC—Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center
 12                                                    59MDWI44-137 20 DECEMBER 2013


                                        Attachment 2
                             ADVERSE EVENT REPORTING

A2.1. Each provider and associated clinical service administering moderate sedation should
maintain a quality assurance program to address all adverse events and process improvement
initiatives. Each clinical service identified in Table 9.1 of this instruction should appoint a
member to correspond with the moderate sedation chairman who will report to quality assurance
oversight of moderate sedation to ECOMS quarterly.
A2.2. Table A2.1 contains a list but is not limited to, the potential adverse events related to
moderate sedation, which require formal reporting to the provider’s clinical leadership via the
Operative and Invasive Peer Review Program or its equivalent to the Moderate Sedation
Function. Note that the administration of a reversal agent, such as naloxone or flumazenil, is
considered a proper chemical rescue and not a complication, from excessive use of opioids and
hypnotics. However, its use does invoke some risk and should not be routinely used to hasten
the emergence, recovery, and case turnover from moderate sedation.

Table A2.1. Potential Adverse Events Related to Moderate Sedation.
 Wing Reporting Requirements:
 Reversal Agent Use (i.e., naloxone or flumazenil) (Note: For use in trending data)
 Modified Aldrete score < 8
 Patient transferred for admission after procedure
 Post procedure admission was related to sedation
 Code Blue activated during procedure
 Assisted ventilation required during procedure
A2.3. All adverse events and cases requiring the use of reversal agents, such as naloxone or
flumazenil, require formal reporting to the provider’s immediate supervisor and the Moderate
Sedation Working Group in addition to patient safety even reporting per paragraph 9.1 as above.
The report should include the following:
   A2.3.1. A provider’s brief written summary of the circumstances that resulted in the adverse
   outcome and, if possible, the suspected cause and effect relationship leading to the adverse
   event or reversal drug use.
   A2.3.2. Copy of the patient’s sedation related medical records, such as the pre-sedation
   record, the intra-sedation record, post-procedure recovery and discharge record, etc.
   A2.3.3. Copy of any supporting documents, labs, studies, consults, etc. which seem relevant
   to the adverse event or reversal drug use.
   A2.3.4. The information surrounding the adverse or reversal use must be maintained
   confidential IAW local and national guidelines. In the event written documentation is not
   possible, a verbal report can be given with a written summary to follow.
