BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 32-2003
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                                   25 JUNE 2014

                                                                                Civil Engineering

                                                         FIRE SAFETY MANAGEMENT AND
                                                                   RESPONSE PROGRAM


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 59 MLRS/SGSKF                                                     Certified by: 59 MLRS/CC
                                                                         (Lt Col Randall G. Ivall)
Supersedes:    59MDWI 32-2003, 15                                                        Pages: 15
               November 2010


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 32-20, Fire Protection. This instruction
establishes the procedures and responsibilities to ensure an effective program of fire response
planning, training, area protection, response and possible patient evacuation within the 59th
Medical Wing (MDW) to include outlying medical and dental facilities. The acronym for
rescue, alarm, confine and extinguish (RACE) is used as a guide to enhance the fire response
planning. The fire safety management planning and response is consistent with the most current
version of the Life Safety Code® (LSC). This instruction compliments 59 MDW Medical
Contingency Response Plan (MCRP), Appendix 1 to Annex J, Fire Evacuation and Protection
Plan. This instruction applies to all personnel, military and civilian, assigned, attached or under
contract to the 59 MDW, except those assigned to the 359th Medical Group, and the 959th
Medical Group. This instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Requests
for waivers must be submitted to the OPR listed above for consideration and approval. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System Records Disposition
Schedule. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                             59MDWI32-2003 25 JUNE 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been revised. This rewrite of 59 MDWI 32-2003 includes: updated
information to reflect the use of the term exercise when referring to Code Red Fire Drills;
eliminated the term practice code red; added current procedure to have the Medical Control
Center (MCC) or the Hospital Automated Resource Protection System (HARPS) make overhead
announcements regarding the initiation and termination of real or exercise code reds; added
guidance on holiday decorations as it relates to covering non-fire rated doors and the use of space
heaters in medical wing facilities.
1. General.
     1.1. The JBSA-Lackland Fire Department (802 CES/CEF) is the designated authority having
     jurisdiction to implement fire safety management program in all 59 MDW facilities.
     1.2. The Director of Facilities Management implements the requirements of the 59 MDW
     fire safety management program and is designated the 59 MDW Fire Marshal; the 59 MDW
     Safety Manager serves as the Deputy Fire Marshal.
     1.3. Squadron commanders will ensure that section supervisors through the Zone Master
     program accomplish fire prevention training annually within their area of responsibility. The
     Zone Master will accomplish initial mass orientation/training for zone personnel in the use
     and location of fire extinguishers. Annual refresher training will be accomplished by the
     supervisor or base fire inspectors and documented on Air Force Form 55, Employee Safety
     and Health Record, located in the Competency Assessment Folder.
     1.4. The housekeeping contractor will appoint an individual to function as a fire warden for
     contractor occupied office, storage, and break areas.
     1.5. Each zone master is responsible for preparing and updating a fire reaction plan and
     evacuation plan for work sections in their assigned zone. This may require coordination
     between zone masters. Work section specific fire reaction plans will be developed for all
     areas and must address any special requirements or security of the particular work area.
     1.6. The Fire Reaction Plan will be used as a guide in preparing individual plans. Changes
     in Fire Reaction Plan Guide are authorized, where necessary, to meet the section operational
     requirements. These plans will be sent to the flight commander and then the 59 MDW Fire
     Marshal or deputy for review and signature. Approved plans will be posted on section safety
     bulletin boards and used as guides by employees. Outlying 59 MDW facilities will utilize a
     modified Fire Reaction Plan Guide to meet their unique fire protection requirements.
     1.7. The general concept for fire response planning in building 4550 is to defend in place
     and/or horizontal relocation to safeguard patients, visitors, and staff.
2. Fire Response and Prevention Training.
     2.1. Supervisors will ensure all staff (military, civilian, and contractors) will be provided
     formal annual fire prevention response and prevention training. Generalized fire response
     training is provided through web based (i.e. BLITZ), training. The specific fire response
     training for a particular work section will be provided by the immediate supervisor or Zone
     Master. Fire response training will be oriented around the approved RACE concept (defined
     in paragraph 5) and follow the section’s specific Fire Reaction Plan.
59MDWI32-2003 25 JUNE 2014                                                                      3


   2.2. The fire response plan will be regularly evaluated through drills for effectiveness of the
   work section or area fire response plan. For business occupancies, the drills will be
   consistent with Accreditation Association Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC) guidance that
   requires one drill, per quarter for each working shift. Additional drills will be conducted for
   areas under an interim life safety measure.
   2.3. Newly assigned personnel, including volunteers and contract employees, will be trained
   by their supervisor or zone master on the work section’s fire reaction plan. This training will
   be incorporated into the worker’s job safety orientation and documented in accordance with
   current Air Force directives. Contractor personnel will develop a similar briefing, training
   and documentation system. This briefing will also cover staff roles away from a fire scene
   (i.e., be prepared to assist with evacuation, as required).
   2.4. The fire inspector will provide on-the-spot training to correct deficiencies noted during
   inspections.
3. Fire Prevention.
   3.1. All personnel, military and civilian assigned, attached to or under contract with the 59
   MDW will become familiar with the location and use of available firefighting equipment for
   possible patient evacuation.
   3.2. Zone Masters will ensure staff checks any electrical equipment and appliances and
   general outlet condition periodically to ensure they do not pose a possible fire hazard.
   3.3. Personnel involved in the use and storage of compressed gas cylinders will comply with
   the safety requirements outlined in 59 Medical Wing Instruction (MDWI) 91-204, Oxygen
   Safety and Oxygen Enriched Atmosphere Areas or other applicable Air Force guidance. Each
   work section or unit using oxygen will have a written policy and procedures for the use of
   oxygen in and tailored to their areas of responsibility. The policy will also outline measures
   for preventing fire hazards in the presence of an oxygen-enriched atmosphere.
   3.4. All buildings assigned to the 59 MDW are "smoke-free" facilities. Wherever smoking
   is permitted, smoking materials and ashes will not be deposited in trash receptacles. Trash
   containers throughout the 59 MDW facilities will be non-combustible. The smoking policy
   for the 59 MDW is contained in 59 MDWI 40-101, Tobacco Use at the 59th Medical Wing.
4. Fire Safety Review of Interior Furnishings and Decorations.
   4.1. Facility Management with support from 59 MDW Safety will ensure that acquisitions of
   interior furnishings (bedding, window coverings, furnishings, decorations, and other
   equipment) are assessed for fire safety.
   4.2. During the acquisition process for interior furnishing outfitting, Facility Management
   will make a deliberate selection to assure compliance with National Fire Protection
   Association (NFPA) requirements. 59 MDW staff or volunteer organizations shall formally
   request inspection of specialized interior furniture or decorations not acquired by Facility
   Management.
   4.3. The JBSA-Lackland Fire Department inspector and/or 59 MDW Safety Office will
   conduct ad hoc inspections as required and may dictate item removal.
 4                                                              59MDWI32-2003 25 JUNE 2014


     4.4. Decorations in the interior or exterior of all buildings belonging to Wilford Hall
     Ambulatory Surgical Center shall be either non-combustible or flame-retardant. Specific
     instructions regarding holiday decorations are included in Attachment 2.
5. Rescue, Alarm, Confine, Extinguish (RACE) Implementation Procedures.
     5.1. The acronym RACE will be used throughout the 59 MDW to facilitate fire reaction
     training and to emphasize the actions to be taken during an actual fire emergency. Code
     RED is the term used to alert personnel of a real or suspected fire without causing undue
     alarm to patients and visitors.
     5.2. "R" stands for rescue. Every reasonable attempt will be made to remove patients from
     the fire threat area. When conditions (actual smoke, flames, etc.) or the MCC dictate
     evacuation of patients from the fire area, this action should be accomplished simultaneously
     with other actions.
     5.3. "A" stands for alarm. All personnel will ensure that all fires are promptly reported
     regardless of size or location. Failure to report could lead to a more dangerous condition
     being allowed to progress out of control.
        5.3.1. Ensure a verbal alarm is sounded, call out "Code RED" or “Code RED," Exercise,
        Exercise, Exercise to alert and summon other staff members.
        5.3.2. Pull the fire alarm, and phone the fire department at extension 911. Give exact
        location of fire: building, floor, room, your name, and phone number. If you are
        reporting a fire drill, ensure you specify Exercise Code RED. Do not hang up until the
        fire department has all pertinent information.
     5.4. "C" is for confine. Closing doors and windows in the fire zone can confine the spread
     of smoke and fire. This action should be taken whenever fire alarms sound, even if smoke or
     flames are not visible. More patients have died from smoke inhalation than from any other
     fire- related cause. If the affected area is served by medical gases, especially oxygen, the
     staff should identify and shutoff oxygen supply to the affected room. If time permits turn off
     lights and appliances or unplug fans before closing doors.
     5.5. "E" is for extinguish. Staff in the area experiencing the fire should assess the severity
     and quickly determine if use of a fire extinguisher is adequate. If it is determined to “defend
     in place,” staff will man fire extinguishers. They will attempt to confine and extinguish the
     fire by smothering or reducing the oxygen supply to the fire with the available firefighting
     equipment and by closing doors to the room.
     5.6. The JBSA-Lackland Fire Department, Security Forces, and Medical Response Center
     monitor all 911 calls made by 59 MDW facilities, and relay vital information to the MCC. If
     additional manpower is needed to fight the fire or assist with evacuation, advise 911
     responders. If evacuation becomes necessary, inform them where you intend to evacuate and
     the route you will take.
        5.6.1. When Energy Management and Control Systems (EMCS), Facility Management,
        HARPS, or the Medical Control Center receives a call of smoke, fire, or unusual smell
        etc., or that Facility Management will be conducting fire drills, the MCC and or HARPS
        will announce over the central paging system, "May I have your attention please, there is
        a Code Red or Exercise Code RED/in (name of location).” The message will be repeated
59MDWI32-2003 25 JUNE 2014                                                                    5


      at least three times to ensure to eliminate confusion between an actual or exercise Code
      RED. Do not improvise or use new wording. HARPS, Facility Management, or the
      MCC, will utilize the Red Phone during duty hours to notify all appropriate agencies such
      as Wing Safety and the Command Section.
      5.6.2. The MCC disaster preparedness representative will relay all available information
      and requests for additional manpower if required.
      5.6.3. When directed by the on scene Fire Chief the MCC or HARPS will announce
      termination of the exercise or actual Code RED using the following, "May I have your
      attention please, the Code RED/Exercise Code RED in (name of location) has been
      terminated." Repeat the message and don't change the wording.
   5.7. Upon notification of a exercise or actual Code RED, the MCC will activate and
   implement the Code RED Checklist. During non-duty hours, HARPS will perform MCC
   duties and make appropriate notification using information available in the MCC/HARPS
   checklist.
      5.7.1. When necessary, the MCC will notify the Primary Response Team (PRT) to
      establish a triage area for treating casualties.
      5.7.2. When conditions require, the MCC will direct evacuation in coordination with the
      on scene fire chief and 59 MDW Wing leadership.
      5.7.3. After the senior on-scene fire officer terminates fire fighting operations and a
      medical review of conditions in the fire area determines the area is safe for staff and
      patients to return, the MCC or HARPS will announce termination of the exercise or
      actual Code RED.
      5.7.4. The MCC will coordinate and monitor the actions of the PRT at the triage area.
6. Interim Life Safety Measures.
   6.1. Interim Life Safety Measures (ILSM) are a series of eleven (11) administrative actions
   required to be taken to temporarily compensate for the hazards posed by existing LSC
   deficiencies or construction activities.
   6.2. Implementation of the ILSM is required in or adjacent to all construction areas. ILSM
   apply to all personnel, including construction workers. Implementation of ILSM must begin
   upon project development and be continuously enforced through completion of any
   construction project.
   6.3. The ILSMs are intended to provide a level of life safety comparable to that described in
   chapters 1-7, 31 and the applicable occupancy chapters of the 2000 edition of the Life Safety
   Code (NFPA 101). ILSMs are to be instituted anytime an area is going to be compromised
   for 24 hours or longer. Each ILSM action must be documented.
   6.4. ILSMs consist of the following actions:
      6.4.1. Ensuring exits provide free and unobstructed egress.      Personnel shall receive
      training if alternate exits must be designated.
      6.4.2. Ensuring a free and unobstructed access to emergency services and emergency
      forces.
6                                                             59MDWI32-2003 25 JUNE 2014


       6.4.3. Ensuring fire alarm detection and suppression systems are not impaired. A
       temporary, equivalent, system shall be provided when any fire system is impaired.
       Temporary system must be inspected and tested monthly.
       6.4.4. Ensuring temporary construction partitions are smoke tight and built of
       noncombustible materials.
       6.4.5. If required, provide additional firefighting equipment and user training for
       personnel.
       6.4.6. No smoking is allowed within the 59 MDW main and associated buildings. This
       policy includes contractors.
       6.4.7. Development and enforcement of storage, housekeeping and debris removal, along
       with procedures that reduce the flammable and combustible fire load to the lowest level
       necessary for daily operations.
       6.4.8. Conducting a minimum of two (2) additional fire drills per shift, per quarter in the
       affected areas.
       6.4.9. Increased surveillance hazard of buildings, grounds and equipment with special
       attention construction areas, construction storage and excavations.
       6.4.10. Training of personnel when structural or compartmentalization features of fire
       safety are compromised.
       6.4.11. Conducting organization-wide safety education programs to ensure awareness of
       any Life Safety Code deficiencies, construction hazards for the ILSM.
    6.5. The Fire Inspector, Director Facilities Management Flight, Wing Safety Manager or
    their designated representative will determine if construction or other conditions reduce life
    safety features and what ILSMs need to be implemented. When advised as to which ILSM
    actions are to be taken, squadron commanders will ensure those actions are accomplished in
    a timely manner and documented.
    6.6. Determine if the impact is significant. In general, projects less than a week in length
    which do not reduce the level of life safety below Life Safety Code minimum requirements
    are not significant.
       6.6.1. Activity which takes place in a room with an intact door and which does not
       penetrate walls generally does not require ILSM.
       6.6.2. Activity that affects doors or walls for less than one shift generally does not
       require ILSM.
       6.6.3. Activities which blocks or compromises exit stairs, required exit corridors, or exit
       discharge areas for more than one shift generally requires ILSM.
    6.7. Document and submit findings to the Facilities & Environment Committee or
    designated sub-committee.
    6.8. When ILSMs are indicated, use the ILSM Planning Worksheet to develop the plan. If
    ILSMs are deemed necessary, each of the 11 items (paragraphs 6.4.1 through 6.4.11) must be
    considered. All items impacted by the project must be included in the Implementation of
    Life Safety Measures Plan.
59MDWI32-2003 25 JUNE 2014                                                                          7


   6.9. Staff training and additional fire drills are generally required as part of every ILSM
   plan.
   6.10. Enforcement of each required ILSM must be documented using the following
   schedule.

Table 6.1. ISLM Schedule.
 Inspection Period       Activity
 Daily                   Inspection of exiting for access, integrity, and discharge
                         Inspection of construction site for barrier integrity, smoking, storage,
 Weekly
                         debris removal, fire system integrity, and extra fire-fighting equipment
 Monthly                 Double fire drills and evaluation of staff knowledge of the ILSM plan
 Project Initiation
                         Training for all facility staff
 and As Needed

7. Fire Reaction Drills.
   7.1. Exercise Code RED is used to exercise fire reaction plans and will be accomplished at a
   minimum of once per working shift per quarter in building 4550, by facilities management
   and assisted by safety and civil engineering personnel. Building custodians, outside of
   building 4550, will conduct quarterly fire reaction drills and annual fire evacuation drills.
         7.1.1. Fire drills in building 4550 will involve maximum staff participation, except those
         involved in immediate direct patient care. All available staff members will meet
         evaluator(s) at rally point and explain fire response procedures in accordance to zone’s
         fire reaction plan.
   7.2. Fire reaction drills will be documented, and a roster of all staff who participated will be
   maintained. The forms will be reviewed during internal inspections and during spot or
   formal inspections conducted by the Facility Management and Safety personnel
8. Fire Evacuation.
   8.1. The NFPA LSC standards establish higher levels of construction for healthcare
   facilities. These facilities are separated into fire compartments by walls, doors and corridors
   that provide at least one-hour fire separation from adjacent compartments and floors that are
   constructed to provide a minimum of two hours protection to occupants. This permits
   patients to be moved from the fire compartment to a safe location on the same floor or to the
   floor below. Total evacuation may be required in severe fires, but the NFPA LSC
   construction standards provide a critical element, TIME--time for firefighters to attempt to
   extinguish the fire and time for the safe relocation or evacuation of patients. When the fire
   alarm sounds staff members will assist patients and visitors in an orderly evacuation of the
   affected area. Evacuation procedures for building 4550 are different, as this building
   supports ambulatory surgical patients, and staff members will follow the procedures listed
   below.
   8.2. If fire alarm sounds and no smoke or fire is present, remain in place, close patient room
   doors and prepare to evacuate.
 8                                                              59MDWI32-2003 25 JUNE 2014


     8.3. If evacuation is necessary, ambulatory patients will be evacuated in a single file staying
     to the right side of the hall or stairway and the group will be accompanied by at least one
     staff member. Evacuation will be horizontal, on the same floor, past the fire doors.
     8.4. Patient care and non-patient care areas are divided into fire and smoke compartments.
     The type of wall and door construction determines if the compartment will resist the spread
     of smoke, fire, or both and for how long. Ambulatory care compartments are fire and or
     smoke rated for one hour. Blocking open fire doors allows fire and smoke to spread from
     one compartment to another; keeping the fire doors closed helps prevent it.
     8.5. If not possible to evacuate to another horizontal location (wing) on the same floor
     through a smoke or fire door, evacuation will be down the nearest stairwell. If conditions or
     MCC dictate evacuation, move to the locations listed in Appendix 2 to Annex J of the 59
     MDW MCRP or evacuation rally points (Attachment 3). Elevators will not be used unless
     cleared by the On-Scene Fire Chief.
     8.6. Don’t forget to turn off the gas and oxygen valves before evacuating the area for an
     actual Code RED.
     8.7. When fire alarms are activated in B4550 they automatically cause release of magnetic
     hold close devices on all interior and exterior doors.
9. Responsibilities.
     9.1. The Fire Marshal or Deputy will:
        9.1.1. Ensure that all 59 MDW buildings, structures, and surroundings are inspected at
        intervals required by Life Safety Code® 2000, unique to the AAAHC requirements, to
        identify potential fire hazards and assess fire safety management programs.
        9.1.2. Review and approve local Fire Reaction Plans.
        9.1.3. Ensure that a program is in effect which will ensure all fire incidents, regardless of
        loss or size, are properly reported and required actions are taken. Prepare a written report
        on the fire incident, when requested by the Base Fire Marshal or Base Fire Chief. The
        report will include findings or actions taken to preclude recurrence of similar incidents,
        and recommendations, if any.
        9.1.4. Advise the supervisor whose area experienced the fire, to be prepared to conduct a
        briefing when requested by the group or squadron commander. The briefing will contain
        an outline of the fire prevention program within the section, the cause of the fire, and
        actions taken to preclude recurrence. The briefing may require attendance by personnel
        involved in the fire incident, their supervisors, zone master, section chiefs, and other
        personnel.
        9.1.5. Establish an investigative committee after a fire incident to review cause, action
        taken during fire, actions to preclude recurrence of similar incidents, and
        recommendations. Follow-up on resulting programmed actions will be reported to the 59
        MDW Facilities and Environment Committee (FEC).
        9.1.6. Ensure Appendix 1 to Annex J of the MCRP is current or updated as necessary.
     9.2. Section Supervisors will:
59MDWI32-2003 25 JUNE 2014                                                                      9


      9.2.1. Work with Zone Masters to complete a fire reaction plan for their section and post
      it on safety bulletin board.
      9.2.2. Ensure all workers are familiar with and capable of implementing the section fire
      reaction plan and the meaning of RACE.
      9.2.3. Ensure required personnel are trained in the use of patient evacuation equipment
      (i.e. Evacusleds®)
      9.2.4. Conduct monthly combined fire prevention and spot safety inspections. When
      conducting monthly fire extinguisher inspections, inspection tags will be initialed and
      dated. Evacuation equipment and Evacusleds® will be inspected annually. These
      inspections will be in conjunction with safety spot inspections and documented on Air
      Education and Training Command (AETC) Form 69, Safety Inspection Report. Serious
      fire or safety deficiencies will be reported immediately to the Wing Safety Manager.
      Contractor personnel may utilize AETC Form 69.
   9.3. Review the current copy of the 59 MDW MCRP. It establishes various action teams,
   describes their function and establishes emergency procedures to be followed in a peacetime
   emergency.
10. Manual Fire Watch.
   10.1. In the event the EMCS becomes inoperative or areas of the fire safety or alarm system
   are disabled for repair or maintenance, a manual fire watch will be initiated by the EMCS
   operator. The operator will inform the Medical Control Center during duty hours (0600-
   2200) and HARPS during non-duty hours that a manual fire watch is in progress. The
   manual fire watch will be announced three times initially and hourly until rescinded by the
   EMCS operator. During this watch, 59 MDW personnel will:
   10.2. Zone Masters should emphasize and increase surveillance of their areas to detect fires
   or fire producing situations.
   10.3. Be aware that fire detection systems, i.e., smoke alarms, sprinkler systems activation
   and pull station alarms, will only alarm the local area, may be disabled for a period of time,
   and not be relayed to the fire department. Therefore, it is imperative that the fire department
   and other agencies listed in the Section Fire Reaction Plan be notified promptly.
   10.4. Supervisors will conduct and document training on use of fire extinguisher procedures
   on the individual's AF Form 55.
11. Installation/Use of Alcohol Based Hand Rub Dispensers (ABHR).
   11.1. Facilities Management and JBSA-Lackland Fire Department are responsible for
   managing and ensuring compliance with ABHR guidance in 59 MDW facilities. Zone
   Masters are responsible for compliant placement and storage requirements of ABHR gels and
   solutions. Executive oversight of compliance is maintained through the Facilities
   Environment Committee and through periodic reporting to Board of Directors.
   11.2. Consistent with Life Safety Guidance (January 2009) and Lackland Air Force Base
   Fire Department (802nd CES/CEF) guidance the use of ABHR dispensers at 59 MDW
   facilities shall follow the guidance below:
 10                                                            59MDWI32-2003 25 JUNE 2014


      11.2.1. Wall mounted ABHRs dispensers can be installed in any tiled egress corridors
      (with or without fire sprinklers).
      11.2.2. Wall mounted ABHRs dispensers can only be installed in carpeted egress
      corridors that have full area fire sprinklers.
      11.2.3. Wall mounted ABHR units dispensers shall have a minimum horizontal spacing
      of 4 ft (1.2m).
      11.2.4. ABHR dispensers shall not be installed over or directly adjacent to an ignition
      source. (i.e. at least 6 inches from a light switch or electrical outlet).
      11.2.5. ABHRs (wall mounted or bottle dispenser) units can be installed in any patient
      care room whether they have fire sprinklers or not.
      11.2.6. Wall mounted ABHRs units must have a drip catch pan.
      11.2.7. The maximum ABHR dispenser unit fluid capacity shall be 33.8 ounces (1.2
      liters).
      11.2.8. Not more than 10 gallons (37.8 liters) [ ~31 current dispenser units] of ABHR gel
      shall be located in a smoke compartment.
      11.2.9. Not more than 5 gallons (18.9 liters ) [~ 15 refill bags] in storage in a designated
      smoke compartment. Functions should track/modulate quantities ordered from Medical
      Logistics.
   11.3. For building 4550, floors 9 thru 2, most smoke compartments match the fire zones, so
   for a typical clinic, the maximum number of ABHR dispensers in the area would be 31, with
   15 bags in storage in a locked storage room with fire sprinklers.
   11.4. For building 4550, floor 1 thru basement, most smoke compartments are generally
   smaller than the fire zones so for a typical clinical function (eg. Orthopedics, Urology) the
   maximum number of ABHR dispensers in the functional area would be 31 with 15 bags in
   storage in a locked storage room with fire sprinklers.
12. Space Heaters.
   12.1. Space heaters are not authorized in 59 MDW facilities unless there is a prolonged
   (several days) heating problem in the facility and verified by the facilities management flight.
   Space heaters will be permitted by personnel with a medical condition and verified in writing
   from a competent medical authority. The heater must be inspected and approved by 59
   MDW/SE, and authority having jurisdiction.




                                             GLENN A. YAP, Colonel, USAF, MSC
                                             Administrator
59MDWI32-2003 25 JUNE 2014                                                             11


                                         Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 32-20, Fire Emergency Services, 21 June 2012
AFI 32-2001, Fire Emergency Services Program, 9 September 2008
AFI 41-203, Electrical Safety in Medical Treatment Facilities, 19 June 2002
AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction, 25 July 2013
59MDWI 40-101, Tobacco Use at the 59th Medical Wing, 3 March 2009
59MDWI 41-218, Electrical Safety Program, 13 December 2010
59MDWI 91-203, Medical Wing Safety Program, 7 January 2014
59MDWI 91-204, Oxygen Safety and Oxygen Enriched Atmosphere, 3 April 2009
Life Safety Handbook, National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Standard 101, 2000
Adopted Forms
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AETC Form 69, Safety Inspection Report

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAAHC—Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care
ABHR—Alcohol Based Hand Rub Dispensers
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
EMCS—Energy Management and Control Systems
HARPS—Hospital Automated Resource Protection System
IAW—In Accordance With
ILSM—Interim Life Safety Measures
LSC—Life Safety Code
MCC—Medical Control Center
MCRP—Medical Contingency Response Plan
MDW—Medical Wing
MDWI—Medical Wing Instruction
NFPA—National Fire Protection Association
PRT—Primary Response Team
 12                                           59MDWI32-2003 25 JUNE 2014


RACE—Rescue, Alarm, Confine, and Extinguish
UL—Underwriters Laboratories
59MDWI32-2003 25 JUNE 2014                                                                      13


                                          Attachment 2
                      GUIDELINES FOR HOLIDAY DECORATIONS

A2.1. Trees.
   A2.1.1. Artificial trees must be flame-retardant or fire-resistant. If you buy one, look for a
   statement specifying this protection. Flocked and metallic trees are combustible and are not
   allowed. Metallic trees can become charged with electricity from faulty lights, and any
   person touching a branch could be electrocuted!
   A2.1.2. Cut live trees are not allowed in a healthcare environment because a dry tree
   becomes a fire hazard. Real trees may only be used if they are living, potted, maintained in a
   fresh condition and not allowed to become dry. Live potted trees are acceptable in an office
   or business occupancy, and clinic waiting rooms, but not patient care areas.
A2.2. Decorations.
   A2.2.1. Make certain that decorations are not arranged so that they obstruct the view of
   egress to corridors/exits or block exits or access to exits. Decorations should never be placed
   where they reduce the size of travel paths below 36 inches, or obstruct sprinkler heads or exit
   signs.
   A2.2.2. Use of flammable/combustible decorations such as cardboard boxes, wood products,
   straw, hay, or similar products for festive decorating is prohibited.
   A2.2.3. Fire equipment must not be blocked by holiday decorations.
   A2.2.4. Do not attach flammable/combustible items to walls.
   A2.2.5. Do not cover doors with wrapping paper. The maximum amount of any non-fire-
   rated door that can be decorated with wrapping paper or any other holiday decoration is 10%.
   Any decoration on a door must be located such that it does not interfere with the normal
   operation of the door.
   A2.2.6. Do not use food products as decorations i.e., string popcorn.
   A2.2.7. Do not hang anything for smoke/fire detectors, sprinkler heads or ceiling.
A2.3. Wreaths. Wreaths must be made of flame-retardant or fire-resistant material. DO NOT
use hay or straw, bamboo, dry moss, wood shavings, dry leaves, wood back, corn stalks and corn
shucks, saw dust, tumbleweed, flammable powders or liquids, plastic sheeting/pallets, cotton
batting, flock, paper streamers or confetti in large quantities. USE foil decorations such as satin
balls or holiday ribbon.
A2.4. Lights.
   A2.4.1. Christmas tree lights must be approved with a label, stamp, or seal from
   Underwriters Laboratory (UL) and of the type that does not produce heat. You should be
   able to hold a bulb between your fingers without discomfort for an indefinite period of time.
   Check each set of lights, new or old, for broken or cracked sockets, frayed or bare wires, or
   loose connections. Discard damaged sets or repair them before using.
14                                                          59MDWI32-2003 25 JUNE 2014


  A2.4.2. Do not use "bubbling" lights. These lights with their bright colors and bubbling
  movement can tempt curious children to break candle-shaped glass, which can cut, and
  attempt to drink liquid, which contains a hazardous chemical.
  A2.4.3. Never use lighted candles on a tree.
  A2.4.4. The temporary use of extension cords is usually unavoidable. Please ensure
  extension cords are UL listed, be a minimum of 16-gauge wire and properly plugged into a
  wall outlet. Use no more than three standard-size sets of lights per single extension cord,
  follow manufacturer’s guidance. Do not run extension cords from one room to another, and
  never string cords across doorways or walkways.
  A2.4.5. Lights may be attached to the front of desks. Do not attach or string lights to walls
  or ceiling.
  A2.4.6. Do not leave lights on and unattended. Turn off all lights on trees and other
  decorations when you leave for the day. Lights could short and start a fire.
  A2.4.7. Remove trees promptly after the holidays.
  A2.4.8. Bottom line – In doubt ask Facility Management or Wing Safety.
59MDWI32-2003 25 JUNE 2014                               15


                                    Attachment 3
                  BUILDING EVACUATION RALLY POINTS MAP

Figure A3.1. Building Evacuation Rally Points Map.
