BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 31-102
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                                 9 APRIL 2013

                                                                                       Security

                                                                        PARKING PROGRAM




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 59 MLRS/SGSKF                                                   Certified by: 59 MLRS/CC
                                                                       (Lt Col Randall G. Ivall)
                                                                                       Pages: 6
Supersedes:   59MDWI 31-102,
               10 May 2011


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 31-1, Integrated Defense. This
instruction defines the parking policy for the 59th Medical Wing (59 MDW). This instruction
applies to all personnel assigned, attached, or on contract to the 59 MDW. This instruction does
not apply to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Requests for waivers must be submitted to the
OPR listed above for consideration and approval. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System Records Disposition Schedule.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Changed staff and patient parking lots; changed Tier 1 parking color from red to blue and
eliminated references to 802 SFS/S3OH, Police 7.
1. Program Overview.
   1.1. The Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland (JBSA-L) Security Forces (802 SFS/SFOH) is
   the designated authority having jurisdiction to implement the Wilford Hall Ambulatory
   Surgical Center (WHASC) Parking Program in the 59 MDW complex.
 2                                                             59THMDWI31-102 9 APRIL 2013


     1.2. The Director, Facilities Management implements the requirements of the 59 MDW
     Parking Program.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. Anyone operating a vehicle on property used by WHASC will comply with all posted
     traffic and parking signs and/or markings, and with signals and directions of WHASC,
     JBSA-L Security Forces personnel, or any other authorized traffic and parking personnel
     who may be present during exercises or special events.
     2.2. Blocking of entrances, driveways, walkways, ramps, loading zones, inspection stations,
     roadways, safety and fire lanes, parking within 15 feet of fire hydrants and intersections
     except as marked, and parking on island, grass, or newly seeded areas is prohibited.
     2.3. Unauthorized parking, parking in more than one space (including vehicles hauling
     trailers, boats, recreational vehicles, and commercial vehicles), parking in authorized
     locations or in reserved spaces without permission, or parking contrary to posted signs and/or
     markings is prohibited. Storing commercial vehicles, boat trailers, recreational vehicles, and
     privately owned vehicles on property used by WHASC is prohibited.
     2.4. The use of parking facilities for routine service or repairs to vehicles of a non-
     emergency nature is prohibited.
     2.5. Vehicles parking in violation of applicable rules and regulations will be subject to
     ticketing. Repeat violators are subject to suspension or withdrawal of authorization to operate
     a privately owned and/or government vehicle on JBSA-L.
     2.6. The 59 MDW Commander shall be responsible for:
        2.6.1. Oversight of this parking policy in its entirety.
        2.6.2. Identifying, issuing permits, and tracking assigned executive reserved parking
        spaces.
        2.6.3. Conducting annual review of spaces allocated within service and work-related
        reserved parking.
        2.6.4. Managing Distinguished Visitor parking spaces.
        2.6.5. Aiding the Director, Facilities Management with the designation of Parking
        Warden(s), as required.
     2.7. The Director, Facilities Management shall be responsible for:
        2.7.1. Adjusting assigned/reserved parking spaces/areas as required.
        2.7.2. Ensuring assigned/reserved parking spaces/areas, as well as places where parking
        is prohibited, are properly and clearly marked.
        2.7.3. Ensuring assigned/reserved parking permits are available for staff/clinics as
        required.
        2.7.4. Oversight of parking wardens and their responsibilities as outlined in paragraph
        3.6 of this instruction.
     2.8. Group administrators are responsible for managing allocated spaces in work and service
     parking areas, respectively.
59THMDWI31-102 9 APRIL 2013                                                                        3


   2.9. WHASC employees (to include their family members and guests) and operators of
   vehicles used by 59 MDW staff shall be responsible for:
      2.9.1. Reporting accidents, incidents of damage, or acts of vandalism to vehicles on
      property used by WHASC to the JBSA-L Security Forces Law Enforcement.
      2.9.2. Reporting any safety concerns which may come to their attention to the 59 MDW
      Safety Officer.
      2.9.3. Properly displaying all appropriate WHASC issued parking permits/decals (i.e.
      Tier 1, Tier 2, Carpool, WHASC Staff).
      2.9.4. Properly displaying all appropriate state issued Handicap and/or Disabled Veteran
      parking placards/plates. Driver of vehicle must possess state-issued credentials certifying
      status as a disabled citizen.
      2.9.5. Self-reporting of violations (tickets): Service personnel must report violations
      (tickets received) to their supervisor and respective commander; civilian personnel must
      report violations to their supervisor.
3. Procedures.
   3.1. All permits (handicap, carpool or clinical issued permits) must be clearly displayed,
   either on the driver’s side dashboard or suspended from the rear view mirror, with the printed
   side of the permit clearly visible through the windshield.
   3.2. Parking space defined. An area designated by two vertical, horizontal, or diagonal
   white lines for the temporary storage of a passenger-carrying motor vehicle.
   3.3. Prohibited Parking. Vehicles will not park in the following places:
      3.3.1. Within 20 feet of a crosswalk.
      3.3.2. Within 50 feet of an intersection, unless previously designated as a parking space.
      3.3.3. Against the flow of traffic.
      3.3.4. Between two vertical, horizontal, or diagonal lines.
      3.3.5. Alongside curbs, with wheels being no farther than 15 inches from the curb.
      3.3.6. On the shoulder of any roadway, grassed or seeded area, except during special
      functions.
   3.4. “Reserved” spaces. The parking restriction applies from 0600 - 1800, Monday through
   Friday, in parking lots adjacent to buildings where operations continue around the clock; in
   these cases, it applies 24 hours a day. Additionally, all spaces at the group command level or
   higher remain reserved 24/7.
   3.5. Reserved Parking Areas.
      3.5.1. The reserved Carpool parking area (Yellow Permit) is filled on a first-come, first-
      served basis. To participate in the Carpool Program, personnel must obtain a Carpool
      Permit through Facilities Management. Reserve Carpool parking is located in Lot D.
      Permits must be clearly displayed and requires the actual transportation of multiple
      occupants on the day of parking. The driver and passenger(s) must commute in and
      depart together in the same vehicle at the beginning and end of the duty day.
4                                                          59THMDWI31-102 9 APRIL 2013


       3.5.2. The Tier 1 and Tier 2 reserved parking area is based on designated position
       allocations within each assigned group. Tier 1 and Tier 2 passes are allocated to each
       group and jointly managed by the group administrator and Facilities Management.
       Permits shall be displayed on the rear view mirror of the vehicle or in plain sight on the
       windshield.
           3.5.2.1. Tier 1 (Green Permit) is designated for group commanders, group deputy
           commanders, group superintendents, squadron commanders, and first sergeants.
           3.5.2.2. Tier 2 (Blue Permit) is designated for Colonels (O-6s), squadron
           superintendents, program directors, GS14 (or higher) civilians, Chief Master Sergeant
           (E-9), and other group staff 3-letters.
       3.5.3. The Third Trimester (Grey Permit) parking spaces are first-come, first-served and
       require an approved clinic issued permit.
       3.5.4. The Radiation Therapy (Orange Permit) parking spaces are first-come, first-served
       and require an approved clinic issued permit.
       3.5.5. Physical/Occupational Therapy/Hyperbaric Chamber (Purple Permit) parking
       spaces are first-come, first-served and require an approved clinic issued permit.
       3.5.6. Handicap spaces in Lot D are first-come, first-served and require a state-issued
       Handicap and/or Disabled Veteran parking placard/plates and can be used by staff and/or
       patients.
       3.5.7. Patient handicap reserved parking areas are filled on a first-come, first-served
       basis, require a state-issued Handicap and/or Disabled Veteran parking placard/plates,
       and must be a used for a patient of WHASC.
       3.5.8. Motorcycle reserved parking spaces are first-come, first-served and do not require
       a permit.
       3.5.9. Government vehicle reserved parking spaces are restricted to government vehicles
       only.
    3.6. Parking Monitor Program. This section prescribes the procedures for issuing,
    maintaining, control, and accounting of tickets provided by 802 SFS/S5R and specifies the
    responsibilities for parking monitors assigned to the 802d Air Base Wing and associated
    units on JBSA-L. Parking Monitors will monitor parking areas within their area of
    responsibility and only during normal base duty hours. Commanders with parking problems
    should appoint a maximum of two individuals, E-5 or higher, in their unit to become a
    primary and alternate parking monitor. All parking monitors will receive Security Forces
    training on proper completion of tickets prior to accomplishing any parking monitor duties.
    Documentation of training and a current list of parking monitors will be kept by 802
    SFS/S5R.
       3.6.1. Only agencies with a specific need will be assigned parking monitors. Not all
       agencies are required to participate.
       3.6.2. The same penalties for citations will apply as if a Security Forces member had
       issued the citation.
    3.7. Traffic Violation Reports.
59THMDWI31-102 9 APRIL 2013                                                                  5


     3.7.1. Comply with AFMAN 31-201, Volume 7, Security Forces Administration and
     Reports (SFAR/S5R), for administrative processing procedures. The 802 SFS/CC will be
     responsible for identifying additional processing procedures in local guidance.
     3.7.2. Unit commanders may decide not to take disciplinary or administrative action
     against the violator; however, points will still be assessed accordingly. If the unit
     commander believes the individual is not guilty and requests the removal of the citation
     from the individual’s driving record, the request will be handled as a rebuttal.
     3.7.3. Within reason, 802 SFS/S5R will notify the responsible commanders when
     military, civilian, or contract personnel receive a traffic violation ticket.
        3.7.3.1. Individuals rebutting traffic tickets, which did not result in suspension or
        revocation of driving privileges, have 10 duty days from the date-of-issue to rebut the
        ticket. Rebuttal letters must be in writing and routed through the unit commander or
        equivalent (if applicable). If the unit commander disagrees with the request, the
        rebuttal ends. If the unit commander supports the rebuttal, it will be forwarded to 802
        SPTG/CD for determination.




                                          GLENN A. YAP, Colonel, USAF, MSC
                                          Administrator, 59th Medical Wing
 6                                                       59THMDWI31-102 9 APRIL 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense, 28 October 2011
AFMAN 31-116, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, 9May 2012
AFMAN 31-201, Volume 7, Security Forces Administration and Reports, 28 August 2009
United States District Court Western District of Texas Order Amending Local Rule CR-61, 15
April 1996
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
JBSA—L—Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland
MDW—Medical Wing
MDWI—Medical Wing Instruction
WHASC—Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center
