BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 41-101
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                        29 SEPTEMBER 2011
                                                        Certified Current on, 20 November 2013
                                                    Incorporating Change 1, 20 November 2013
                                                                                Health Services

                                               MEDICAL EXPENSE AND PERFORMANCE
                                                        REPORTING SYSTEM (MEPRS)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 59 MDW/SGARX                                                 Certified by: 59 MDW/SGAR
                                                                        (Lt Col Craig A. Keyes)
Supersedes:   59MDWI 41-101, 7                                                         Pages: 5
              December 2009


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 41-1, Health Care Programs and
Resources. This instruction establishes policies and procedures required to maintain the Medical
Expense and Performance Reporting System (MEPRS) for Fixed Military Treatment Facilities.
This instruction applies to all personnel assigned, attached, or on contract to the 59 Medical
Wing (MDW). This instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System Records Disposition
Schedule located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change revises 59 MDWI 41-101 by updating operating hours. A margin bar (|)
indicates newly revised material.
1. Program Responsibilities.
   1.1. The MEPRS office will:
       1.1.1. Determine the policies and develop procedures necessary to comply with Air
       Force and Department of Defense directives.
 2                                                  59THMDWI41-101 29 SEPTEMBER 2011


        1.1.2. Collect and review the data received from the MEPRS accounts and process it bi-
        weekly or monthly.
        1.1.3. Be available to give briefings and answer questions regarding collection and
        reporting of data or proper use of MEPRS functional cost codes for the Labor Cost
        Assignment (LCA) module in DMHRSi and the Expense Assignment System IV Internet
        (EASIVi).
     1.2. Location, hours of operation and MEPRS functional address symbol.
        1.2.1. The MEPRS office is located in building 4550, Ward 8D.
        1.2.2. Operating hours are 0700-1600, Monday through Friday.
        1.2.3. Functional office symbol is 59 MDW/SGARA.
2. DMHRSi Compliance and Program Procedures.
     2.1. Procedures involving completion of the data entry into DMHRSi for the LCA
     processing.
        2.1.1. Hours worked will be reported for all assigned medical center personnel to include
        permanent party, federal civilian personnel, reservists, contract personnel, residents,
        students, fellows and personnel borrowed (personnel assigned to other facilities, but
        working at Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center). Refer to AFI 41-102, The
        Medical Expense and Performance Reporting System for Fixed Military Medical and
        Dental Treatment Facilities, paragraph 6.
        2.1.2. Any 59 MDW personnel in-processing, out-processing, and or being transferred
        within the 59 MDW must coordinate moves with the 59 MDSS Commander’s Support
        Staff (CSS) for the military, 59 MDW/SGAR Civilian Liaison Office for civilians, and
        the 59 MLRS Contracting Services Flight for contractors. San Antonio Military Medical
        Center (formerly Brooke Army Medical Center) personnel working in the 59 MDW will
        in-process through the duty section they will be assigned to in order to ensure their names
        are added to that timekeeper’s group and timekeeper’s listing.
        2.1.3. All personnel working at the 59 MDW must have a record created in DMHRSi.
        Individual staff members (includes all officers, enlisted, civilians, and contractors) or
        identified timekeeper are responsible for reporting time in DMHRSi via the web-based
        timecard (self-service link in DMHRSi). In general, personnel assigned will enter
        timecards individually on a bi-weekly basis. Timecards must be submitted by the first
        duty day after the end of the timecard period. Graduate Medical Education (GME)
        students’ timecards will be submitted by each Residency Program Coordinator on a
        monthly basis by the first duty day after the end of the month. Any changes to this policy
        must be approved by the 59MDW/CV. Exceptions include:
            2.1.3.1. Personnel who are not required to use or do not have access to a computer in
            performance of their job. Allocation of hours worked for these individuals will be
            monitored/entered via the MEPRS office.
            2.1.3.2. The group commander has determined the most efficient and accurate means
            for meeting man-hour reporting and timecard compliance is by having a timekeeper
            specialist responsible for entering timecards.
59THMDWI41-101 29 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                            3


     2.1.4. Timecard Approvers: Timecard Approvers are responsible for approving
     DMHRSi timecards for all employees by close-of-business the third duty day after the
     end of the timecard period. Each Timecard Approver is responsible for designating two
     (2) alternate Timecard Approvers to ensure adequate coverage during leaves, temporary
     duty or other unexpected absences. Note: Timecards that have been submitted by
     employees that are not approved within 7 days will be automatically rejected by the
     system. These timecards will need to be resubmitted by the employee/timekeeper then
     approved.
        2.1.4.1. Timecards for ALL personnel except GME/Graduate Dental
        Education(GDE) students must be approved by the due date for each pay period.
        2.1.4.2. The GME/GDE student timecards are on monthly templates. Timecards for
        GME/GDE students must be submitted and approved within the 5 duty days
        following the end of the month.
     2.1.5. For civilian employees, DMHRSi has a process that validates the DMHRSi
     timecard against the Defense Civilian Payroll System (DCPS) timecards to ensure
     accuracy of available, non-available, overtime, and compensatory time hours reported.
     The DCPS timecard validation isn’t complete until 7 to 10 days after the end of the pay
     period. DMHRSi notifications of timecard approval or rejection due to miss-matches
     between DMHRSi and DCPS timecards are system generated and sent to the employee,
     submitter, and timecard approver. Rejection notifications show the difference between
     the hours entered in DMHRSi and the hours entered in DCPS . DMHRSi civilian
     timecards rejected due to a DCPS discrepancy must be corrected to match the PR (pay
     roll) column on the rejection notice. DMHRSi does not affect a civilian employee’s pay.
        2.1.5.1. The suspense for correcting civilian timecards is 3 duty days after the
        rejection message is received by the employee. Civilian employees will ensure the
        DMHRSi timecard matches that of the DCPS timecard submitted for pay purposes.
        Timecard approvers should correct timecards as soon as possible, but no later than 3
        duty days following submission by the employee.
  2.2. DMHRSi Compliance Reporting and Suspenses.
     2.2.1. The MEPRS/DMHRSi office will provide commanders with a Timecard Status
     Report to assist in tracking timecard compliance on a bi-weekly basis coinciding with the
     suspense dates listed on the DMHRSi Calendar (provided on the MEPRS SharePoint site
     that identifies pay period end dates and DMHRSi suspense dates).
     2.2.2. Timecard Status.
        2.2.2.1. APPROVED: Timecard has been submitted by the employee and approved
        by the timecard approver for the department. No further action is required.
        2.2.2.2. SUBMITTED (Military and Contractor Staff): This status is achieved when
        the time card is submitted by the employee/timekeeper, but not yet approved by the
        timecard approver. The approver must “approve” this timecard with 7 days. If not
        approved within the suspense requirement, this timecard will revert to the
        REJECTED status.
4                                                 59THMDWI41-101 29 SEPTEMBER 2011


           2.2.2.3. SUBMITTED (Civilian Staff): This status will be reflected for all civilian
           timecards once submitted until DCPS validation occurs (usually within 10 days).
           After DCPS validation, if the timecard has been “approved” it will automatically
           convert to the APPROVED status. If discrepancies are identified between DCPS and
           the DMHRSi record, the timecard will be REJECTED. The employee/timekeeper
           will be required to correct the discrepancy and re-submit the timecard.
           2.2.2.4. WORKING: This status reflects that the employee or timekeeper has
           initiated a timecard for this period but has not yet submitted the timecard. The
           employee must submit the timecard by the first duty day following the close out of
           the pay period. This status is considered non-compliant after the first duty day
           following the close out of the pay period.
           2.2.2.5. NOT SUBMITTED: This status indicates that a timecard has NOT been
           initiated for the reporting period by the employee/timekeeper. This status is
           considered non-compliant if identified during a reporting period or after reporting
           period close out.
           2.2.2.6. ERROR or REJECTED: This status indicates a problem has occurred with
           the timecard. Most REJECTED status’ are due to DCPS and DMHRSi discrepancies
           and are easily corrected using the rejected message received through the employees
           DMHRSi account. If the timecard status is ERROR, you may require assistance from
           the DMHRSi office. Once errors are corrected the timecard must be re-submitted and
           approved to be fully compliant.
    2.3. Procedures for Collection of Workload:
       2.3.1. The source system for the majority of workload compiled by the MEPRS office is
       the Composite Health Care System (CHCS). All CHCS reports are generated on the
       fourth duty day of each month. Once CHCS is closed out on the third duty day of the
       month, there should be no corrections or additions to any CHCS data. The CHCS data
       that is reported to the Department of Defense is a snapshot at the time of closeout.
       2.3.2. Those offices not able to use CHCS must submit their reports to the MEPRS office
       by the third duty day of the month. Reports should reflect totals by MEPRS code
       whether they are raw or weighted procedures, minutes of service, etc. The data submitted
       to the MEPRS office will be in final format for entry into the Expense Assignment
       System IVi (EASIVi) database.
    2.4. Data compiled is available for review on the MEPRS Share Point:               WHMC
    Intranet/Administrative tab/MEPRS/DMHRSi/Shared Documents




                                           GLENN A. YAP, Colonel, USAF, MSC
                                           Administrator
59THMDWI41-101 29 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                       5


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 41-1, Health Care Programs and Resources, 15 April 1994
DoD 6010.13M, Medical Expense and Performance Reporting System for Fixed Military
Medical and Dental Treatment Facilities Manual, 7 April 2008
AFI 41-102, Air Force Medical Expense and Performance Reporting System (MEPRS) for Fixed
Military Medical and Dental Treatment Facilities, 5 January 2011
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CHCS—Composite Health Care System
CSS—Commander’s Support Staff
DCPS—Defense Civilian Payroll System
DMHRSi—Defense Medical Human Resources System internet
EASIVi—Expense Assignment System IV internet
GDE—Graduate Dental Education
GME—Graduate Medical Education
LCA—Labor Cost Assignment
MDW—Medical Wing
MEPRS—Medical Expense and Performance Reporting System
