BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 23-102
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                          8 NOVEMBER 2011
                                                         Certified Current on, 27 January 2014
                                                     Incorporating Change 1, 5 February 2014
                                                                                        Supply

                                                 POLICIES FOR COMMERCIAL VENDORS
                                                              AND REPRESENTATIVES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 59 MLRS/SGSKF                                                   Certified by: 59 MLRS/CC
                                                                       (Lt Col Randall G. Ivall)
Supersedes:   59MDWI23-102, 31 August                                                  Pages: 5
              2005


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 23-1, Materiel Management Policy and
Procedures. This instruction establishes policies and procedures governing contact among
industry sales representatives, commercial distributors or vendors and 59th Medical Wing
(MDW) personnel; conduct of 59 MDW personnel in their dealings with these representatives;
and display of commercial advertisements in patient care areas.                 Representative’s
professionalism is the overriding concern of this instruction. This instruction applies to all
personnel assigned, attached, or on contract to the 59 Medical Wing (MDW). This instruction
does not apply to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using the AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
Information     Management       System      Records     Disposition   Schedule     located   at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been revised. This rewrite of 59 MDWI 23-102 includes: added
requirement for first time vendors and representatives to leave a valid picture ID at check-in
point to ensure the return of the “Temporary” vendor’s badge and for all vendors and
representatives to scan out at the access point even though a mobile phone application is
available.
 2                                                        59MDWI23-102 8 NOVEMBER 2011


1. Relationship Responsibilities. The relationship of industry representatives and commercial
vendors with the 59 MDW should benefit the institution without engaging individual healthcare
providers in activities or behaviors, which either are, or might appear to be, inconsistent with
ethical standards.
2. Vendor and Representative Access to 59 MDW Personnel via Vendor Credentialing
Service.
     2.1. The movement of industry representatives, commercial distributors or vendors must be
     monitored to preclude any impact on patient care, minimize disruption to clinics, and ensure
     security.
     2.2. Representatives and vendors will obtain temporary identification badges (First Time
     visitors) or will provide their Vendor Credentialing Service (VCS) identification (ID) card at
     the VCS Access Point, located at the Medical Center Main Entrance (Hospital Automated
     Resource Protection System desk) prior to conducting any business in the medical center.
     No other entrance is authorized. The VCS does provide the option for representatives and
     vendors to sign out utilizing a mobile phone application, however the 59 MDW policy
     requires all personnel to scan out at the Access Point upon completion of their business and
     prior to departure. Vendors identified without either a VCS ID card or a temporary VCS
     badge are subject to being stopped and sent to the Access Point or asked to leave the facility
     depending on the situation. Failure to comply in either case will result in banning from the
     facility.
     2.3. Representatives and vendors must present valid picture identification (e.g., driver’s
     license) and a business card from the company they are representing, prior to receiving a
     temporary vendor’s badge. One form of a valid picture identification will be maintained by
     (Hospital Automated Resource Protection System) personnel to ensure that the “Temporary”
     vendors badge is returned. At this point they will be added to the VCS database in order to
     start the process of receiving a permanent badge. Representatives and vendors will be
     contacted by VCS via e-mail at which time they will be advised of the requirements needing
     fulfillment in order to receive a permanent badge.
     2.4. Vendors should have an appointment to gain access into the facility. “Cold calling” at
     Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center is prohibited. Advance permission for space to set
     up a display must be obtained through Facilities Management (59 MLRS/SGSKF).
     2.5. Representatives and vendors will be confined to non-patient care areas. Under no
     circumstances will they conduct business within view or hearing range of patients, except in
     the case of servicing equipment by the manufacturer or when specifically requested by a
     provider to discuss pertinent issues with a patient or a patient’s agent or guardian and then
     only with the patient’s or guardian’s documented consent.
     2.6. Placement in patient care areas of brochures, advertisements, and/or written materials of
     any type relating to the products and/or services offered by commercial distributors, industry
     representatives, or vendors created specifically for these products and/or services is
     prohibited.
        2.6.1. A limited exception to this general prohibition allows commercial distributors,
        industry representatives, and vendors to provide their brochures, advertisements, and/or
        written materials relating to their products and/or services directly to either a specific
59MDWI23-102 8 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                    3


      individual patient in a patient care area when the patient’s provider has asked the
      commercial distributor, industry representative, or vendor to speak to the patient under
      the circumstances described above in paragraph 2.5, or to a provider in a patient care area
      for additional distribution to specific patients when the patient’s treatment involves such
      product and/or service.
      2.6.2. Additional exceptions to this prohibition may be granted on a case-by-case basis
      by the 59 MDW/CC or 59 MDW/CV. This authority is non-delegable.
3. Conduct of Industry Representatives and Commercial Vendors.
   3.1. Representatives and vendors will acknowledge, in writing, their understanding of the 59
   MDW policies and as a condition of entry. A pamphlet that summarizes information from
   this instruction is given to each vendor when they sign in. By signing in, they acknowledge
   that they have read and understand the information in this publication.
   3.2. Gifts to the 59 MDW are processed in accordance with AFI 51-601, Gifts to the
   Department of the Air Force. The term “gift” includes all conditional or unconditional gifts
   of tangible or intangible property, such as cash, printed materials, honoraria for guest
   speakers, supplies, and equipment. Offers of travel and related travel expenses (including
   travel for continuing medical education and for Principal Investigator meetings) are
   processed                                                                            under
   different legal authority. Regardless, both regular gift offers and offers of travel are
   processed through the Business Operations Office, Budget Branch (SGARB), and reported
   semi-annually to Congress. Air Force personnel are prohibited from soliciting gifts to the
   Air Force or to themselves individually.
   3.3. Any unsolicited offers to loan 59 MDW equipment must be treated as a gift of the use of
   the equipment. Gifts of use are to be distinguished from product evaluations, which are
   performed when evaluating an item for purchase; a separate procedure exists for product
   evaluations under 59MDWI 41-205, User Tests of Supplies and Equipment. Offers of use
   must be processed using the Offer of Gift of the Use of Equipment or Supplies form, and
   routed for coordination and approval as specified on the form. Coordination and approval
   must be obtained prior to the item being brought into 59 MDW. It is 59 MDW’s policy to
   minimize acceptance of offers of the use of equipment to what is medically necessary to
   further the mission. Personal physician preference will often not rise to the level of medical
   necessity, and will most likely not outweigh the significant risk to the Air Force. As with all
   other gifts, Air Force personnel are prohibited from soliciting gifts of the use of equipment.
   3.4. Attempts to circumvent normal channels to promote use of a product (e.g., appealing to
   a physician to have a new antihypertensive agent placed on the formulary, or presenting a
   “loaner”, new device or instrument to a surgeon to “try” to use) are forbidden.
4. Conduct of 59 MDW Personnel.
   4.1. Unsolicited items offered to the 59 MDW personnel individually from a prohibited
   source (defined as anyone doing or seeking to do business with the federal government) may
   be accepted by the member if the value is $20 or less per source, per occasion. Within a
   calendar year, the total value of the gifts from a single source (company) cannot exceed $50.
   The gift cannot be cash or investment interests such as stocks, bonds, or certificates of
 4                                                        59MDWI23-102 8 NOVEMBER 2011


     deposit. If in doubt, the best action is to decline or seek legal guidance from Medical Law
     (AFLOA JACC/MLFSC).
     4.2. Department of Defense (DoD) personnel receiving an offer of a gift, which violates or
     may violate the Joint Ethics Regulation (JER) must report this to their immediate supervisor.
     Gifts received in violation of the JER must be disposed of by returning them to the vendor or
     representative or paying full fair market value; notification of group, squadron, and flight
     commanders is also required. If it is impracticable to dispose of the gift in this way, please
     contact Medical Law for further guidance.
     4.3. All 59 MDW personnel are responsible for reporting any unauthorized representative or
     vendor movement within the medical center, contact with patients, and behavior which
     compromises or could compromise patient care or reflects negatively on Air Force medicine
     or this institution. Any and all such activity must be reported to the group, squadron, and
     wing chairperson and 59 MLRS/SGSKF.
     4.4. Solicitation by DoD personnel of any personal or institutional (Air Force) gifts, favors,
     or gratuities, including food, is strictly prohibited.
5. Gifts of Food or Beverages.
     5.1. Permission for commercial vendors/representatives and others seeking business with the
     59 MDW will be contingent upon their agreement not to provide gifts of food or beverages at
     59 MDW facilities.
6. Guidelines for Interaction.
     6.1. Unsolicited offers of funding for professional speakers by industry representatives are
     processed as gift offers through 59 MDW/SGARB. The chairperson of the applicable
     department approves such speakers.
     6.2. Support of educational activities through the provision of literature and audiovisual aids
     is acceptable, provided these are of nominal value. If the value is more than nominal (i.e.,
     greater than $20) then the items must be processed as gifts to the Air Force.
     6.3. Failure to conform to this instruction will result in revocation of access to the WHASC
     for representatives or vendors and appropriate disciplinary action for 59 MDW personnel.
     All significant violations will be reported to the Executive Committee of the Medical Staff.
     The 59 MDW Command Section will determine whether debarment of the vendor from the
     facility is necessary and, if so, initiate debarment action.




                                              GLENN YAP, Colonel, USAF, MSC
                                              Administrator
59MDWI23-102 8 NOVEMBER 2011                                             5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 23-1, Materiel Management Policy and Procedures, 15 February 2011
AFI 51-601, Gifts to the Department of the Air Force, 26 November 2003
DOD Directive 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation (JER), August 1993
59MDWI 41-205, User Tests of Supplies and Equipment, 16 August 2007
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Acronyms and Abbreviations
DoD—Department of Defense
ID—Identification
JER—Joint Ethics Regulation
MDW—Medical Wing
VCS—Vendor Credentialing Service
