BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                              59TH MEDICAL WING
59TH MEDICAL WING                                                      INSTRUCTION 32-1006

                                                                                  24 MAY 2011
                                                          Certified Current on 5 September 2013
                                                                              Civil Engineering

                                                  SPACE ALLOCATION AND UTILIZATION
              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 59 MLRS/SGSKF                                    Certified by: 59 MLRS/CC (Lt Col Steven
                                                                                      Bodily)
Supersedes:   59MDWI32-1006, 9                                                       Pages: 5
              February 2009


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 32-10, Installations and Facilities. This
instruction establishes a Space Allocation and Utilization Program for the 59th Medical Wing
(MDW). It establishes the policies and procedures necessary to allocate, control, coordinate, and
use space within the 59 MDW. This instruction applies to all personnel assigned, attached, or on
contract to the 59 MDW. This instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard or Air Force
Reserve. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule on the Air Force Portal available at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Added Facility Infrastructure Committee responsibilities and replaced the Facility and Space
Utilization Committee with the Space Working Group.
1. Introduction. Space within the 59 MDW is a limited resource and must be carefully
managed to effectively support patient care, accommodate new technology, and meet life safety
code requirements. The 59 MDW senior staff recognizes that changes in the organization's
mission or the introduction of new technology often create requirements to modify the facility.
However, any structural changes must be carefully planned and managed to ensure appropriate
infrastructure and utility support are provided and life safety standards are being met. These
items will be referred to the Facility Infrastructure Committee for review and approval.
 2                                                            59THMDWI32-1006 24 MAY 2011


2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. 59 MDW Commander. Overall responsibility for all space within the 59 MDW and the
     final approval authority on all space allocation and utilization issues.
     2.2. Facility Infrastructure Committee (FIC). Approves, reviews, and makes decisions on
     space allocation and utilization issues. Provides information and direction to the Space
     Working Group (SWG) on how space should be allocated and used within the 59 MDW to
     meet strategic goals and objectives.
     2.3. SWG. Reviews every request for space allocation or utilization within the 59 MDW.
     The 59 MLRS/CC (or designee, usually Director of Facilities Management) is the
     Chairperson of the SWG. The committee is comprised of the group administrator from each
     of the 59 MDW Groups, along with advisors from Facility Management,
     Systems/Communications, Resource Management, Safety, and Infection Control.
     2.4. Facility Management. Reviews each space allocation and utilization request and
     conducts a preliminary feasibility assessment to determine any technical support issues and
     to estimate the full cost to support the request. Provides architectural drawings and analyses
     of utility system capabilities and makes a recommendation on each request to the SWG.
     Gathers cost information on requests approved by the SWG and works with requesters to
     ensure the structural, electrical, heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC), and utility
     issues associated with space allocation are identified and completed, if approved.
     2.5. Infection Control (IC). Reviews each space allocation and utilization request for
     adequate hand hygiene stations, evaluation for isolation requirements, room allocations for
     clean and soiled tasks, appropriate ventilation, layout for special procedures and treatment
     rooms, and any other environmental issues that are unique to the room designation to be in
     compliance with IC evidence-based preventive requirements.
     2.6. SWG Member. Ensures each space request is valid and fits within the 59 MDW
     Strategic Plan. Each SWG Member provides information and feedback to the squadrons and
     flights within their group.
     2.7. Requester. Complete WHMC Form 41, Space Request form detailing the requirements
     for each request, and submit it to their respective group SWG Member for coordination and
     forwarding to the SWG. Complete any systems requests through the 59 MDW Intranet
     HEAT Web automated system, or AF Form 332, BCE Work Request, to support space
     allocation and utilization requests approved by the SWG.
3. Outside Agency Support to the SWG.
     3.1. There are several agencies outside the space allocation and utilization channel that can
     assist both the SWG and requester. These agencies are:
     3.2. Interior Designer. Provides interior design and furniture acquisition and reconfiguration
     plans. Evaluates interior placement of furniture and equipment for The Joint Commission
     compliance, and assists with ensuring furniture used meets national safety and ergonomic
     standards.
     3.3. 59th Medical Support Squadron (MDSS). Provides communications (network and
     telephone) support to the requester. Schedules installations with AT&T and network
59THMDWI32-1006 24 MAY 2011                                                                     3


   infrastructure contractor to ensure all required telephone lines, telephone instruments, and
   network connections are available to support the requesters prior to occupation of their area.
   3.4. 802nd Civil Engineering Wilford Hall (CEW). Performs structural, mechanical
   (HVAC), electrical (normal and red power), and other utility system renovations to support
   approved space allocation and utilization requests. In-house work is scheduled on a priority
   basis; the timeframe for completion of requested work will vary by project.
   3.5. Joint Medical Facilities Office (JMFO). Assists in the preparation and management of
   major renovation and construction projects for the 59 MDW.
4. Space Allocation and Utilization Process.
   4.1. The space within 59 MDW structures belongs to the 59 MDW and to the individual
   groups, though the final authority rests with the wing. Minor space utilization changes
   within a group can be made without SWG wing level approval. Specifically, those that do
   not change the purpose for use (such as ambulatory/clinical to business
   occupancy/administrative use), do not require renovation or significant work request to
   prepare rooms for new use, are small in scale (no more than 6 rooms), do not violate any
   previously clearly intended/specified use, and do not drive new requirements for space from
   the wing. These minor Group space use changes, however, still require 30 days advance
   notification/coordination with the facility management office so they can update facility use
   plans and ensure issues such as changes to housekeeping requirements may be addressed.
       4.1.1. For new requirements or changes within groups that do not meet the above
       criteria, groups will complete the WHMC Form 41, Space Request, with justification for
       the needed space or significant change in space utilization prior to the occupation, change
       in usage, or renovation of any area within the 59 MDW. The request will be routed
       through respective SWG Member for presentation to the SWG. Facility Management
       will conduct a preliminary assessment of the request to determine feasibility and present
       their recommendation to the SWG for final decision. The SWG will review the request,
       along with the Facility Management recommendation, and approve or disapprove the
       request. Once approved, Facility Management will work with the requester to define
       their requirements.
   4.2. Priorities for allocating and utilizing space within the 59 MDW are as follows:
       4.2.1. Life Safety Code Deficiencies.
       4.2.2. Direct Patient Care.
       4.2.3. Direct Patient Support.
       4.2.4. Infrastructure.
       4.2.5. All other areas not listed above.
5. Space Working Group Meeting. The SWG will meet once monthly (usually on the 3rd
Friday of the month). The SWG may hold special meetings or establish special subcommittees
to evaluate the feasibility of space allocation and utilization on specific space issues.
   5.1. The SWG will establish procedures for review and approval of each request.
6. SWGC Subcommittees.
4                                                        59THMDWI32-1006 24 MAY 2011


    6.1. All SWG subcommittees will be established under the direction of the SWG. Each
    subcommittee will have an appointed chairman who will:
       6.1.1. Define the membership, relationship, and meeting frequency of the subcommittee.
       6.1.2. Develop a strategy to meet the goals and objectives of the SWG.
       6.1.3. Attend all SWG meetings and provide updates on the progress of the
       subcommittee.
       6.1.4. Assist in the implementation of any SWG approved subcommittee actions.




                                           MICHAEL SCHELL, Colonel, USAF, MSC
                                           Administrator
59THMDWI32-1006 24 MAY 2011                                                              5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities, 27 March 1995
Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC)-Design: Medical Military Facilities, 16 October 2003
DOD Space Planning Guide, 28 January 2002
NFPA 101, Life Safety Code, 2000 Edition
NFPA 99, Healthcare Facilities Handbook, 2005 Edition
The Joint Commission Hospital Accreditation Standards, current edition
Prescribed Form
WHMC Form 41, Space Request
Adopted Forms
AF Form 332, BCE Work Request
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CES—Civil Engineering Squadron
FIC—Facility Infrastructure Committee
HVAC—Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning
IC—Infection Control
JMFO—Joint Medical Facilities Office
MDW—Medical Wing
SWG—Space Working Group
WHMC—Wilford Hall Medical Center
