BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 32-7001
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                                  24 JUNE 2014

                                                                               Civil Engineering

                                                       HAZARDOUS MATERIALS, WASTE
                                                    MANAGEMENT AND SPILL RESPONSE
                                                                         PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 59MLRS/SGSKF                                                     Certified by: 59 MLRS/CC
                                                                            (Lt Col Randall Ivall)
Supersedes:    59MDWI 32-7001, 13                                                       Pages: 9
               February 2009


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 32-70, Environmental Quality. This
instruction establishes the procedures and responsibilities to ensure an effective program for
managing hazardous materials, waste disposal and spill response to minimize the loss of
resources, disruption of services, and risk to patients and personnel within the 59th Medical
Wing (MDW) complex. This instruction applies to personnel assigned, attached, or on contract
to the 59th Medical Wing, or working in 59 MDW facilities, except those personnel assigned to
the 359th Medical Group, and 959th Medical Group. This instruction does not apply to the Air
National Guard or Air Force Reserve. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication. Requests for waivers must be submitted to the OPR listed above for
consideration and approval. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information
Management System Records Disposition Schedule.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been revised. This rewrite of 59 MDWI 32-7001 includes updated unit
designations and references.
1. Responsibilities.
   1.1. The Facilities and Environment Committee will maintain oversight of all activities
   specified in this instruction. Members of the committee may be tasked, within their areas of
2                                                              59MDWI32-7001 24 JUNE 2014


    expertise, to evaluate individual work center procedures as a means of maintaining
    accountability with this instruction.
    1.2. Group and Squadron Commanders, and Flight Commanders or Flight Chiefs will:
       1.2.1. Ensure that all personnel under their supervision who may encounter hazardous
       materials or wastes are aware of this instruction and the Wilford Hall Ambulatory
       Surgical Center (WHASC) Spill Response information to prevent and manage spills.
       1.2.2. Appoint a primary and secondary Group Unit Environmental Coordinator (UEC)
       and ensure that the resources needed to maintain compliance are made available and
       managed effectively.
    1.3. Work Center Supervisors/Zone Masters will:
       1.3.1. Appoint a primary and secondary manager for each Hazardous Material Shop and
       Hazardous Waste Accumulation Point and ensure they receive training.
       1.3.2. Conduct periodic reviews of the Authorized Use List (AUL) and Hazard
       Communication (HAZCOM) Binder for each shop ensuring binders are current and
       accessible.
       1.3.3. Advise UEC and shop point of contact (POC) of any incompatible storage or
       hazardous materials storage deficiencies. Submit and track progress of work orders to
       correct deficiencies or hazards.
       1.3.4. Assist UEC in maintaining current Safety Data Sheets (SDS) for all hazardous
       chemicals and spill response information is located near the area of use, but outside the
       likely spill area.
       1.3.5. Assist UEC in conducting periodic reviews of spill kits and personal protective
       equipment (PPE) is adequate and stored in an accessible area.
       1.3.6. Ensure new workers in their area are trained on spill prevention and clean-up
       procedures as well as all hazards associated with the materials present within the work
       center or zone as part of Hazard Communication training, as specified in AFI 90-821,
       Hazard Communication.
       1.3.7. Review all written procedures and plans, verifying the status of spill kits, at least
       every six months and within two weeks following a spill event, or immediately upon
       change of a process to ensure the information and materials are appropriate and available.
       1.3.8. Ensure hazardous waste procedures are followed and waste materials (office
       paper, cardboard, aluminum cans, plastic bottles, etc.) are recycled to the maximum
       extent feasible.
       1.3.9. Provide lockable grey bins for the disposal of Protected Health Information and
       oversee security and weekly disposal of bins.
    1.4. Unit Environmental Coordinators/Shop POC’s will:
       1.4.1. Work with shop POC’s and Medical Material personnel to ensure all hazardous
       chemicals in use are authorized by the Installation Hazardous Material Program (IHMP)
       Office.
59MDWI32-7001 24 JUNE 2014                                                                   3


     1.4.2. Conduct periodic reviews of the AUL and HAZCOM Binder for each shop
     ensuring that all hazardous material are authorized for use and binders are maintained in
     an accessible area.
     1.4.3. Continuously monitor hazardous material shops to ensure all storage is maintained
     in a compatible manner. Request additional resources and place work orders with zone
     master when required.
     1.4.4. Maintain a current work center specific HAZCOM Training Plan for each shop.
     Ensure new workers in their area are trained on spill prevention and clean-up procedures
     as part of Hazard Communication training, as specified in AFI 90-821.
     1.4.5. Maintain required spill kits and PPE on site at all times and review procedures
     when processes change, ensuring materials and information are appropriate and readily
     available.
     1.4.6. Train all workers in their area at least annually on spill prevention and spill
     response procedures, or whenever new hazards are introduced to the workplace.
     1.4.7. Review written procedures and plans and verify the status of spill kits, at least
     every six months and within two weeks following a spill event, or immediately upon
     change of a process to ensure the information and materials are appropriate and available.
     1.4.8. Ensure hazardous waste procedures are followed and waste materials (office
     paper, cardboard, aluminum cans, plastic bottles, etc.) are recycled to the maximum
     extent feasible.
     1.4.9. Monitor lockable grey bins for disposal of Protected Health Information.
  1.5. Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) personnel will:
     1.5.1. Evaluate compliance with this instruction in industrial work centers.
     1.5.2. Coordinate with Base Environmental, Wing Safety and Facilities Management and
     Medical Materiel to evaluate compliance with this instruction in all other work centers.
     1.5.3. Assist work centers with completing requirements specified in this instruction,
     within the limits of BE Flight resources.
     1.5.4. Report to the Environment of Care (EOC) Committee at least quarterly on
     compliance with this instruction and other related issues.
  1.6. Medical Materiel Flight personnel will:
     1.6.1. Establish procedures with supply account custodians that ensure purchases of
     hazardous materials for storage or use are tracked and reported to the IHMP Office.
     1.6.2. Coordinate with Facilities Management, Bioenvironmental Engineering, 59 MDW
     Safety and the IHMP Office to follow Joint Base San Antonio (JBSA)-Lackland AFB
     and Air Force guidance on hazardous materials control procedures, within the limits of
     Medical Materiel Flight resources.
     1.6.3. Process hazardous material authorizations for the 59 MDW and route to
     Installation Hazardous Materials Management Office. Provide AUL to shops. Input
 4                                                              59MDWI32-7001 24 JUNE 2014


        chemical authorizations and advise hazardous material shops of current authorization and
        storage requirements.
     1.7. Facilities Management will:
        1.7.1. Coordinate with Base Environmental as necessary to ensure hazardous material,
        hazardous waste and state regulated industrial waste generated in 59 MDW facilities is
        identified and handled appropriately.
        1.7.2. Be the office of primary responsibility for coordinating all environmental
        compliance issues, waste recycling efforts and for resolving hazardous material and
        waste-related issues with 802 CES/CEAN.
        1.7.3. Maintain oversight of waste disposal practices by housekeeping and other
        contracted services.
        1.7.4. Maintain oversight for medical waste disposal through a medical waste contractor.
        1.7.5. Maintain oversight of hazardous material, waste management and WHASC spill
        response procedures, reporting to the EOC committee.
        1.7.6. Maintain oversight of the Locked Bin Program for secured document destruction
        and disposal of Protected Health Information.
     1.8. First level supervisors and all personnel who work near hazardous materials or
     hazardous wastes will report any spills they encounter to the work center supervisor, zone
     master, UEC or other responsible individual in the area, and will comply with the WHASC
     spill response procedures to manage hazardous materials and waste spills.
2. Specifications for Spill Prevention and Spill Response.
     2.1. Spill prevention and response specific to the work place will include at a minimum:
        2.1.1. Work center specific chemicals and spill materials. Review all chemicals specific
        to each shop and cleanup materials available to manage and clean-up in the event of a
        spill.
        2.1.2. Location of      Safety Data Sheets, HAZCOM Binder and Spill Response
        Information.
        2.1.3. Methods to prevent and manage spills (e.g., periodic checking of valves, or the use
        of secondary containment and absorbent materials during storage) and materials available
        for cleanup of small spills and immediate procedures to stop and contain a large spill.
        2.1.4. Procedures for evacuating unprotected personnel from the area and to limit the
        loss of resources (e.g., closing doors, ventilating the area, etc.).
        2.1.5. Spill Reporting Procedures.
        2.1.6. Actions for exposure of personnel or patients.
        2.1.7. Disposal of resulting waste and clean-up materials.
        2.1.8. Training frequency.
     2.2. Spill kits will include items to control the flow of a spill, to absorb or neutralize the
     material spilled, and to collect and containerize the spilled material. Spill kits must be
59MDWI32-7001 24 JUNE 2014                                                                      5


   designed for the material or materials to be cleaned and maintained in a ready condition at all
   times.
   2.3. Spill reporting will be in accordance with the 59 MDW Visual Aid (VA) 32-101,
   WHASC Spill Response.
       2.3.1. Spills causing injury or exposure involving patients, staff, or visitors will be
       reported immediately to Risk Management by phone, 292-6004, or IAW AFI 44-119,
       Medical Quality Operations.
3. Specifications for Waste Disposal.
   3.1. All waste will be collected and disposed of IAW with proper procedures as established
   by:
       3.1.1. 59 MLRS/SGSKF Memorandum, 59 MDW Management of Regulated Medical
       Waste Policy and Guidance for medical waste.
       3.1.2. Lackland AFB Hazardous Waste Management Plan, for industrial and hazardous
       waste.
       3.1.3. Destroy records containing information protected by the Privacy Act, AFI 33-332,
       The Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program and DoD 5400.7-R_AFMAN33-302,
       Freedom of Information Act Program, in accordance with guidance in AFI 33-332. All
       Protected Health Information waste generated by clinic work centers will be disposed of
       in secure locked bins to prevent accidental disclosure. The bins will be delivered by each
       work center to a specified location for pickup and destruction.
       3.1.4. All waste eligible for recycling will be sorted into the blue or brown recycle bins
       provided, according to bin designations and delivered by each work center to specified
       location for pickup.
   3.2. Supervisors of work centers which generate regulated waste will establish written
   procedures to brief during HAZCOM training ensuring all workers in their area of
   responsibility perform proper segregation, collection, and disposal of waste. A primary and
   secondary Hazardous Waste Monitor (Satellite Accumulation Point Manager) will be
   appointed and properly trained to be responsible for the processing of waste out of the work
   center.
   3.3. All processes which produce sanitary sewer waste (with the exception of human waste,
   blood and body products generated in the normal processes of hygiene, sanitation and
   medical care) or storm sewer waste must be reviewed by Facilities Management and JBSA-
   Lackland AFB Water Program for compliance. When in doubt seek a determination.
   Anything that goes down a drain has the potential to make it to the water supply.
       3.3.1. For mixed waste, every effort must be made to segregate into appropriate
       containers. When mixed waste is unavoidable, disposal will be using the higher standard.
       Seek a determination before you toss, mistakes can be costly and embarrassing!
 6                                                            59MDWI32-7001 24 JUNE 2014


4. Specifications for Training.
     4.1. Workplace specific training of individuals will be documented on an AF Form 55,
     Employee Safety and Health Record, or equivalent.
     4.2. Hazardous materials, waste disposal, and spill response will be reviewed in accordance
     with the workplace specific Hazardous Communication Training Plan maintained by each
     shop. The WHASC spill response procedures will be made available by posting the 59
     MDW VA 32-101 in high visibility areas near hazardous material use and storage areas.




                                             GLENN A. YAP, Colonel, USAF, MSC
                                             Administrator, 59th Medical Wing
59MDWI32-7001 24 JUNE 2014                                                                  7


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality, 20 July 1994
AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management, 1 November 2004
AFI 33-332, The Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program, 5 June 2013
AFI 44-119, Medical Quality Operations, 16 August 2011
AFI 90-821 Hazard Communication, 27 January 2014
59 MDW VA 32-101, WHASC Spill Response, 13 February 2009
DoD 5400.7-R_AFMAN33-302, Freedom of Information Act Program, 21 October 2010
Adopted Form
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record

Acronyms and Abbreviations
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
AUL—Authorized Use List
BE—Bioenvironmental Engineering
EOC—Environment of Care
HAZCOM—Hazardous Communication
HIPAA—Health Insurance Portability & Accountability
IAW—In Accordance With
IHMP—Installation Hazardous Material Program
JBSA—Joint Base San Antonio
MDW—Medical Wing
SDS—Safety Data Sheet
POC—Point of Contact
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
UEC—Unit Environmental Coordinator
VA—Visual Aid
WHASC—Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center

Terms
Article—An object (e.g., an alkaline battery or toner cartridge) which is formed to a specific
shape or design during manufacture, has end use functions dependent upon its shape or design,
 8                                                            59MDWI32-7001 24 JUNE 2014


and under normal conditions of use will release no more than trace amounts of a hazardous
material.
Authorized Use List (AUL)—A shop specific listing of all chemicals authorized through the
IHMP office.
Consumer-Use Product—A low health risk chemical used in the workplace in the same manner
as normal consumer use. To qualify as a consumer-use product, the product must be in a
container which limits the amount that can be used or spilled at one time, the product must be
ready to use without mixing. Examples of consumer-use products include hand soap,
individually wrapped alcohol wipes, Windex and Armor-all or their equivalents.
Hazardous Material—For purposes of this instruction, any substance regulated by the 59 MDW
or higher authority which can pose an increased risk to people or property if released into the
environment in an uncontrolled manner, such as through a spill. This definition encompasses
hazardous chemicals as defined by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, but also
includes such things as infectious waste and radioactive items. This definition does not apply to
pharmaceuticals, except those that are specifically regulated by environmental or occupational
health agencies (e.g., chemotherapy agents). This definition also specifically excludes chemicals
contained in articles and in consumer-use products. All Hazardous material used in WHASC
facilities will be authorized for use by the IHMP Office.
High Health Risk—A hazardous material which is likely to cause a significant negative health
effect upon uncontrolled or unprotected exposure to even a small amount of the material.
Significant negative health effects include chemical burns, irritation or sensitization of the
respiratory system or gastro-intestinal system, skin sensitization, central nervous system effects
and/or chronic damage to internal organs.
Intermediate Health Risk—A hazardous material which is likely to cause a significant negative
health effect upon repeated unprotected exposures to moderate or greater amounts of the
material.
Low Health Risk—A hazardous material which must be controlled by environmental or
occupational health regulations, but is unlikely to present a significant negative health effect
upon normal use as specified by the manufacturer.
Municipal Waste—Any waste material which can be disposed of in regular trash cans without
violating local, state, Air Force, or federal regulations. Examples include non recyclable office
materials, product wrappers, and non-rechargeable alkaline-based cells in small quantities.
Regulated Waste—All waste material for which there is a regulation governing disposal. This
includes but is not limited to hazardous material no longer in use, radioactive waste, bio-
hazardous waste, chemotherapeutic waste, rechargeable batteries, oils and solvents, used
Formalin, etc.
Safety Data Sheets—An SDS provides detailed information for both workers and emergency
personnel regarding the proper procedures for handling or working with chemical substances and
is of major importance if a spill or other accident occurs.
Sanitary Sewer Waste—Waste material specifically authorized to be disposed of down a drain.
Satellite Accumulation Point (SAP)—A SAP is a location where hazardous waste or universal
waste, or non-hazardous waste can be accumulated.
59MDWI32-7001 24 JUNE 2014                                                                        9


Spill—A non-routine, unplanned release of a hazardous material into the environment. This
definition specifically excludes the loss of a negligible amount of material which is predictable,
controllable, and not feasible to prevent (e.g., a few drops of oil which can be easily cleaned with
a cloth or paper towel).
Level 1 Spill (Incidental)—A spill of hazardous material that the work center has the capability
of cleaning without calling for additional resources. Material spilled must be amount containable
by shop personnel and no harm to personnel (injury or illness) will result from exposure to
spilled material. When in doubt defer to emergency procedures in Level 2 Spill Response.
Level 2/3 Spill (Emergency)—A spill of hazardous material that enters a drain, is absorbed in
carpet or porous building material, or otherwise exceeds the capability of the work center to
clean up. For Intermediate health risk materials, any spill greater than a gallon will
automatically be considered a large spill. Any spill involving high health risk materials must be
treated as an Emergency (Level 2/3 spill) and reported to Facilities and 802 CES/CEAN to
determine if additional notification is required.
Unit Environmental Coordinator (UEC)—An individual who assists with Hazardous Material,
Waste management and spill response. Each group will appoint a Primary and Secondary UEC
to oversee environmental concerns and to assist the Wing UEC in maintaining environmental
compliance throughout 59 MDW facilities.
Universal Waste—Any waste to include mercury vapor, vapor sodium, or fluorescent light
bulbs, batteries, paints or paint-related waste, pesticides, and/or mercury-containing articles.
Waste—For the purposes of this instruction, any spent material used or generated in the 59th
Medical Wing (59 MDW) complex and Kelly Clinics, which no longer has value to the user or
generator and is intended to be disposed of. Materials which are turned in to the Defense
Reutilization and Marketing Office as serviceable items are not considered waste. Waste streams
fit into four general types: Municipal waste, Regulated waste, Universal waste and Sanitary
Sewer waste.
Work Center Supervisor—An individual with the responsibility of managing the daily
activities of personnel with a related mission. In the 59th Medical Wing this person may be a
flight commander, flight chief, flight noncommissioned officer in charge, or an element chief or
equivalent, depending on the size of the unit.
Zone Master—An individual who assists the facility manager by ensuring the facility is
maintained and in operational condition. Additionally, the zone master handles operational
concerns that staff members, patients, and visitors express for the areas and appearance of the
facility.
