BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 40-302
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                              18 OCTOBER 2013

                                                                               Medical Command

                                     MANAGEMENT OF SUSPECTED ABUSED PATIENTS


           COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
______________________________________________________________________________

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
______________________________________________________________________________

OPR: 59 MHS/SGOWF                                      Certified By: 59 MDOS/CC
                                                          (Lt Col James E. Shields)
Supersedes 59MDWI 40-302, 31 July 2009                                  Pages: 18
______________________________________________________________________________

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 40-3, Family Advocacy Program. This
instruction specifies responsibilities and establishes procedures for managing patients who are
suspected victims of child, spouse or elder abuse, neglect and/or exploitation and who require
management throughout the medical facility. This medical wing instruction (MDWI) applies to
all personnel assigned, attached, or under contract to the 59th Medical Wing (MDW), with the
exceptions of 959th Medical Group personnel while performing duties at San Antonio Military
Medical Center (SAMMC); however, information within this MDWI may provide valuable
guidance to all medical providers within the San Antonio Military Health System. This
instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve. The 59 MDW has the
legal, professional and ethical responsibility to provide medical evaluation and treatment,
arrange appropriate specialty service consultation or referral, coordinate the collection of medical
and legal evidence and address the personal safety of victims of abuse, neglect, exploitation, and
assault. This instruction requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the
Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by Title 10, United States Code, Section 8013. Privacy Act
System of Record F044 AF SG Q, Family Advocacy Program Record, applies. Collected
information is “For Official Use Only.” Request to release Privacy Act information to persons or
agencies outside the Department of Defense (DoD) must be in accordance with (IAW) AFI 33-
332, Air Force Privacy Act Program, DoD 5400.7, Freedom of Information Act, and DoD
6025.18-R, DoD Health Information Privacy. Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. The authority to waive requirements is the
publication approval authority. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of
2                                                          59MDWI40-302 18 OCTOBER 2013

Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System Records
Disposition Schedule.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: added same sex reference to intimate partners, added information on Air Force
Domestic Assault Victim Advocates; removed references to Emergency Department and added
reference for Urgent Care Clinic; removed reference to Hospital Automated Resources
Protection Services; updated sexual assault victim referral information, referral criteria, and
procedures; updated patient transfer information; updated disclosure and release of information
criteria; updated information on sexual assault restricted reporting options for adult family
members of active duty personnel.

1. Restricted Reporting and Incidents of Suspected Spouse and/or Intimate Partner
Maltreatment.

    1.1. The DoD defines domestic violence as a pattern of behavior resulting in emotional
    and/or psychological abuse, economic control, and/or interference with personal liberty when
    such violence or abuse is directed toward a person of the same or opposite sex who is 1) a
    current or former spouse or 2) a person with whom the abuser shares a child in common or 3)
    a current or former intimate partner with whom the abuser shares or has shared a common
    domicile. As the DoD definition is not limited to maltreatment between spouses, the term
    intimate partner will be used throughout this instruction to describe this type of maltreatment.

    1.2. Depending on the level of risk, active duty and adult family members who are victims of
    intimate partner abuse, neglect and/or exploitation and who report suspected maltreatment to
    any health care provider, the Sexual Assault Response Coordinator (SARC) or a DoD Family
    Advocacy Domestic Assault Victim Advocate (DAVA) or Victim Advocate at the Bexar
    County Family Justice Center, have the option of restricted reporting. Restricted reporting
    enables adult victims of intimate partner abuse, neglect and/or exploitation to seek medical
    care, mental health treatment and/or victim advocacy services without command and/or law
    enforcement involvement.

         1.2.1. Restricted reporting is not an option if the victim has had contact with military
         and/or civilian law enforcement (including DoD Special Investigation agencies),
         military authorities, (including anyone in the sponsor’s chain of command), or any
         other referral source regarding the suspected maltreatment.

         1.2.2. Restricted reporting applies only to incidents of domestic violence where the
         alleged victim is age 18 or older. Restricted reporting is not an option in cases of
         suspected child abuse, neglect and/or exploitation, or where there is risk of serious
         harm or death to the victim.

2. Responsibilities.
59MDWI40-302 18 OCTOBER 2013                                                                           3

  2.1. Family Advocacy will educate medical wing staff annually on the criteria for
  identifying, reporting and managing victims of suspected abuse, neglect and/or exploitation.
  Other medical personnel (e.g., pediatrics, Urgent Care personnel) may supplement this
  training in areas that are outside Family Advocacy’s area of expertise and/or scope of care.

  2.2. Allegations, observations or suspected cases of abuse, neglect and exploitation that
  occur in Joint Base San Antonio (JBSA) medical facilities must be investigated and reported,
  IAW AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, paragraphs 16.4. and 16.4.1. However,
  Family Advocacy’s scope of service is limited to maltreatment allegations of abuse and/or
  neglect involving either an active duty member or the beneficiary of an active duty member
  and child and/or intimate partner maltreatment. Cases of abuse, neglect and/or exploitation
  where the alleged victim and/or the alleged offender is neither active duty nor the beneficiary
  of an active duty member and do not involve child and/or spouse/intimate partner abuse,
  neglect or exploitation fall outside the jurisdiction of Family Advocacy and this instruction.
  Family Advocacy will still make appropriate contacts to required agencies, e.g. Security
  Forces, Child Protective Services, or local law enforcement agencies.

  2.3. All healthcare personnel are required to report any suspected intimate partner abuse,
  neglect and/or exploitation to Family Advocacy and to report any suspected child abuse,
  neglect and/or exploitation to both Family Advocacy and the Child Protective Services (CPS)
  division of the Texas Department of Family and Protective Services (TDFPS). Personnel are
  not required to be absolutely certain or have proof of the abuse before making a referral, but
  must have reasonable suspicion that abuse has occurred.

       2.3.1. The healthcare provider (psychologist, physician, nurse, technician etc.) who
       examined or interviewed the victim and knows the most information about the alleged
       maltreatment is the most appropriate person to contact CPS. Family Advocacy does
       not make notifications for other health care providers. Health care providers are
       mandatory reporters and must contact CPS directly if they believe abuse has occurred.

  2.4. All Health Care Providers shall:

       2.4.1. Provide care that respects each patient’s right to be free from mental, sexual and
       verbal abuse, neglect and exploitation.

       2.4.2. In cases of sudden or unexplained child death involving the child of an active
       duty member, notify the Air Force Office of Special Investigations (OSI) (who shall
       make contact with Army Criminal Investigation Department (CID) or Naval Criminal
       Investigative Services (NCIS) as needed), Security Forces Investigations, and Family
       Advocacy. Family Advocacy may assist the provider in contacting the appropriate
       agencies. These procedures will be followed whether the active duty member lives on
       or off base.

       2.4.3. Interview the patient in a place that affords privacy. Before inquiring about
       possible abuse or neglect, it is essential to create an environment in which it is safe for
       a patient to talk freely. It is standard policy to interview all patients in private until an
4                                                           59MDWI40-302 18 OCTOBER 2013

         initial screening to rule out a reasonable suspicion of abuse, neglect and/or exploitation
         has been completed. Self-report forms should neither be administered in waiting rooms
         where the batterer, other family members, or friends may be present, nor mailed to the
         home prior to a visit. Providers should advise accompanying parties that wing policy
         dictates that all patients must be seen individually and that non-patients must remain in
         the waiting room. Clinical staff should be prepared and have a plan for separating the
         patient from the abuser in a way that increases the patient’s safety and makes it clear to
         the assailant that abusive behavior is not acceptable.

         2.4.4. Convey an attitude of concern, respect and confidentiality to the patient.

         2.4.5. Routinely ask questions directly related to abuse, neglect and exploitation.

         2.4.6. Take the patient’s history, conduct a thorough examination and provide
         appropriate lab tests and x-rays. For sexual assault cases, examination shall be limited
         to addressing acute health needs, then coordinated with the appropriate agency under
         section 3.1.

         2.4.7. Document findings, including patient’s statements, behavior and appearance.

         2.4.8. Treat injuries.

         2.4.9. Preserve physical evidence.

         2.4.10. Assess the immediate safety of the patient.

3. Non-Family/Non-Intimate Partner Sexual Assaults Procedures.

    3.1. Sexual Assault. If an active duty service member or family member (18 years or older)
    is a victim of sexual assault and the alleged assailant is not or has never been his/her intimate
    partner, the victim has the option of selecting restricted reporting through the SARC/VA. If
    the alleged offender is a family member, spouse, intimate partner, or former intimate partner,
    the victim may have the option of restricted reporting through the Family Advocacy DAVA
    program. Restricted reporting allows the victim to receive medical, psychosocial and
    advocacy care without initiating an investigation or the notification of the victim’s chain of
    command.

         3.1.1. Active duty members and their adult family members 18 years or older, initially
         retain restricted reporting. For non-family/non-intimate partner/former intimate partner
         sexual assault, notify the SARC/VA at 671-SARC (671-7272) or DoD Safe Helpline at
         877-995-5247; for family/intimate partner/former intimate partner sexual assault,
         contact the Family Advocacy DAVA at 210-292-0418 during normal duty hours or
         210-367-1213 outside of normal duty hours. Do not notify civilian or military law
         enforcement or OSI/CID/NCIS. The SARC/VA or DAVA will counsel the victim and
         complete a written Victim Preference Statement indicating whether the service member
         elects restricted or unrestricted reporting. If the victim elects restricted reporting,
59MDWI40-302 18 OCTOBER 2013                                                                      5

       he/she has the option to select unrestricted reporting any time. At that time, an
       investigation will be opened and the chain of command will be notified.

       3.1.2. Adult victims 18 years or older, may elect to have forensic evidence collected
       even if they elect restricted reporting. Evidence collection for adults age 18 years or
       older is accomplished by a certified Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE) located at
       Methodist Specialty and Transplant Hospital. Evidence collection for adolescent
       victims 13-17 can be accomplished at either Methodist Specialty and Transplant
       Hospital or Children’s Hospital of San Antonio (formerly known as Christus Santa
       Rosa Hospital). If the victim is severely injured he/she will be stabilized and
       transported to SAMMC by Emergency Medical Services for the appropriate level of
       healthcare and remain until medically cleared for release. A SANE conducts the
       Sexual Assault Forensic Exam (SAFE) at Methodist Specialty and Transplant Hospital
       once medically cleared. If the victim cannot be medically cleared, the Methodist
       Specialty and Transplant Hospital SANE may provide outcall SAFEs, but only if law
       enforcement is involved. Forensic evidence collection for pediatric victims under age
       18 is accomplished at Children’s Hospital of San Antonio. The pediatric SANE does
       not provide evidence collection outcalls. The decision of which of the aforementioned
       hospitals to send adolescents (age 13-17) can be decided by the provider and family.

       3.1.3. If the victim elects to have forensic evidence collected, the healthcare team must
       ensure that the victim does not eat, drink, empty bladder/bowels, smoke and/or brush
       her/his teeth as this may degrade the evidence.

       3.1.4. Sexual assault victims who are not physically injured should not be sent to
       SAMMC Emergency Medicine Department. If the victim reports to any clinic within
       the 59 MDW, that clinic is responsible for completing a medical screening exam and
       making appropriate notifications with assistance from the SARC or Family Advocacy
       DAVA IAW section 3.1.

  3.2. Physical Abuse, Emotional Abuse, or Neglect. If an adult victim of domestic violence
  presents to a healthcare provider or technician, the provider or technician will confirm with
  the victim whether any law enforcement personnel or other military authorities have been
  notified.

       3.2.1. If either law enforcement or other military authorities have been notified, then
       restricted reporting is not an option. Contact JBSA Family Advocacy during duty
       hours or the on-call Mental Health/JBSA Family Advocacy provider after duty hours
       (via the JBSA Command Post).

       3.2.2. Provide Family Advocacy with the following demographic information:

           3.2.2.1. Sponsor’s name, rank, unit, home address, home and duty phone, social
           security number (SSN) and date of birth (DOB).
6                                                         59MDWI40-302 18 OCTOBER 2013

            3.2.2.2. Spouse’s name, home address, home and work phone numbers, SSN and
            DOB. Family Advocacy will still need this information even if the alleged victim
            or offender is an ex-spouse or intimate partner.

            3.2.2.3. Victim’s name, address, home and work phone, SSN and DOB (if not
            already obtained).

            3.2.2.4. Alleged offender’s name, address, home and work phone, SSN and DOB
            (again, if not already obtained).

         3.2.3. Provide information and referrals for counseling, shelter, support groups, and
         legal assistance in the community and victim advocacy. Victim Advocates are
         available for victims of non-intimate partner sexual assault via a SARC/VA through the
         Sexual Assault Prevention & Response (SAPR) program, or the Family Advocacy
         DAVA program for victims of intimate/former intimate partner assault. The Bexar
         County Family Justice Center also assists victims of sexual assault or domestic violence
         who are affiliated with the military (active duty, family member of active duty, retired
         military or family member of retired military).

         3.2.4. If law enforcement or military authorities have not been notified, the victim may
         have the option of restricted Reporting through Family Advocacy. In these situations,
         the victim initially retains restricted Reporting until Family Advocacy has completed
         the initial safety and risk assessment to rule out imminent harm and other exceptions to
         restricted reporting.

            3.2.4.1. Healthcare personnel may inform victims on general information regarding
            restricted and unrestricted reporting, but cannot advise a victim they are eligible for
            restricted reporting, and shall not contact law enforcement, OSI/CID/NCIS or the
            sponsor’s chain of command until Family Advocacy has completed the initial risk
            assessment, unless the victim advises healthcare personnel to immediately report
            the incident, presents with a serious injury, or there are imminent safety concerns.

            3.2.4.2. Contact the JBSA Family Advocacy office during duty hours or the on-call
            Mental Health/Family Advocacy provider after duty hours, as required. Provide
            Family Advocacy with the demographic information listed in paragraph 2.4.12.2.

            3.2.4.3. When notified by Family Advocacy that the incident of maltreatment will
            be an unrestricted report, make notifications in accordance with his/her respective
            clinic’s protocols.

    3.5. JBSA Family Advocacy will:

         3.5.1. Conduct an initial risk assessment to determine if there is a serious and imminent
         threat to the health and safety of the victim or another person. Family Advocacy will
         consider the following to determine if the assessment will be completed in person or
         over the telephone:
59MDWI40-302 18 OCTOBER 2013                                                                    7

         3.5.1.1. The patient (or parent/guardian if the patient is under the age of 18)
         requests to meet with Family Advocacy in person.

         3.5.1.2. The medical provider or Family Advocacy determines that an in-person
         assessment is clinically warranted and appropriate.

         3.5.1.3. Victim’s physical injuries and/or level of emotional distress.

         3.5.1.4. Severity of the abuse.

         3.5.1.5. The on-call Mental Health/Family Advocacy provider will base the initial
         risk assessment on information provided by command and/or healthcare provider
         and will contact the DAVA if additional assessment/intervention may be required.

      3.5.2. Determine if there is a serious risk of imminent harm and whether the imminent
      harm exception to restricted reporting applies.

         3.5.2.1. If the imminent-harm or other exception do not apply, Family Advocacy
         will use the Victim Reporting Preference Statement to explain restricted and
         unrestricted reporting options to the victim. Family Advocacy will inform the
         healthcare provider as to the victim’s reporting preference.

              3.5.2.1.1. If the victim chooses restricted reporting, no further notifications
              will be made. Family Advocacy and/or Domestic Assault Victim Advocate
              will develop a safety plan with the victim.

              3.5.2.1.2. If the victim chooses unrestricted reporting, Family Advocacy will
              develop a safety plan with the victim and the sponsor’s squadron commander
              and/or first sergeant (or service equivalent for Army, Navy or Marine
              personnel).

      3.5.3. If the imminent harm exception applies, then victim does not have the option of
      making a restricted report.

         3.5.3.1. Family Advocacy will develop a safety plan with the victim and the
         sponsor’s commander and/or first sergeant (or service equivalent for Army, Navy or
         Marine personnel).

      3.5.4. Family Advocacy will activate the Child Sexual Maltreatment Response Team
      (CSMRT) following the receipt of an allegation of child sexual maltreatment. In the
      event an allegation of child sexual maltreatment is received after duty hours, the on-call
      Mental Health/Family Advocacy provider will immediately contact the Family
      Advocacy Officer (FAO). In the event the FAO is on leave/temporary duty, contact the
      alternate FAO (AFAO). The FAO/AFAO will then convene the CSMRT in accordance
      with AFI 40-301, Family Advocacy Program and Air Force Family Advocacy Program
      Standards.
8                                                           59MDWI40-302 18 OCTOBER 2013

             3.5.4.1. Notify the 502d Air Base Wing Commander (502d ABW/CC) and the 59th
             Medical Wing Commander (59 MDW/CC) immediately when a child sexual
             maltreatment incident is alleged to have occurred in a DoD sanctioned activity.
             Notify Air Force Medical Operations Agency/Family Advocacy Program [Air
             Force Medical Operating Agency (AFMOA)/SGHW] within 24 hours.

         3.5.5. Family Advocacy will activate the High Risk for Violence Response Team
         (HRVRT) in the event that members of a family unit may be in imminent danger of
         being harmed by other family members. For the purposes of the HRVRT, family
         members include active duty, spouse, intimate partner, children and stepchildren, ex-
         spouse, or ex-stepparents. The HRVRT will also be activated if Family Advocacy staff
         members may be in danger of being harmed by either a current or a former Family
         Advocacy client. In the event of a high risk situation after duty hours, the on-call
         Mental Health/Family Advocacy provider will immediately contact the FAO. In the
         event the FAO is on leave/temporary duty, contact the AFAO. The FAO/AFAO will
         then convene the HRVRT IAW AFI 40-301 and Air Force Family Advocacy Program
         Standards.

             3.5.5.1. Update the High Interest/High Risk Log maintained by SGOWM as
             needed.

             3.5.5.2. Notify the 502d ABW Commander and the 59 MDW/CC immediately
             after the sudden or unexplained death of a child (or step child) of an active duty
             member. Notify AFMOA/SGHW Family Advocacy within 24 hours.

         3.5.6. Present all cases of suspected child maltreatment and unrestricted reports of
         intimate partner maltreatment to the Central Registry Board for determination.

         3.5.7. Present all cases of child maltreatment and intimate partner maltreatment (both
         restricted and unrestricted) to the Clinical Case Staffing.

    3.6. Mental health providers will:

         3.6.1. Review the outpatient medical record for past history or current treatment from
         Mental Health, Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevent and Treatment Program (ADAPT)
         and/or Family Advocacy.

             3.6.1.1. Make contact with the mental health, Family Advocacy, or ADAPT
             provider prior to the initial assessment if the patient is currently receiving services
             from any of aforementioned agencies.

             3.6.1.2. Staff the case at least monthly with other providers who provide care to the
             patient. Document the staffing as a consult or staffing in his or her clinic’s
             respective record.
59MDWI40-302 18 OCTOBER 2013                                                                       9

            3.6.1.3. Staff the case no later than the next duty day when clinically significant
            developments occur. Such developments include, but are not limited to:
                 3.6.1.3.1. Change in the level of risk (increase or decrease).

                 3.6.1.3.2. Change in family situation (e.g., couple separates and/or files for
                 divorce).

                 3.6.1.3.3. Change in patient’s level of functioning (e.g., change in symptoms,
                 patient relapses and/or patient presents with suicidal and/or homicidal
                 ideation).

                 3.6.1.3.4. Military or civilian legal proceedings, hearings and/or court actions.

   3.7. Law Enforcement Representative will:

        3.7.1. Obtain legal statements.

        3.7.2. Ensure the proper chain of custody for evidence collection.

        3.7.3. Complete Air Force or civilian chain of custody documentation.

4. Standards of Practice.

   4.1. Urgent Care Clinic (UCC). Staff physicians maintain ultimate responsibility for the
   evaluation, treatment and disposition of the patient while in the UCC. If this cannot be
   accomplished in a timely manner due to department load or acuity, the appropriate specialty
   service will be consulted.

   4.2. Obstetrics/Gynecology. All female victims 12 years of age or older presenting for
   evaluation of an acute sexual assault will be evaluated when clinically warranted (also see
   SANE and SAFE information under section 3.1.2.).

   4.3. Pediatrics. All possible victims will be evaluated when clinically warranted, to include
   all child abuse or neglect cases, males or females under 18 years of age presenting for
   evaluation of non-acute sexual assault, children less than 12 years of age presenting for
   evaluation of acute sexual assault (also see SANE and SAFE information under section
   3.1.2.).

   4.4. Urology. All possible victims, to include male sexual assault victims, will be evaluated
   when clinically indicated (also see SANE and SAFE information under section 3.1.2.).

   4.6. Mental Health staff. Work with Family Advocacy IAW this instruction.

   4.7. ADAPT staff. Work with Family Advocacy IAW this instruction.
10                                                          59MDWI40-302 18 OCTOBER 2013

     4.8. After-duty support services. After-duty support services. Support services after normal
     duty hours are limited to consultation, referral, notifications, and liaison services (e.g.,
     DAVA services) to command and/or healthcare providers. Emergency mental health and
     substance abuse services are not available through the afterhours JBSA Family
     Advocacy/Mental Health on-call provider. Those seeking emergency medical services must
     contact 911 or the SAMMC Emergency Medicine Department.

     4.9. Treatment and Referral for Victims of Violence. Victims with significant physical
     injuries, violent mechanisms of injury, or requiring protective custody, admission, or
     emergent referral, may require care or protection outside the scope of 59 MDW personnel.
     Victims may require ambulance transport to SAMMC or the nearest emergency department.
     For victims requiring immediate protective custody, contact Security Forces Law
     Enforcement Desk and Family Advocacy Program, in that order.

     4.10. Assessment and Treatment for Victims of Alleged or Suspected Sexual Assault.

          4.10.1. All patients, regardless of the time since a reported assault, receive a medical
          examination or treatment for a sexually transmitted disease or prophylaxis, receive
          appropriate referral, and have the option to have a police report filed; however, no
          patient should be forcibly examined under any circumstance.

              4.10.1.1. For sexual assault forensic exams, patients over the age of 18 will be
              transported to the Methodist Specialty and Transplant Hospital. Sexual assault
              victims under the age of 18 will be transported to Children’s Hospital of San
              Antonio. Adolescents (age 13-17) may be transported to either hospital, based upon
              the preference of the family. Note, Methodist Specialty and Transplant Hospital
              does provide outcall services, but Children’s Hospital of San Antonio does not
              (refer to 3.1.2).

              4.10.1.2. Transport will be provided IAW 59MDWI41-122_59MDWGM1, Patient
              Transfers.

                  4.10.1.2.1. In the event of conflicts, questions, or concerns regarding transport
                  of suspected abused patients, 59 MDW personnel shall coordinate with the
                  San Antonio Rape Crisis Center (210-349-7273) for sexual assault victims,
                  Domestic Assault Victims Advocates (210-367-1213) for adult victims of
                  family maltreatment, or Family Advocacy for child maltreatment victims or for
                  general guidance on victim transport issues (210-292-5967) during duty hours
                  or through JBSA Command Post after normal duty hours.

              4.10.1.3. Referrals.

                  4.10.1.3.1. Refer all patients for follow-up with appropriate specialty service
                  (e.g., pediatrics, gynecology, urology).
59MDWI40-302 18 OCTOBER 2013                                                                    11

                 4.10.1.3.2. Refer to Family Advocacy, SARC, Sexual Assault Crisis Center,
                 Victim Advocates at the Bexar County Family Justice Center, Military
                 OneSource, and/or the Victim Witness Assistance Program at JBSA military
                 legal offices.
                 4.10.1.3.3. Refer to SAMMC Infectious Disease Clinic 210-916-5554 for
                 Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) counseling and testing. A baseline
                 HIV test is optional, except for active duty.

   4.11. Consent.

        4.11.1. Required for medical photography if the victim is 16 years of age or older.

        4.11.2. Parental consent is not required for children 15 years of age or younger, prior to
        taking photographs or for proceeding with a medical or investigative evaluation. If a
        child requires protective custody, notify the FAO, who will then make appropriate
        notifications to 59 MDW leadership.

5. Mandatory Reporting Requirements.

   5.1. Child Protective Services (1-800-252-5400) of TDFPS for all cases regarding suspected
   sexual, physical, and/or emotional maltreatment, neglect and/or exploitation involving a child
   (unmarried person who is younger than 18 years of age).

   5.2. Adult Protective Services (1-800-252-5400) for all cases regarding suspected sexual,
   physical, and/or emotional maltreatment, or neglect involving an elder (age 65+) or a
   disabled adult (over the age of age 18).

   5.3. JBSA SARC/VA (671-SARC/671-7272) for any case of non-family, non-intimate
   partner/former intimate partner sexual assault involving an individual over the age of 18.

   5.4. San Antonio Police Department and/or Bexar County Sheriff Department for incidents
   occurring off-base and for all assaults involving weapons or inflicting serious injury.

   5.5. OSI/CID for child maltreatment and/or unrestricted reporting for victims of intimate
   partner maltreatment that:

        5.5.1. Involve active duty personnel.

        5.5.2. Involve family members of active duty.

        5.5.3. Unrestricted reports involving violent assaults (sexual and/or physical).

        5.5.4. Involve sudden, unexpected or suspicious deaths of family members, including
        spouses and children/stepchildren, regardless of whether or not there is an open Family
        Advocacy case.
12                                                         59MDWI40-302 18 OCTOBER 2013

          5.6. Security Forces Law Enforcement Desk for all incidents of child abuse or neglect,
          and unrestricted reports of intimate partner maltreatment or assault.

6. Disclosure or Release of Information Not Requiring Patient Authorization.
   6.1. When a patient is a victim of abuse or neglect, patient consent is required in order to
   release protected health information to government agencies. Providers shall not disclose
   information beyond required CPS and SAPR notifications. Disclosures to CPS and SAPR
   must be logged and/or accounted for. All other requests shall be handled by the Release of
   Health Information Office.

     6.2. Each clinic will maintain a disclosure accounting log with the following information:

          6.2.1. Patient’s name.

          6.2.2. Requester’s name and work address.

          6.2.3. Name and title of individual accomplishing the disclosure.

          6.2.4. Content and purpose of disclosure

          6.2.5. Date of disclosure.

7. Indicators to Identify Possible Victims of:

     7.1. Physical Abuse. The following injuries and conditions are often seen in cases of abuse.
     These warning signals or indicators should be considered in light of explanations provided,
     medical history (especially if inconsistent) and the developmental level and age of the patient
     engaged in activities that might have caused the injury.

          7.1.1. Bruises and welts.

          7.1.2. Burns.

          7.1.3. Lacerations and abrasions.

          7.1.4. Skeletal injuries.

          7.1.5. Head injuries.

          7.1.6. Internal injuries.

     7.2. Sexual Abuse.

          7.2.1. Venereal disease.

          7.2.2. Pain or itching in genital area.
59MDWI40-302 18 OCTOBER 2013                                                                   13



       7.2.3. Painful urination.

       7.2.4. Poor sphincter tone.
       7.2.5. Vaginal or penile bleeding or lacerations.

       7.2.6. History of being “touched” without penile penetration.

  7.3. Neglect.

       7.3.1. Lack of supervision.

       7.3.2. Educational neglect.

       7.3.3. Medical neglect.

       7.3.4. Deprivation of necessities.

       7.3.5. Abandonment.

  7.4. Behavioral Signs of Intimate Partner Violence. The patient can exhibit a variety of
  responses to the stress of abuse.

       7.4.1. Appear frightened, ashamed, evasive or embarrassed.

       7.4.2. Hesitant in providing information about the injury.

       7.4.3. Appear overly frightened, disoriented or depressed over a minor injury or
       minimizes the importance of a significant injury.

       7.4.4. Delayed report of injury.

       7.4.5. Overly accepting of painful procedures.

       7.4.6. Cry excessively and/or inconsolably.

       7.4.7. Seek constant reassurance; have poor self-concept.

       7.4.8. Manipulative or overanxious to please.

       7.4.9. Habit disorders (sucking, biting, and rocking).

       7.4.10. Evasive or changes account of cause of injury.

       7.4.11. Reported cause of injury is not consistent with the nature and/or severity of
       injuries.
14             59MDWI40-302 18 OCTOBER 2013




     NICOLA A. CHOATE, Colonel, MC, FS
     Chief of the Medical Staff
59MDWI40-302 18 OCTOBER 2013                                                              15


                                        Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFPD 40-3, Family Advocacy Program, 6 December 2011

AFI 40-301, Family Advocacy Program, 30 November 2009

AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, 20 January 2012

Air Force Family Advocacy Program Standards, 30 November 2009

AFI 36-6001, Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) Program, 29 September 2008

DoDD 6400.1, Family Advocacy Program, 23 August 2004

DoDI 6400.06, Domestic Abuse Involving Department of Defense Military and Certain Affiliated
Personnel, 21 August 2007

Public Law 104-191, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996

59MDWI 44-121, Treatment of Minors, 2 December 2010

59MDWI 44-133, Plan for the Provision of Patient Care, 18 October 2013

Texas Family Code, Chapter 261: Investigation of Report of Child Abuse or Neglect, 1
September 2005

Adopted Form

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations

ADAPT—Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevent and Treatment Program

AFMOA—Air Force Medical Operating Agency

AFAO—Alternate FAO

CID—Criminal Investigation Department

CPS—Child Protective Services
16                                                         59MDWI40-302 18 OCTOBER 2013

CSMRT—Child Sexual Maltreatment Response Team

DAVA—Domestic Assault Victim Advocate

DOB—Date of Birth

DoD—Department of Defense

FAO—Family Advocacy Officer

HIV—Human Immunodeficiency Virus

HRVRT—High Risk for Violence Response Team

IAW—In Accordance With

JBSA—Joint Base San Antonio

MDW—Medical Wing

MDWI—Medical Wing Instruction

NCIS—Naval Criminal Investigative Service

OSI—Office of Special Investigations

SAMMC—San Antonio Military Medical Center

SAFE—Sexual Assault Forensic Examination

SANE—Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner

SAPR—Sexual Assault Prevention & Response

SARC—Sexual Assault Response Coordinator

SSN—Social Security Number

TDFPS—Texas Department of Family and Protective Services

UCC—Urgent Care Clinic

Terms

Alleged Offender—Any person suspected of causing maltreatment to a child while in a
caretaker role or suspected of causing a current or former intimate partner of the opposite or
59MDWI40-302 18 OCTOBER 2013                                                                        17

same sex, or whose act, or failure to act, substantially impaired the health or well-being of the
victim.

Child—An unmarried person under the age of 18 who is eligible for care through a DoD medical
treatment facility and for whom a parent, guardian, foster parent, employee of a residential
facility, or any staff person providing out-of-home care is legally responsible. The term “child”
means a biological child, adopted child, stepchild, foster child or ward. The term also includes
an individual of any age who is incapable of self-support because of a mental and/or physical
incapacity/disability and is authorized care in a military treatment facility.

Child Abuse—Encompasses physical abuse, psychological and/or emotional abuse, sexual
abuse, neglect or exploitation of an unmarried person who is younger than 18 years of age.

Domestic Abuse—Domestic violence or a pattern of behavior resulting in emotional/
psychological abuse, economic control, neglect, exploitation and/or interference with personal
liberty that is directed towards a current or former intimate partner of the opposite sex.

Domestic Violence—An offense under the United States Code, the Uniform Code of Military
Justice or State law, that involves either the use or threatened use of force and/or violence against
a current or former intimate partner or a violation of a lawful order issued for the protection of
said intimate partner.

Elder Abuse (Age 65+)—Willful infliction of injury, unreasonable confinement, intimidation,
neglect, exploitation or cruel punishment with resulting physical harm, pain or mental anguish
and/or willful deprivation by caregiver of goods or services that are necessary to avoid physical
harm, mental anguish or mental illness.

Exploitation—Taking advantage of another individual for one’s own advantage and/or benefit.

HQ Family Advocacy Program (Family Advocacy) Standards—Specific guidance provided
by HQ AFMOA/SGHW to provide detailed directions for the implementation, management and
operation of the Family Advocacy Program within the USAF.

Maltreatment—A general term encompassing child and spouse/intimate partner abuse, neglect
and/or exploitation.

Restricted Reporting of Sexual Assault— Allows an adult victim of sexual assault (by
someone other than a current or former intimate partner), who is eligible to receive military
medical treatment, the option to disclose the details of his/her assault on a confidential basis to
specifically identified individuals and to receive medical treatment and counseling without
triggering the official investigative process. Victims who are sexually assaulted and desire
restricted reporting under this policy should report the assault to the Sexual Assault Response
Coordinator (SARC) or a healthcare provider. Consistent with current policy, victims may also
report the assault to a chaplain.
18                                                         59MDWI40-302 18 OCTOBER 2013

Restricted Reporting for Incidents of Domestic Abuse—Allows an adult victim of domestic
abuse who is eligible to receive military medical treatment AND who is not in imminent danger,
the option of reporting an incident of domestic abuse to specified individuals, without initiating
the investigative process or notification to the victim’s or alleged offender’s commander.
Restricted reporting provides a victim of domestic abuse access to medical care and/or victim
advocacy services. Both active duty and adult family members who are victims of domestic
violence are eligible for restricted reporting. Restricted reporting is only an option if the
imminent harm exception does not apply.

Treatment—Direct services to families identified as experiencing maltreatment. Also called
"tertiary prevention."

Unrestricted Reporting for Active Duty Victims of Sexual Assault—Allows unrestricted
reporting by of an adult victim of sexual assault by someone other than a current or former
intimate partner of the opposite sex. Unrestricted reporting allows a sexual assault victim who to
seek care and initiate the investigative process. An active duty victim of sexual assault who
would like to initiate an official investigation of his/her allegations should use current reporting
channels, including the active duty member’s chain of command, civilian and/or military law
enforcement, OSI or the Sexual Assault Response Coordinator.

Unrestricted Reporting for Incidents of Domestic Abuse—Allows an adult victim of domestic
abuse, who is eligible to receive military medical treatment, the option of receiving services and
initiating the investigative process. An adult victim of domestic abuse who would like to initiate
an official investigation of his/her allegations should use current reporting channels, including
the alleged victim’s and/or alleged offender’s chain of command, civilian/military law
enforcement and/or OSI.
