BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 44-124
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                                   21 JUNE 2013

                                                                                          Medical

                                                                         PAIN MANAGEMENT



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 59 SGC/SG01M                                                       Certified by: 59 SGC/CC
                                                                        (Lt Col Brenda I. Waters)
Supersedes:    59MDWI 44-124,                                                           Pages: 10
               20 November 2012


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 44-1, Medical Operations. This medical
wing instruction provides guidance on activities relative to pain management. It outlines
responsibilities and guidance regarding the functional assessment, reassessment, and
management of all patients with regard to pain and implements Accreditation Association for
Ambulatory Healthcare standards. The intent of this Medical Wing Instruction (MDWI) is to
provide a centralized point of reference for all disciplines concerned. This instruction applies to
all personnel assigned, attached, or under contract to the 59th Medical Wing (MDW). This
instruction does not apply to personnel working at the 359th Medical Group-JBSA-Randolph or
959th Medical Group-San Antonio Military Medical Center. This instruction does not apply to
the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve. This instruction may require the collection and
maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by Title 10, United
States Code, Section 8013. Privacy Act System of Record F044 AF SG D, Automated
Medical/Dental Record System, and F044 AF SG E, Medical Record System, apply. Collected
information is “For Official Use Only.” Request to release Privacy Act information to persons or
agencies outside the DoD must be in accordance with (IAW) AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act
Program, DoD 5400.7, Freedom of Information Act, and DoD 6025.18-R, DoD Health
Information Privacy Regulation. This instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard or
Air Force Reserve. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
OPR listed above using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Requests for waivers must be submitted to the OPR listed above for consideration and approval.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed
 2                                                                 59MDWI44-124 21 JUNE 2013


of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System Records Disposition
Schedule.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include deleted references to inpatient services and updated references.
1. General Information.
     1.1. Pain can significantly impact quality of life through decreased mobility, altered lifestyle,
     and increased anxiety and depression. At Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgery Center
     (WHASC), we acknowledge there are no tests that can accurately measure pain. Pain is
     subjective and the clinician must accept the patient’s report of pain and treat accordingly.
     Proxy pain assessment rating may be used when patients are unable to communicate about
     their pain. Pain management is an important part of care and takes into account personal,
     cultural, spiritual, and ethnic beliefs. WHASC is committed to the recognition of pain
     management as a priority for all patients receiving care in the facility. Patients have the right
     to the best level of pain relief that may be safely provided and subsequently are responsible
     for participation in their pain management plan. Education of the patient and significant
     others is key regarding their roles in managing pain, including the potential limitations and
     side effects of pain treatment. The right to pain management is communicated to patients
     through the patient education handouts entitled “Your Rights as a Patient of the 59th Medical
     Wing” and “A Patient’s Guide to Pain Management”. A copy of these handouts is available
     to all patients and significant others upon request.
2. Patient Assessment/Reassessment.
     2.1. Routine assessment and documentation of pain are critical for effective pain control.
     The frequency of assessment will be tailored to the severity of the pain. The goal is to reduce
     a patient’s pain to a tolerable level. Patients will be assessed for pain as appropriate, during
     the initial assessment period of the clinic visit. A more comprehensive assessment is
     performed by the provider when warranted by the patient’s condition (in accordance with
     pain scale) and before and after pain relief interventions.
     2.2. The assessment of pain includes: the presence of chronic pain, intensity and how it is
     aggravated and relieved; acute pain and intensity; and location. On the initial visit to the
     WHASC Pain Clinic, this information is recorded on 59 MDW Form 3493 Anesthesia Pain
     Clinic Questionnaire and placed in the patient’s outpatient medical record. Elsewhere, initial
     and follow-up assessment of this information is recorded on Standard Form (SF) 600, Health
     Record—Chronological Record of Medical Care, and 59 MDW Form 3493A Pain Clinic
     Summary Sheet (WHASC Pain Clinic only), and placed in the patient’s outpatient medical
     record. Dental providers will document pain for dental patients on the SF 603, Medical
     Record-Dental, in the dental treatment record.
     2.3. Pain may be assessed by using pain scales such as the 11-point numerical rating scale
     (0-10), the Defense and Veterans Pain Rating Scale (DVPRS), or Wong Baker Faces Pain
     Rating Scale, depending on the age and cognitive status of the patient. When pain is
     identified, a treatment plan is initiated to meet the needs of the patient. Treatment plans
59MDWI44-124 21 JUNE 2013                                                                       3


   should include goals for relieving or reducing pain, and goals related to function, activities
   and quality of life.
   2.4. Reassessment of pain occurs after each attempted pain relief intervention and each
   subsequent visit to the outpatient clinics or patient contact via the telephone.
3. Education and Training.
   3.1. The following clinical personnel will receive initial unit-specific pain assessment and
   management education, to include barriers to reporting pain and the use of analgesics:
   providers, nurses, pharmacists, medical technicians, pharmacy technicians, dental
   technicians, cardiopulmonary technicians, laboratory technicians, radiology technicians,
   physical and occupational therapy technicians, and mental health technicians.
4. Responsibilities.
   4.1. Providers.
       4.1.1. As the disease/injury indicates, completes a pain assessment as part of the initial
       history and physical using the appropriate pain assessment tool (Attachments 2, 3, and
       4). The patient’s developmental age, chronological age, cognitive abilities, and
       emotional status should always be considered when choosing an assessment method and
       tool. Dental providers will assess and document pain management according to the Air
       Force Medical Service Dental Clinical Practice Guidelines.
       4.1.2. Document in progress notes that pain issues have been addressed and reassessed.
       4.1.3. When appropriate, will initiate interventions, such as analgesia or sedation, to
       prevent procedural pain.
       4.1.4. Consults specialty service as indicated for evaluation and procedure to relieve
       pain.
       4.1.5. Orders analgesics to control pain, and adjusts both pharmacological/non-
       pharmacological regimens based on patient’s response; documents such response to each
       intervention in the medical record. The lowest possible dose of medication should be
       given to relieve pain.
       4.1.6. Performs and orders appropriate laboratory and imaging studies to investigate
       origins of pain, as indicated.
       4.1.7. Keeps patient at the facility until pain is controlled by appropriate treatment and
       medication and is at a tolerable level for the patient. If unable to achieve the above, the
       provider should consider consulting the on-call Anesthesia provider or transferring to the
       inpatient service at the San Antonio Military Medical Center.
       4.1.8. Addresses a discharge plan for pain management when appropriate.
   4.2. Nurses [Registered Nurses (RN) and Licensed Practical Nurses (LPN)].
       4.2.1. Assesses and documents pain as part of the patient assessment in the outpatient
       arena and or as part of the nursing history on arrival for ambulatory surgery or 23-hour
       admission. The patient’s developmental age, chronological age, cognitive abilities, and
       emotional status will be considered in the choice of assessment methods and tools. Uses
       an appropriate pain assessment tool (Attachments 2, 3, or 4 ) to document assessment.
 4                                                             59MDWI44-124 21 JUNE 2013


        4.2.2. Notifies provider upon patient report of pain, and documents date/time and name
        of provider notified.
        4.2.3. Administers medications as ordered; chooses most effective medication, dose,
        route depending on patient assessment and physician’s orders. Unless contraindicated,
        initiates non-pharmacological adjunct therapies such as heat and cold, positioning,
        immobilization, relaxation, music, and distraction.
        4.2.4. Evaluates effectiveness of pain treatment and shall be documented within an
        appropriate interval of time IAW 59 MDWI 44-115, Pharmacy and Medication
        Management. It is not necessary to document post-intervention reassessment in a
        concurrent note. For example, the caregiver may document the reassessment of a
        successful pain intervention upon discharge. The staff may document “no pain reported,”
        or “patient sleeping comfortably following pain medication” rather than waking the
        patient to obtain a pain scale. Notifies the provider when the patient’s pain goal is not
        met and the current treatment regimen has been exhausted.
        4.2.5. Conducts and documents patient and family teaching to all patients, including a
        verbal and written commitment to pain management as a priority. Documents patient and
        family understanding and ability to demonstrate the use of an appropriate pain assessment
        tool, and ability to define a comfort goal for pain.
        4.2.6. Educates patient and family regarding the pain management plan and options if the
        plan is ineffective.
        4.2.7. Completes and documents discharge teaching, to include medication education;
        instruct patients to contact their provider for options if the pain management is
        ineffective.
        4.2.8. Reassess all patients for pain and documents the pain assessment on a frequent,
        but reasonable basis as patient’s condition warrants. Pain will be documented where it is
        readily visible to the treatment team.
     4.3. Medical Technicians.
        4.3.1. Notifies LPN/RN upon patient’s report of pain, and documents pain score, date,
        and time.      Assists in monitoring patients for over-sedation and discomfort.
        Communicates pertinent information to the registered nurse and/or provider.
        4.3.2. Administers medications as ordered in accordance with training certification, job
        description, and unit-specific medication administration list. Consults RN/LPN as
        appropriate. Unless contraindicated, initiates non-pharmacological therapies such as heat
        and cold, positioning, immobilization, relaxation, music, and distraction.
        4.3.3. Evaluates effectiveness of pain treatment and medication which shall be
        documented within an appropriate interval of time IAW 59 MDWI 44-115. It is not
        necessary to document post-intervention reassessment in a concurrent note. For example,
        the caregiver may document the reassessment of a successful pain intervention at the time
        of discharge. The staff may document “no pain reported,” or “patient sleeping
        comfortably following pain medication” rather than waking the patient to obtain a pain
        scale. Notifies RN/LPN when the patient’s pain goal is not met.
5. Oversight.
59MDWI44-124 21 JUNE 2013                                                             5


  5.1. Pain assessment and results of treatment will be evaluated by the Medical Records
  Committee. Results will be forwarded through the group commanders.
  5.2. The Executive Committee of the Medical Staff will provide oversight of pain
  management.




                                       HELEN M. HOOTSMANS, Colonel, USAF, MC,
                                       FS
                                       Chief of the Medical Staff
 6                                                              59MDWI44-124 21 JUNE 2013


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations, 1 September 1999
59 MDWI 44-115, Pharmacy and Medication Management, 17 November 2011
Prescribed Forms
59 MDW Form 3493 Anesthesia Pain Clinic Questionnaire
59 MDW Form 3493A Pain Clinic Summary Sheet
Adopted Forms
SF Form 600, Health Record--Chronological Record of Medical Care
SF 603, Medical Record-Dental
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
IAW—In Accordance With
LPN—Licensed Practical Nurses
MDW—Medical Wing
MDWI—Medical Wing Instruction
RN—Registered Nurses
SF—Standard Form
WHASC—Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgery Center

Terms
Acute Pain—A temporary pain state associated with a noxious event. Acute pain serves a
definite biological function by warning of physical injury or disease, and even protecting tissue
from further damage. It is generally proportional to the degree of tissue injury and is expected to
diminish with healing and time.
Chronic Pain—Pain persisting for longer then 6 months is considered chronic. Chronic pain
falls into two broad categories. Chronic pain associated with malignancy, and chronic
nonmalignant pain. Patients with the latter classification form a heterogeneous group with a
variety of illnesses.
Nociception—The process by which specialized receptors (nociceptors) with preferential
sensitivity to noxious stimuli are excited by such stimuli and initiate a chain of afferent nerve
impulses.
Noxious Stimulus—A thermal, chemical, or mechanical stimulus that can damage normal
tissues.
59MDWI44-124 21 JUNE 2013                                                                     7


Pain—An unpleasant sensory and emotional experience associated with actual or potential tissue
damage or described in terms of such damage. Pain is always subjective. Activity induced in
the nociceptors or nociceptive pathways is not pain, which is always a psychological state, even
though we may appreciate that pain most often has a proximate physical cause.
Suffering—The emotional and behavioral outflow emitted by an individual in pain. Such
outflow may have a significant impact on sleep, mood, sexual, vocational, and avocational
functioning and thus, on overall quality of life.
 8                                                     59MDWI44-124 21 JUNE 2013


                                     Attachment 2
                 DEFENSE AND VETERANS PAIN RATING SCALE

Ages 7 Years to Adult

Figure A2.1. Defense and Veterans Pain Rating Scale.
59MDWI44-124 21 JUNE 2013                                                                      9


                                         Attachment 3
                                       FLACC SCALE

A3.1. Ages 2 Months to 7 Years. This is a behavior scale that has been tested with children age
2 months to 7 years. Each of the five categories (Faces, Legs, Activity, Cry, Consolability) is
scored from 0-2 and the scores are added to get a total from 0-10. Behavioral pain scores need to
be considered within the context of the child's psychological status, anxiety and other
environment factors.

Figure A3.1. FLACC Scale.
                       0                      1                           2
                No particular      Occasional grimace or      Frequent to constant
Face
                expression or        frown, withdrawn         frown, clenched jaw,
                    smile               disinterested             quivering chin
                       0                                                  2
                                              1
Legs           Normal position                               Kicking, or legs drawn
                                   Uneasy, restless, tense
                  or relaxed                                             up
                       0
                                              1                           2
                Lying quietly,
Activity                        Squirming, shifting back and     Arched, rigid, or
               normal position,
                                         forth, tense                 jerking
                moves easily
                                                                          2
                       0                      1
                                                                 Crying steadily,
Cry                No cry           Moans or whimpers,
                                                                 screams or sobs,
              (awake or asleep)    occasional complaint
                                                               frequent complaints
                                              1
                                                                          2
                       0          Reassured by occasional
Consolability                                                Difficult to console or
               Content, relaxed    touching, hugging or
                                                                     comfort
                                  "talking to, distractible
 10                                                             59MDWI44-124 21 JUNE 2013


                                         Attachment 4
DOCUMENTATION REFLECTING PAIN ASSESSMENT WILL BE WRITTEN USING
  THE FOLLOWING TERMINOLOGY FOR AGES NEWBORN TO 2 MONTHS.

A4.1. *Medicated: Infant has been medicated for pain or is pharmacologically paralyzed.
A4.2. Quiet Sleep: Infant is sleeping with eyes closed. Vital signs are baseline with little to no
fluctuation. There is no spontaneous body movement.
A4.3. Drowsy: Infant is falling asleep or waking up from sleep. Eyes occasionally open and
there is some body movement. Very little changes are made in facial expression and vital signs
are within baseline.
A4.4. Awake/Alert: Infant has eyes open, looks about or engages in eye-to-eye contact with
caregiver. Many movements such as hand-to-mouth and foot movements are made. Infant may
briefly vocalize but is not crying. There is no facial grimace. Vital signs are somewhat erratic
but within normal limits. This is the optimal state for parental interaction.
A4.5. Fussy/Irritable: Infant’s movements are erratic and jerky. Vital signs vary greatly and
heart rate is commonly elevated. More critical infants may demonstrate desaturations during this
state requiring intervention by caregiver. This state is common immediately prior to feeding,
when the infant’s diaper is soiled, when infant is in mild/moderate pain, during hypoxia, or when
older infants may be “bored”.
A4.6. Crying: Infant is actively vocalizing/crying. Heart rate is significantly elevated (up to
200 or more bpm). May be due to pain (i.e., post circumcision), hunger, soiled diaper, or
wanting to be held. Critical infants often cannot sustain normal vital signs (significant
desaturation). Intervention is required by caregiver. Infant usually recovers with simple
intervention (feeding, changing, repositioning, cuddling).
A4.7. Inconsolable. Infant is crying vigorously without signs of recovery despite non-
pharmacological OR pharmacological intervention. Continuous intervention by caregiver and
immediate physician notification is required.
* If “medicated” is used it should be in combination with one of the terms 2-7. An infant that is
medicated may not necessarily be in “quiet sleep.”
