BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 44-139
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                                6 MARCH 2014

                                                                                        Medical

                                                            ANTICOAGULATION THERAPY
                                                               MANAGEMENT PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 59 MDSP/SG07C                                                    Certified by: 59 MDSP/CC
                                                                     (Lt Col Carol M. Copeland)
                                                                                        Pages: 6
Supersedes:   59MDWI 44-139, 7 August
              2010


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 44-1, Medical Operations and Joint
Commission National Patient Safety Goal 03.05.01. The goal of this instruction is to reduce the
likelihood of patient harm associated with the use of anticoagulation therapy. This instruction
applies to health care staff assigned, attached, contracted to or volunteering who will be
prescribing, dispensing, administering, and monitoring anticoagulant therapy at Wilford Hall
Ambulatory Surgical Center (WHASC). This instruction does not apply to Air National Guard
or Air Force Reserve. This publication requires the collection and or maintenance of information
protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 55, Medical and Dental Care, and
E.O. 9397 (SSN). The applicable SORN F044 AF SG D and Automated Medical/Dental Record
System are available at: http://dpclo.defense.gov/privacy/SORNs/SORNs.htm.                  Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. The
authority to waive requirements is the publication approval authority. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
(IAW) Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force
Records Information Management System Records Disposition Schedule. The use of the name
or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this
publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                             59MDWI44-139 6 MARCH 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: removal of infusion administration information for heparin; information for hospital
administration of heparin; inpatient information for anticoagulation therapy; surgical bleeding
risk for anticoagulation patients; name of the clinic monitoring warfarin to Anticoagulation
Clinic; addition of required documentation in Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology
Application (AHLTA); deletion of forms used for heparin nomograms; and changes to pre-
discharge checklists for anticoagulation patients.
1. Overview.
     1.1. This document defines the WHASC anticoagulation management program, which is
     designed to provide safe, individualized, and appropriate anticoagulation therapy
     management within WHASC. It outlines guidance for starting warfarin therapy, referral to
     the Anticoagulation Clinic (which is a key component of the anticoagulation management
     program), and professional staff education requirement.
2. Initiation of Anticoagulation.
     2.1. Administration. Prior to initiating anticoagulation therapy, providers will review the
     patient’s history for precautions/contraindications to anticoagulation therapy such as history
     of Heparin Induced Thrombocytopenia, neuroaxial procedures (epidural/intrathecal/spinal),
     high risk of bleeding, impaired renal and/or hepatic function.
     2.2. Monitoring. All patients newly prescribed an anticoagulation medication will be
     monitored by the prescribing provider until the entered referral consult is accepted by an
     anticoagulation clinic and the patient has completed the clinic education on anticoagulation.
     2.3. When anticoagulation is initiated, the following information and measurements will be
     recorded by the provider:
        2.3.1. Pertinent medical history, medication list, exam, and drug allergies.
        2.3.2. Diagnosis and expected duration of therapy.
        2.3.3. The following laboratory tests will be drawn on initiation of therapy:
            2.3.3.1. Activated Partial Thromboplastin Time (aPTT), Prothrombin Time, and
            International Normalized Ratio (INR).
            2.3.3.2. Complete Blood Count.
            2.3.3.3. Liver Function Panel.
            2.3.3.4. Renal Function Panel.
            2.3.3.5. Serum Human Chorionic Gonadotropin (for all females up to 50 years old,
            unless surgically menopausal).
     2.4. Warfarin (Coumadin®). Although there are several types of anticoagulation therapy,
     warfarin is the commonly prescribed oral anticoagulant medication. When warfarin is
     initiated, recommended dosing is as follows:
        2.4.1. 5mg po (taken orally) daily (consider 2.5mg dose if patient’s age is > 75 y/o,
        exhibits poor nutritional status, or advanced liver disease).
59MDWI44-139 6 MARCH 2014                                                                      3


      2.4.2. Loading doses are not recommended.
      2.4.3. Patient Education. The provider that initiates anticoagulation therapy will ensure
      that the patient and family/caregiver understand proper dosing, signs of harmful side
      effects, importance of compliance and follow-up, drug-drug/drug-food interactions, and
      indications to report to an emergency department. The 59th Medical Wing (MDW) Form
      138, Instructions for Anticoagulation Patients, can be used to document this education
      and a copy of this (or other equivalent patient handouts) instruction sheet will be
      provided to the patient/caregiver.
3. The Anticoagulation Clinic.
   3.1. The Anticoagulation Clinic (i.e. the “Coumadin Clinic”) is an ancillary service provided
   to support the primary provider with monitoring and adjusting the dose of anticoagulant
   therapies. Most notably, monitoring and adjustment of Warfarin is performed (although the
   Anticoagulation Clinic can accept referrals for patients on other anticoagulation therapies on
   a case-by-case basis). It is staffed and operated by WHASC Cardiology Clinic pharmacy and
   nursing staff under the direction of a medical director. It does not assume responsibility for
   the management of referred patients, but provides monitoring and dosing of anticoagulant
   therapy. Therapeutic decisions with regard to starting and/or stopping therapy are the
   responsibility of the consulting and/or primary care providers managing the patient’s
   diagnoses. Ideally, the consulting and/or primary care providers should notify the
   Anticoagulation Clinic upon discontinuation of warfarin to ensure patient compliance.
   3.2. Referral to the Anticoagulation Clinic. Patients being prescribed Warfarin should be
   referred to the Anticoagulation Clinic to facilitate monitoring and dose adjustment within 72
   hours of starting the medication (unless it was started during a hospitalization in which case
   the patient should be enrolled in the Anticoagulation Clinic within 72 hours of discharge
   from a hospital). Until the patient is accepted in the Anticoagulation Clinic, dosing and
   monitoring of anticoagulant medicine are the responsibility of the prescribing/referring
   provider.
   3.3. Desirable information to be included on the Anticoagulation Clinic consultation is listed
   below. Lack of this information in a consult may delay enrollment in the clinic or cause
   unnecessary delays.
      3.3.1. Date of Referral.
      3.3.2. Clinic Identifier.
      3.3.3. Referring Medical Doctor’s name, pager, and contact number.
      3.3.4. Primary Care Manager or Primary Physician, pager or contact number.
      3.3.5. Patient Age.
      3.3.6. Diagnosis(es) for anticoagulation.
      3.3.7. Target INR Range.
      3.3.8. Expected Duration of Therapy.
      3.3.9. Current prescription for anticoagulation medication.
      3.3.10. Provider’s signature or electronic signature.
 4                                                           59MDWI44-139 6 MARCH 2014


     3.4. 59 MDW Form 3364, Anticoagulant Record, is used by the Anticoagulation Clinic to
     annotate the patient’s Warfarin therapy. 59 MDW Form 3364 provides written confirmation
     of each patient's therapy from start to completion, disenrollment or discontinuation.
        3.4.1. Each patient assigned to the Anticoagulation Clinic has his or her encounter
        documented on the 59 MDW Form 3364 as well as in AHLTA. The 59 MDW Form
        3364 provides the Anticoagulation Clinic providers with all patient anticoagulation-
        related information for the past seven visits in one form and assists with ensuring safe
        and effective Warfarin therapy monitoring.
        3.4.2. 59 MDW Form 3364s will be entered in the patient’s medical record as they are
        completed.
4. Education. The professional staff will receive education at least annually on anticoagulation
safety, anticoagulation policies and procedures, and risk management.




                                            NICOLA A. CHOATE, Colonel, USAF, MC
                                            Chief of the Medical Staff
59MDWI44-139 6 MARCH 2014                                                                          5


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations, 1 September 1999
Joint Commission, National Patient Safety Goals, Current Edition
American College of Chest Physicians, Antithrombotic Therapy and Prevention of Thrombosis,
Current Edition
Prescribed Forms
59 MDW Form 138, Instructions for Anticoagulation Patients
59 MDW Form 3364, Anticoagulant Record
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AHLTA—Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application
aPTT—Activated Partial Thromboplastin Time
IAW—In Accordance With
INR—International Normalized Ratio
MDW—Medical Wing
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
WHASC—Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center

Terms
Antithrombotic Agents—Includes warfarin, heparin(s), Factor Xa inhibitors, direct thrombin
inhibitors, thrombolytics, and glycoprotein IIb-IIIa inhibitors
Caregiver—A family member, friend, or other person assisting or monitoring the patient’s
adherence to instructions in the outpatient setting.
Complication—Any complication secondary to anticoagulation therapy that requires
intervention, hospitalization, or results in death. Major bleeding includes fatal or life-threatening
bleeds (e.g., intracranial or retroperitoneal) or bleeding with a defined drop in hemoglobin
leading to transfusions of a specified number of units of blood, and/or leading to hospitalization.
Minor bleeding includes reported bleeding that does not require any additional testing, referrals,
or visits.
Critical Lab Values— An International Normalized Ratio (INR) greater than 4 or less than 1.5
or an aPTT >200 seconds
 6                                                           59MDWI44-139 6 MARCH 2014


Harm—An unintended physical injury resulting from or contributed to by medical care that
requires additional monitoring, treatment, or hospitalization, or results in death.
Primary Provider—The provider who is responsible for long term follow-up for complications
secondary to anticoagulation therapy (post-hospitalization follow-up), prescribing warfarin
(Coumadin®) and addressing any non-warfarin related issues that patients report at their
Anticoagulation Clinic appointments. The default provider for this position is the primary care
manager, but in special cases a subspecialty provider may service in this role (e.g., cardiology,
hematology/oncology, vascular).
Referring Provider—The provider who prescribes anticoagulation therapy and refers the patient
to the Anticoagulation Clinic.
