BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                     59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 51-302
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                              18 OCTOBER 2013

                                                                                              Law

                                          INFORMED CONSENT AND REFUSAL OF CARE

           COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
______________________________________________________________________________

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
______________________________________________________________________________

OPR: AFLOA/JACC-MLFSC                                                Certified by: 59 CPSG/CC
                                                                    (Colonel Markus P. Gmehlin)

Supersedes: 59 MDWI 51-302, 12 March 2010                             Pages: 19
______________________________________________________________________________

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 51-3, Civil Litigation. This instruction
establishes 59th Medical Wing (MDW) policy and procedure regarding informed consent. It
applies to all personnel assigned, attached, or under contract to the 59 MDW, except for
personnel working at the San Antonio Military Medical Center (SAMMC). This instruction does
not apply to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve. Note: This instruction requires the
collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by
Title 10, United States Code, Section 8013. Privacy Act Systems of Records F044 AF SG D,
Automated Medical/Dental Record System, and F044 AF SG E, Medical Record System, apply.
Collected information is “For Official Use Only.” Requests to release Privacy Act information
to persons or agencies outside the DoD must be IAW AFI 33-332, Privacy Act and Civil
Liberities Program, DoD 5400.7, Freedom of Information Act Program, and DoD 6025.18-R,
DoD Health Information Privacy Regulation. Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. The authority to waive requirements is the
publication approval authority. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System Records
Disposition Schedule.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: added leaving against medical advice; updated facility name; updated Texas informed
2                                                         59MDWI51-302 18 OCTOBER 2013

consent requirements for anesthesia and perioperative pain management (analgesia); clarified
state case law prohibiting surrogate consent for sterilization.

1. Air Force Policy on Informed Consent. As prescribed by Texas State Law and Air Force
Instruction (AFI) 44-102 Medical Care Management, the treating healthcare provider (this
includes a resident or fellow with the oversight of the attending provider) is responsible for
obtaining and documenting informed consent. “Treating healthcare provider” is defined as the
provider with primary responsibility for the procedure or healthcare service to which the patient
is consenting. This includes a written disclosure, fully completed consent form, and an entry in
the patient’s medical or dental records [Standard Form (SF) 509, Medical Record – Progress
Notes, SF 600, Health Record – Chronological Record of Medical Care, or SF 603,
Chronological Record of Dental Care and/or SF 603A Chronological Record of Dental Care-
Continuation], or electronic equivalent medical record. In this written disclosure, the provider
responsible for the procedure or treatment documents a discussion regarding the patient’s
relevant diagnoses, nature and purpose of the proposed procedure, and its risks, benefits, and
alternative courses of treatment or non-treatment, including their attendant risks and benefits.
The note should indicate the patient understood the discussion. If desired, the practitioner may
have the patient sign the medical record in acknowledgement of this discussion.

2. Procedures Requiring the Use of a Written Consent Form. Air Force policy allows each
military treatment facility (MTF) to determine which procedures do and do not require
documentation of informed consent in light of standard medical practice and relevant state laws.
This is necessary because liability in medical malpractice cases under the Federal Tort Claims
Act is determined IAW the substantive law of the state where the alleged negligence occurred.
Note: This instruction does not apply to consent to withhold or withdraw life-sustaining
treatment from patients with terminal or irreversible conditions. 59th Medical Wing Instruction
(MDWI) 44-150, Advance Directives and End-of-Life, governs those conditions.

     2.1. Texas Statutory Lists. Pursuant to state statutory authority (TEX. CIV. PRAC. & REM.
     CODE § 74.102), the Texas Medical Disclosure Panel publishes and updates a list of
     procedures requiring written informed consent, as well as the specific risks which must be
     disclosed. It is codified in 25 TEX. ADMIN. CODE § 601.2, Procedures Requiring Full
     Disclosure of Specific Risks and Hazards--List A. If practitioners comply, there is a
     presumption that the legal duty to provide informed consent has been satisfied. If they fail
     to comply, there is a presumption that there has been a “negligent failure to conform to the
     duty” to provide proper informed consent. The panel has also published a list of
     procedures not requiring the use of a written informed consent form, available at 25 TEX.
     ADMIN. CODE § 601.3, Procedures Requiring No Disclosure of Specific Risks and Hazards-
     -List B. Caveat: Procedures not included on either list continue to be governed by standard
     medical practice; see paragraph 2.3 of this instruction. Current versions of List A and List
     B can be accessed at the Medical Law Consultant section of the 59 MDW SharePoint site
     at: https://sammc-
     eis.lackland.af.mil:8232/medical_law_consultant/Shared%20Documents/Forms/AllItems.a
     spx?RootFolder=https%3a%2f%2fsammc%2deis%2elackland%2eaf%2emil%3a8232%2f
     medical%5flaw%5fconsultant%2fShared%20Documents%2fTexas%20Medical%20Disclo
59MDWI51-302 18 OCTOBER 2013                                                             3

 sure%20Panel%20Lists&FolderCTID=0x012000B95B0E78CF55A84ABE6239C63CC9F
 D3B

    2.1.1. Medical Law Consultant (MLC) Responsibilities. The MLC will review 25
    TEX. ADMIN. CODE §§ 601.2-601.3, List A and List B procedures, on a bi-annual basis
    and upload the most recent versions to the 59 MDW Intranet, as needed. Additionally,
    the MLC will provide 59 MDW/SGH a list of any changes to List A and List B. The
    59 MDW/SGH will then provide any changes in List A and List B to the
    clinics/sections which may be affected by the changes.

 2.2. Forms to be used:

    2.2.1. To obtain a patient’s informed consent before administering certain types of
    anesthesia or perioperative pain management (analgesia), use 59 MDW Form 164,
    Disclosure and Consent – Anesthesia and/or Perioperative Pain Management
    (Analgesia). This applies to general, epidural, spinal, and regional block anesthesia, as
    well as monitored anesthesia care (conscious sedation) and equivalent forms of
    analgesia. It does not apply to local or other forms of regional anesthesia or analgesia.

    2.2.2. For List A procedures other than the types of anesthesia and perioperative
    analgesia that require the use of 59 MDW Form 164, use 59 MDW Form 1202,
    Disclosure and Consent for Medical and Surgical Procedures. Sections may create
    overprints on 59 MDW Form 1202 for List A procedures. Overprints must be reviewed
    by the 59 MDW Forms Manager prior to use. Ensure that all the specific risks which
    must be disclosed per List A are included in the overprint. Alternatively, a section may
    attach List A to 59 MDW Form 1202, circling the proposed procedure and associated
    risks and having the patient sign and date it as well.

    2.2.3. Guide to Alternatives to Blood Product Administration (Attachment 3).

 2.3. Risks Which Must Be Disclosed. List A establishes minimum levels of disclosure
 required to ensure statutory protection. Disclosures must be discussed with the patient as
 part of the informed consent briefing for any List A procedure and listed in the applicable
 form: 59 MDW Form 1202 or 59 MDW Form 164. If the medical staff or an individual
 practitioner determines that more risks should be disclosed than what the state requires for
 List A procedures, or the use of the informed consent form is appropriate for a procedure
 on List B, or for a procedure not included on either list, they may do so. When providing
 informed consent on a non-List A procedure, the provider should give the patient the
 information, including the risks, benefits, and alternatives to the treatment, which would
 allow a reasonable person to make a rational decision.

 2.4. Research Consents. Consent forms to document consent for participation of human
 subjects in research studies are governed by AFI 40-402, Protection of Human Subjects in
 Biomedical and Behavioral Research. The 59 MDW Institutional Review Board must
 approve all consent forms to be used in research on human subjects. Any questions should
 be directed to the 59th Clinical Research Division (SGVU) Director.
4                                                       59MDWI51-302 18 OCTOBER 2013


3. Documenting Informed Consent.

    3.1. Except as otherwise provided for in this instruction, the form used at 59 MDW for all
    medical and surgical procedures requiring a written consent is the 59 MDW Form 1202.
    The OF Form 522, Medical Record Request for Administration of Anesthesia and for
    Performance of Operations and Other Procedures, does not comply with Texas law and
    should not be used.

    3.2. Transfusion of Blood and Blood Components. Transfusion of blood and blood
    components is a List A procedure. Therefore, 59 MDW Form 1202 is also used to
    document consent for the transfusion of blood and blood products. Information on
    statistical risks associated with transfusion of blood and or blood products is available on
    the Laboratory Share Point site, in their Shared Documents, under “Transfusion Reaction.”
    A direct link is here: https://sammc-
    eis.lackland.af.mil:45080/59_LSQ/Shared%20Documents/Transfusion%20Reaction.%20R
    EVISED.%20from%20Lab%20Share%20Point%20Site.%20Revised%2020%20Aug%202
    010%20at%201000%20hrs.docx

    3.3. Storage and Release of Surgical Specimens. Include the following statements on 59
    MDW Form 1202:

       3.3.1. “I understand that any surgical specimens, to include orthopedic hardware and
       prosthetic devices, that are removed from me during the above-named procedure will
       be disposed of after 30 days from removal. I further understand that if I wish to retain
       these items, I must notify the above-named provider at the time of signing this surgical
       consent, and that failure to do so may result in these items being destroyed.”
       3.3.2. “Retain Specimen ______ Destroy Specimen _______ (Pt initial).”

    3.4. Immunizations. Refer to AFJI 48-110, Immunizations and Chemoprophylaxis, for
    consent requirements for administration of vaccines in Investigational New Drug status.

    3.5. Anesthesia. Note that all procedures requiring epidural, general, or spinal anesthesia,
    as well as monitored anesthesia care (conscious sedation) are included on List A.
    However, Texas law requires a separate disclosure and consent form for anesthesia and/or
    perioperative pain management (analgesia), the local version of which is 59 MDW Form
    164.

    3.6. The patient’s attending provider will conduct the informed consent discussion with the
    patient, including explanation of all risks detailed for List A procedures, and other
    procedures the attending provider determines to warrant an informed consent. This
    discussion should include the potential benefits, risks, and side effects of the proposed
    treatment and reasonable alternatives to the patient’s proposed care, treatment, and
    services. The discussion should also encompass the risks related to not receiving the
    proposed care, treatment, and services. The provider should provide all the information
    that a reasonable person would want or need to know in order to make a rational decision.
59MDWI51-302 18 OCTOBER 2013                                                             5

 The provider makes an entry noting the discussion in the health care record for all
 appropriate procedures (including List A procedures).

 3.7. Responsibility for Documenting Informed Consent. Although other providers may
 complete the 59 MDW Form 1202, and obtain the patient’s and witnesses’ signature, the
 patient’s attending provider must counsel the patient, obtain informed consent, and
 document the counseling in the patient’s medical record. Except for limited, minor, routine
 procedures not requiring a physician’s supervision or authorization to carry out, a
 physician’s assistant, medical student or nurse practitioner may not perform the patient
 counseling or obtain the patient’s informed consent. The practitioner performing the
 procedure must ensure proper documentation and completion of any informed consent form
 as well as documenting the proper entry in the patient’s record.

 3.8. Fill in All Blanks. In completing any informed consent form, all blanks must be filled
 in appropriately. Use plain English (lay terms) to describe the patient’s condition and the
 procedure(s) to be performed.

 3.9. Signatures. Informed consent forms must be signed by the patient, by the patient’s
 legal guardian, by another individual appointed to make treatment decisions by the patient
 through a Medical Power of Attorney, or by another person legally authorized to consent
 for the patient (see section 4 below). The forms must be signed by a witness who is not a
 member of the operating team or the patient’s family. The forms must also be signed by
 the attending physician, dentist, or practitioner. A resident or fellow may obtain and sign
 informed consent under the supervision of the attending physician, dentist or other
 provider. The witness signature affirms that the witness observed the patient sign the
 consent form; however, the witness need not be present for the informed consent discussion
 between the patient and the counseling practitioner. If the patient’s status or mental
 condition renders the patient unable to give intelligent informed consent, consent must be
 obtained from the patient’s legal guardian or other person legally authorized to consent for
 the patient (see section 4). If the incompetent patient has a terminal or irreversible
 condition, refer to 59 MDWI 44-150 for procedures used to have treatment decisions made
 by next of kin.

    3.9.1. Consideration of the decisional capacity of the patient to sign the consent is the
    responsibility of the provider obtaining the consent. (See paragraph 8.2.5.)

    3.9.2. If the patient had been medicated prior to signing the consent, the practitioner
    obtaining consent shall consider the effect of the medication on the patient and
    document the tests and results of the tests used to determine the patient’s capacity. If
    the patient’s capacity has been temporarily diminished, the procedure will be postponed
    until the effects of the medication have dissipated, the patient’s capacity restored, and
    informed consent obtained.

 3.10. Include Additional Risks or Information on the 59 MDW Form 1202. For
 procedures where the practitioner desires to document procedures, risks, or alternatives
 more extensively than the space in the 59 MDW Form 1202 permits, the practitioner should
6                                                          59MDWI51-302 18 OCTOBER 2013

     attach an additional page, clearly annotate that the additional information as a continuation
     of the 59 MDW Form 1202, and have the patient sign and date it at the bottom.

4. Surrogate Consent for Adult Incapacitated Patients.

     4.1. An incapacitated patient is one who lacks the ability to communicate a decision,
     understand the illness and prognosis on at least a basic level, understand the nature and
     consequences of treatment options, and/or use a rational thought process. Threshold levels
     of capacity are fluid and thus vary with the individualized risk/benefit ratios encountered.
     Consideration of the decisional capacity of the patient to sign the consent is the
     responsibility of the provider obtaining the consent.

     4.2. Except for the excluded categories of treatment and excluded circumstances listed
     below in paragraph 4.6 and its subparagraphs, a competent adult surrogate, in order of
     priority listed below, can consent to treatment on behalf of an incapacitated adult patient
     using the following rules. If the patient is incapacitated and has no guardian appointed by
     the court and has not designated a decision-maker through a Medical Power of Attorney,
     surrogates in the following order of priority may consent:

        4.2.1. The patient’s spouse;

        4.2.2. An adult child of the patient who has the consent of all other qualified adult
        children of the patient to act as the sole decision maker;

        4.2.3. A majority of the patient’s reasonably available adult children;

        4.2.4. The patient’s parent(s);

        4.2.5. The individual clearly identified by the patient to act for him/her before the
        patient became incapacitated;

        4.2.6. The patient’s nearest living relative; or

        4.2.7. A member of the clergy (contact Medical Law at (210) 292-7808 before using a
        member of the clergy for a surrogate). Note: If the surrogate is also a 59 MDW
        employee, consult with Medical Law prior to obtaining consent.

     4.3. A reasonably diligent inquiry must be made to locate the highest priority surrogate
     before a lower priority surrogate may give consent. The inquiry efforts must be detailed in
     the patient’s medical record.

     4.4. The patient’s attending provider must fully describe the basis of the patient’s
     incapacitation in the medical record, as well as the proposed medical treatment. The
     surrogate will be given a full informed consent discussion, as the patient would normally
     receive. The attending provider shall record the date and time of the surrogate consent and
     sign the patient’s medical record.
   59MDWI51-302 18 OCTOBER 2013                                                            7

    4.5. The surrogate will make consent decisions based upon what the patient would desire
    to the extent known. The surrogate shall sign the appropriate consent form for the
    proposed treatment. Note: A surrogate decision-maker’s consent to medical treatment that
    is not made in person will be reduced to writing in the patient’s medical record, signed by
    the provider receiving consent, and countersigned in the patient’s medical record or on an
    informed consent form by the surrogate as soon as possible. Providers should first address
    the feasibility of securely electronically transmitting the informed consent document
    between locations.

    4.6. Surrogate consent may not be used for the following categories of treatment:

       4.6.1. Voluntary inpatient mental health services;

       4.6.2. Convulsive treatment;

       4.6.3. Psychoactive medication;

       4.6.4. Procedures Performed for the Purpose of Sterilization. No individual may
       consent to a procedure to be performed on another for the purpose of sterilization, nor
       may a Texas court order anyone to be sterilized. See Frazier v. Levi, 440 S.W.2d. 393
       (Tex. Civ. App. 1969). This applies even when the patient is a minor or is an
       incapacitated adult.

    4.7. Surrogates may not appoint another person to make treatment decisions for the patient.
    Surrogates shall also not be used when a competent adult has been named by the patient as
    the patient’s agent in a Medical Power of Attorney.

    4.8. In situations where the patient has capacity, but is not physically able to sign the
    informed consent document, using a surrogate is not appropriate. In such situations, the
    provider should engage in the full consent discussion with the patient and obtain the
    patient’s consent verbally or, if patient is unable to speak, through other demonstrable
    means. The provider must document this consent in the medical record. Additionally, the
    patient should be provided with the standard appropriate written informed consent
    document. An additional witness not directly involved in the patient’s care and not
    otherwise acting as a witness for the informed consent document should sign “for” the
    patient, by writing and signing the following where the patient would ordinarily sign the
    informed consent document: “Signed for (Patient’s Name) due to patient’s physical
    inability to sign. Patient indicated to me (she/he) understood the content of this document
    and wished for me to indicate (her/his) consent by signing this document on (her/his)
    behalf. [Witness’ Signature] [Printed Witness’ Name] [Date and Time]” If any questions
    arise using this procedure, contact Medical Law at (210) 292-7808.

5. Obtaining and Documenting Informed Consent for Treatment of Minors. See 59 MDWI
44-121, Treatment of Minors.
8                                                         59MDWI51-302 18 OCTOBER 2013

6. Emergencies. In an emergency situation as described below, consent is implied by law and
no form needs to be signed. Consent for emergency care of an individual is not required if:

     6.1. The individual is unable to communicate because of an injury, accident, or illness, or
     is unconscious and suffering from what reasonably appears to be a life-threatening injury or
     illness;

     6.2. A court orders the treatment of an individual who is in an imminent emergency to
     prevent the individual’s serious bodily injury or loss of life (in such case, contact the
     Medical Law Consultant if time permits or as soon thereafter as possible); or

     6.3. The individual is a minor who is suffering from what reasonably appears to be a life-
     threatening injury or illness and whose parents, managing conservator or possessory
     conservator, or guardian is not present.

        6.3.1. This exception applies only to the extent necessary to preserve the patient’s life
        or health and to stabilize the patient’s condition.

7. Duration of Effective Informed Consent.

     7.1. The consent form will generally remain effective until: (1) it is revoked by the person
     giving consent, (2) the patient’s condition changes, (3) a different procedure is
     contemplated, or (4) the risks associated with the procedure change, (5) the procedures is
     completed. 59 MDW’s policy is that written patient consent forms are valid for 60 days
     provided the patient’s condition, the type of procedure and the risks do not change. If the
     procedure occurs 30 or more days after the date of the initial consent, the provider
     performing the procedure will document on the SF 509 that the initial consent still applies
     and the patient’s medical condition, the procedure, and the risks remain the same. If there
     is any question, contact Medical Law for assistance.

     7.2. In the event one of the above factors necessitates a new consent form, the provider
     must have another informed consent discussion with the patient and a new form must be re-
     executed in its entirety (see paragraph 3.7). The original form will be kept in the chart
     along with later forms for the purpose of detailing a complete history of patient care.

8. Patient Refusal of Diagnostics or Treatment, Including Blood or Blood Products, and
Leaving Against Medical Advice.

     8.1. Release From Treatment Against Medical Advice (AMA).

        8.1.1. Policy. All patients and immediately available family members must be
        informed about the risks involved in leaving the facility AMA. Staff members are
        responsible for preparation of appropriate documentation for inclusion in the medical
        record of the risks explained, the circumstances involved with a patient’s decision to
        withdraw from treatment at the 59 MDW, the patient’s or family member’s decision,
        and any other pertinent information.
59MDWI51-302 18 OCTOBER 2013                                                            9

    8.1.2. Active duty patients may not be released AMA without coordination with the
    individual’s commander. The patient will be reported as missing from the hospital
    immediately to his or her commander if the individual departs the facility, and reported
    absent without leave after a 24-hour absence. In addition, active duty members who
    refuse required medical care may need to be evaluated by a Medical Examination
    Board. See AFI 41-210, TRICARE Operations and Patient Administration Functions,
    paragraphs 4.35.12 and 4.63.8.1.

    8.1.3. Patients leaving AMA, who have physically or verbally abused wing personnel,
    will be considered for denial of further treatment on a case-by-case basis. All wing
    personnel are encouraged to complete an electronic Patient Safety Report. This Patient
    Safety Report is located on the 59 MDW SharePoint site as a link, “Patient Safety
    Reporting System.”

 8.2. Provider Responsibilities.

    8.2.1. Inform the patient or sponsor about any risk that may occur if the patient departs
    AMA. For guidance in unique or difficult situations, seek advice from the Patient
    Administration Division, Medical Law Office, flight commander, shift leader, and/or
    squadron commander. Document the information given to the patient regarding risks
    associated with AMA actions in the medical records.

    8.2.2. Have the patient or sponsor complete 59 MDW Form 172, Release from
    Responsibility Upon Departure Against Medical Advice, when patient or sponsor
    desires release from treatment AMA. The form must be completed and signed by the
    patient or patient’s sponsor, the attending provider, and a witness. Ensure that two
    copies are made, with one copy being given to the patient or sponsor and the other copy
    being placed in the patient’s medical records.

    8.2.3. If the patient or the patient’s sponsor refuses to complete 59 MDW Form 172,
    the provider and witness complete the form and add a statement that the patient refused
    to sign.

    8.2.4. Document the patient’s AMA information on SF 600, or in the electronic
    medical record for outpatient, or SF 558, Medical Record – Emergency Care and
    Treatment Record (ETR), for Urgent Care Clinic patients. All entries must be dated,
    timed, stamped, and signed by the provider. Also, complete an electronic Patient
    Safety Report.

    8.2.5. When the patient and sponsor refuses to sign the release from responsibility
    statement, the provider must document on the SF 600, electronic medical record, or the
    ETR the following information:

        8.2.5.1. Why the patient chose to sign out AMA.
10                                                           59MDWI51-302 18 OCTOBER
2013

              8.2.5.2. Counseling given to patient and sponsor on the risks that may occur from
              signing out AMA.

              8.2.5.3. A statement that the patient and sponsor refused to sign the release from
              responsibility statement.

       8.3. Nursing Personnel Responsibilities.

          8.3.1. Document in the progress notes, the date and time of discharge, reasons for the
          discharge, details of patient and sponsor counseling, and the patient’s condition upon
          discharge.

                8.3.1.1. If the prior information (time, reason, education, etc) was performed by
                the provider, nursing personnel will note this in their progress note to close the
                encounter.

       8.4. Procedures.

          8.4.1. When a provider deems a diagnostic procedure or treatment necessary for the
          care of the patient, and the patient refuses the procedure or treatment, the refusal should
          be identified at the earliest possible opportunity and promptly annotated in the patient’s
          medical record so that all providers have access to the information, alternatives can be
          explored, and the patient can be properly managed. AF Form 1864, Perioperative
          Nursing Record, is a vital document that is used to communicate the patient’s wishes to
          the Surgical Team, as well as serve as a very important Quality Assurance document.
          AF Form 1864, once completed, needs to be placed in the patient’s medical record.

          8.4.2. Perform all blood transfusion procedures IAW AFI 44-102. Refer to Attachment
          2, “Alternatives to Blood Administration Algorithm,” and Attachment 3, “Guide to
          Alternatives to Blood Product Administration,” when discussing risks, benefits, and
          alternatives of blood or blood product administration to the patient. Since confusion
          regarding the options often exists among patients, families and providers, consultation
          with the medical staff of the Blood Bank/Transfusion Medicine Service is
          recommended. Regardless of what course is pursued, there should be adequate
          therapeutic approaches.

          8.4.3. If, after a full discussion of risks, benefits, and alternatives, the patient still
          refuses to allow the administration of blood or blood products that may be necessary for
          safe surgical care, the patient will not undergo the surgery at a 59 MDW facility. The
          patient may be referred elsewhere for care.

          8.4.4. Complete AF Form 1864 and place it in the patient’s medical record. AF Form
          1864 is a vital document that is used to communicate the patient’s wishes to the
          Surgical Team, and serves as a very important Quality Assurance document.
59MDWI51-302 18 OCTOBER 2013                                                             11

 8.5. Obtain Informed Refusal. If the provider is willing to accept the patient, then
 informed refusal should be obtained. The provider should explain to the patient the
 increased risks caused by the refusal of blood or blood products, to include significant
 hemorrhage, life-threatening hemorrhage, and death. The medical record must clearly
 reflect the patient’s insistent refusal of the specific therapy even in light of the potential
 complications discussed. A note to this effect should be co-signed by the patient in
 addition to the refusal notation on the informed consent document. Note: In the case of
 active duty members, the provider should also discuss with the patient and document in the
 note the patient was advised the refusal may impact the patient’s continued military
 service, result in the patient’s evaluation by a Medical Evaluation Board, and may affect
 any potential disability rating.

 8.6. Guidance for Specific Patient Categories.

    8.6.1. Obstetric Patient. The failure to provide diagnostic procedures or treatment,
    such as failure to administer blood or blood products when required, may negatively
    impact the health of the pregnant woman and/or her fetus. Additionally, pregnancy is
    accompanied by greatly enhanced risk of hemorrhage relative to most other conditions
    treated at this MTF. If the member’s refusal of diagnostic procedures or treatment,
    such as transfusion of blood or blood products, clearly will endanger her life or the life
    of the fetus and the initial informed consent has been accomplished by a resident, the
    informed consent discussion should be re-accomplished by the staff
    obstetrics/gynecology physician. If the patient still declines transfusion or other
    important diagnostic procedures or treatments, a Maternal-Fetal medicine specialist
    physician should be consulted to discuss the various maternal and/or fetal implications.
    If the member continues to refuse the treatment and the provider believes the treatment
    is necessary for the patient’s or fetus’ health, the provider should request consultation
    with a Medical Law Consultant. It may be appropriate for the Executive Committee of
    the Medical Staff (ECOMS) to convene an ad hoc Ethics Function or for the provider to
    seek a court order in such cases. Refer all cases in which a court order may be required
    to the Medical Law Consultant.

    8.6.2. Emergency Treatment of Competent Adults. In cases presenting as bona fide
    emergencies, the patient is transferred emergently to the nearest facility equipped to
    render necessary care. Once an adult patient’s desires are known, these desires must be
    followed. If the patient chooses to not comply with the recommended treatments, the
    director of the appropriate service should be involved in attempting to secure providers
    who will accept care of the patient with the noted restriction.

    8.6.3. Emergency Treatment of Minors. A minor is defined as an unemancipated
    individual under the age of 18. Absent specific evidence of emancipation (such as
    marriage or entry into the military), health care providers may properly assume that a
    person under 18 is a minor and therefore legally precluded from either consenting to or
    refusing care. If there is a question regarding emancipation, contact the Medical Law
    Consultant. While parents and guardians generally have wide latitude in making health
    care decisions for their children, this is not the case when the refusal to seek or consent
12                                                         59MDWI51-302 18 OCTOBER
2013

       to care will, within a reasonable medical certainty, result in either the child’s death or in
       great bodily harm. In these limited situations, providers may provide diagnostics and
       treatment to stabilize the child without the consent and over the objection of the child,
       parent or guardian. Every effort must be made to minimize the use of blood products
       and to contact Child Protective Services (CPS) in order to obtain a court order
       establishing a new medical consenter. The CPS 24-hour hotline number is 1-800-252-
       5400. The Medical Law Consultant and a Social Worker must be contacted at the
       earliest opportunity. During these situations, documentation of the care provided and
       the attempts to contact CPS, the Medical Law Consultant and a Social Worker is
       critical and therefore should be clearly documented in the record. See 59 MDWI 44-
       121 for further information.

       8.6.4. Active Duty Patients. For those individuals refusing diagnostics or treatment,
       including blood transfusion, the guidelines outlined above in paragraph 8.6. will apply.
       In the event that the necessary providers cannot be located for the particular medical
       care needed, required services may be obtained from another Uniformed Services
       Treatment Facility, the Veteran’s Administration, or from civilian sources. Refer these
       patients to the Health Benefits Advisors, Managed Care Office for assistance.

       8.6.5. Incapacitated Patients. If there is a possibility of delirium, dementia, or mental
       condition that would impair a patient’s ability to give or understand informed consent
       or to refuse appropriate medical care, a determination of the decisional capacity is
       indicated. Consideration of the decisional capacity of the patient is the responsibility of
       the physician who would be obtaining the consent. If the provider desires, a request for
       the evaluation of decision-making capacity can be made through the Mental Health
       Consult/Liaison Service. The consult service will render an opinion as to the
       individual’s capacity. After duty hours, the psychiatry on-call resident can provide an
       initial assessment with recommendations, with staff supervision provided as soon as is
       necessary/possible.

          8.6.5.1. Incapacitated Patients Who Have Executed a Medical Power of Attorney.
          The agent named under the Medical Power of Attorney may make treatment
          decisions for the incompetent. (See 59 MDWI 44-150) However, if the patient
          indicates he wants the treatment over the objection of the agent, the patient’s desires
          will be followed. If the agent refuses treatment on behalf of a patient who does not
          have a terminal or irreversible condition as defined in 59 MDWI 44-150, seek
          assistance from the Medical Law Office. Legal intervention may be required.

          8.6.5.2. Incapacitated Patients Who Have Not Executed a Medical Power of
          Attorney. Persons identified in section 4.2. of this policy may make treatment
          decisions for the patient. However, if the patient indicates he wants treatment over
          the objection of the surrogate, the patient’s desires will be followed. If the
          surrogate refuses care on behalf of the incompetent patient and the patient does not
          have a terminal or irreversible condition as defined in 59 MDWI 44-150, contact
          Medical Law. Legal intervention may be required. Note: Certain care and
          treatment may not be removed from patients who have terminal or irreversible
   59MDWI51-302 18 OCTOBER 2013                                                               13

            conditions. Issues pertaining to life-sustaining care are also not addressed in this
            instruction. See 59 MDWI 44-150. Additionally, decision-makers for incompetent
            patients with those diagnoses are different from those who can consent to treatment
            for other patients.

     8.7. Conflict Resolution. Every case should be individually evaluated and the best
     resolution possible achieved through a spirit of cooperation and mutual respect between the
     patient, patient surrogates, and health care providers. Clearly, communication and
     coordination will resolve most, if not all, issues. In instances where a conflict cannot be
     resolved, the provider should contact the MLC at (210) 292-7808. The MLC will provide
     guidance to the provider and the patient or patient’s surrogate. If the conflict still cannot be
     resolved, the ECOMS will convene an ad hoc ethics function, which will include an MLC
     and a Chaplain as voting members, to make recommendations.

9. Staff Rights: Exclusion from Certain Aspects of Patient Care/Treatment.

     9.1. Each health care provider, including but not limited to physicians, nurses, and medical
     support personnel, may request not to engage in any form of health care which they
     personally feel is unconscionable, immoral or unethical. Reasonable efforts will be made
     to replace the objecting provider. At no time will a patient be left without a health care
     team. The initial healthcare provider will continue care of the patient until the transfer to
     another provider has been completed. The patient’s safety will take precedence over health
     care providers’ request not to engage in health care. See also 59 MDWI 41-123, Patient
     Rights.

     9.2. If the care required by the patient will necessitate support personnel in addition to the
     primary provider, then that provider must ensure the availability of other individuals
     willing to participate in the care. For instance, if the patient is undergoing an elective
     surgical, invasive procedure, such as liver biopsy or balloon angioplasty, acquisition of a
     support team (to include both physician and nursing services, all of whom are willing to
     participate in the patient’s treatment) for potential anesthesia and surgical support must be
     prearranged. In elective cases, this should be done by a formal consultation to the
     individual service from which support is requested, the consult being initiated at least 72
     hours before the procedure is planned.

     9.3. Support staff unwilling to participate. The inability of the ancillary support services to
     identify individuals willing to participate in this care may necessitate disengagement by the
     MTF for that particular medical problem. In this event, the provider will work with the
     Health Benefits Advisor located in Managed Care to assist the patient in transfer of care
     into the civilian sector or to other Uniformed Services Treatment Facilities which can and
     are willing to provide the service. Until transfer of care occurs, the patient will continue to
     receive, at a minimum, safe, non-elective care.


                                      GLENN A. YAP, Colonel, USAF, MSC
                                      Administrator, 59th Medical Wing
14                                                      59MDWI51-302 18 OCTOBER
2013

                                       Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

AFPD 51-3, Civil Litigation, 21 May 1993

AFI 33-332, Privacy Act and Civil Liberities Program, 5 June 2013

AFI 40-402, Protection of Human Subjects in Biomedical and Behavioral Research, 5 May 2005

AFI 41-210, TRICARE Operations and Patient Administration Functions, 6 June 2012

AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, 20 January 2012

AFI 44-105, The Air Force Blood Program, 11 January 2012

AFI 47-101, Managing Air Force Dental Services, 1 June 2009

AFJI 48-110, Immunizations and Chemoprophylaxis, 29 September 2006

AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

DoD 5400.7, Freedom of Information Act Program, 2 January 2008

DoD 6025.18-R, DoD Health Information Privacy Regulation, 24 January 2003

DoDI 6025.18, Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health Information in DOD Health Care
Programs, 2 December 2009

5 U.S.C. § 552a, Privacy Act of 1974

Privacy Act System of Records F044 AF SG D, Automated Medical/Dental Record System,
29 August 2003

F044 AF SG E, Medical Record System, 18 June 2010

59 MDWI 41-123, Patient Rights, 2 June 2009

59 MDWI 44-121, Treatment of Minors, 2 December 2010

59 MDWI 44-150, Advance Directives and End-of-Life, 17 May 2011

Texas Civil Practice & Remedies Code § 74.102

Title 25, Texas Administrative Code, § 601.2, 5 December 2012
   59MDWI51-302 18 OCTOBER 2013                                                      15

Title 25, Texas Administrative Code, § 601.2, 5 December 2012

Prescribed Forms

59 MDW Form 1202, Disclosure and Consent for Medical and Surgical Procedures

59 MDW Form 164, Disclosure and Consent – Anesthesia and/or Perioperative Pain
Management (Analgesia)

59 MDW Form 172, Release from Responsibility Upon Departure Against Medical Advice

Adopted Forms

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

AF Form 1864, Perioperative Nursing Record

OF Form 522, Medical Record Request for Administration of Anesthesia and for Performance of
Operations and Other Procedures

SF Form 509, Medical Record – Progress Notes

SF Form 558, Medical Record – Emergency Care and Treatment Record

SF Form 600, Health Record – Chronological Record of Medical Care

SF Form 603, Chronological Record of Dental Care

SF Form 603A, Chronological Record of Dental Care Continuation

Abbreviations and Acronyms

AFI—Air Force Instruction

AMA—Against Medical Advice

CPS—Child Protective Services

ECOMS—Executive Committee of the Medical Staff

ETR—Emergency Treatment Record

IAW—In Accordance With

MDW—Medical Wing
16                                          59MDWI51-302 18 OCTOBER
2013

MDWI—Medical Wing Instruction

MLC—Medical Law Consultant

MTF—Military Treatment Facility

SAMMC—San Antonio Military Medical Center

SF—Standard Form
59MDWI51-302 18 OCTOBER 2013                                                          17


                                     Attachment 2

       ALTERNATIVES TO BLOOD ADMINISTRATION ALGORITHM

Physician recommends surgery/procedure & discusses risks, benefits & alternatives


             Patient refuses some/all blood products at time of consent


Surgeon completes informed consent 59 MDW Form 1202 and documents patient’s
         refusal of some/all blood products on the 59 MDW Form 1202



Patient goes to Pre-Op Clinic with 59 MDW Form 1202 which has documentation of
                     his/her refusal of some/all blood products



Anesthesia reviews patient wishes documented on patient’s 59 MDW Form 1202 that
                    the patient refuses some/all blood products


                Anesthesia calls surgeons if any questions/conflicts


    Anesthesia notes patient’s refusal of some/all blood products that had been
                 documented on patient’s 59 MDW Form 1202


Anesthesia documents patient’s refusal of some/all blood products in medical record



                      Patient presents for surgery/procedure


   Peri-operative note AF Form 1864 annotates patient refusal of blood products


 OR Nursing informs Surgeon/Anesthesia physician if documentation is not present


     Surgeon and Anesthesiologist discuss patient preferences with patient and
         documentation of patient’s wishes in the patient’s medical record
18                                                           59MDWI51-302 18 OCTOBER
2013

                                           Attachment 3

        GUIDE TO ALTERNATIVES TO BLOOD PRODUCT ADMINISTRATION

A3.1. You are scheduled to have a surgical procedure and all surgical procedures carry some
risk of blood loss. You have directed your providers to not administer blood or blood products to
you, regardless of the medical need to do so. The 59th MDW is committed to respecting your
wishes in this regard and will make every effort to provide you with quality healthcare within the
limitations specified by you. The risks to you by refusing blood and/or blood products include,
but are not limited to, the following: brain, heart, kidney and other organ damage, loss of limb,
bleeding disorder and death.

A3.2. These treatments would only be given if absolutely necessary to ensure your well-being.

A3.3. In an emergency situation, the 59 MDW will follow all applicable laws for blood
administration.

A3.4. Autologous (patient donates own blood).

       A3.4.1. Predeposit red blood cells (patient donates before surgery).

       A3.4.2. Predeposit platelet cells (patient donates before surgery).

       A3.4.3. Predeposit plasma (patient donates before surgery).

A3.5. Non-blood products.

       A3.5.1. Hypervolemic hemodilution (intravenous fluids to dilute blood).

       A3.5.2. Blood volume expanders (biochemical that increases volume of blood).

       A3.5.3. Erythropoietin (speeds of biosynthesis of red blood cells in body).

A3.6. Procedures that help to minimize blood loss.

       A3.6.1. Hypotensive anesthesia techniques.

       A3.6.2. Aggressive hemostatic measures.

       A3.6.3. Tourniquet.

       A3.6.4. Maximize laboratory testing from single red top, purple top, etc. in smallest test
       tube possible. (Especially pediatric patients).

A3.7. Blood Derivatives (only parts of other people’s blood).
59MDWI51-302 18 OCTOBER 2013                                    19

 A3.7.1. Albumin.

 A3.7.2. Immune globulins.

 A3.7.3. Coagulation factors concentrates.

 A3.7.4. Cryoprecipated antihemophilic factor.

 A3.7.5. Fibrin glue and other sealants or hemostatic agents.
