BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 91-203
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                            07 JANUARY 2014

                                                                                         Safety

                                                      MEDICAL WING SAFETY PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 59 MDW/SE                                                        Certified by: 59 MDW/SE
                                                                          (Mr. Michael Griffith)
Supersedes:   59MDWI 91-203, 9 February                                                Pages: 14
              2009


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 91-2, Safety Programs. It establishes the
procedures for conducting inspections-both spot and annual at the squadron level. This
instruction also defines mishap notification procedures, explains procedures for submitting
personnel and squadrons for safety awards, and details unit safety program requirements. This
instruction applies to all personnel assigned, attached, or on contract to the 59th Medical Wing
(MDW). This instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. This
publication requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy
Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 55, Medical and Dental Care, and E.O. 9397 (SSN). The
applicable SORN F044 AF SG D, and Automated Medical/Dental Record System is available at:
http://dpclo.defense.gov/privacy/SORNs/SORNs.htm. The authority to waive requirements is
the publication approval authority. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
System Records Disposition Schedule.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: Added safety program checklist requirements, added flight safety briefings, added
group safety representative requirements, added hazard reporting and supervisor safety training.
 2                                                         59MDWI91-203 07 JANUARY 2014


1. Management. The 59 MDW/SE Ground Safety Manager will administer the Mishap
Prevention Program with the assistance of the safety office staff. The status of the 59 MDW
Safety Program will be briefed to the Facilities & Environment Committee (FEC) and in turn,
through monthly updates (briefings) to the 59 MDW Board of Directors as deemed necessary by
the FEC Chairperson.
2. Unit Mishap Prevention Program. Commanders, functional managers, supervisors, and
individuals must all contribute to the mishap prevention program. An effective program depends
on individuals integrating mishap prevention at every functional level and being responsible for
complying with applicable safety standards. Units must establish specific procedures (i.e.,
inspections) to ensure that all personnel and activities comply with the program standards. Every
level of command is responsible for compliance with applicable safety standards.
     2.1. Safety will be incorporated into squadron in-processing checklists. This process ensures
     that critical safety programs are identified, and personnel are instructed on how to comply
     with command guidelines. The following programs will be identified on the in-processing
     checklists:
        2.1.1. Air Education and Training Command (AETC) Form 29A, Commander’s
        Newcomers Safety Briefing.
        2.1.2. AETC Form 410, High Risk Activities Worksheet (To include survey).
        2.1.3. Operational Risk Management Training.
        2.1.4. Motorcycle Safety Program.
        2.1.5. Supervisors Safety Training.
        2.1.6. Job Safety Training Guide.
        2.1.7. AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record.
     2.2. Newly appointed commanders will be provided an initial briefing on the status of their
     internal safety program and their safety responsibilities by 59 MDW/SE staff. The
     commander's unit safety representative (USR) will contact 59 MDW/SE and schedule these
     briefings.
     2.3. Commanders are responsible for the management and administration of their internal
     safety programs; the USR assists their commanders with these responsibilities.
     2.4. The commander will ensure all mishaps involving military personnel, Department of
     Defense (DoD) civilians, volunteers, DoD contractors, personal service contractors and
     property damage will be reported to 59 MDW/SE. The supervisor civilian or military will
     accomplish an AETC Form 435, Mishap Data Worksheet, and will forward the worksheet to
     59 MDW/SE within 5 duty days from the day of the mishap. The AETC Form 435 will be
     routed through the USR and commander prior to being forwarded to the 59 MDW/SE.
     Civilian supervisors must report all DoD on duty civilian mishaps to the Civilian Personnel
     office immediately and fill out a CA-1, Federal Employee’s Notice of Traumatic Injury and
     Claim for Continuation of Pay/Compensation. Commanders and supervisors will report to
     59 MDW/SE all mishaps that involve one or more of the following:
59MDWI91-203 07 JANUARY 2014                                                                 3


     2.4.1. On or off-duty injury or death of military personnel, on-duty civilian employees,
     volunteers, or on-duty personal service contractor employees (i.e. Health Care Coders,
     Nurses).
     2.4.2. Injury to patients or visitors or others while in all 59 MDW facilities or when
     injured in accidents involving 59 MDW operations.
     2.4.3. Property damage to 59 MDW facilities, vehicles or equipment.
     2.4.4. Fires involving 59 MDW facilities or equipment.
     2.4.5. Government owned motor vehicle accidents occurring on or off-base.
  2.5. The commander will ensure military personnel under the age of 26 receive a pre-
  departure safety briefing before they depart on leave, temporary duty, or permanent change
  of station. The unit commander, first sergeant, flight commander, immediate supervisor, or
  military training manager will conduct the briefing, and document the AETC Form 29B, Pre-
  Departure Safety Briefing. Supervisors should maintain these forms for 30 days.
  2.6. The commander will implement the High-Risk Activities program outlined in AFI 91-
  202, AETC Supplement 1, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, Attachment 6.
  The completed AETC Form 410 will be placed in the unit’s Safety Management Binder
  (SMB) or a central location for accessibility.
     2.6.1. Upon in-processing into the squadron, personnel will complete a high-risk
     activities survey.
  2.7. The commander, section commander, executive officer, first sergeant, flight
  commander, or military training manager will ensure all newly assigned active duty military
  personnel under the age of 26 receive a newcomer’s safety briefing within 30 days of arrival.
  Document the briefing on the AETC Form 29A. The unit will ensure completed AETC Form
  29As are maintained in the unit in the individual’s Personal Information File or the SMB.
  2.8. The commander will appoint a primary and alternate USR by appointment letter. The
  appointment letter will contain the representative’s rank, name, office symbol, date
  appointed, email address, and duty phone. The appointment letter will be sent to 59
  MDW/SE. Newly appointed unit USRs will contact 59 MDW/SE and schedule initial
  training on their safety duties, within 30 days of appointment. Appointees must have at least
  1 year of eligibility to be appointed.
     2.8.1. USRs Will:
         2.8.1.1. Maintain a SMB and applicable tabs as prescribed by 59 MDW/SE and
         ensure their internal Flight Unit Safety Representative’s are properly trained per the
         wing safety guide and documented on the appropriate AF IMT Form 797, Job
         Qualification Standard Continuation/Command JQS. Newly appointed squadron
         level USRs can reference the USR Training Guide located on the 59 MDW
         Sharepoint.
         2.8.1.2. Review the unit safety program with unit commander once per month. The
         review will be documented in the SMB. Ensure critical group/squadron safety issues
         are discussed during this meeting.
4                                                            59MDWI91-203 07 JANUARY 2014


           2.8.1.3. Ensure flight supervision or flight safety representatives conduct monthly
           safety briefings and demonstrate a process to ensure briefings were conducted (i.e.,
           read receipts or read/sign). The safety briefing will be documented on the AETC
           IMT 703, Log of Supervisor’s Safety Briefing. The log will be maintained in the
           flights SMB.
           2.8.1.4. Conduct one spot inspection per month and ensure flight supervision or
           flight safety representative conduct one spot inspection per month within their
           squadron or flight. All unit work centers should be visited within the course of a
           year. The spot inspections will be documented on a locally developed log and
           checklist prescribed by the 59 MDW/SE. The log/checklist will be maintained in the
           squadron and flight SMB.
           2.8.1.5. Ensure all flights located in Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center
           (WHASC) conducts a monthly fire drill or training. Flight supervision/flight safety
           representative will be required to show proof of monthly completion. The USR will
           ensure the monthly fire drills or training is documented on a locally devised log or
           checklist. The log/checklist will be maintained in the SMB.
           2.8.1.6. Review and forward Interim Life Safety Measures (ILSM) to the flight
           supervisor or flight safety representative within the affected area. The flight
           supervisor or flight safety representative will ensure the ILSM is properly posted.
           They will also ensure section supervisors and all personnel to include contractors and
           volunteers are briefed thoroughly on the new egress procedures and interim life safety
           measures. The USR will ensure they file the ILSM in the SMB.
           2.8.1.7. Ensure at least one safety bulletin board is established in each flight. If
           flights are collocated and personnel have access to the board one safety board will
           suffice. The board will be located in a common use area such as a break room or
           common hallway. The board will include at a minimum:
              2.8.1.7.1. R.A.C.E. & P.A.S.S. posters.
              2.8.1.7.2. CA-10, What a Federal Employee Should Do When Injured At Work.
              2.8.1.7.3. AF Form 457, Hazard Report, with instructions.
              2.8.1.7.4. AETC Form 435, Mishap Data Worksheet.
              2.8.1.7.5. 59 MDW Commander Safety Policy Letter.
              2.8.1.7.6. Current Fire Reaction Plan.
              2.8.1.7.7. Mishap Reporting Procedures.
              2.8.1.7.8. AFVA 91- 209, Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Program.
              2.8.1.7.9. Selected safety articles/posters.
    2.9. The group commander will appoint a primary Group Safety Representative (GSR) by
    appointment letter (Alternate at the commander’s discretion). The appointment letter will
    contain the representative’s rank, name, office symbol, date appointed, email address, and
    duty phone. The appointment letter will be sent to 59 MDW/SE. Newly appointed GSR will
59MDWI91-203 07 JANUARY 2014                                                                    5


   contact 59 MDW/SE and schedule initial training on their safety duties, within 30 days of
   appointment. Appointees must have at least 1 year of eligibility to be appointed.
      2.9.1. GSR will:
          2.9.1.1. Monitor their squadrons’ safety programs for continuity and compliance with
          this instruction.
          2.9.1.2. Meet monthly with the group commander to review and discuss mishap
          prevention safety issues. The meeting will be documented on a log which includes
          date, time, discussion issues, and a signature block for the commander and GSR to
          annotate. The log will be maintained in the GSR Management Book.
          2.9.1.3. Conduct one spot inspection per month. The spot inspection will include
          squadron program management elements and hazard identification in staff work
          areas. All squadrons that fall under the group will be visited within the course of a
          year. The spot inspections will be documented on a log prescribed by the 59
          MDW/SE. The log will be maintained in the GSR SMB.
          2.9.1.4. Conduct monthly safety briefings for group staff and demonstrate a process
          to ensure briefings were conducted (Example: Read receipts/monthly signatures).
          The safety briefing will be documented on the AETC IMT 703. The log will be
          maintained in the GSR SMB.
          2.9.1.5. Conduct monthly fire drill or training for group staff personnel located in
          WHASC. Will ensure the monthly fire drills or training is documented on a locally
          devised log. The log will be maintained in the GSR SMB.
          2.9.1.6. Will ensure a Job Safety Training Guide is developed and utilized for initial
          safety training for group staff personnel. The training will be documented on the AF
          Form 55.
          2.9.1.7. Maintain a SMB with applicable tabs as prescribed by the 59 MDW/SE.
   2.10. 59 MDW/SE will conduct quarterly USR meetings. These meetings are intended to
   assist with developing methods for implementing procedures and policies established by the
   59 MDW FEC, provide USRs with additional training, and develop methods of increasing
   safety awareness. The primary or alternate group/squadron safety representatives required to
   attend this meeting. No-show letters will be forwarded to the commander for non-
   attendance.
3. Wing Traffic Safety Program.
   3.1. Unit commander (s) will appoint in writing a primary and alternate to serve as the
   squadron motorcycle safety monitors. The monitors will be the focal point for motorcycle
   training, licensing, and registration information. He or she will also ensure supervisors brief
   their personnel at least annually on motorcycle training and registration, as well as
   prohibitions against the loaning or borrowing of motorcycles.
   3.2. Either the primary or alternate squadron motorcycle monitor will publicize and
   disseminate quarterly USAF and AETC motorcycle safety requirements within their units to
   ensure potential riders “are” as noted: educated on the requirements to ensure they are legal
 6                                                         59MDWI91-203 07 JANUARY 2014


     to operate a motorcycle. The information publicized and disseminated will be documented
     by date and will be maintained in the motorcycle monitor’s SMB for verification.
     3.3. Squadron commanders or equivalent along with the motorcycle monitor will conduct an
     initial safety briefing with newly identified motorcycle riders. The briefing will be
     conducted utilizing the commander’s interview motorcycle safety checklist. The completed
     checklist will be maintained in the motorcycle SMB.
     3.4. The squadron motorcycle monitor will maintain a SMB and ensure all actions taken
     under this paragraph are documented. At a minimum the SMB will contain:
        3.4.1. Mentor and monitor appointment letters and proof of training.
        3.4.2. AFI 91-207, The US Air Force Traffic Safety Program, and AFI 91-207, AETC
        Sup 1 to include all Motorcycle Utilization Tracking Tool requirements.
        3.4.3. A monthly mentor’s meeting documentation log. The mentor meetings will be
        documented on the AETC IMT 703.
        3.4.4. A roster listing licensed motorcycle operators to include: Name, type/date of
        training received, year/make/model of motorcycle, Motorcycle Safety Foundation card
        number, and if operator is experienced or inexperienced.
        3.4.5. The completed commander’s motorcycle safety briefing checklist with a copy of
        the rider’s Motorcycle Safety Foundation Course completion card and a copy of the
        rider’s state driver’s license with endorsement.
        3.4.6. Dissemination of motorcycle safety briefings will be documented on the AETC
        IMT 703.
        3.4.7. Quarterly briefing of motorcycle safety requirements.
     3.5. The unit commander will appoint a person(s) to serve as the unit motorcycle mentors.
     Commanders in conjunction with safety advisors, will identify the most capable, mature
     riders based on experience and demonstrated proficiency. The new rider-to-mentor ratio
     should not exceed 3 to 1.
4. Facility Inspections/Program Evaluations.
     4.1. 59 MDW/SE is required in accordance with AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap
     Prevention Program, to conduct an annual assessment/inspection of every 59 MDW
     organization and facility at least once a year to ensure compliance with applicable standards.
     59 MDW/SE will provide a report of findings to the commander. A formal in-brief is
     optional but the inspection out-brief is mandatory. The time and date of the out-brief will be
     coordinated with the USR and the unit commander. This inspection will include a review of
     program management and administrative practices followed by a physical inspection of unit-
     controlled facilities and equipment.
     4.2. The annual inspection schedule will be published by Wing Safety and distributed to all
     activities prior to the beginning of each calendar year. Revisions may be published when
     required.
     4.3. The USR will coordinate the inspection and accompany the inspector throughout the
     inspection. Civilian employee unions may receive a copy of the annual safety inspection
59MDWI91-203 07 JANUARY 2014                                                                   7


   schedule. Upon request from the union representative, a civilian employee assigned to the
   unit to be inspected may accompany the inspection team in areas where civilians are
   employed.
   4.4. Within 15 workdays after completion of the inspection, a formal annual inspection
   report will be prepared by 59 MDW/SE in accordance with AFI 91-202.
   4.5. Upon receipt of the report, the unit will have 30 days to implement corrective action and
   send a copy of the report, signed by the unit commander, back to 59 MDW/SE. The unit is
   required to update open items every 30 days until closure. A work order does not constitute
   closing action.
   4.6. Status reports must be forwarded to wing safety every 30 days following the initial reply
   as long as items remain open on the report.
   4.7. The inspection will be rated using the 59 MDW Safety Inspection Matrix.
5. Lock-Out/Tag-Out Program.
   5.1. 59 MDW/SE will conduct annual inspections for Lock-Out/Tag-Out energy control
   procedures for work environments managing this program. The inspections will ensure
   employees are properly trained and all safety aspects of the program are adhered to as it
   applies to all prescribed regulatory guidance.
   5.2. All units that require a lock-out/tag-out program will comply with the AFI 91-203, Air
   Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction, Chapter 21.
   5.3. If a lock-out/tag-out program is required, the unit commander will appoint a lock-
   out/tag-out manager in writing and forward the letter to 59 MDW/SE.
6. Emergency Eyewash Units.
   6.1. Each supervisor is responsible for ensuring emergency showers and eyewashes are
   provided, inspected, tested and maintained IAW this instruction and AFI 91-203, Chapter 19.
   6.2. Evaluations for each request for emergency showers and/or eyewashes shall be made by
   59 MDW/SE to determine the need for the installation of units.
   6.3. If shutoff valves are installed in the water line for maintenance purposes, provisions
   shall be made to prevent accidental shutoff by placing a tag at the valve indicating the water
   supply is for emergency use.
   6.4. Permanently-installed shower and eyewash units shall be activated by the supervisor or
   worker weekly to verify proper operation. The unit only needs to be activated long enough
   to ensure adequate pressure and volume of water is available and all orifices are free of
   obstructions.
   6.5. The supervisor or worker shall inspect permanently-installed unit(s) weekly/monthly
   and document the inspection. Documentation shall be maintained to show date of inspection
   and name of individual performing the test.
   6.6. All workers exposed to conditions that may use this emergency equipment shall be
   instructed in its use as a part of their job safety training.
7. Electrical Safety.
 8                                                           59MDWI91-203 07 JANUARY 2014


     7.1. Electrical receptacles and cover plates shall be free of cracks and securely mounted.
     Receptacles in damp or wet locations shall meet National Electrical Code requirements and
     be protected by ground fault circuit interrupter(s).
     7.2. Electrical outlets, switches, junction boxes, etc., shall be in good condition and have
     cover plates securely installed. Outlets, switches, cover plates, etc., shall be free of cracks or
     defects that could cause them to be ineffective. All unused openings (knock out plugs) in
     switch housings, junction boxes, etc., shall be securely covered.
     7.3. Unless their purpose is evident, circuit breakers and fuse boxes shall be specifically and
     legibly marked to indicate their purpose. Circuit breakers disconnect switches and fuses shall
     be readily accessible to workers and building management personnel. Work space in front
     shall be clear and unimpeded and shall not be located where exposed to physical damage or
     in the vicinity of easily ignitable material. Circuit breakers shall not be taped in the on
     position. Breakers that trip frequently indicate electrical problems and shall be promptly
     reported and corrected.
     7.4. Multi-receptacle surge protectors shall only be used to power computers and related
     equipment such as lights or fans. Surge protectors or extension cords shall not be used with
     high current items such as coffee makers, refrigerators, microwave ovens, heaters, food
     preparation equipment. Equipment plugged into surge protectors/extension cords shall not
     exceed the capacity of the surge protector/electrical cord.
     7.5. High wattage appliances such as heat-producing appliances, refrigerators of all types,
     coffee makers, microwaves, cooking/warming appliances, shall be plugged directly into a
     facility outlet. Coffee makers will not be set on a timer and shall be unplugged at the end of
     the work shift.
     7.6. Where children are routinely unsupervised and outlets are easily accessible to children,
     such as pediatric clinics, pediatric waiting rooms, electrical wall outlets will be of the "child
     safe, childproof" variety.
     7.7. Machines not adequately safeguarded to protect workers during under voltage situations
     shall have an under voltage protective device installed. Under voltage situations occur when
     a machine automatically resumes motion after a low voltage situation or power interruption
     and the operator is exposed to hazardous moving parts.
8. Fire Safety.
     8.1. Toasters are only authorized in employee break areas. The toaster will be monitored
     when in use, and will be unplugged and put away when not in use. Toaster ovens, hot plates,
     electric grills, and skillets, are not authorized to be used in 59 MDW facilities.
     8.2. Space heaters are not authorized in 59 MDW facilities unless there is a prolonged
     (several days) heating problem in the facility and verified by the facilities management flight.
     Space heaters will be permitted by personnel with a medical condition and verified in writing
     from a competent medical authority. The heater must be inspected and approved by 59
     MDW/SE, and authority having jurisdiction.
     8.3. Barbecue grills or gas fired cooking appliances (turkey fryers, boilers, or steam pots)
     will not be used within 10 feet of 59 MDW facilities. In no case will these outdoor cooking
     units be used under gazebos, carports, garages, under eaves or under any overhead
59MDWI91-203 07 JANUARY 2014                                                                     9


   combustible construction, inside buildings and hangars, and must be away from windows and
   doors.
   8.4. A minimum clearance of 36 inches will be maintained in front of electrical panels,
   sprinkler risers, and fire alarm panel.
   8.5. All self-help work requires submission of an AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work
   Request, and will be coordinated through 59 MDW/SE .
   8.6. The storage of material within 18 inches of any detection device is prohibited. When
   materials are stacked to a height of less than 15 feet, maintain an 18-inch clearance below
   ceiling sprinkler deflectors, joists, rafters, beams and roof trusses.
   8.7. Routes of egress, aisles, corridors, and stairways leading to exits will not be obstructed
   in any manner. Combustibles will not be stored under or in stairwells.
   8.8. Doors, passageways or stairways which are neither exits nor ways to an exit but may be
   mistaken for an exit, shall be clearly marked NOT AN EXIT or a sign indicating their actual
   use; for example, STORAGE ROOM or BASEMENT.
   8.9. Exit signs and emergency lighting connected or provided with a battery-operated
   emergency illumination source will be tested every 30 days for 30 seconds.
9. Personal Protective Equipment.
   9.1. Commanders and/or functional managers shall ensure all work centers conduct and
   document hazard assessments to determine if hazards are present and take actions necessary
   to protect workers from injury, illness or death.
10. Hazard Reporting.
   10.1. Employees will stop unsafe acts and report all known or suspected hazardous work
   conditions/procedures to their immediate supervisor and/or 59 MDW/SE.
   10.2. Hazards must be reported to the responsible supervisor and to 59 MDW/SE if the
   hazard cannot be eliminated on the spot. If the hazard is eliminated on the spot, no further
   action is required unless it applies to other similar operations or to other units or agencies.
   10.3. Hazards may be identified/reported verbally to the supervisor, 59 MDW/SE, or by
   using AF Form 457.
   10.4. If the hazard presents imminent danger, the supervisor or individual responsible for the
   area will take immediate action to correct the situation or apply interim control measures.
   10.5. During the investigation, the evaluator discusses the hazard with the person who
   identified it, the responsible supervisor or manager, and other parties involved to validate the
   hazard. This discussion also determines the best interim control and corrective action for the
   hazard.
   10.6. The safety staff will investigate the hazard, assign a risk assessment code if applicable,
   and will monitor corrective action until completion and brief at the monthly FEC committee
   meeting.
11. Education and Training.
 10                                                        59MDWI91-203 07 JANUARY 2014


   11.1. All 59 MDW personnel will maintain an AF Form 55. Commanders and supervisors
   will ensure all employees receive training in job safety, fire prevention and protection, and
   health as required by AFI 91–202, Occupational Safety and Health Administration and 59
   MDW guidelines. This training must be documented on AF Form 55 where directed and
   maintained in a centralized location for immediate access by supervision.
   11.2. Supervisors will provide specialized initial safety, fire protection, and health on-the-job
   training to all 59 MDW employees. Supervisors provide training to newly assigned
   individuals and if there is a change in equipment, procedures, processes, or safety, fire
   protection, and health requirements. Safety, fire protection, and health (bioenvironmental,
   public health, flight surgeon and (or) occupational medicine physician) officials will provide
   technical assistance to supervisors in developing an appropriate lesson plan for this training.
   This specialized training is commonly referred to as initial safety training utilizing the Job
   Safety Training Guide (JSTG).
   11.3. Supervisors will develop job safety training lesson plans, and at a minimum the lesson
   plan must address mandatory items listed in AFI 91-202, Attachment 5.
   11.4. Supervisors will review lesson plans (JSTG’s) annually and update whenever
   equipment, procedures, or the work environment change.
   11.5. The AF Form 55 will be used to document safety, fire protection, and health training
   unless other specific documentation is specified elsewhere.
      11.5.1. The supervisor will maintain the AF Form 55 in the workplace and will update
      training when necessary.
      11.5.2. The AF Form 55 should be provided to individuals to hand carry to the next
      assignment when they transfer. Destroy the AF Form 55 one year after personnel are
      separated or retired.
12. Supervisor Safety Training.
   12.1. Supervisors are the key in the Air Force Occupational Safety and Health program
   because they are responsible for maintaining a safe and healthful environments in their areas.
   The Supervisor Safety Course provides supervisory personnel with a working knowledge of
   their basic responsibilities for providing and maintaining safe and healthful working
   conditions.
   12.2. Commanders identify eligible personnel and arrange course scheduling with the 59
   MDW/SE. Squadrons will have a system in place to identify eligible personnel (i.e., unit
   training managers).
   12.3. Personnel Required To Attend :
      12.3.1. Noncommissioned officers and senior airmen when first assigned to a
      supervisory position.
      12.3.2. Commissioned officers when first assigned as a supervisor.
      12.3.3. Civilian personnel upon initial assignment to a supervisory position.
      12.3.4. Any supervisor needing refresher training or who demonstrates a lack of safety
      knowledge or initiative.
59MDWI91-203 07 JANUARY 2014                                                                  11


   12.4. Supervisors are responsible for documenting completion of supervisor safety training
   on the AF Form 55.
13. Safety Awards. The purpose of this program is to recognize individuals who have helped
promote safety awareness within the 59 MDW. The program establishes five safety award
categories: The Medical Safety Individual Award of Distinction, The Unit Safety Representative
of the Quarter, “You were caught doing something safe award”, The 59th Medical Wing Unit
Safety Representative of the Year and The Safety Commander of the Year.
   13.1. Medical Safety Individual Award of Distinction. This quarterly award recognizes
   outstanding contributions and/or superior achievements in ground safety during the quarter of
   consideration. Reserved for individuals whose mishap prevention efforts merit recognition
   above squadron level. This is a mishap prevention driven award. The nomination will be
   based on exceptional contributions for mishap prevention or safety process improvement
   throughout the quarter. Wing safety staff will determine the winner and coordinate award
   through the wing commander. Individual selected for wing award will also be submitted for
   AETC award consideration by 59 MDW/SE, in accordance with AFI 36-2833, AETC
   Supplement 1, Safety Awards. For further information refer to the 59 MDW Safety Awards
   Guide.
   13.2. Unit Safety Representative of the Quarter Award. This award recognizes outstanding
   contributions and/or superior achievements in ground safety. Reserved for Safety
   Representatives whose mishap prevention efforts merit recognition above squadron level.
   Nominations will not be accepted. Wing safety staff members will determine and select the
   deserving person. For further information refer to the 59 MDW Safety Awards Guide.
   13.3. Unit Safety Representative of the Year Award. This award recognizes outstanding
   contributions and/or superior achievements in ground safety throughout the year. Reserved
   for Safety Representatives whose mishap prevention efforts merit recognition above
   squadron level. Nominations must be submitted to 59 MDW/SE no later than 30 September.
   The wing safety staff members will evaluate the nominations and select the candidate to
   represent the wing at the MAJCOM level. The individual selected for the wing award will
   also be submitted for AETC Squadron Safety Representative of the Year award consideration
   by 59 MDW/SE, in accordance with AFI 36-2833, AETC Supplement 1. For further
   information refer to the 59 MDW Safety Awards Guide.
   13.4. You Were Caught Doing Something Safe Award. This award is to permit commanders
   with a quick method for recognizing an individual(s) single act or contribution to safety.
   Reserved for all military and civilian personnel assigned to 59 MDW whose safety
   contribution efforts merit recognition at the squadron level. Squadron personnel, USR, or
   supervisors may submit recommendation to 59 MDW/SE through the unit commander. For
   further information refer to the 59 MDW Safety Awards Guide.
   13.5. The Safety Commander of the Year Award. Selection will be based on the following
   criteria: The Commander must have been instrumental with hands on involvement in their
   unit achieving an outstanding rating for that year’s annual safety assessment and inspection.
   This award recognizes the commander who most successfully demonstrates outstanding
   leadership toward unit safety personnel and the overall unit in establishing and maintaining a
   world-class safety culture within the 59 MDW. Developing or implementing outstanding
12                                                      59MDWI91-203 07 JANUARY 2014


  policies, programs, or procedures that: Reduce the possibility of on and off duty mishaps, and
  improve overall operational effectiveness to ensure a safe and healthful work environment.




                                           GLENN A. YAP, Colonel, USAF, MSC
                                           Administrator
59MDWI91-203 07 JANUARY 2014                                                              13


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-2833, AETC Supplement 1, Safety Awards, 2 March 2010
AFPD 91-2, Safety Programs, 24 July 2012
AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 5 August 2011
AFI 91-202, AETC Supplement 1, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 19 June 2012
AFI 91- 203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction, 15 June 2012
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 September 2008
AFI 91-207, The US Air Force Traffic Safety Program, 12 September 2013
AFI 91-207, AETC Supplement 1, The US Air Force Traffic Safety Program, 9 July 2012
AFVA 91- 209, Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Program, 18 December 2012
59 MDWI 32-2003, Fire Safety Management and Response Program, 15 November 2010
Adopted Forms
AF Form 55, Employee Health and Safety Record
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF Form 457, Hazard Report
AF IMT Form 797, Job Qualification Standard Continuation/Command JQS
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AETC Form 29A, Commanders’ Newcomers Safety Briefing
AETC Form 29B, Pre-Departure Safety Briefing
AETC Form 410, High-Risk Activities Worksheet
AETC Form 435, Mishap Data Worksheet
AETC IMT 703, Log of Supervisor’s Safety Briefing
CA-1, Federal Notice of Traumatic Injury and Claim for Continuation of Pay/Compensation
CA-10, What a Federal Employee Should Do When Injured At Work

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
DOD—Department of Defense
EOC—Environment of Care
FEC—Facilities & Environment Committee
GSR—Group Safety Representative
 14                                             59MDWI91-203 07 JANUARY 2014


IAW—In Accordance With
ILSM—Interim Life Safety Measures
JSTG—Job Safety Training Guide
MDW—Medical Wing
SMB—Safety Management Book
USR—Unit Safety Representatives
WHASC—Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center
