BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 44-131
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                         26 FEBRUARY 2014

                                                                                      Medical

                                                                          IMMUNIZATIONS



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 59 MDSP/SGO7A                                                  Certified by: 59 MDSP/CC
                                                                      (Lt Col Carol Copeland)
Supersedes:   59MDWI 44-131, 4 May                                                    Pages: 6
              2011


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 44-102, Medical Care Management.
This medical wing instruction (MDWI) describes and establishes the scope and context within
which immunizations will be given at 59th Medical Wing (59 MDW). This instruction applies to
all personnel assigned, attached or on contract with the 59 MDW. This instruction does not
apply to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve. This publication requires the collection
and or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C.
55, Medical and Dental Care, and E.O. 9397 (SSN). The applicable SORN F044 AF SG D, and
Automated          Medical/Dental       Record        System        is      available       at:
http://dpclo.defense.gov/privacy/SORNs/SORNs.htm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. The authority to waive requirements is
the publication approval authority. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
System Records Disposition Schedule.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: deleted information regarding Inpatient Pneumococcal and Seasonal Influenza vaccines;
deleted specific information regarding Immunization of Asplenic Patients; changed information
about the immunization backup technician training.
 2                                                   59THMDWI44-131 26 FEBRUARY 2014


1. General. Immunizations constitute primary prevention. Standards to follow include:
immunizations are readily available, no unnecessary prerequisites, providers should at all
encounters screen and when indicated vaccinate, educate our beneficiaries about immunizations,
record preventive interventions, follow “the six rights of medication administration” - the right
dose, right route, right site, right patient, right time, and right documentation. Procedures for
patients who decline an immunization and procedures for exemptions to an immunization are
found in AFJI 48-110, Immunizations and Chemoprophylaxis. The Wilford Hall Ambulatory
Surgical Center Immunizations clinic noncommissioned officer in charge (NCOIC) has oversight
over point of service clinics that administer immunizations.
     1.1. Patients are encouraged to have their immunization record with them. Patients being
     seen for the first time within an Air Force Immunizations Clinic need to provide
     documentation of prior immunizations in order for these immunizations to be documented in
     the Aeromedical Services Information Management Systems. Immunizations that are not
     included on the current Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP)
     Recommended Childhood Immunization Schedule or Summary of Recommendations for Adult
     Immunizations require a written order. Immunization orders will be accepted from the plan
     or recommendation part of a Subjective, Objective, Assessment, and Plan (SOAP) note on a
     Standard Form (SF) 600, Medical Record-Chronological Record of Medical Care, on a
     prescription pad AF Form 781, Multiple Item Prescription (or civilian equivalent), or on a SF
     Form 513, Medical Record-Consultation Sheet. Providers should also document in Armed
     Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application (AHLTA) the indications for this
     immunization and their discussion of risks and benefits with the patient.
     1.2. Immunizations will be given IAW the recommendations of the ACIP. Immunizations,
     along with input from Population Health and Pediatrics, will establish a standard 59 MDW
     immunization schedule for those vaccinations that are indicated at a specific age range. This
     approach streamlines service and decreases confusion for both patients and staff.
     1.3. The appropriate Vaccine Information Sheet will be provided to each individual or
     parent/guardian and noted on DD Form 2766C, Adult Preventive and Chronic Care
     Flowsheet (Continuation Sheet). Questions will be answered by the immunization technician
     and, if needed, the Allergy and Immunology on-call fellow or Staff Preceptor will be
     consulted.
2. Adult Immunizations. Summary of Recommendations for Adult Immunizations is utilized.
     2.1. Influenza vaccine will be given to any adult who wishes it, as recommended by the
     ACIP. It will be available without a written request from the provider. Influenza vaccine is
     mandatory for uniformed personnel and healthcare personnel who provide direct patient care,
     and is recommended for all others.
     2.2. Pneumococcal vaccine will be given to all adults over age 65 if they consent to it, as
     recommended by the ACIP. People under age 65 with risk factors for severe pneumococcal
     disease will be given the pneumococcal vaccine.
     2.3. Tetanus and diphtheria (Td) will be given to any adult who requests it, as recommended
     by the ACIP. It will be available without a written request from the provider. Td is
     recommended every 10 years. ACIP also recommends substituting a one-time dose of
     Tetanus, diphtheria, and acellular pertussis (Tdap) for the Td booster. Tdap is also
59THMDWI44-131 26 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                3


   recommended for pregnant woman during each pregnancy (preferred during the 27-36 weeks
   gestation).
   2.4. Zostavax (shingles) vaccine will be given to any adult (60 years and older), as per the
   ACIP recommendations, if there are no contraindications to receiving live vaccines.
   2.5. All other immunizations will be administered as requested by the provider and
   documented in the plan or recommendation part of the SOAP note on a SF 600, in AHLTA,
   or a SF 513.
3. Mobility Immunizations.
   3.1. Coordination exists between Medical Readiness and Public Health to inform individuals
   of required mobility immunizations. Individuals will need a SF 513 that indicates the
   mobility immunizations they are due to receive. The SF 513 will serve as the prescription. It
   is the individual service member’s responsibility to ensure compliance with needed
   immunizations. A provider visit is not required prior to obtaining mobility immunizations.
4. Pediatric Immunizations.
   4.1. Recommended Childhood Immunization Schedule, updated annually, is utilized.
   Pediatric immunizations will be administered according to the annual schedule approved by
   the ACIP, American Academy of Pediatrics and American Academy of Family Physicians.
   The standard schedule will be followed unless specific guidance is included in the plan or
   recommendation part of the SOAP note on a SF 600, AF Form 781 (or civilian equivalent),
   or SF 513. A well-child visit before immunizations, up to and including the 11-12 year
   shots, will not be required. Immunization staff will recommend well-child visits if they have
   not occurred. All children under age 18 will need an adult or legal guardian 18 years or older
   with them in order to receive an immunization in the Immunization Clinic.
5. Vaccine Shortages.
   5.1. Whenever vaccine shortages exist, mission essential medical readiness will be the first
   priority and Centers for Disease Control (CDC) guidelines for patient prioritization will be
   followed. Visit the CDC website (http://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/pubs/acip-list.htm) for a
   complete summary of recommended adult immunizations, including immunocompromising
   conditions, and childhood immunizations.
6. Immunization of Patients with Immunocompromising Conditions.
   6.1. Visit the CDC website (http://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/pubs/acip-list.htm) for a
   complete summary of recommendations.
7. Initial Immunization Backup Technician (IBT) Training.
   7.1. Individuals requiring IBT certification will be identified and notified by their squadron
   superintendent and/or group 4N0 Functional Manager. It will be the individuals’
   responsibility to contact the IBT Coordinator or Immunization clinic to schedule IBT
   training. The IBT Study Guide/Distance Learning Course (DLC) is available on the AFMS
   Knowledge            Exchange           Allergy/Immunizations            Consult          page
   https://kx2.af.ms.mil/kj/kx8/AlleryImmunization/Pages/home.aspx. DLC material must
   be completed prior to attending the first day of class. Following the initial two days of
   didactic training the student will take the End of Course (EOC) exam. Upon successful
 4                                                   59THMDWI44-131 26 FEBRUARY 2014


     completion of the EOC exam (70% or higher) the student will be allowed to administer
     vaccines under the supervision of a SEI 453 holder. The student will be required to complete
     2-weeks (80 hours) of didactic and clinical training and pass daily quizzes with 80% or
     higher. If unsuccessful on the EOC exam, the student will follow AFI 44-102, Medical Care
     Management, paragraph 13.11.4.3.1 prior to retesting and administering vaccines. AFI 44-
     102 paragraph 13.11.4.4.1, allows unique circumstances for reduced clinical training. Based
     on the large number of pediatric and adult patients within the clinic and Basic Military
     Trainees the patient load meets the intent of the AFI and can be accomplished in a 10-duty
     day period.
8. Sustainment Immunization Backup Technician Training.
     8.1. It is the individuals’ responsibility to contact the IBT Coordinator or Immunization
     clinic to schedule IBT sustainment training. The standard quarterly training duration will be
     two days. The IBT program coordinator and/or the Immunization NCOIC can approve any
     abbreviated training based on experience, knowledge base and performance. Training at a
     minimum will comply with AFI 44-102.
9. Air Force Training Record (AFTR) documentation.
     9.1. Prior to completing initial or sustainment training, the IBT Coordinator and member
     must document training in member’s AFTR.




                                             NICOLA A. CHOATE, Colonel, USAF, MC
                                             Chief of the Medical Staff
59THMDWI44-131 26 FEBRUARY 2014                                                             5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations, 1 September 1999
Air Force Joint Instruction (AFJI) 48-110, Immunizations and Chemoprophylaxis, 29 October
2006
Air Force Surgeon General Policy Letter: Automated Documentation of Child and Adult
Immunizations, 25 July 2000
AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, 20 January 2012
Privacy Act of 1974
Privacy Act System Notice F044 AF SG D, Automated Medical/Dental Record System, 29
August 2003
Privacy Act System Notice F044 AF SG E, Medical Records System, 18 June 2010
Title 10 United States Code, Section 8013, Secretary of the Air Force, 5 January 2009
Recommended Childhood Immunization Schedule, as approved by Advisory Committee on
Immunization Practices (ACIP), American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) and American
Academy of Family Physicians (AAFP), Current Edition
Summary of Recommendations for Adult Immunization (as updated) as approved by ACIP
2003 Red Book, Standards for Child and Adolescent Immunization Practices and Prevention of
pneumococcal disease: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices.
MMWR 1997; 46 (No. RR-8)
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 781, Multiple Item Prescription
DD Form 2766C, Adult Preventive and Chronic Care Flowsheet (Continuation Sheet)
SF Form 513, Medical Record-Consultation Sheet
SF Form 600, Medical Record-Chronological Record of Medical Care

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACIP—Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices
AFTR—Air Force Training Record
AHLTA—Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application
CDC—Centers for Disease Control
EOC—End of Course
IAW—In Accordance With
 6                                                59THMDWI44-131 26 FEBRUARY 2014


IBT—Immunization Back-up Technician
MDW—Medical Wing
MDWI—Medical Wing Instruction
NCOIC—Non Commissioned Officer in Charge
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
SF—Standard Form
SOAP—Subjective, Objective, Assessment, and Plan
Td—Tetanus diphtheria toxoid
Tdap—Tetanus diphtheria and acellular pertussis
