BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 46-102
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                                25 MARCH 2014

                                                                                          Nursing

                                                        NURSING TELEHEALTH PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 59 MDOG/SGN                                                      Certified by: 59 MDOG/CC
                                                                           (Colonel John Andrus)
Supersedes:    59MDWI 46-102, 13                                                        Pages: 10
               December 2010


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 46-1, Nursing Services. This instruction
outlines the responsibilities and establishes the standard of care to include uniform procedures
for telehealth nursing practice by nurses at the 59th Medical Wing (59 MDW); not applicable to
the 959 Medical Group. It directs telehealth nursing scope of practice and operations, decision
support tools, protocol usage, and documentation of patient encounters in Armed Forces Health
Longitudinal Technology Application (AHLTA) and staff selection. This instruction applies to
all military and/or civilian nurses who perform telehealth nursing duties and functions. This
publication requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy
Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 55, Medical and Dental Care, and E.O. 9397 (SSN). The
applicable SORN F044 AF SG D, and Automated Medical/Dental Record System is available at:
http://dpclo.defense.gov/privacy/SORNs/SORNs.htm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. The authority to waive requirements is the
publication approval authority. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained IAW AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed
of in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Records Information Management System Records
Disposition Schedule.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include current telehealth language, secure messaging, and non-urgent walk-ins.
1. Program Overview.
 2                                                         59THMDWI46-102 25 MARCH 2014


     1.1. Telehealth refers to the delivery, management, and coordination of health services that
     integrate electronic information and telecommunication technologies to increase access,
     improve outcomes, and contain or reduce costs of health care. It involves an encounter with
     a patient/caller in which a specially trained and experienced registered nurse, utilizing
     clinical judgment and the nursing process, is guided by medically approved protocols and
     decision support tools to assess and manage care and to determine the urgency of the
     patient’s problem and to direct the patient to the appropriate level of care. This plan of care
     is ideally developed in collaboration with the caller and includes patient education/advice as
     appropriate and necessary.
2. Standards of Care.
     2.1. The Telephone Nursing Practice Administration and Practice Standards published by
     American Academy for Ambulatory Care Nursing (AAACN) have been adopted by the 59
     MDW as the standards for telehealth nursing. A copy of the standards are available in the 59
     MDW Medical Library.
3. Telehealth Operations.
     3.1. Patient Care Delivery Model. Telehealth is a useful tool for demand management
     within the primary care management process. It facilitates appropriate access to care by
     helping patients determine the urgency of their problem and directing them to the appropriate
     location for optimum delivery of care. Patient empowerment resulting in an informed and
     responsible healthcare consumer is a desired outcome of telehealth programs. The goals of
     telehealth include: improved patient access to care, increased efficiency in healthcare
     delivery/management and appropriate utilization of available resources and return of
     beneficiaries to the 59 MDW for care.
        3.1.1. Use of secure messaging (i.e., MiCare/Relay Health) does not constitute a
        telehealth nursing encounter. While secure messaging is a valuable communication tool
        between the patient and their care team, if clinical decision making is required, an
        encounter should be initiated in AHLTA IAW processes identified in this instruction.
     3.2. Staffing Selection Criteria. Telehealth services may be staffed by active duty, contract,
     and civilian registered nurses. Telehealth nurses require a minimum of three (3) years
     experience in various clinical settings. The 59 MDW Chief Nurse (59 MDW/SGN) will
     coordinate waiver requirements on a case-by-case basis through Air Force Medical
     Operations Agency (AFMOA) per AFI 46-101, Nursing Services and Operations. Clinical
     experience in medical-surgical nursing and pediatrics nursing is highly desirable. The
     telehealth service will be under the direction of the clinic’s element leader, or flight
     commander as applicable for larger clinics. The ultimate accountability for the program rests
     with the 59 MDW/SGN. Favorable characteristics for telehealth nurses include: critical
     thinking skills, ability to prioritize quickly, ability to handle stress, maturity, excellent
     customer relations skills and ability to immediately establish rapport/trust on the phone.
     3.3. Telehealth nursing is decentralized into individual clinics.
     3.4. Nurse Responsibilities. The telehealth nurse provides advice regarding access to care
     and, when appropriate, home care instructions. Every effort will be made to honor the
     wishes and preferences of the patient within the parameters dictated by patient safety. The
     nurse will act on behalf of the patient in cases where the patient is the victim of
59THMDWI46-102 25 MARCH 2014                                                                     3


  violence/abuse or when emergency medical services are required for life-saving care.
  Although guided by protocols and decision support tools, nursing judgment will prevail at all
  times, superseding care indicated by the protocol as the patient’s situation dictates.
  Consultation with provider will be required when a protocol or nursing judgment does not
  adequately address the patient’s concerns or needs.
     3.4.1. The nurse will consider more than the chief complaint to determine the magnitude
     of the encounter, to include: age, chronic illnesses, time of day, availability of patient and
     medical resources, distance from care, duty status, the reliability of the patient/caller as
     historian, their ability to understand and comply with the recommended disposition, and
     cultural factors.
  3.5. Accountability for Patient Care. While the provider is ultimately responsible for the
  patient’s healthcare management, the nurse maintains accountability for his/her decision-
  making and will not implement an order that he/she feels to be contraindicated for that
  patient. If there is a discrepancy between the judgment of the nurse and the order of the
  provider, the nurse will document the rationale for his/her decision and will defer via
  telephone consultation to the provider for final treatment plan.
  3.6. Protocols/Decision Support Tools.
     3.6.1. The following protocols will be used at the 59 MDW: Telephone Triage Decision
     Support Tools, Guidelines for Ambulatory Care by Dale Woodke; Pediatric Telephone
     Protocols: Office Version by Barton Schmitt; Telephone Triage Protocols for Nurses by
     Julia Briggs; and Telephone Triage for Obstetrics and Gynecology by Vicki Long and
     Patricia McMullen as previously approved by the 59 MDW Executive Committee of the
     Medical Staff (ECOMS). The Barton Schmitt pediatric reference should be used for all
     patients under the age of 18. Any other published commercial protocols must be
     approved by the individual work centers’ medical directors and by the 59 MDW/SGN.
     As the approved references may contain a wide spectrum of protocols w/in the decision
     tool set (e.g., Woodke – adult, pediatrics, obstetrics), any approved reference protocols
     are acceptable for use within the 59 MDW though individual clinical areas should use a
     consistent tool set.
     3.6.2. Protocols developed by individual clinics will be reviewed by the senior clinic
     physician/medical director or his/her designee and coordinated between the applicable
     Group Chief Nurse and Chief of Medical Staff prior to submission to the 59 MDW/SGN
     for final review and recommendation to the Executive Committee of Medical Staff. All
     protocols will be reviewed initially and at least annually by ECOMS. AFMOA-
     developed protocols will be adopted IAW AFMOA/SG direction.
     3.6.3. Protocol revision impacting clinical decision making (not administrative issues)
     require concurrence with the medical director, signature approval of the 59 MDW/SGN
     and final approval via ECOMS.
     3.6.4. All patients’ telephone calls identified as requiring disposition will be in
     accordance with approved protocols. If no appropriate protocol is identified, the nurse
     will collaborate with a provider for appropriate disposition and care. Provider
     recommendation and disposition will be clearly documented on the encounter sheet.
 4                                                        59THMDWI46-102 25 MARCH 2014


            3.6.4.1. Non-urgent walk-ins. In some instances, non-urgent “walk-in” patients may
            be triaged using telehealth clinical protocols, or similar nurse-run protocols.
            Decision-making processes and assessment for these patients will be IAW the
            appropriate and approved clinical protocol. Appropriate documentation, provider
            consultation, referral, and dispositions will be as described in this Instruction.
        3.6.5. Documentation.          All telephone encounters involving symptom-based
        medical/nursing decision-making will be documented via AHLTA. Each clinic or
        specialty area may develop templates for AHLTA documentation. If AHLTA is not
        working, documentation will occur on Standard Form (SF) Form 600, Medical Record-
        Chronological Record of Medical Care and will be uploaded into the patient’s AHLTA
        record as soon as it is available.
            3.6.5.1. Document at a minimum the following data for each encounter: date,
            patient’s name, family member prefix/social security number, caller’s identity if
            different than patient’s, patient phone number, patient age, onset of symptom, patient
            complaint, age-specific immunization status for pediatric and elderly patients, current
            medications to include over the counter/herbals, allergies, use of home treatment(s)
            attempted, subjective and objective data collection supporting assessment category,
            protocol choice, protocol override: upgrade or downgrade as appropriate, plan of care,
            intervention, disposition, patient understanding, call-back instructions as appropriate
            and nurse and provider signatures.
            3.6.5.2. All symptom-based calls requiring decision making as well as the encounters
            described above will be signed by the nurse providing care/advice and will be
            reviewed and co-signed by a privileged provider within 24 hours, preferably by the
            end of each duty day whenever possible. A copy of the encounter must be forwarded
            to the patient’s provider via telephone consult to facilitate continuity of care.
        3.6.6. Calls for routine appointments, or deemed non-urgent by the telehealth registered
        nurse may be scheduled by clinic appointment clerks or the nurse. Other non-symptom-
        based contacts (i.e, test results, Rx renewal, etc) may be addressed via telehealth or
        secure messaging format.
            3.6.6.1. Unlicensed assistive personnel, appointment clerks or licensed practical
            nurses will not manage a telephone request for health information. Callers requesting
            health information and/or advice regarding access to care will be immediately
            assessed by the telehealth registered nurse and assigned an appropriate disposition
            based on approved protocols. Callers requesting information will be assessed to
            clarify their need and given the appropriate information/home care advice.
            3.6.6.2. Medical and administrative technicians may manage requests for medication
            refills and assist with leaving messages for the provider per individual clinic
            instructions.
4. Education and Training.
     4.1. Newly selected telehealth nurses must be adequately prepared to provide safe and
     effective telephone nursing care and service. Nurses with previous telehealth experience will
     complete initial telehealth and unit specific training.
59THMDWI46-102 25 MARCH 2014                                                                      5


   4.2. The telehealth training plan must identify and address learning needs based on core
   competencies, orient the member to facility-specific practices and community resources and
   provide initial competency training. Training will be conducted in a one-on-one
   preceptorship format. The length of orientation will be based on the nurse’s previous
   experiences or qualifications, the preceptor’s assessment and how well the nurse
   independently comprehends and completes required competencies. Preceptors may be active
   duty, civil service, or contract registered nurses.
   4.3. Documentation. Training will be documented on 59 MDW Form 29, Telehealth
   Orientation/Training Competency Checklist and placed in the nurse’s Competency
   Assessment Folder.
   4.4. On-going training will consist of no less than an annual in-service directed towards the
   approved protocols and current trends in telephone nursing practices.
      4.4.1. Annual refresher training will be completed by all personnel performing telehealth
      duties. The senior nurse of each section will ensure this training is accomplished and
      documented in member’s Competency Assessment Folder.
5. Clinical Management.
   5.1. Disposition categories will be assigned to all encounters as follows:
      5.1.1. Emergent. Problems deemed to pose an imminent threat to life, limb or vision will
      be referred immediately to the nearest emergency department (ED). The 911 emergency
      medical system may also be employed by the nurse, patient, family, or other caregiver if
      movement by privately owned vehicle is not recommended per protocol or nursing
      judgment.
      5.1.2. Urgent. Problems that pose a potential threat to life, limb, vision or if delay of
      care would result in an increased severity of illness will be seen within 24 hours by ED,
      clinic visit, or acute care deferral.
      5.1.3. Non-Urgent. Problems that pose no reasonable threat to life, limb, vision or will
      not cause an increase in severity of illness will receive a routine appointment or home
      care instructions with appropriate follow-up.
   5.2. Evaluation. Prior to the termination of each call, a plan must be developed for
   evaluation of the interventions. In all cases (with the exception of those instructed to activate
   the Emergency Medical System), patients must be given information regarding how to
   appropriately access care if indicated, how to care for themselves at home, and how and
   when to call back and under what circumstances. Reliable patients who have a low acuity
   problem may be instructed to call back if their situation gets worse, changes, or does not
   improve.
      5.2.1. Patient Understanding.     Upon the conclusion of each call, the patient’s
      understanding of the plan will be verified and documented in the medical record. Calls
      should not be terminated until the nurse is certain that the caller understands and
      verbalizes the instructions.
      5.2.2. Patient Intent to Comply. The patient’s intent to comply will be ascertained and
      documented. In the event that a patient does not intend to comply with the
 6                                                          59THMDWI46-102 25 MARCH 2014


        recommendations of the nurse, the situation should be handled as described in paragraph
        6.1., Noncompliance with Recommended Disposition.
6. Risk Management and Performance Improvement.
     6.1. Non-compliance with Recommended Disposition. In the event that the patient does not
     intend to comply with the recommendation of the nurse, the nurse is expected to take
     reasonable measures to assure that the patient understands the consequences of their actions
     and is able to act in their own best interest. If the patient has a life-threatening condition and
     does not comply with instructions to call an ambulance or otherwise proceed directly to care,
     the nurse must reassess the patient for the following:
        6.1.1. Understanding of the seriousness of the situation and ability to act in their own
        best interest. All reasonable measures, including clear and complete information about
        the possible consequences of inaction (up to and including death, if indicated), should be
        taken to assure that the patient understands the potential consequences of noncompliance.
            6.1.1.1. If the patient is believed to understand the potential consequences and is
            assessed to be competent to make this decision, the nurse will respect the patient’s
            wishes, document the situation comprehensively, include the timeline of events and
            close the call with an open invitation to call back at any time. The situation will be
            brought to the attention of the provider or the medical director for further guidance
            and documented in AHLTA.
        6.1.2. If the patient is a minor, incompetent, or otherwise legally unable to make
        informed health care decisions, and the caller refuses non-emergency care deemed
        appropriate by the nurse, the situation will be brought to the attention of the provider or
        the medical director for further guidance. The encounter will be documented in AHLTA.
     6.2. Demanding/Angry/Abusive Callers. Patients who are demanding or angry will be
     handled in a manner to defuse the situation. Care will be taken to avoid escalating the
     patient’s anger. Efforts will be made to determine the reason for the patient’s dissatisfaction
     and reasonable steps will be taken to remedy the situation. If the nurse is unable to defuse
     the caller’s anger or handle the concern to the patient’s complete satisfaction, the call will
     generally be referred to the nurse manager/element leader. The goal with such callers is to
     defuse their anger, determine the reason for their dissatisfaction, address their concern and
     provide for their safety and appropriate level of care. At no time should interpersonal factors
     be allowed to interfere with the delivery of safe and appropriate care.
     6.3. Suspected Drug Seekers. In the event of calls from a known or suspected drug seeker,
     the message will be taken and passed on to the provider. Generally speaking, all patients
     who call with complaints of pain should be appropriately assessed and taken seriously.
     6.4. Threats of Violence. Threats of violence (to self and/or others) are to be taken seriously
     and reported to the proper authorities. The nurse will keep the caller on the line while
     activating emergency services on another line, or by instructing a co-worker to call 911.
     6.5. Domestic Violence. In cases of suspected domestic violence, the nurse will act in the
     best interest of the alleged abused individual. Cases of suspected abuse and/or neglect must
     be reported to the appropriate authorities, including emergency services and Family
59THMDWI46-102 25 MARCH 2014                                                                   7


  Advocacy, IAW AFI 40-301 Family Advocacy and 59 MDWI 40-302 Management of
  Suspected Abused Patients.
  6.6. Suicidal or Paranoid Behavior. In cases of suicidal, delusional, or paranoid behavior,
  the nurse will notify Mental Health to coordinate immediate interventions. All suicidal
  patients will be directed to the nearest medical facility to seek immediate care.
     6.6.1. For reports of suicidal intent, paranoia or other mental health disorders, contact
     Mental Health for referral. If Mental Health is unable to support immediate intervention,
     the patient will be referred to the ED (i.e., San Antonio Military Medical Center). If
     concerns arise as to the ability of the patient to seek emergent services, they will be
     instructed to call 911, go directly to the nearest ED for assistance or the nurse may
     choose to notify emergency services while keeping the patient on the line.
  6.7. Frequent Callers. In the event of frequent callers, the following principles will guide
  their care.
     6.7.1. The patient’s chief complaint will be carefully reassessed with each call.
     6.7.2. The frequent caller who is thought to be abusing the system will be brought to the
     attention of the provider, who will make a determination of whether to speak to the
     patient personally or turn the situation over to another appropriate resource.
     6.7.3. If the calls persist, attempts should be made to identify the source of the problem
     and address it appropriately (such as via a team conference, through referral to a
     healthcare integrator/case manager or via other interventions).
  6.8. Other Common Situations Regarding Telehealth.
     6.8.1. In the event that the appropriate disposition is not clear, the nurse will err on the
     side of caution, directing the patient to seek care at the appropriate level and medical
     facility.
     6.8.2. In cases in which the nurse or the patient/caller does not feel comfortable with the
     disposition suggested by the protocol, the nurse should upgrade the disposition,
     instructing the patient to seek a higher level of care immediately.
     6.8.3. If a patient or family member reports that this is the second call in a 24-hour
     period regarding the same problem, the patient should be given an appointment or
     directed to seek care.
  6.9. Clinical Quality. Quality of care delivered by the telehealth program will be routinely
  tracked, analyzed, and reported to the 59 MDW ECOMS via Nurse Executive Function
  feedback. When deficiencies are identified, a plan for improvement will be developed and
  implemented.
     6.9.1. Peer Review. All telehealth encounters that are symptom-based calls requiring
     decision making will be co-signed by a privileged provider. Each nurse participating in
     telehealth practice will have such encounters reviewed on a recurring basis (i.e, quarterly)
     by their respective clinic peer. Respective clinic flight commanders or nurse managers
     will be responsible for ensuring the peer review process is in place. Peer review will be
     reported on a quarterly basis to the group SGN. Negative trends will be identified,
     addressed and corrective measures taken to ensure nurses are practicing IAW current
8                                                        59THMDWI46-102 25 MARCH 2014


       AAACN standards for telehealth nursing. 59 MDW Form 30, Telehealth Peer Review or
       a similar audit tool/form can be used to document peer review. The group SGN will be
       advised of any negative trends, as well the corrective action/s taken to address any
       discrepancy.
       6.9.2. Confidentiality. All calls will be handled in a confidential manner. Information of
       a potentially sensitive nature will not be released to anyone over the phone without the
       patient’s permission per Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act standards.
    6.10. Outcome Metrics.
       6.10.1. Patient Satisfaction. Patient satisfaction will be monitored and addressed through
       the 59 MDW customer feedback program. Dissatisfied customers should be given the
       opportunity to address their concern with the original telehealth nurse. If they are unable
       to remedy the situation, the patient/customer will be referred to the Patient Advocate and
       then follow the chain of command appropriately if indicated.
       6.10.2. Call Volume. The number of incoming calls may be tracked as needed for
       purposes of demand management and template revision in coordination with the
       respective clinic Group Practice Manager and clinical leadership (i.e, nurse manager,
       medical director, etc).




                                            SUSAN M. THORNELL, Colonel, USAF, NC
                                            59th Medical Wing, Chief Nurse
59THMDWI46-102 25 MARCH 2014                                                                      9


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 46-1, Nursing Services, 1 September 2011
AFI 40-301 Family Advocacy, 30 November 2009
AFI 46-101, Nursing Services and Operations, 28 October 2011
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act and Civil Liberties Program, 5 June 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
59MDWI 40-302 Management of Suspected Abused Patients, 18 Oct 2013
American Academy of Ambulatory Care Nursing, 8th Edition AAACN Telehealth Nursing
Practice Administration and Practice Standards. 2010
Briggs, Julie K., Telephone Triage Protocols for Nurses, 3rd Edition, Lippincott: Philadelphia.
2007
Long, Vicki and McMullen, Patricia, Telephone Triage for Obstetrics and Gynecology,
Lippincott, 2003
Schmitt, Barton D., Pediatric Telephone Advice, 11th Edition, Lippincott: Philadelphia 2006
Woodke, Dale, Telephone Triage Decision Support Tools, Guidelines for Ambulatory Care,
Books 1-4, Indianapolis: Methodist Hospital of Indiana/Ambulatory Innovations. 2005
National Council of State Boards of Nursing (www.ncsbn.org)
Prescribed Forms
59 MDW Form 29, Telehealth Orientation/Training Competency Checklist
59 MDW Form 30, Telehealth Peer Review
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
SF Form 600, Medical Record-Chronological Record of Medical Care

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAACN—American Academy for Ambulatory Care Nursing
AHLTA—Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMOA—Air Force Medical Operations Agency
AHLTA—Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application
ECOMS—Executive Committee of the Medical Staff
ED—Emergency Department
10                       59THMDWI46-102 25 MARCH 2014


IAW—In Accordance With
MDW—Medical Wing
SF—Standard Form
