BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                            59TH MEDICAL WING
59TH MEDICAL WING                                                     INSTRUCTION 91-204

                                                                                3 APRIL 2009
                                                             Certified Current on 4 April 2013

                                                                                       Safety

                                                      OXYGEN SAFETY AND OXYGEN
                                                ENRICHED ATMOSPHERE (OEA) AREAS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 59MDW/SE                                                       Certified by: 59 MDW/SE
                                                                          (Mr. Larry M. Cain)
Supersedes:   59MDWI 91-2, 18 October                                                 Pages: 5
              2000


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 91-2, Safety Programs. This instruction
establishes performance and maintenance criteria for oxygen-enriched atmosphere areas, and
storage of compressed gas cylinders. It addresses the equipment and facilities used for
safeguarding patients and health care personnel from fire, explosion, electrical and related
hazards associated with an Oxygen Enriched Atmosphere (OEA), compressed gases, compressed
gas cylinders, and anoxia from erroneous gas connections and similar hazards. It is consistent
with Air Force Occupational Safety & Health (AFOSH) Standards. This instruction applies to
all military, civilian, and volunteer personnel assigned, attached or under contract to the 59
Medical Wing. This instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System Records Disposition
Schedule located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Updated references throughout text.
 2                                                               59MDWI91-204 3 APRIL 2009


1. Fire Hazards.
     1.1. Oxygen is a strong oxidizing gas. Individually, or as a mixture, it will readily support
     combustion. Materials that are potentially flammable and combustible in air will ignite more
     easily and burn more vigorously in an OEA.
     1.2. Isolate or remove combustible materials that could be hazardous in an OEA area,
     particularly those found in patient care linens. These include hair oils, oil-based lubricants,
     skin lotions, rubbing alcohol, and acetone.
     1.3. Leakage or venting of oxygen from any storage or dispensing equipment can create an
     OEA. The potential for an OEA also exists whenever oxygen is transported, stored, or used.
2. Training Requirements.
     2.1. Each patient care section and OEA will develop written oxygen shut-off procedures, and
     include oxygen shut-off familiarization to their job safety training outline (JSTO). As a
     minimum the written procedures will include the training actions to be taken in case of an
     emergency such as fire and how to close the wall oxygen valves. Also the written procedures
     will identify the nurse shift leader, nurse manager, element leader, or equivalent individual
     responsible for directing or closing the wall oxygen valves. All personnel that work in or
     have the possibility to be exposed to an OEA will be trained. The training consists of both
     the JSTO and the flights written oxygen shut-off procedures. The JSTO cannot be a
     standalone oxygen training product. The appropriate flight chief will approve the oxygen
     shut-off procedures.
3. Electrical Hazards.
     3.1. All electrical patient care equipment will be tested by Biomedical Equipment
     Maintenance prior to initial use, and in accordance with AFI 41-203, Electrical Safety in
     Medical Treatment Facilities. Defective equipment will be turned in to the appropriate
     agency for repair or disposition.
     3.2. Piping systems such as water pipes, gas pipes, and electrical conduits will not be used as
     grounding points. All grounds will be properly installed and checked prior to use.
     3.3. All spark producing and non-approved electrical devices will be prohibited in OEA
     areas.
4. Storage.
     4.1. Gates to gas supply storage systems will be secured to prevent unauthorized entry.
     Storage areas for oxygen will not contain combustible materials or flammable gases. Empty
     oxygen cylinders may be stored in the same enclosure, but they must be marked and
     segregated.
     4.2. All oxygen cylinders will have a Department of Defense (DD) Form 1191, Warning Tag
     for Oxygen Equipment. A capacity tag indicating whether the cylinder is full, partially full,
     or empty, will also be affixed to each cylinder.
     4.3. All cylinders not in use will be capped and secured by wall mounted chains or similar
     devices, and stored in approved locations. Cylinders connected to a manifold and tubing
     connections will be secured by chains, wall mounted chains, or similar devices.
59MDWI91-204 3 APRIL 2009                                                                       3


   4.4. Smoking will be prohibited within 50 feet of gas storage areas and a sign reading:
   “OXYGEN, NO SMOKING, NO OPEN FLAMES, WITHIN 50 FEET" will be posted.
   Oxygen cylinders stored outdoors will be shaded from the sun. Oxidizing gases must never
   be stored within 50 feet of flammable gases (red label) or flammable liquids.
   4.5. Gas system pipelines will be readily identifiable by appropriate labeling as to their
   contents.
   4.6. For patient wards, treatment areas, and clinics there are three categories of oxygen use
   and storage: In order to simplify compliance, definitions are provided and quantity limits are
   based on B4550 fire zones.
      4.6.1. In Use. This category consists of oxygen bottles in use by patient or in use on
      medical equipment.
          4.6.1.1. Quantity Limits. National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 99 does not
          directly address the quantities that are used in a fire zone at any given time.
          However, medical staff should maximize use of wall supplied oxygen if available and
          quickly return empty oxygen bottles to approved storage rooms.
      4.6.2. Ready for Immediate Use. This category consists of oxygen bottles staged for
      immediate use within an area. For B4550 an “area” will be defined as a fire zone.
      “Immediate Use” is defined as staged on a crash cart, staged in a patient/treatment room,
      under a patient bed, or located on a piece of medical equipment.
          4.6.2.1. Quantity Limits. New NFPA 99 and the Joint Commission (JC) guidance
          allows for up to a total volume of 300 cubic feet of oxygen in an area. Recognize that
          300 cubic feet of oxygen equates to only 12 “E” sized cylinders or an equivalent mix
          of H and E size cylinders. One “H” sized cylinder equates to 250 cubic feet, one “E”
          sized cylinder equates to 24 cubic feet. Empty cylinders do count in the total cubic
          feet volume for the area so medical staff must expedite return of empties to approved
          storage rooms.
      4.6.3. In Storage. This category consists of oxygen bottles stored in a dedicated oxygen
      storage room that meets the minimum NFPA 99 construction requirements of 1 hour
      construction or a sprinkler located in the room.
          4.6.3.1. Quantity Limits. There is only one dedicated oxygen storage room to be
          located in any fire zone designated as healthcare occupancy. The specific locations
          are determined by Wing Safety, Facilities Management, and Lackland Air Force Base
          Fire Department. NFPA 99 and JC guidance allows for up to a total volume of 3000
          cubic feet of oxygen to be stored in an approved storage room. Empty cylinders in
          storage do not count in the total cubic feet volume limits.
   4.7. Staff must ensure that cylinders staged for “Immediate Use” and cylinders that are in
   storage include the proper use of safety chains/securing, full/empty labeling, and bottle
   segregation.
5. Special Precautions For Oxygen Cylinders and Manifolds.
   5.1. Oxygen cylinders or apparatus will not be handled with oily hands, greasy gloves or
   rags. Oil, grease, lubricants, rubber or other organic materials will not be allowed to come in
   contact with oxygen cylinders, valves, regulators, gauges or fittings.
 4                                                             59MDWI91-204 3 APRIL 2009


     5.2. Particles of dust and dirt will be cleared from cylinder valve openings by slightly
     opening and closing the valve before applying any fitting to the cylinder.
     5.3. The high pressure valve on the oxygen cylinder will be opened before use to ensure the
     regulator is functioning properly.
6. Regulators and Valves.
     6.1. Oxygen fittings, valves, regulators or gauges will only be used to service oxygen, and
     will be equipped with Diameter Index Safety System, or Pin Index System.
     6.2. Defective oxygen cylinder regulators, valves, gauges, and related equipment will not be
     used. Defective equipment will be turned into Medical Engineering flight and defective
     cylinders will be turned in to Logistics for proper disposal.

7. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 1191, Warning Tag for Oxygen Equipment




                                      ROBERT U. HAMILTON, Colonel, USAF, MSC, FACHE
                                      Administrator
59MDWI91-204 3 APRIL 2009                                                                        5


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 91-2, Safety Programs, 28 September 1993
AFI 41-203, Electrical Safety in Medical Treatment Facilities, 19 June 2002
59MDWI 91-203, Medical Wing Safety Program, 9 February 2009
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), 99, 2005 Edition
Health Care Facilities; Compressed Gas Association Inc, 2008 Standards

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
DD—Department of Defense
JC—Joint Commission
JSTO—Job Safety Training Outline
NFPA—National Fire Protection Association
OEA—Oxygen Enriched Atmosphere
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility

Terms
Oxygen Enriched Atmosphere—An atmosphere in which the oxygen content exceeds 23.5
percent by volume.
Oxygen Administration Site—All points within one foot of oxygen administration equipment
(including oxygen-powered aspirators); except when the equipment contains, or is intended to
contain, an OEA greater than (>) two (2) liters in volume (measured at atmospheric pressure),
then the oxygen administration site shall include all points within five (5) feet of the equipment.
Enriched Areas (EA)—Locations in which oxygen is being administered and in which oxygen
levels meet the definition of an OEA.
