BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                             59TH MEDICAL WING
59TH MEDICAL WING                                                      INSTRUCTION 44-152

                                                                         31 DECEMBER 2008
                                                     Incorporating Change 1, 1 November 2011
                                                              Certified Current on 23 July 2013
                                                                                       Medical

                                              MEDICAL MANAGEMENT (MM) PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 59 MDW/SGHM                                                  Certified by: 59 MWD/SGH2
                                                                         (Col Markham Brown)
Supersedes:   MDWI 44-26,                                                            Pages: 14
              8 November 2000


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 44-1, Medical Operations. This
publication establishes the plan, policy, and procedures to optimize health care by ensuring
appropriate utilization of 59 Medical Wing (MDW) resources at all operating locations. Medical
Management (MM) is an integrated working relationship between the healthcare facility and
healthcare providers through established protocols for the delivery of quality, cost-efficient
health care to produce positive patient outcomes. It is a shift to evidence-based outcome-
oriented care. The major components of MM are Utilization Management (UM), Referral
Management (RM), Case Management (CM), Utilization Review (UR), and Disease
Management (DM). Monitoring these elements provide a basic foundation for effective
utilization of resources and evaluation of care and services. This instruction applies to all 59
MDW personnel. This instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard or Air Force
Reserve. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule on the Air Force Portal available at
ttps://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Deleted references to inpatient care and the emergency department. A margin bar indicates
newly revised material.
 2                                                       59MDWI44-152 31 DECEMBER 2008


1. Goals of MM. Ensure that all healthcare services rendered are cost effective, delivered in the
most appropriate setting, and optimized for quality and timeliness.
     1.1. Optimize Defense Health Plan expenditures with business decisions based on the MM
     process.
     1.2. Facilitate partnering with the Managed Care Support Contractors (MCSC) while
     sustaining quality and improving beneficiary satisfaction.
     1.3. Incorporate appropriate measurement and statistical methods to demonstrate process
     performance, process improvement results, and system performance.
2. Medical Management Objective. To meet the healthcare needs of active duty members and
other eligible beneficiaries during peacetime with accessible, cost-effective, quality healthcare
while providing and maintaining medical care services to meet the needs of the armed forces
during contingencies. MM addresses access to quality care in the most cost-effective manner,
including over and under utilization of resources. Optimal clinical and systems outcomes require
an effective, integrated MM program. The following objectives are directed toward this goal:
     2.1. Optimize the efficacy and efficiency of resource utilization within the military treatment
     facility (MTF) with emphasis on Family Health Optimization and prevention of network
     private sector care leakage.
     2.2. Document, analyze, and report MTF/market utilization patterns and trends.
     2.3. Identify opportunities and strategies for quality improvement and use of effective MM
     tools, specifically clinical pathways and clinical practice guidelines.
     2.4. Educate personnel within the MTF on MM issues/programs.
     2.5. Evaluate and optimize interface activities between the MCSC and San Antonio Military
     Medical Health Systems (SAMMHS).
     2.6. Enhance communication among all participants in Humana Military Healthcare Services
     (HMHS), specifically resource sharing elements within the multi-market service area Brooke
     Army Medical Center (SAMMC), (Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgery Center and Randolph
     Air Force Base).
3. Responsibilities. The functional responsibilities within the MM process will be carried out
as an interdisciplinary team. The process includes the following:
     3.1. 59th Medical Wing Commander:
        3.1.1. Responsible for implementing a MM program to achieve objectives described
        above, in accordance with (IAW) Department of Defense (DoD) and Air Force Medical
        Service (AFMS) policy. To that end, the 59th Medical Wing Commander ensures:
        3.1.2. The MTF MM program/plan is reviewed annually, tailored to specific facility
        needs, and is fully implemented.
        3.1.3. Mechanisms are in place to provide maximum interdisciplinary input to the MM
        program.
        3.1.4. Effective interface and data-sharing occurs between the MM, population health,
        and performance improvement management programs.
59MDWI44-152 31 DECEMBER 2008                                                                3


     3.1.5. A comprehensive MM program that is fully integrated within the MTF; MM
     activities meet Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC) and
     DoD requirements within the scope of the 59 MDW Strategic Business Plan.
     3.1.6. All staff are educated on the importance of effective MM, and on their roles in the
     MM process via briefings provided by the MM staff. Staff receives sufficient feedback
     on their utilization or resource consumption patterns to optimize resources.
     3.1.7. Collaboration with the MCSC and throughout SAMMHS to maximize effective
     use of resources that result in quality, cost-effective outcomes for Military Health
     Services System beneficiaries.
  3.2. Chief of Medical Staff:
     3.2.1. Provides oversight and direction regarding professional aspects of MM.
     3.2.2. Addresses concerns regarding medical standards of care related to MM.
     3.2.3. Assists in educating providers regarding professional aspects of MM.
     3.2.4. Serves as commander’s designated second level reviewer over all utilization
     review to include approval of network care for active duty members.
     3.2.5. Ensures all professional staff are informed on appropriate referral management
     and consult review processes.
  3.3. Chief Nurse Executive:
     3.3.1. Responsible for nursing care and ensures care coordination and case management
     activities meet nursing standards and are appropriately documented by the MM and
     nursing staff.
  3.4. The Chief, Medical Management Branch:
     3.4.1. Develops, plans, implements, and directs the MM program.
     3.4.2. Understands the populations served, MTF demographics, clinical conditions
     driving significant medical costs, and identifying opportunities for clinical/financial
     improvement.
     3.4.3. Plans and coordinates the work of MM with all departments and services, to
     integrate the healthcare delivery system.
     3.4.4. Supervises, monitors, and briefs key MM activities in the MTF to include case
     management, care coordination, disease/demand management, and utilization
     management.
     3.4.5. Collaborates, coordinates, and surveys contractor-performed MM activities.
     Provides data to the Quality Assurance Evaluator (QAE) as directed.
     3.4.6. Directs all MM activities toward the Integrated Population Health Plan including
     Primary Care Manager (PCM) team-specific information on disease management, high
     utilizers, care coordination, and case management.
     3.4.7. Assists in the development and coordination of major MM policy applications to
     the MTF, and interpreting DoD, USAF, HMHS, and TJC policies and instructions to
     comply with MTF mission objectives.
4                                                     59MDWI44-152 31 DECEMBER 2008


       3.4.8. Incorporates MM principles into an annual organization-wide, interdisciplinary
       MM plan, ensuring the MM plan identifies and selects one clinical process each year for
       improvement through the application or reinforcement of Clinical Practice Guidelines
       (CPGs).
       3.4.9. Develops at least two MM measures for the selected CPG. Monitors, analyzes,
       and reports outcomes to the executive staff as indicated.
       3.4.10. Educates both internal and external customers on the importance of effective
       care, utilization patterns, and their roles in the MM process.
       3.4.11. Collaborates with the Performance Improvement Director and Population Health
       Director to ensure performance improvement and the analysis of outcome measures, MM
       and performance improvement processes. Data derived from MM programs may be used
       to identify variation from currently established normative patterns. The variation should
       then be assessed, opportunities for improvement identified, priorities set, and changes
       implemented. Progress should be monitored until the variation is minimal.
    3.5. Provider Staff:
       3.5.1. Assess/screens patients for CM and Care Coordination services.
       3.5.2. Provides necessary clinical information to facilitate referrals through Composite
       Health Care System (CHCS)/Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application
       (AHLTA).
       3.5.3. Informs the patient and/or family members of recommendations for continuity of
       care management prior to the request for care coordination assistance with home health,
       hospice, and/or durable medical equipment.
       3.5.4. (DELETED)
    3.6. (DELETED)
       3.6.1. (DELETED)
       3.6.2. (DELETED)
       3.6.3. (DELETED)
    3.7. Case Manager:
       3.7.1. Works collaboratively with outpatient interdisciplinary team members and is the
       primary point of contact for care coordination, resource usage, and ensuring appropriate
       levels of care in the enrolled population.
       3.7.2. Conducts initial CC/CM evaluation within 1 duty day after referral/notification
       received.
       3.7.3. Contacts patient/family and discusses CC/CM services. Contact may include in
       person (Clinic/Urgent Care visit), telephonic, or via mail services.
       3.7.4. If CC/CM services are indicated and desired by patient/family, develops CC/CM
       plan in conjunction with the PCM, the patient/family, and other disciplines as indicated
       by patient needs. Coordinates with PCM and other disciplines to evaluate and adjust
       CC/CM goals.
59MDWI44-152 31 DECEMBER 2008                                                                    5


       3.7.5. Maintains patient/family privacy and confidentiality.
       3.7.6. Facilitates patient access to healthcare including primary care manager (PCM),
       ancillary services, specialty care, and community/network services and agencies.
       3.7.7. Monitors and evaluates patient outcomes/attainment of goals, patient/family and
       provider satisfaction, coordination of care, patient/family education, and compliance with
       plan of care. Documents plan of care and attainment of care goals in AHLTA.
       3.7.8. Provides at least monthly (or as needed) updates to PCM, to include initial CC/CM
       assessment/plan, changes in patient status and closure of CC/CM case.
   3.8. Humana Military Healthcare Services provides:
       3.8.1. Prospective, concurrent, and retrospective UR for admissions outside the MTF.
       3.8.2. Care Coordination Services outside the MTF.
       3.8.3. Case Management for beneficiaries receiving a propensity of care outside the
       MTF.
4. Utilization Management. UM is an organization-wide, interdisciplinary approach to
balancing quality, risk, and cost concerns in the provision of patient care. Effective UM is the
key task for improving the quality and ensuring cost-effective healthcare services are provided to
patients. The UR is the systematic evaluation of the necessity, appropriateness, and efficiency of
the use of healthcare services, procedures, and facilities. Periodic reviews of high dollar/high
frequency visits and ancillary care requests should be incorporated into an effective MM plan.
5. Referral Management. RM is a process to ensure patients have access to alternate levels of
care, health professionals, or settings when the patient’s assessed needs exceed the provider,
setting, or organization’s capacity to provide the care. The purpose of RM is to actively manage
internal and external referrals to specialists in either the direct care or purchased care systems.
The RM functions will be completed by the TRICARE Operations and Patient Administration
(TOPA) Flight as determined by MDWI 41-38 Outpatient Referrals and Consultations and by
the San Antonio Military Medical Systems Referral Management Center.
   5.2. RM Goal. To promote continuity of care, ensuring timely specialty interventions,
   recapturing care appropriately, and making informed decisions about the most effective
   utilization of resources.
6. Case Management. CM is a collaborative process in which the case manager assesses,
plans, implements, coordinates, monitors, and evaluates options and services to meet the
patient’s complex health needs through communication and available resources to promote
quality, cost-effective outcomes. CM generally is focused on the minority of the population that
consumes an inordinate amount of health care resources. CM is a coordinated process that is
shared by members of the MTF and the MCSC.
   6.1. CM Goal. To find the most appropriate medical resources for providing optimal care
   and promoting the best possible outcome for the patient. This may be achieved by providing
   care along a continuum, decreasing fragmentation of care across many settings, enhancing
   the patient’s quality of life, and containing costs.
6                                                       59MDWI44-152 31 DECEMBER 2008


    6.2. Qualifications. Case Managers will be licensed Registered Nurses and/or Social
    Workers who have experience in CM and should be certified through one of the nationally
    recognized accrediting bodies.
    6.3. Process. The process of CM begins with identification of individuals with catastrophic
    or complex, high-risk/high-cost health issues, unusually long hospital stays, or
    frequent/inappropriate use of the healthcare system that would most likely benefit from CM
    services. There are six basic steps in the CM process: assessment, planning, implementation,
    coordination, monitoring, and evaluation.
    6.4. CM Staff Responsibilities:
       6.4.1. Manages and provides care coordination for active duty and enrolled patients with
       catastrophic and/or high-risk/high-cost health issues.
       6.4.2. Performs CM activities for 59 MDW enrolled patients. Non-enrollees will be case
       managed when utilizing MTF resources with the primary goal of assisting the patient in
       establishing continuity of care outside of the MTF. All urgent care needs will be
       addressed and referred appropriately despite enrollment status.
       6.4.3. Collaborates with MCSC Health Care Coordinator for 59 MDW beneficiaries care
       coordination as needed. The MCSC provides case management for services for all other
       beneficiaries who receive the majority of their care in the network.
       6.4.4. CM will encompass more extensive services, repeat follow-up, and continued
       interaction between the patient and Case Manager. CM will accept patients who will
       require services: 1) greater than 4 weeks, with resolution expected within 6 months; 2)
       multiple, complex coordination of services with the patient experiencing lack of
       improvement and increasing complications or setbacks with unpredictable resolution; 3)
       complex coordination of multiple services required with Case Manager intervention on a
       frequent basis; 4) patient status is deteriorating with continuous follow-up required,
       and/or; 5) coordination of care to other healthcare facilities, inpatient admissions to other
       health facilities, or complex home health/Durable Medical Equipment (DME) services.
       6.4.5. PCMs, nurses, or other ancillary staff may refer patients for CM services. Patients
       or their families may also self-refer. Candidates for CM may also be identified through
       specific diagnosis, appointment profile, or other activities such as discharge/disposition
       planning rounds.
       6.4.6. Interfaces closely with the Health Care Integrator (HCI) to identify the high
       utilizer patient population. Monitors and evaluates the patient population with high
       utilization rates and works with these patients to optimize care services and appropriate
       utilization of care.
       6.4.7. Reviews medication usage for specific populations (narcotic seekers, etc.). Makes
       recommendations for care, medication management, case conferences, etc.
       6.4.8. Targets patients with the following diagnoses for inclusion in the CM program:
       head trauma, spinal cord injuries, Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired
       Immunodeficiency Syndrome, neoplasms, neonates admitted to neonatal intensive care
       units, major burns, and organ transplants. Additionally, the CM will review the
       following categories of patients for inclusion in the CM program: repeat and/or frequent
59MDWI44-152 31 DECEMBER 2008                                                                   7


      admissions, poorly controlled chronic diseases, dual medical/psychiatric diagnoses, and
      dual psychiatric/substance abuse diagnoses.
      6.4.9. Collaborates with community social services to direct and/or provide services to
      patients and their families who are experiencing emotional, social, and/or financial
      consequences associated with disabling illnesses.
      6.4.10. Maintains an established, interdisciplinary treatment/CM plan for each patient
      accepted into the CM program. This plan will include an overview assessment of the
      patient’s condition, home environment, social support structure, actual/potential use of
      community resources, list of DME or specific services that will or may need to be
      provided, and funding sources. Short-and/or long-term goals that foster independence
      will be documented in the CM plan as well as an evaluation and progress toward those
      goals. The CM plan will be communicated to the patient’s PCM needed for significant
      changes to the patient’s condition.
      6.4.11. Proactively coordinates care for families within the Exceptional Family Member
      Program to ensure services are available and in place when the family arrives at the new
      duty station.
      6.4.12. The CM will terminate active case management when the patient no longer
      desires CM services, the patient dis-enrolls from the MTF, the patient/family achieves
      established goals, patient non-compliance, or the PCM/Case Manager determines that
      CM services are no longer beneficial. The patient/guardian and PCM will be notified in
      writing of CM closure and rationale.
   6.5. Humana Military Healthcare Services CM:
      6.5.1. HMHS provides telephonic CM to TRICARE Prime enrolled patients. Patients
      are referred for these services by their PCM using HMHS forms.
7. (DELETED).
   7.1. (DELETED)
   7.2. (DELETED)
   7.3. (DELETED)
   7.4. (DELETED)
      7.4.1. (DELETED)
      7.4.2. (DELETED)
   7.5. (DELETED)
8. Outpatient Care Coordination.
   8.1. Uncomplicated care coordination for patients in the outpatient arena is the responsibility
   of the provider, clinic staff caring for the patient, and Case Management, if the patient was
   previously followed by Case Management. More complex care coordination, such as
   inpatient admissions to other health facilities, or complex home health/DME requests may be
   referred to Case Management staff by the provider through CHCS.
 8                                                       59MDWI44-152 31 DECEMBER 2008


     8.2. Case Managers communicate on an as-needed basis with the outpatient PCM clinics to
     discuss patients in care coordination. Case Managers provide an update or close out
     summary of individuals enrolled in care coordination.
     8.3. Outpatients identified as requiring care coordination and/or case management services
     can be identified and discussed during this forum as well.
     8.4. Patient-specific care conferences can be initiated on an as-needed basis when the
     patient’s condition and/or needs warrant.
     8.5. Providers will submit a referral for patients requiring DME as an outpatient.
9. Provider Profiling. Provider profiles are a useful tool to assist providers in adopting optimal
practice patterns. Indicators analyzed and trended quarterly include outpatient visits, diagnoses,
admissions, variant hospital bed days, procedures, ancillary support services (laboratory,
radiology, pharmacy), and consults.
10. Customer Education and Communication.
     10.1. Education and communication for both internal and external customers is imperative to
     the success of any MM program. Education is a continuous process using both formal and
     informal mechanisms.
     10.2. MM staff will provide education to personnel within the MTF on MM programs, tools,
     processes, and implications of program outcomes, results of any analysis accomplished in the
     MM program, and MM staff roles, responsibilities, and relationships.
11. MM Measures, Data, and Trend Reporting.
     11.1. The MM Program has the authority to review the utilization of resources by 59 MDW
     Chief of the Medical Staff, and as directed by the Executive Committee of the Medical Staff.
     The MM Branch Chief, as an agent of the commander, provides widest dissemination of
     information to the MTF staff and reports all regularly evaluated data through appropriate
     committees.
     11.2. No individually identifying information will be released except to flight commanders,
     executive staff, and individual providers.
     11.3. The fundamental concept in determining appropriate MM measures is to align them
     with the MTF’s strategic vision and business plan.
     11.4. Measures for each area will be reported on a quarterly basis in the appropriate
     committee to include, but not limited to, Population Health Working Group, Professional
     Staff Meeting, Executive Committee of the Medical Staff, and Performance Improvement.
12. Release of Records/Documents/Confidentiality.
     12.1. All MM documents will be considered quality management documents and release of
     those records and information will be governed by the confidentiality and disclosure
     requirements set forth in Title 10 United States Code, Chapter 55, Section 1102,
     Confidentiality of Medical Quality Assurance Records: Qualified Immunity for Participants,;
     Social Security Act, Section 1160, Prohibition Against Disclosure of Information and
     implementing regulations at Title 42 Public Health, Code of Federal Regulations Part 476,
     Utilization and Quality Control Review, The Alcohol, Drug Abuse and Mental Health
59MDWI44-152 31 DECEMBER 2008                                                                9


   Administration Reorganization Act (42 U.S.C. § 290dd-2), AFI 33-332, Privacy Act
   Program, and DoD 6025.18-R, Health Information Privacy Regulation.
   12.2. Medical management staff will release medical records IAW MDWI 41-64, Release
   and Request of Health Related Information or Medical Records.
13. Quality Assurance and Monitoring.
   13.1. Quality assurance/monitoring is the analysis and monitoring of clinical, fiscal, and
   systems outcomes to meet the goals and objectives of MM.
   13.2. Data derived from these programs will be used to identify any variation from currently
   established normative patterns. The variation will then be assessed, opportunities for
   improvement identified, priorities set, and changes implemented. Progress will be monitored
   until the variation is minimal.
   13.3. The following message will be displayed on all Medical Management documents:
   “Quality Assurance Document protected under 10 U.S.C.§ 1102(b)—For Official Use Only.
   Do not release without permission of the 59 MDW Commander.”
14. (DELETED).




                                    HELEN M. HOOTSMANS, Colonel, USAF, MC, FS
                                    Chief of the Medical Staff
 10                                                    59MDWI44-152 31 DECEMBER 2008


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations, 1 September 1999
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 29 January 2004
AFI 41-210, Patient Administration Functions, 22 March 2006
AFI 44-119, Medical Quality Operations, 24 September 2007
Air Force Referral Management Guide, July 2007
DoD Directive 1010.10, Health Promotion and Disease/Injury Prevention, 22 August 2003
DoD Instructon 6000.14, Patient Bill of Rights and Responsibilities in the Military Health
System (MHS), 5 September 2007
DoD Directive 6010.8-R, Civilian Health and Medical Program for the Uniformed Services,
12 Jul 1991
DoD Directive 6025.13, Medical Quality Assurance(MQA) in the Military Health System(MHS),
4 May 2004
DoD Instructon 6025.20, Medical Management (MM) Programs in the Direct Care System
(DCS) and Remote Areas, 5 January 2006
Title 10 United States Code, Chapter 55, Section 1102, Confidentiality of Medical Quality
Assurance Records: Qualified Immunity for Participants, 3 January 2007
Title 42 Public Health, Code of Federal Regulations Part 476, Utilization and Quality Control
Review, 24 November 1999
Social Security Act, Section 1160, Prohibition Against Disclosure of Information, 1 January
2007
The Alcohol, Drug Abuse and Mental Health Administration Reorganization Act, 1 April 1992
MDWI 41-38, Outpatient Referrals and Consultations, 4 November 2000
CMSA, Standards of Practice for Case Managers, 15 May 2008
Comprehensive Accreditation Manual for Hospitals, Joint Commission on Accreditation of
Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO), current edition
DoD TRICARE Management Activity Guide, January 2006
HA 04-008, Interim Policy Guidance for Implementation of Medical Management Programs,
7 April 2004
Milliman Care Guidelines, 2004
59MDWI44-152 31 DECEMBER 2008                                   11


Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAAHC—Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care
AFMS—Air Force Medical Service
AHLTA—Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application
CC—Care Coordination
CHCS—Composite Health Care System
CM—Case Management
CP—Critical Pathway
CPG—Clinical Practice Guidelines
DM—Disease Management
DME—Durable Medical Equipment
DoD—Department of Defense
HCI—Health Care Integrator
HMHS—Humana Military Healthcare Services
IAW—In Accordance With
MCSC—Managed Care Support Contractors
MDW—Medical Wing
MM—Medical Management
MTF—Military Treatment Facility
PCM—Primary Care Manager
QAE—Quality Assurance Evaluator
RM—Referral Management
SAMMC—San Antonio Military Medical Center
SAMMHS—San Antonio Military Medical Health Service
SF—Standard Form
TJC—The Joint Commission
TOPA—TRICARE Operations and Patient Administration
UM—Utilization Management
UR—Utilization Review
           12                                                    59MDWI44-152 31 DECEMBER 2008


                                                   Attachment 2
                                MEDICAL MANAGEMENT PLAN FORMAT

           Medical Management Focused Plan FY 2009

Clinical        Supporting                                                 Clinical       Resource
Process         Data         Plan                Actions                   Outcomes       Outcomes
MRI             High         Review MRI          1. UM Review MRI           Decrease      Decrease in
Ordering        network      leakage to          leakage for trends         leakage to    inappropriate MRI
Process         referrals,   market;             2. Policy letter to be put local         requests;
                high cost,                                                  market by
                             recapture           into place                               Decrease in leakage
                                                                            25%.
                             appropriate                                                  of MRI’s to market;
                                                 3. Training to Provider Recapture
                             MRI’s to            staff on correct ordering, appropriate   Decrease in wait
                             facility; educate   criteria                   MRI           time for MRI in
                             provider staff
                                                                            studies in    house;
                             on correct          4. Review after 6
                                                 months                     house         Increase in
                             ordering,
                             requirement                                                  appropriateness of
                             criteria                                                     MRI ordering
          59MDWI44-152 31 DECEMBER 2008                                                       13


                                                 Attachment 3
                                 MEDICAL MANAGEMENT CALENDAR FORMAT

                             Oct   Nov Dec   Jan   Feb   Ma Apr May     Jun   Jul   Aug   Sep
Agenda Items                 08    08  08    09    09    r 09 09 09     09    09    09    09       Report
Appointment utilization
(CSF 2,3)                                                               x
-     Urgent Care
                                                                                    x
usage
                                                                                          x
-      ER usage
                                                                              x
-      No shows rates
-      Clinic availability
Medical Management:
Case management (CSF
3,4) CM
-      total # of cases
                             x               x                  x             x                    Q
-      types of cases
-      AD / non AD
Utilization management
(CSF 1,2,4) UM
                                             x                                x
-      High utilizers
                                       x                                x
-     Emergency
                             x                                  x                                  S
Department utilization
                                   x                                x
-      MRI review
-      Discharge
planning process                                   x                                x
-     Acuity levels for
PCM teams
Prevalence of disease --               x                                x                          S
MTF visits (CSF 1)
Top 10 diagnosis/visits            x               x                x               x              Q
direct care
Top 10 procedures direct               x                                x                          S
care
Top 10 procedure                             x                                x                    S
leakage to network
           14                                      59MDWI44-152 31 DECEMBER 2008


Top 10 diagnosis/visit        x                x        x             x            Q
leakage to network
Disease Management:
Diabetic HgA1C testing                                                             A
and control
                                          x
Diabetic LDL testing and
                                               x
control
                                                             x
Mammo (breast cancer
prevention)                                                       x
Pap rate (cervical cancer                                             x
prevention)**
accomplished by
Maternal/Child HCI
Asthma Controllers
Colon cancer prevention
         Q-quarterly, A-annual, S-semiannual
