BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 46-104
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                            7 FEBRUARY 2014

                                                                                        Nursing

                                                                              NURSING CARE




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 59 MDW/SGN                                                    Certified by: 59 MDOG/SGN
                                                                        (Colonel James Reineke)
                                                                                       Pages: 9
Supersedes:   59 MDWI 46-104, 9 August
              2011 and 59 MDWI 44-145,
              8 October 2009


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 46-1, Nursing Services. This instruction
describes the plan for providing nursing care based on the wing mission and needs of the patient
population. It defines nursing, nursing standards, the scope of nursing care delivery, and the
responsibilities of the 59th Medical Wing (MDW) Chief Nurse. It establishes the standard for
demonstrating the nursing process in the medical record and contains instructions for completing
nursing documentation. This instruction applies to all nursing personnel assigned, attached or
under contract to the 59 MDW and excludes 959th Medical Group and 359th Medical Group
personnel. This instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. The
authority to waive requirements is the publication approval authority. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
(IAW) Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force
Records Information Management System Records Disposition Schedule.
 2                                                          59MDWI46-104 7 FEBRUARY 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include updates to reflect care provided in an ambulatory versus inpatient care setting.
1. General. Nursing personnel are directly responsible for ensuring patients receive nursing
care based on the nursing process. Continuity and communication of nursing care is achieved
whenever the care of a patient is transferred from one caregiver to another, and is documented in
the patient’s medical record. The nursing process is also used to assess patients and provide
nursing interventions in the urgent care center, ambulatory surgery, and outpatient clinics in
regards to treatment interventions and/or patient education. Nursing personnel includes all active
duty (Registered Nurses (RNs)/medical technicians) and General Schedule and contract
employee RNs/Licensed Vocational Nurses (LVNs)/Licensed Practical Nurses (LPNs).
2. Overview.
     2.1. Nursing. The 59 MDW has adopted the American Nursing Association (ANA)
     definition of professional nursing as the protection, promotion, and optimization of health
     and abilities, prevention of illness and injury, alleviation of suffering through the diagnosis
     and treatment of human response, and advocacy in the care of individuals, families,
     communities, and populations. There are six essential features of professional nursing:
        2.1.1. Provision of a caring relationship that facilitates health and healing,
        2.1.2. Attention to the range of human experiences and responses to health and illness
        within the physical and social environments,
        2.1.3. Integration of objective data with knowledge gained from an appreciation of the
        patient or group's subjective experience,
        2.1.4. Application of scientific knowledge to the processes of diagnosis and treatment
        through the use of judgment and critical thinking,
        2.1.5. Advancement of professional nursing knowledge through scholarly inquiry, and
        2.1.6. Influence on social and public policy to promote social justice.
     2.2. This definition of nursing provides a framework for the nursing process, including data
     collection, diagnosis, planning, treatment and evaluation. The nursing process is supported
     by standards of nursing practice that are congruent with the definition and that provide more
     specific guidelines for practice. These standards include systematic, continuous collection of
     data concerning the health status of the patient in recorded form that is assessable and that
     may be communicated. A nursing diagnosis is derived from the data collected. A plan for
     nursing care incorporates goals derived from the nursing diagnosis and the priorities and
     approaches to achieve the goals as indicated by the nursing diagnosis. Nursing actions,
     which are selected and performed with patient’s participation, provide for promotion,
     maintenance, or restoration of the patient’s health and serve to maximize the patient’s health
     care abilities. The progress or lack of progress toward the goal is mutually determined by the
     patient and nurse, resulting in reassessment, reordering of priorities, and establishment of
     new goals and revision of the plan for nursing care.
     2.3. Nursing Practice. The act of applying the knowledge of human responses to actual or
     potential health problems.
59MDWI46-104 7 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                    3


   2.4. Nursing Process. A framework that facilitates nurses’ identification of human responses
   to health problems. The framework used within the 59 MDW is one adopted from the
   ANA’s Standards of Clinical Nursing Practice.
3. Additional Standards. The Nursing Executive Function (NEF) may add standards, as
necessary. These standards may be outcome, process, procedural or structural in nature.
Individual units and clinics may also adopt professional practice standards as needed.
   3.1. 59 MDW is located in the State of Texas. As such, the Texas Nursing Practice Act is
   utilized in assessing Standards of Care.
4. Responsibilities of the 59 MDW/SGN (Chief Nurse).
   4.1. The 59 MDW/SGN is responsible and accountable for ensuring that the provision of
   patient care and standards of nursing practice are consistent with current nursing research
   findings and nationally recognized professional standards. The SGN provides wing oversight
   in the development of nursing standards of practice, policy, and resource requirements.
   4.2. The 59 MDW/SGN has the authority to define, establish, and implement nursing
   standards for patient care and nursing practice throughout the 59 MDW. The Group
   SGNs/4N Functional Managers collaborate with the 59 MDW/SGN to ensure nursing
   standards are upheld within their groups. The 59 MDW/SGN is responsible for ensuring
   assigned nursing personnel are afforded opportunities for professional development.
   4.3. The 59 MDW/SGN chairs the NEF, which is responsible for providing oversight for the
   provision of nursing care within the 59 MDW, establishing nursing policy and standards of
   practice, and for collaborating, planning, coordinating, designing and integrating the delivery
   of nursing care, services, and research within the 59 MDW.
   4.4. Provision of Nursing Care. The 59 MDW/SGN/4N Functional Manager, in conjunction
   with the Group SGNs/4N Functional Managers, ensure appropriate nursing support for
   medical services. When plans for change in the provision of specific patient care services are
   developed, they apply appropriate changes to nursing care requirements and resource
   projections.
   4.5. The 59 MDW/SGN participates in performance improvement activities as a voting
   member of the Performance Improvement Committee (PIC) and Board of Directors (BOD).
   4.6. The ongoing provision of nursing care is monitored through the review of performance
   improvement activities, peer review, customer satisfaction data tracked through the Patient
   Advocacy Office, patient comment cards and letters, random patient medical record reviews,
   and other means. The 59 MDW/SGN informs the BOD when potential compromises in
   patient care or practice patterns could occur due to inadequate numbers of qualified nursing
   personnel.
   4.7. When action is required to modify practice or address staffing and training issues that
   have actual or potential impact on nursing care, the 59 MDW/SGN takes action through the
   NEF, PIC, and/or BOD.
   4.8. Matters involving substandard clinical performance on the part of non-credentialed
   nurses or Military Medical Technicians are addressed with the Risk Management Office and
   acted on IAW guidelines in AFI 44-119, Medical Quality Operations.
 4                                                        59MDWI46-104 7 FEBRUARY 2014


5. Functional Levels of Nurses.
     5.1. The practice of nursing by an LVN/LPN (civilian or skill level 5/7 military medical
     technician) includes performing acts that are assigned by registered nurses within the scope
     of the individual’s education, license, and demonstrated competency.
     5.2. Activities by military medical technicians will mean the assumption of responsibilities
     for performing the tasks outlined in the Air Force Career Field Education and Training Plans
     (CFETPs) or approved waiver, and doing so within the education and background of the
     technician, under the direction of a registered nurse and/or privileged medical provider.
     5.3. Military medical technicians are defined as Levels 3 (Apprentice), 5 (Journeyman), and
     7 (Craftsman) in accordance with the CFETP. Level 3 technicians are entry level and
     practice under the supervision of military medical technicians at higher levels, LVN/LPNs,
     RNs, and providers. The noncommissioned officer in charge (NCOIC) is responsible for
     overseeing the upgrade training and professional development of the military medical
     technician staff and annotating such in the CFETP.
6. Duty Schedules.
     6.1. Flight commander/Nurse Manger/NCOICs (or designees) will develop the
     nurse/technician duty schedules in conjunction with each other to ensure adequate
     coverage/experience level.
     6.2. Assisting Another Clinic. Any staff member who assists in a clinical duty location other
     than their assigned clinical duty location must be oriented to infection control and safety
     measures for that particular area prior to being allowed to practice without supervision.
7. Identification of Nursing Care Needs. Nurses will use established mechanisms to identify
the nursing care needs of patients. These mechanisms provide for both short-term (event related)
and long-term (continuum of care) projections and are employed by nurses using a
multidisciplinary approach with members of the medical staff, family, and support services.
     7.1. ANA mechanisms that can be used for the identification of patient care needs include,
     but are not limited to:
        7.1.1. Physician orders and medical protocols.
        7.1.2. Patient acuity.
        7.1.3. Established standards of nursing care and practice.
        7.1.4. Quality indicators.
        7.1.5. Customer feedback.
        7.1.6. Nursing research protocols and findings.
8. Patient Assessment/Reassessment. Patients have the right to expect treatment based on the
identification of their individual needs. Patient care will be based on an assessment of physical,
psychological, and social needs. Assessment involves the systematic collection and analysis of
patient-specific data used to match an individual’s needs with the appropriate intervention.
Assessment starts at the initial evaluation of the patient and is continually reanalyzed throughout
the patient’s contact with the organization. Once the patient’s initial assessment is completed,
the patient’s needs are identified and prioritized. At this point, care is either provided to the
59MDWI46-104 7 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                       5


patient, the patient is referred, or the patient is transferred to another facility for care.
Reassessment is accomplished at each clinic visit to determine response to treatment, when a
significant change occurs in the patient’s condition, or when a significant change occurs in the
diagnosis.
   8.1. The mechanisms for assessment and reassessment will be well understood by all
   disciplines of staff members and clearly documented in practice.
   8.2. Medical and nursing personnel complete ambulatory care assessments on eligible
   beneficiaries during the clinic visit.
   8.3. The assessment process continues throughout the initial and any subsequent clinical
   visits through periodic reassessments.
   8.4. The patient assessment process includes a chief complaint, history of the present illness,
   past medical history, physical examination, and relevant diagnostic studies. This assessment
   is documented using primarily the Subjective, Objective, Assessment, Plan format.
   Approved electronic health records, charting templates or overprints may be used based on
   the specific clinical area, e.g., Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application
   (AHLTA), Essentris, AHLTA-T notes, procedural overprints. Pertinent needs assessment, as
   determined by the clinical team and situation, may include the following:
       8.4.1. Psychosocial assessment, including personal and family history of mental illness,
       alcohol or drug abuse, and tobacco use.
       8.4.2. Social assessment, including living arrangements, language barriers, cultural or
       religious practices (e.g., special diet, medical restrictions), and presence of terminal or
       debilitating illness.
       8.4.3. Functional assessment, including ability for independent self-care and
       mobility/ambulation, need for assistive equipment (e.g., orthotics, prosthetics), sensory
       impairment, speech/language impairment, and fall risk.
       8.4.4. Nutritional assessment IAW 59 Medical Wing Instruction (MDWI) 41-103,
       Ambulatory Nutrition Screening.
       8.4.5. Education assessment, including the learning needs and capabilities of both adults
       and dependent minors, impact of illness on ability to work or attend school, and
       identification of and documentation of a developmental delay.
       8.4.6. Abuse, neglect and exploitation assessment focused on observable evidence,
       including, but not limited to, unexplained bruises or injuries; unkempt appearance;
       excessive fear; loss of interest in self; poor nutrition; medical neglect in any child, adult,
       or elder; or involvement in unethical or un-consented investigational medical research
       IAW 59 MDWI 40-302, Management of Suspected Abused Patients.
       8.4.7. Pain assessment and reassessment IAW 59 MDWI 44-124, Pain Management.
   8.5. All patients are assessed for allergies to food, drugs, and other substances.
   8.6. Infants, children, adolescents, adults and elderly patients will be assessed as appropriate
   for their age group.
 6                                                          59MDWI46-104 7 FEBRUARY 2014


     8.7. Assessment information may be subjective or objective, such as information gathered
     from medical jewelry worn by the patient. Information may also be obtained from a family
     member, parent, guardian, or significant other with the patient’s consent.
     8.8. Medical personnel integrate the information from their respective assessments by
     documenting their findings in chronological order in AHLTA or on a SF 600, Chronological
     Record of Medical Care, if AHLTA is unavailable. Medical and nursing staff can thereby
     readily identify new concerns and assign priorities to meet the needs of their patient. Patients
     presenting to the Urgent Care Center (UCC) will be assessed and triaged in a manner
     proscribed by UCC policy.
     8.9. A RN performs patient assessments, and LVN and Medical Technicians perform
     focused patient assessments IAW clinic-specific guidelines that specify the types of patients
     that require nursing assessment and intervention. LVNs and Medical Technicians assist in
     the assessment process by collecting data in the form of vital signs, subjective and objective
     patient information IAW their scope of duties and responsibilities. LVN and Medical
     Technician assessments are specific to the affected body system, disease or procedure. RN
     assessments are expanded to include the full scope of nursing assessment, depending on the
     patient’s bio-psycho-social and/or educational needs. RNs, LVNs, and Medical Technicians
     administering patient treatments or performing an intervention will document a focused
     patient assessment in AHLTA prior to and after the treatment or intervention.
     8.10. Any nursing service personnel may notify the provider(s) whenever the assessment of
     a patient indicates that a change in the plan of care may be required.
9. Staffing.
     9.1. The daily anticipated clinic patient caseload is assessed to include new patients, follow-
     up assessments/treatments, elective/non-elective procedures, and the potential for
     unscheduled patient needs to determine the capability of the nursing staff available to meet
     the needs identified. When the nursing care/service needs exceed staff capabilities,
     corrective actions are taken to ensure safe patient care. Some actions may include:
        9.1.1. Nurse Manager/NCOIC provides direct patient care.
        9.1.2. Temporary reassignment of qualified staff from other areas, if available.
        9.1.3. Utilizing qualified, trained volunteers.
        9.1.4. If after these measures have been taken, the anticipated nursing care needs exceed
        the nursing staff capabilities, the clinic flight commander or designee will modify the
        anticipated caseload to a level within the capabilities of the nursing staff.
     9.2. Operating Room. Staffing variances for the Operating Room are defined IAW the
     Operating Room Scope of Services. Staff variances are managed per Operating Room Scope
     of Care Standards and will not be further defined in this document.
10. Nursing Human Resources Development Programs. Competency of nursing personnel is
determined IAW 59 MDWI 36-2601, Human Resource Development, and unit specific
guidelines for competency requirements.
11. Quality of Nursing Care. Quality of nursing care is monitored by the SGN/4N Functional
Manager through several sources.
59MDWI46-104 7 FEBRUARY 2014                                                            7


  11.1. Direct and indirect observation of staff performance by group chief nurses, 4N
  Functional Managers, superintendents, flight chiefs/NCOICs.
  11.2. Recommendations from Nursing Peer Review Investigations. (The peer review process
  and management of clinical adverse actions are governed IAW AFI 44-119).
  11.3. Reports from the wing Risk Manager addressing practice concerns/trends.
  11.4. Information provided from Patient Safety, Infection Control, and from other health
  care disciplines addressing the quality of nursing care and from other services.
  11.5. Feedback from patients regarding the quality of nursing care received.




                                           SUSAN M. THORNELL, Colonel, USAF, NC
                                           Chief Nurse
 8                                                    59MDWI46-104 7 FEBRUARY 2014


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 44-119, Medical Quality Operations, 16 August 2011
AFI 46-101, Nursing Services and Operations, 28 October 2011
AFPD 46-1, Nursing Services, 1 September 2011
59 MDWI 36-2601, Human Resource Development, 8 February 2011
59 MDWI 40-302, Management of Suspected Abused Patients, 18 October 2013
59 MDWI 41-103, Ambulatory Nutrition Screening, 8 September 2005
59 MDWI 44-124, Pain Management, 21 June 2013
Texas Nurse Practice Act, 2013, http://www.bon.state.tx.us/nursinglaw/npa.html
Nursing Scope and Standards of Practice, American Nurses Association, 2004
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
Standard Form 600, Chronological Record of Medical Care

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AHLTA—Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application
ANA—American Nursing Association
BOD—Board of Directors
CFETP—Career Field Education and Training Plan
SGN—Chief Nurse
IAW—In Accordance With
LPN—Licensed Practical Nurse
LVN—Licensed Vocational Nurse
MDW—Medical Wing
MDWI—Medical Wing Instruction
NCOIC—Noncommissioned Officer in Charge
NEF—Nursing Executive Function
PCM—Primary Care Manager
PIC—Performance Improvement Committee
RN—Registered Nurse
59MDWI46-104 7 FEBRUARY 2014   9


UCC—Urgent Care Center
