BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 44-105
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                           25 FEBRUARY 2011
                                                     Incorporating Change 1, 29 September 2011
                                                              Certified Current on 16 April 2013
                                                                                        Medical

                                                        UNDERGRADUATE AND GRADUATE
                                                          MEDICAL EDUCATION TRAINEE
                                                                        SUPERVISION

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 59 MDW/GE                                            Certified by: 59 MDW/GE (Col Randall
                                                                                  C. Zernzach)
Supersedes:    59MDWI 44-105, 9 March                                                 Pages: 7
               2010


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 44-1, Medical Operations. This
instruction applies to all San Antonio Uniformed Services Health Education Consortium
(SAUSHEC) staff physicians, dentists, program directors and trainees and establishes minimum
requirements for supervision of trainees who provide medical care to patients at 59th Medical
Wing (MDW). This instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve.
SAUSHEC Graduate Medical Education (GME) program directors will also comply with any
additional requirements of their respective residency review committees or accrediting
organizations. Privacy Act System of Record F044 AF SG K, Medical Professional Staffing
Records, applies. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office
of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) on the Air Force Portal
available at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Changed Wilford Hall Medical Center to 59th Medical Wing throughout the instruction.
1. Program Responsibilities.
   1.1. Supervising Staff Provider. A licensed independent practitioner (LIP) who can
   supervise trainees and students. Licensed independent practitioners may supervise trainees
 2                                                    59THMDWI44-105 25 FEBRUARY 2011


     and students in the areas of medical/dental care in which they are privileged, if they are
     approved to do so by the appropriate program director of SAUSHEC training program and
     department chair (or equivalent) of the Medical Treatment Facility (MTF). It is supervising
     staff providers who are ultimately responsible for all aspects of their patients’ care within
     each SAUSHEC training hospital.
     1.2. SAUSHEC: A consortium of Brooke Army Medical Center (BAMC) and 59 MDW for
     the purpose of providing post graduate training to physicians, dentists, physician assistants,
     dieticians, etc, led by the Dean with oversight from Board of Directors and Command
     Council. Voting Members of the Command Council are the commanders of 59 MDW and
     BAMC. The Command Council is ultimately responsible for making necessary resources
     available to programs and ensuring that appropriate resident supervision is provided.
     1.3. SAUSHEC Graduate Medical Education Committee (GMEC). Voting members of the
     GMEC are the Dean (who is the Chair), Associate Deans, program directors, peer selected
     resident representatives and faculty selected by the dean. The Dean also serves as the
     Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) recognized Designated
     Institutional Official (DIO). The GMEC charter includes the duty to monitor and advise on
     all aspects of GME in SAUSHEC. The SAUSHEC Trainee Supervision Policy establishes
     the minimum requirements for supervision of trainees who provide medical care to patients
     at       WHMC           and     is     available     at      the     following       link:
     http://www.sammc.amedd.army.mil/saushec/general/policies/index.asp.
2. General Principles of Supervision.
     2.1. Careful supervision and observation are required to determine the trainee’s ability to
     gather and interpret clinical information, perform technical procedures, interpretive
     procedures and to safely manage patients. Although not privileged for independent practice,
     trainees must be given graded levels of patient care responsibility while concurrently being
     supervised to assure quality care for patients. Each patient must have a responsible attending
     physician whose name is recorded in the patient record and who is available to the residents
     and is involved with and takes responsibility for the patient care being done by the trainees
     he/she is supervising. Supervision of trainees should be organized to provide gradually
     increased responsibility and maturation into the role of a judgmentally sound, technically
     skilled, and independently functioning privileged provider. Each SAUSHEC program
     director will define policies that specify how trainees in that program progressively become
     independent in specific patient care activities, while still being appropriately supervised by
     medical staff. Typically this will be done by a job description for each year of training. The
     program director will also define the evaluation methods used to determine when a resident
     can progress to the next level of training and when they are competent to graduate. The
     program director and department chairs (or equivalent) will ensure that all supervision
     policies are distributed to and followed by trainees and their supervising staff. General
     Trainee Supervision Guidelines per specialty available on the SAUSHEC website at:
     http://www.sammc.amedd.army.mil/saushec/general/supervision_policies/index.asp.
        2.1.1. Program supervision policies must be in compliance with SAUSHEC policy, the
        59 MDW Medical Staff bylaws, and with the Accreditation Council for Graduate
        Medical Education (ACGME)/Residency Review Committee (RRC)/The Joint
        Commission (TJC) policies on resident supervision. The written guidelines should also be
59THMDWI44-105 25 FEBRUARY 2011                                                              3


     supported by the expectations of the American Osteopathic Association (AOA),
     American Dental Association (ADA), American Podiatry Medicine Association
     (APMA), and Accreditation Council on Optometric Education (ACOE) or equivalent
     accrediting organizations. In addition, the requirements of the various certifying bodies
     such as the American Board of Medical Specialties (ABMS), American Board of Surgery
     (ABS), Bureau of Osteopathic Specialists (BOS), American Nurses Credentialing Center
     (ANCC), or equivalent agencies will be incorporated into SAUSHEC training programs
     so graduates will be eligible to sit for certifying examinations.
  2.2. Compliance with resident supervision policies will be monitored by the program
  directors who will report issues to the GMEC annually in their metric reports and during
  internal reviews. Issues will be reported to the 59 MDW Board of Directors by the Dean and
  further addressed in the annual GME report. At the end of each academic year, the program
  director will determine if residents merit progression to the next higher level of training.
  This assessment will be documented in the annual AF Form 475, Education and Training
  Report and/or AF Form 494, Academic/Clinical Evaluation required for each resident.
  2.3. The GMEC and House Staff Councilwill have representation on appropriate 59 MDW
  hospital patient care and patient safety committees to insure communication on resident
  supervision and patient safety issues occurs between the GMEC, the Medical Staff, and the
  59 MDW Board of Directors.
  2.4. The SAUSHEC GME Office, department chairs and program directors are responsible
  for ensuring privileged staff are appropriately fulfilling their responsibilities to provide
  supervision of house staff and students and that ongoing evaluation of trainees and their
  supervisors are conducted. The program director written guidelines for the attending staff
  will include:
     2.4.1. The goals and objectives for each clinical rotation (inpatient, outpatient, and
     consultation rotation).
     2.4.2. Define the level of responsibility for each year of training by preparing a
     description of the types of clinical activities residents may perform and those in which
     they may act in a teaching capacity.
     2.4.3. The competency of each house staff should be periodically documented by the
     program director as training progresses. The relevant goals and objectives of training and
     level of supervision must also be reviewed with each trainee by the attending staff. The
     supervising staff is expected to provide constructive feedback on medical care,
     documentation, and professional issues to those in training at any time. Supervising staff
     must complete an end-of-rotation evaluation for each house staff and/or students from
     that rotation. A copy of the evaluation will be provided to the appropriate dental,
     optometry, medical school or other school. The trainee’s evaluations will be reviewed by
     the supervising staff with the trainee and countersigned if necessary. House staff
     performance evaluations will be reviewed by the corresponding program director.
  2.5. When requested by hospital nurses or other authorized personnel, supervising staff
  physicians must verify whether residents can perform medically-necessary procedures
  without direct faculty or senior resident supervision. Supervising staff can comply with this
  Medical Staff requirement because:
 4                                                    59THMDWI44-105 25 FEBRUARY 2011


        2.5.1. Residents will demonstrate professionalism by informing their supervising staff
        physician and other hospital personnel when they are not approved to perform a
        procedure without direct supervision by a senior resident or staff physician.
        2.5.2. The program director will inform supervising staff physicians in the specialty how
        to access the resident procedure database to identify the list of procedures each resident is
        approved to perform without direct faculty supervision. Residents must continuously
        update the program’s selected database by documenting completion of program-selected
        procedures.
        2.5.3. When needed, hospital nurses and other authorized personnel will
        telephone/page the attending staff physician who is available 24/7 to confirm whether
        a resident is approved to perform a procedure without direct staff or senior resident
        supervision.
3. Trainee Grievances Regarding Supervision.
     3.1. It is the program director’s responsibility to ensure that trainees are aware that any
     concerns the trainee might have regarding adequate technical or professional supervision, or
     professional behavior by their supervisors, will be addressed in a safe and non-threatening
     environment per SAUSHEC and ACGME guidelines.
     3.2. All SAUSHEC GME programs must follow policies of the SAUSHEC Resident
     Grievance Policy. Trainee grievance mechanisms will be established for each
     department/training programs, and will be clearly stated and made available to all trainees
     during their orientation to that department/program in order to ensure that fair and just
     relationships between trainees and teachers can be perpetuated. Grievance policy is available
     on                 the                 SAUSHEC                    website                 at:
     http://www.sammc.amedd.army.mil/saushec/general/policies/docs/SAUSHEC-
     Grievance-Policy-May-2011.pdf




                                              HELEN M. HOOTSMANS, Colonel, USAF, MC,
                                              FS
                                              Chief of the Medical Staff
59THMDWI44-105 25 FEBRUARY 2011                                                               5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations, 1 September 1999
AFI 41-115, Authorized Health Care and Health Care Benefits in the Military Health Services
System (MHSS), 28 December 2001
AFI 41-210, Patient Administration Functions, 22 March 2006
AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, 1 May 2006


Adopted Forms
AF Form 475, Education and Training Report
AF Form 494, Academic/Clinical Evaluation
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication


Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABMS—American Board of Medical Specialties
ABS—American Board of Surgery
ACGME—Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education
ADA—American Dental Association
ANCC—American Nurse’s Credentialing Center
AOA—American Osteopathic Association
APMA—American Podiatric Medicine Association
BAMC—Brooke Army Medical Center
BOS—Bureau of Osteopathic Specialists
COE—Council on Optometry Education
DIO—Designated Institutional Official
GME—Graduate Medical Education
GMEC—Graduate Medical Education Committee
ICA—Institutional Clinical Authority
ICU—Intensive Care Unit
IGB—Institutional Governing Body
LIP—Licensed Independent Practitioner
 6                                                   59THMDWI44-105 25 FEBRUARY 2011


MDW—Medical Wing
MTF—Medical Treatment Facility
RRC—Residency Review Committee
SAUSHEC—San Antonio Uniformed Services Health Education Consortium
TJC—The Joint Commission
WHMC—Wilford Hall Medical Center

Terms
Acutely Ill—A patient with a condition that is reasonably expected to threaten life, limb, or vital
organ function within 24 hours.
Designated Institutional Official (DIO)—The Graduate Medical Education (GME) individual
recognized by the ACGME and SAUSHEC as having the authority and the responsibility for
oversight and administration of GME programs. This person is the Dean of SAUSHEC.
Institutional Clinical Authority (ICA)—The institutional official designated in MTF
documents as having responsibility for the quality of care provided by LIPs and trainees at that
MTF.
Major Surgical Case—A procedure that enters a major body cavity or has more than a
negligible potential for mortality, significant morbidity, or significant blood loss. Any procedure
performed on a patient with major risks from sedation/anesthesia due to underlining medical
problems is also major case.
Medical Treatment Facility (MTF)—A military hospital, in which SAUSHEC residents
receive clinical training. BAMC and 59 MDW are the two MTF members of SAUSHEC.
Program Directors—The institutional officials designated by SAUSHEC and recognized by the
Residency Review Committee as having direct responsibility for all training activities within
their training program including the quality of educational experiences provided and appropriate
resident supervision.
San Antonio Uniformed Services Health Education Consortium (SAUSHEC)—The GME
sponsoring institution for BAMC and 59 MDW. The Command Council of SAUSHEC is the
Institutional Governing Body (IGB) for military GME in San Antonio. Voting Members of the
Command Council are the Commanders of 59 MDW and BAMC. The Command Council is
ultimately responsible for making necessary resources available to programs and ensuring that
appropriate resident supervision is provided.
SAUSHEC Graduate Medical Education Committee (GMEC)—Is composed of the DIO
(who is the Chair), Program Directors, peer selected resident representatives and faculty selected
by the Dean. Its charter is to monitor and advise on all aspects of GME in SAUSHEC.
Student—A person currently enrolled in a medical/osteopathic, dental, physician assistant,
physical therapy, etc., school.
Supervision—Constitutes any method of staff oversight of patient care for the purpose of
ensuring quality of care and enhancing learning. This term does not necessarily require the
59THMDWI44-105 25 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                7


physical presence or the independent gathering of data about the patient on the part of the
supervising staff provider.
Supervising Staff Provider—A licensed independent practitioner (LIP) who can supervise
trainees and students. This is an individual with appropriate training and an unrestricted state
license who has privileges in a field, specialty, or subspecialty of medicine or dentistry which
would allow that individual to practice without supervision at 59 MDW.
Team—A group of trainees and staff who share responsibility for the care of a given patient.
Trainee—A medical,dental, physical therapy, dietetic, etc. intern,
