BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                59TH MEDICAL WING
59TH MEDICAL WING                                                         INSTRUCTION 44-125

                                                                                 24 APRIL 2006
                                                                Incorporating Through Change 3,
                                                                                    23 MAY 2012
                                                                 Certified Current on 2 June 2014
                                                                                          Medical

                                                           NUTRIENT-DRUG INTERACTIONS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 59 MDTS/CCC                                               Certified by: 59 MDTS/CC (Lt Col
                                                                                 Danelle Roddy)
                                                                                      Pages: 10


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 44-1, Medical Operations. This
instruction establishes policies and procedures for educating patients who are prescribed
medications with significant potential nutrient-drug interactions. It applies to all personnel
assigned, attached, or on contract to the 59th Medical Wing (MDW). This instruction does not
apply to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve. Note: This publication requires the
collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974. Privacy Act
System F044 AF SG Q applies. Collected information is “For Official Use Only.” Request to
release Privacy Act Information to persons or agencies outside the Department of Defense (DoD)
must be IAW AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program, and DoD 5400.7, Freedom of
Information Act Program. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
the Office of Primary Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System Records
Disposition Schedule located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm The
use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or
service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Deleted reference to inpatient function. A margin bar (|) indicates newly revised material.
 2                                                               59MDWI44-125 24 APRIL 2006


1. Policy. All outpatients being followed by 59 MDW providers who are prescribed
medications that have significant interactions with foods or specific nutrients will receive
counseling. Patients prescribed the following types of drugs are assessed and instructed as
needed: Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (Nardil, Phenelzine); antineoplastic agents (Matulane,
Procarbazine); antitubercular agents (INH, Isoniazid); antimanic agent (Lithium); anticoagulants
(Coumadin, Warfarin); and antiparkinsonian agents (Sinemet, Levodopa/Carbidopa). For
patients prescribed anticonvulsants (Dilantin, Phenytoin) combined with a tube feeding, the
attending physician is alerted to possible interactions. Counseling will be a coordinated effort
between the medical staff, nutritional medicine, nursing, and pharmacy personnel.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. Medical Staff. Participates in the determination of medications with significant
     nutrient-drug interactions during annual policy review. Physicians and authorized health care
     providers order patient medications. Providers may assist with counseling of patients.
     2.2. Pharmacy Staff. Participates in the determination of medications with significant
     nutrient-drug interactions during annual policy review. Collaborates with nutritional
     medicine staff to develop or procure patient education materials for nutrient-drug
     interactions. Maintains Composite Health Care System (CHCS) database used to identify
     patients prescribed selected medications. Educates all outpatients who are prescribed
     medications with significant nutrient-drug interactions when prescription is dispensed to the
     patient from an outpatient pharmacy location.
     2.3. Nutritional Medicine Staff. Participates in the determination of medications with
     significant nutrient-drug interactions during annual policy review. Collaborates with the
     pharmacy to update the CHCS database and to develop or procure patient education materials
     for nutrient-drug interactions. Educates all patients who are prescribed medications with
     significant nutrient-drug interactions when seen in the outpatient nutrition clinic. Nutritional
     medicine participates in performance improvement (PI) activities to measure the
     effectiveness of the nutrient-drug interaction program.
3. Procedures.
     3.1. (DELETED)
        3.1.1. DELETED.
        3.1.2. (DELETED)
        3.1.3. (DELETED)
        3.1.4. (DELETED)
        3.1.5. (DELETED)
     3.2. Outpatients.
        3.2.1. A certified diet therapy journeyman or registered dietitian provides diet education
        for outpatients enrolled in the Coumadin Clinic.
        3.2.2. A certified diet therapy journeyman or registered dietitian reviews medications for
        patients who come to the outpatient nutrition clinic for diet counseling and provides
59MDWI44-125 24 APRIL 2006                                                                    3


      counseling to patients (or representative) taking medications with potential nutrient-drug
      interactions.
      3.2.3. When an outpatient reports to the pharmacy with a new prescription for
      medications with potential nutrient-drug interactions, pharmacy staff will:
          3.2.3.1. Educate the patient on the potential nutrient-drug interactions and provide
          the patient with the appropriate handouts.
          3.2.3.2. Refer outpatients needing additional nutrient-drug teaching to the outpatient
          nutrition clinic. Patients do not need an electronic consultation in CHCS to schedule
          an appointment for nutrient-drug teaching.
4. Multidisciplinary Team.
   4.1. Each functional area (nutritional medicine, nursing units, outpatient pharmacy)
   maintains its own supply of nutrient-drug interaction patient education materials. Each
   functional area will use the attached education materials or equivalent. For continuity, each
   functional area will coordinate with the others when implementing new or revised nutrient-
   drug interaction education materials.
   4.2. Performance Improvement (PI). On a monthly basis, nutritional medicine personnel
   will conduct a concurrent inpatient medical record review to assess the effectiveness of the
   Nutrient-Drug Interaction Program and identify opportunities to improve performance.
   Nutritional medicine will maintain PI results and report them to the Patient Care Council
   through the 59th Diagnostics and Therapeutics Squadron (59 MDTS) Performance
   Improvement Committee on a quarterly basis.
5. IMTs Adopted. SF 509 Medical Record - Progress Notes (Medical Nutritional Therapy
Drug-Nutrient Interaction) Overprint.




                                           HELEN HOOTSMANS, Colonel, USAF, MC, FS
                                           Chief of the Medical Staff
 4                                                           59MDWI44-125 24 APRIL 2006


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations, 1 September 1999
AFMAN 44-144, Nutritional Medicine, 29 June 2011
Drug Information; Facts and Comparisons, American Hospital Formulary Service, 2012 edition
Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Healthcare, current edition
Lexi-Comp’s Drug Information Handbook for Nursing, Lexi-Comp, Inc., 2010 edition
Escott-Stump, Sylvia, and L. Kathleen Mahan. Krause's Food & Nutrition Therapy. 12th ed. St.
Louis: Saunders, 2008.
Pronsky, Zaneta M. Food Medication Interactions. 15th ed. Birchrunville, PA: Food-Medication
Interactions, 2010.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
SF 509 Medical Record – Progress Notes, July 1991

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CHCS—Composite Health Care System
MDIL—Master Drug Instruction Listing
MDW—Medical Wing
NLT—Not Later Than
PI—Performance Improvement
SF—Standard Form
59MDWI44-125 24 APRIL 2006                                                                        5


                                          Attachment 2
                                     ANTICOAGULANTS

A2.1. If you have been prescribed one of the following medications, this handout will help you
make the necessary changes so your medication works best.
   A2.1.1. Generic Name                              Trade Name
Warfarin                                      Coumadin
A2.2. Uses. This medication is a blood thinner used to keep blood flowing smoothly and
prevent the formation of blood clots.
A2.3. How to Uses. Since this medication works best on an empty stomach, take it 1-2
hours before or after a meal. However, it may be taken with food or milk if stomach upset,
vomiting, or diarrhea occurs. Take at the same time each day and do not stop taking it
without your doctor’s approval.
A2.4. Interactions. Anticoagulants, also known as “blood thinners”, slow your blood from
clotting. Vitamin K is a vitamin which helps your blood clot. Vitamin K is found in various
foods (listed below). In order to keep your blood at a certain consistency, it is important that you
keep consistent amounts of Vitamin K and anticoagulants in your blood. Vitamin K does not
need to be avoided; however, a consistent daily intake is required; meaning that you should eat
the same amount each day.
   A2.4.1. Foods high in Vitamin K (serving size = ½ cup) include: broccoli, cauliflower,
   green beans, brussel sprouts, green peas, asparagus, tomatoes, cabbage, spinach, lettuce,
   greens, kale, garbanzo beans, soybean oil, liver, broiled or fried onions.
A2.5. Avoid Supplements/herbals: chamomile, chondroitin, coenzyme Q10, dong quai,
feverfew, garlic, ginger, ginko biloba, goldenseal, horse chestnut, Vitamin E. Alcoholic
beverages (no more than 2 drinks each day). Coffee (no more than 2 cups each day).
Papain/papaya enzyme (sometimes used in meat tenderizers).
A2.6. Side Effects. Loss of appetite, nausea, diarrhea or blurred vision may occur at first as
your body adjusts to the medication.
Note: Contact your doctor if you experience unusual bleeding or bruising, red/brown urine,
red/tar black stools or diarrhea.
A2.7. If you are not already enrolled in the Coumadin Clinic, contact your provider.
A2.8. If you have any questions regarding this medication and your diet, please call the diet
office (210) 292-7472 or your provider ____________________.
 6                                                              59MDWI44-125 24 APRIL 2006


                                           Attachment 3
                                     ANTICONVULSANTS

A3.1. If you have been prescribed one of the following medications, this handout will help you
make the necessary changes so your medication works best.
     A3.1.1. Generic Names                            Trade Names
Phenytoin                                     Dilantin®
Phenytoin Sodium                              Phenytoin Sodium®, Dilantin Kapseal®
A3.2. Uses. This medication is an anti-convulsant used to treat seizures and epilepsy.
A3.3. How to Use. Take with this medication with a cup of water (8 oz/240 ml), unless directed
otherwise. Take with food or milk if stomach upset occurs.
A3.4. If You Are On Tube Feedings. The tube-feeding may bind to this medication and
prevent the medication from working best. It is important to stop your tube feeding 1-2 hours
before, and wait to restart your tube feed 1-2 hours after taking Dilantin/Phenytoin. Flush your
feeding tube with at least 30 ml (1 oz) of water before and after each dose of this medication. Be
sure that you know your home regimen prior to leaving the hospital.
A3.5. Interactions. This medication increases your body’s use of Vitamin D possibly resulting
in lost calcium. To prevent this from occurring, ensure that you are consuming milk regularly.
If you are unable to tolerate milk try consuming Lactaid, yogurt, and cheeses.
Note: If you are expected to be on Phenytoin/Dilantin for an extended period of time, consult
your doctor to determine if a calcium supplement is needed.
A3.6. Side Effects. One of the most common side effects with this medication is constipation,
which can be prevented by drinking plenty of fluids along with a high fiber diet. Foods that are
high in fiber include fresh fruits and vegetables, beans and peas, and whole-grain breads and
cereals.
     A3.6.1. If you have diabetes, this drug may increase your blood sugar. To ensure that your
     blood sugar is well controlled, follow diabetic consistent carbohydrate diet. If you are having
     difficulty with your diet, contact your dietitian for help.
     A3.6.2. If you plan to breast feed, be sure to contact your doctor before you start because the
     drug is excreted into the breast milk, which may harm your baby.
     A3.6.3. Do not consume any alcoholic beverages while taking this medication.
A3.7. If you have any questions regarding this medication and your diet, please call the diet
office (210) 292-7472 or your provider _________________________.
59MDWI44-125 24 APRIL 2006                                                                      7


                                         Attachment 4
                                           LITHIUM

A4.1. If you have been prescribed one of the following medications, this handout will help you
make the necessary changes so your medication works best.
   A4.1.1. Generic Names                            Trade Names
Lithium Carbonate                            Lithobid, Lithonate, Eskalith CR
Lithium Citrate                              Lithonate-S
A4.2. Uses. This medication is used to treat manic-depressive disorder (bipolar disorder). It
works to stabilize the mood and reduces extremes in behavior.
A4.3. How to Use. Drink 8-12 glasses of water or other fluid each day. Take with food or milk,
or immediately after meals to prevent stomach upset. This medication works best if the amount
of the drug in your body is kept at a constant level. You can achieve this by taking the
medication at evenly spaced intervals throughout the day and night.
A4.4. Interactions. Eating too much sodium affects your body’s ability to remove the Lithium
from your body, which can cause an accidental overdose. Therefore, it is important to keep your
sodium intake consistent and not consume too much sodium throughout the day. The best way
to do this is by avoiding highly processed and canned foods and not adding salt or salt-containing
seasonings to your food at the table or when cooking. You can spice up your food by using salt-
free seasonings and spices to your food.
A4.5. Side Effects. This medication may cause drowsiness, tiredness, increased thirst,
increased frequency in urination, weight gain, and trembling of the hands. These should subside
as your body adjusts to the medication. If these symptoms persist or become bothersome, inform
your doctor.
   A4.5.1. Lithium is excreted into breast milk; therefore, breast-feeding is not recommended
   and you should consult with your doctor.
A4.6. If you have any questions regarding this medication and your diet, please call the diet
office (210) 292-7472 or your provider _________________________.
 8                                                             59MDWI44-125 24 APRIL 2006


                                           Attachment 5
                        TYRAMINE INTERACTING MEDICATIONS

MAOIs, Antineoplastic and Antitubercular Agents
A5.1. If you have been prescribed one of the following medications, this handout will help you
make the necessary changes so your medication works best.
     A5.1.1. Generic Names                    Trade Names
Isoniazid                             INH, Nydrazid, Rifamate
Procarbazine                   Matulane
Phenelzine                            Nardil
Selegiline                            Eldepryl
Linezolid                             Zyvox
A5.2. Uses:
     A5.2.1. Isoniazid. This medication is used to prevent and treat tuberculosis.
     A5.2.2. Procarbazine. This medication is used to treat Hodgkin’s disease. It works by
     preventing the cancer cells from growing or forming new cells. Procarbazine may also be
     used to treat other types of cancer.
     A5.2.3. Phenelzine. This medication is used to treat depression.
     A5.2.4. Selegiline. This medication is used to treat Parkinson’s disease.
     A5.2.5. Linezolid. This medication is used to treat infections caused by susceptible gram-
     positive bacteria.
A5.3. How to Use.
     A5.3.1. Isoniazid. This medication works best if taken on an empty stomach 1 hour before
     or 2 hours after meals, but may be taken with food if stomach upset occurs.
     A5.3.2. Procarbazine. Take as instructed by your doctor. Do not stop taking if you feel
     nauseated or experience vomiting unless instructed to do so by your doctor.
     A5.3.3. Phenelzine. This medication may be taken with food if stomach upset occurs. Take
     each dose at the same time each day.
     A5.3.4. Selegiline. Take as instructed by your doctor.
     A5.3.5. Linezolid. Take as instructed by your doctor without regard to meals.
A5.4. Interactions. All of the above medications interfere with the body’s use of the amino
acid (a building block of proteins) tyramine. These drugs require a tyramine-restricted diet,
which you must follow carefully. Tyramine is commonly found in aged or old foods. During
storage, some bacteria in the foods can multiply and cause the tyramine content of the food to
increase.
59MDWI44-125 24 APRIL 2006                                                                   9


   A5.4.1. The list below will describe the foods that you are to completely avoid while taking
   any of the medications mentioned.
       A5.4.1.1. All foods that are spoiled or have been stored for longer than 48 hours.
       A5.4.1.2. Overripe and spoiled fruits.
       A5.4.1.3. Sauerkraut and pickled, dried, or salted fish and meats
       A5.4.1.4. Chinese pea pods.
       A5.4.1.5. Soup bases.
       A5.4.1.6. Liver.
       A5.4.1.7. Concentrated yeast extracts.
       A5.4.1.8. Broad beans.
       A5.4.1.9. Chocolate.
       A5.4.1.10. Gravy base.
A5.4.1.11. Meat tenderizers.
       A5.4.1.12. Soy sauce.
       A5.4.1.13. Plums.
       A5.4.1.14. (DELETED) .
       A5.4.1.15. Aged meat (sausage, pepperoni, bologna, salami) and aged cheese hard,
       unprocessed cheese such as cheddar and Swiss).
       A5.4.1.16. (DELETED) .
       A5.4.1.17. Alcoholic beverages.
Note: (With Isoniazid only). Isoniazid may decrease your body’s levels of Vitamin B6. Your
doctor may prescribe a B6 supplement for you.
A5.5. Side Effects. Contact your doctor if you experience any of the following: Increased blood
pressure, headache, flushing, nausea or vomiting.
A5.6. If you have any questions regarding this medication and your diet, please call the diet
office (210) 292-7472 or your provider _________________________.
 10                                                           59MDWI44-125 24 APRIL 2006


                                         Attachment 6
                                 LEVODOPA/CARBIDOPA

A6.1. If you have been prescribed one of the following medications, this handout will help you
make the necessary changes so your medication works best.
   A4.1.1. Generic Names                                   Trade Names
Levodopa/Carbidopa                                 Parcopa, Sinemet, Sinemet CR
Levodopa/Carbidopa/Entacapone                      Stalevo
A6.2. Uses. This medication is used to treat Parkinson’s disease.
A6.3. How to Use. Take exactly as directed. Space doses evenly over waking hours. Take at
least 30 minutes before meals to increase absorption. Give with low protein foods or juice if
stomach upset occurs. Do not crush sustained release product. Maintain adequate hydration
unless instructed to restrict fluid.
A6.4. Interactions. Eating too much protein may prevent the delivery of medicine to the site of
action and decrease the effectiveness of the medication. Limit protein intake to less than 2
gm/kg of body weight. Iron may decrease absorption of the medication. Take Iron and
vitamin/mineral supplements separately from this medication.
A6.5. Side Effects. This medication may cause drowsiness, confusion, vision changes,
increased libido, impulse to gamble, and low blood-pressure upon standing. If these symptoms
persist or become bothersome, inform your doctor.
A6.6. If you have any questions regarding this medication and your diet, please call the diet
office (210) 292-7472 or your provider _________________________.
