BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 41-203
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                                    2 APRIL 2014

                                                                                   Health Services

                                                     CYLINDER-GASES (COMPRESSED AND
                                                                         LIQUEFIED)



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 59 MLRS/SGSMS                                                     Certified by: 59 MLRS/CC
                                                                             (Lt Col Randall Ivall)
                                                                                         Pages: 10
Supersedes:    59MDWI 41-203, 13
               December, 2010


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 41-2, Medical Support. This instruction
establishes procedures for the safe storage, security, transportation, identification, use, receipt,
and maintenance of compressed and liquefied gas containers. This instruction applies to all
personnel assigned or attached to the 59th Medical Wing (MDW) except for the 359 MDG and
the 959 MDG. This instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. The
authority to waive requirements is the publication approval authority. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force
Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information
Management System Records Disposition Schedule.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: changed Medical Materiel responsibilities and changed 59 MDW Form 2980, Cylinder
Gas Tag.
1. General Responsibilities.
   1.1. The officer in charge or noncommissioned officer in charge (NCOIC) of each section
   concerned will ensure that procedures to be accomplished by medical personnel are
 2                                                               59MDWI41-203 2 APRIL 2014


     performed as outlined by this instruction. All personnel using compressed gas cylinders in
     their duties, actions such as receipt directly from a commercial contractor and gas cylinders
     received by users from Medical Materiel (SGSKS) should be thoroughly familiar with the
     contents of this instruction and the applicable portions of the references in Attachment 1.
     The following procedures must be accomplished to properly receive full cylinders, accept
     delivery of liquid nitrogen, oxygen, or other gases, and turn over empty or repairable
     cylinders to a contractor for filling or repair. Medical wing sections currently using direct
     contract delivery, and authorized to perform these functions, are Medical Materiel, Air Force
     Post Graduate Dental School, Dunn Dental Clinic, Clinical Investigation, Camp Bullis
     Medical Station, and Military Working Dogs. Discrepancies or questions concerning these
     procedures will be directed to Medical Materiel Flight (292-6590) or the Contract Services
     Element (292-3088), as applicable.
2. Medical Materiel Responsibilities.
     2.1. A representative from the Medical Materiel Flight must be present to validate receipt
     and pick up of all medical cylinders, liquid oxygen, or nitrogen deliveries from a contractor.
     2.2. Delivery tickets are to be used as the receiving report source documents.
     2.3. Medical cylinders and liquid nitrogen will be inspected IAW technical order (T.O.)
     42B5-1-2, Gas Cylinders (Storage Type) – Use, Handling, and Maintenance and counted by
     type of gas and size of cylinder. For direct contract delivery accounts, all personnel should
     verify a signed delivery slip and forward to Logistics; one copy is retained. If incorrect, do
     not sign. Notify the NCOIC of the medical logistics warehouse or the warehouse supervisor
     immediately.
     2.4. Liquid Oxygen (LOX) will be accounted for by square cubic feet (SCF). SCF delivered
     can be determined by recording the tank gauges prior to and after LOX pumping is complete.
     Before the LOX is pumped into the LOX tanks, medical materiel personnel will check it with
     an oxygen analyzer for oxygen percentage. If incorrect, contact the NCOIC of the medical
     logistics warehouse or the warehouse supervisor immediately.
        2.4.1. A reading of 99% purity by volume or higher is required. If incorrect, contact the
        NCOIC of the medical logistics warehouse or the warehouse supervisor immediately.
        Ensure that two documents are received with the LOX delivery: a delivery slip and a
        Certificate of Purity.
     2.5. All cylinders will be inspected by a Medical Materiel Flight representative at the time of
     delivery.
        2.5.1. All cylinders with threaded necks will have protective safety caps installed when
        in storage or during transportation.
        2.5.2. All cylinders have a 59 MDW Form 2980, Cylinder Gas Tag, or company tag,
        which reads "FULL," "IN-USE," and "EMPTY." Note: This tag is supplied by Medical
        Materiel. It is the responsibility of the Medical Materiel Flight to ensure that tags are on
        the cylinders upon delivery or receipt from Medical Material. It is the section’s
        responsibility to insure the tags remain on the cylinders while in use until exchanged.
        2.5.3. All oxygen cylinders require an additional tag, DD Form 1191, Warning Tag for
        Medical Oxygen Equipment. Note: This tag is placed on all cylinders when they leave
59MDWI41-203 2 APRIL 2014                                                                       3


      the medical gas storage area. It is the responsibility of all personnel using oxygen
      cylinders to ensure that the tags are on the cylinders when being used.
      2.5.4. All cylinders are properly labeled towards the top with a legible identification
      label that is at least 180 degrees. Also the cylinders are stenciled IAW T.O. 42B5-1-2.
      2.5.5. Ensure that there is no grease or oil on the valve or cylinder body. Note: Oxygen
      is highly explosive when in contact with grease or oil.
      2.5.6. Ensure the five-year hydrostatic test date (stamped into metal around collar) has
      not been exceeded. If the hydrostatic test date has expired, the cylinder must be turned in
      to the Medical Gas company for inspection/replacement.
      2.5.7. Ensure all valves are tightly closed.
      2.5.8. Ensure separate storage rooms are available for non-flammable and flammable
      gases that support combustion. Ensure also empty and full cylinders are stored
      separately. All storage areas must be approved by safety and the fire marshal.
      2.5.9. Coordinate with bioenvironmental engineering (MRPB) to ensure storage
      locations meet adequate ventilation standards.
3. Requesting Cylinders from Medical Materiel.
   3.1. Routine Orders: All using activities will obtain medical gas cylinders by calling 292-
   6590 between 0730-1630, Monday through Friday, excluding holidays, for delivery of
   required cylinders and pick-up of empty cylinders.
   3.2. Non-routine Orders: During normal duty hours, requesters will come to the medical
   materiel warehouse, building 4550, room BM10, and exchange one empty cylinder for one
   full cylinder, for same day exchange or for delivery during the next normal work day.
   Warning: Custodians exchanging cylinders at the warehouse must use carts specifically
   designed for cylinder transportation for movement of the empty and full cylinders or they can
   contact the Gases Contractor Representative for delivery.
   3.3. Emergency Requests After Normal Duty Hours: The Medical Control Center (MCC)
   will be contacted for emergency requests on weekends, holidays, and after 1630, Monday
   through Friday. They will contact the medical logistics’ on-call person. Note: Custodians
   needing cylinders should check with other sections within the clinic for cylinders that are not
   in use, before calling out the medical materiel on-call person.
   3.4. Gas cylinders.
      3.4.1. Contact the Medical Materiel Warehouse to pick up empty cylinder and to deliver
      full cylinder at 292-6590.
      3.4.2. Medical logistics is not required to obtain a certificate of analysis prior to
      accepting the delivery of medical gases in cylinder form.
          3.4.2.1. The vendor is required to maintain all documentation certifying the purity of
          the compressed gas being supplied to the organization, not the end user.
4. Cylinder User Procedures.
4                                                                59MDWI41-203 2 APRIL 2014


    4.1. Personnel using compressed gases in their work area will always check the contents of a
    cylinder for odor and type of gas before use. For breathing oxygen, a sniff test or an actual
    smell of gas will be performed to check for odors. A check will always be made of the name
    of the gas stenciled on the cylinder or on the label that is affixed to it.
    4.2. Pressure of the cylinder contents for gases shipped in a liquid state should always be
    checked by using personnel when first beginning to use a newly issued cylinder to determine
    whether or not a cylinder is fully charged. A low pressure is an indication, in most instances,
    of a defective valve; therefore, cylinders received with low pressure should be returned to
    medical materiel for repair. Cylinders found to be over pressurized, greater than required
    pounds per square inch (PSI), should be removed from the area and returned to medical
    materiel. After a cylinder has been used or is discontinued, the pressure reading on the
    regulator or gauge should be recorded on a piece of tape and affixed to the cylinder so the
    residual pressure can be recorded in medical materiel. If in using the gas it appears the inside
    of the cylinder contains foreign or loose materiel, the cylinder shall be removed from use,
    tagged with an explanation and turned in to Medical Materiel Flight.
    4.3. Ensure appropriate tags are on all cylinders when received and use caution when
    handling to keep tags from falling off.
    4.4. Cylinders placed in use will have the "FULL" portion of the "FULL", "IN-USE",
    "EMPTY" tag removed.
    4.5. When a cylinder is considered empty, the "IN-USE" portion of the tag will be removed
    leaving the “EMPTY’ portion. If there is no tag, then a piece of tape with the word
    “EMPTY” will suffice.
    4.6. To avoid excessive waste of breathing oxygen, cylinders should be used in the section
    until the regulated pressure drops to a point below 200 PSI. Note: Never allow gas to drop
    below atmospheric pressure. Positive cylinder pressure is required to preclude moisture or
    foreign matter from accumulating in the cylinder. Positive pressure is easily determined by
    "cracking" the valve and noting whether or not any oxygen is emitted, and simultaneously
    making a sniff test for contaminating odor. Warning: Under no conditions will breathing
    oxygen cylinders be re-pressurized by using activities.
    4.7. Cylinders will be further inspected for oil and grease. Cylinders found with oil or
    grease should be immediately turned in to Medical Materiel Flight with an explanation
    provided.
    4.8. Gas cylinders that have had the pressure released below atmospheric pressure must be
    returned to be cleaned and dried. These cylinders must be immediately returned to the
    Medical Materiel Flight with an explanation provided.
    4.9. Cylinders must be secured in place with a chain or a cargo strap against a wall.
    Cylinders may also be secured upright or on its side secured in a rack or cage. All cylinders
    that are not in use must have cylinder caps installed (except for cylinders without threads).
    All empty cylinders are required to have the regulators removed and caps installed prior to
    storage or transportation.
    4.10. Always transport cylinders using equipment designed to handle cylinders. Do not use
    improvised handling devices.
59MDWI41-203 2 APRIL 2014                                                                        5


5. Safety Rules.
   5.1. Cylinder contents should always be referred to by their proper names rather than "AIR"
   or "GAS".
   5.2. Do not tamper with safety devices in valves or cylinders.
   5.3. Use of regulators, gauges, hoses, and other fittings:
       5.3.1. Non-sparking wrenches are required for the installation or removal of regulators
       on gas cylinders. These wrenches may be ordered through Medical Materiel Flight.
       Caution: Do not use regulators, pressure gauges, hoses and other fittings for oxygen
       when they have been used for oil-pumped or combustible gases. Equipment for breathing
       oxygen will be restricted to that use. Regulators, pressure gauges, hoses, and other
       fittings will not be used interchangeably with similar equipment used with other gases.
       5.3.2. Particular care must be exercised in checking that threads on regulators or unions
       are the same as those on the valve being used. If fittings are hard to turn, they must not
       be forced but checked to be certain they are of the correct thread and type, and are not
       damaged. Threads must be of the same type and number of threads per inch to be
       engaged and produce a satisfactory seal.
       5.3.3. Compressed gas from any cylinder shall not be used without reducing the pressure
       through a regulator or throttle valve intended for this purpose. Reduction in pressure
       shall not be accomplished by throttling through the cylinder valve. Note: An exception
       to the above rule is the transfer of other gases in a liquid state at normal temperatures.
       Warning: Other types of gases: Cylinder valves shall not be opened (cracked) near
       welding work, sparks, flame, or any other possible source of ignition, or in a closed room.
       Other cylinders: Before connecting the coupling of pressure regulator to the cylinder
       valve, the valve shall be "cracked" or turned approximately a 1/4 turn and closed
       immediately. This clears the valve of dust, dirt, or moisture elements which would
       otherwise enter the regulator. Stand to side when doing this.
       5.3.4. After attaching the regulator to the cylinder valve ensure the adjusting screw in the
       regulator is released before opening the cylinder valve.
       5.3.5. If difficulty is experienced in opening a valve, the valve opening will be pointed
       away from the operator and other personnel, and greater force used to open the valve.
       Valves fitted with hand wheels should be operated by hand only; those designed to use a
       wrench should be operated only with a properly fitted wrench or key provided for this
       operation. If a wrench or key is used, it must be kept ready for instant use while gas is
       being used from that cylinder. Note: Wrenches or hammers must never be used to open
       or close cylinder valves equipped with hand wheels. The use of such tools on this type of
       valve will damage the valve seat material, resulting in escape of gas, particularly at high
       pressure. Enough pressure can be exerted with a person's hand to close the valve without
       the use of a wrench, hammer or pliers. If the valve cannot be totally closed by hand, the
       gas will be permitted to escape to the immediate environment and the valve will be
       inspected and repaired as found necessary. In this instance, the cylinder (if located in a
       using activity) will be immediately returned to Medical Materiel Flight or contact the
       Gases Contract Representative for Pick up with an explanation for the return. If the
       cylinder is located in Medical Materiel Flight, it will be tagged with a DD Form 1577-2,
6                                                                59MDWI41-203 2 APRIL 2014


       Unserviceable (Repairable) Tag Materiel and the form will be annotated "INSPECT OR
       REPAIR LEAKING VALVE".
       5.3.6. Cylinder valves must be opened slowly to prevent sudden discharge of gas into the
       regulator.
       5.3.7. Before a regulator is removed from a cylinder, the cylinder valve will be closed
       and all gas released from the regulator.
       5.3.8. Fully, but slowly, open cylinder valve each time gas is used from a cylinder.
       Caution: Acetylene valves are an exception to the above rule. Acetylene valves will
       never be opened more than 1 1/2 turns. Usually a 1/2 turn or less is sufficient for welding
       purposes.
       5.3.9. If a valve leak is discovered when it is opened; the valve must be closed
       immediately. If the leak does not stop by closing the valve, the cylinder will be
       transported out of the building in order to release the remaining gas into the atmosphere.
       The cylinder will then be tagged as repairable using DD Form 1577-2. During this
       period, all unnecessary personnel and sources of ignition will be kept away from the
       cylinder. In the event a leak develops in the safety device, the cylinder will be
       transported outside and the valve opened to allow off gassing.
       5.3.10. Never attempt to stop a leak between the cylinder and its regulator by tightening
       the adjustment nut unless the cylinder valve has been closed first and enough time has
       lapsed for full off gassing to occur.
       5.3.11. Valves will always be kept closed when not in use and valve protection caps will
       be replaced. Extreme care will be taken not to damage outlet threads. Oxygen cylinders
       are equipped with "dust caps" for outlet valves. These "dust caps" will be in place at all
       times except when the cylinder is in use.
    5.4. Stamped numbers or markings on cylinders will not be altered or defaced.
    5.5. Compressed gas cylinders will be considered full and handled with corresponding care
    at all times to prevent possible accidents. Do not drop or allow to forcefully strike each other
    or any other object. Cylinders will stand upright during use or storage and will be fastened or
    secured in place with a chain or a cargo strap against a wall to prevent being accidentally
    upset. Particular care will be taken by personnel not to bump or strike the cylinder valve or
    head assembly. Cylinders will not be used where they can be damaged by passing or falling
    objects.
    5.6. Cylinders will not be lifted by grasping the valve or the valve protection cap. Cylinders
    will not be handled by twisting the valve protection cap or valve and rolling the cylinder.
    5.7. Compressed gas cylinders must not be lifted by cranes or mechanical lifts unless
    fastened in special containers, racks, or cradles. Rope or chain slings should not be used to
    lift gas cylinders.
    5.8. Suitable trucks with provisions for holding cylinders securely in position should be used
    for conveying, transporting or handling cylinders at all times. Cylinders will never be
    handled otherwise without first removing regulators, flow meters, and other manifolding
    accessories and replacing the valve outlet cap or cylinder valve protection cap when
    available.
59MDWI41-203 2 APRIL 2014                                                                      7


  5.9. Cylinders will never be used as rollers, supports, or for any purpose other than the
  transportation and delivery of compressed gases, even though they are empty.
  5.10. Compressed gas will never be used to dust off clothing, as serious injury to the eyes or
  body may result.
  5.11. Flames, sparks (including static sparks), or ignition from any source must not come
  into contact with hose, tubing or cylinders. Cylinders will not be used near stoves, radiators,
  furnaces, heated floors or other hot places when temperatures are in excess of 125° degrees
  Fahrenheit (51.7° degrees Celsius) or operations where heat, slag or hot metal may be
  contacted. Non-sparking wrenches must always be used when making cylinder connections.
  5.12. Pry bars must never be used under valves or valve caps to pry cylinders loose when
  frozen or fixed to the ground or floor.
  5.13. Ensure all safety devices and precautions are utilized when handling or using any gas
  cylinder, as damage to the valve could cause rapid, unimpaired escape of compressed gas
  from the cylinder which could result in serious property damage, personnel injury or loss of
  life.
  5.14. Ensure all personnel use and enforce all safety measures at all times.




                                           GLENN A. YAP, Colonel, USAF, MSC
                                           Administrator, 59th Medical Wing
 8                                                         59MDWI41-203 2 APRIL 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 41-2, Medical Support, 28 June 2013
AFI 23-111, Management of Government Property in the Possession of the Air Force, 29
October 2013
AFI 41-209, Medical Logistics Support, 13 August 2013
T.O. 42B5-1-2, Gas Cylinders (Storage Type) – Use, Handling, and Maintenance, 16 August
2010
Prescribed Forms
59 MDW Form 2980, Cylinder Gas Tag
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 1191, Warning Tag for Medical Oxygen Equipment
DD Form 1577-2, Unserviceable (Repairable) Tag Materiel

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
DoD—Department of Defense
IAW—In Accordance With
LOX—Liquid Oxygen
MDW—Medical Wing
NCOIC—Noncommissioned Officer in Charge
PSI—Pounds Per Square Inch
SCF—Square Cubic Feet
T.O. —Technical Order
59MDWI41-203 2 APRIL 2014                                   9


                                   Attachment 2
             ASSESSMENT TOOL FOR CONUS/OCONUS FACILITIES

Figure A2.1. Assessment Tool for CONUS/OCONUS Facilities.
10   59MDWI41-203 2 APRIL 2014
