BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 41-128
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                              8 AUGUST 2014

                                                                               Health Services

                                                  PERSONS ALLOWED IN PATIENT CARE
                                                                            AREAS


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 59MDW/SGHR                                                    Certified by: 59 MDW/SGH
                                                                      (Colonel Nicola Choate)
                                                                                      Pages: 7


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive, 41-1, Health Programs and Resources.

This medical wing instruction (MDWI) provides the framework and establishes policy for
protecting the privacy rights of our patients at the 59th Medical Wing in accordance with
Accreditation Association of Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC), Chapter 5, Subchapter II. This
instruction outlines persons other than authorized staff, such as medical students, interested
physicians, health care industry representatives (vendors), and surveyors that are allowed in
patient care areas with evidence of patient consent. This instruction applies to all personnel
assigned, attached, or on contract working at the 59th Medical Wing excluding the 359th
Medical Group and the 959th Medical Group. This publication requires the collection and or
maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 55,
Medical and Dental Care, and E.O. 9397 (SSN). The applicable SORN F044 AF SG D, and
Automated          Medical/Dental       Record        System        is      available       at:
http://dpclo.defense.gov/privacy/SORNs/SORNs.htm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. The authority to waive requirements is
the publication approval authority. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
System Records Disposition Schedule.

1. Responsibilities. The Commander, 59th Medical Wing (MDW) is responsible for the
shadow program in his/her Medical Treatment Facility (MTF) and to any outside health care
 2                                                             59MDWI41-128 8 AUGUST 2014


representatives allowed into the patient care areas IAW AFI 44-119, Medical Quality Operations
Chapter 5 and AAAHC guidelines.
     1.1. Commander. The 59th Medical Wing Commander or designated representative is
     responsible to determine the appropriateness of allowing individuals to shadow medical
     professionals. Approval will be based on the individual’s age, school affiliations, staff
     availability and the needs of the Air Force Medical Service (AFMS) in coordination with the
     appropriate squadron commander(s)’s areas of responsibility. The shadowing program is not
     designed to circumvent the establishment of a Training Affiliation Agreement. If the
     shadowing individual will be getting credit toward required curricula, a Training Affiliation
     Agreement may be required. (See AFI 41-108, Training Affiliation Agreement Program).
        1.1.1. If members are engaged in patient care areas as part of a formal training program,
        they must in-process through the Department of Education and Training (DET) to
        schedule facility orientation and to complete applicable training IAW 59 MDWI36-2601,
        Human Resource Development.
            1.1.1.1. DET will determine the appropriate orientation requirements based on the
            member’s program/needs – i.e, Reserve annual tour vs. resident, etc.
     1.2. Tracking/Oversight. Shadowing personnel may be tracked and group-level and/or by
     functional area. A Shadow Program Binder will be used for tracking and documentation of
     requirements. The binder will include identification by name, name of the applicable
     preceptor, and the signed Patient Confidentiality Statement.
        1.2.1. Functional areas will identify a preceptor for all students and provider-in-training.
        1.2.2. Functional area will ensure all shadowing personnel have completed Health
        Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) training. The designated
        preceptor is responsible to ensure all required training is completed and documented prior
        to introduction into the designated patient care area(s). HIPAA training may be
        accomplished via several means – i.e., MHS Learn (for current, active AFMS members),
        slide review and brief (for civilian students), etc.
        1.2.3. The functional area will ensure that the shadowing personnel meet all Employee
        Health Program requirements prior to the shadow program experience.
     1.3. Designated Preceptor. The designated preceptor will ensure that shadowing personnel
     do not engage in any type of patient care. The designated preceptor will obtain verbal
     consent for observation and document consent in the medical record. Laboratory values,
     diagnostic images, ECGs, and pathology specimens may be viewed without patient consent
     within the context of the supervised shadowing program.
     1.4. Shadowing personnel. All shadowing personnel will coordinate with the respective
     group or Functional Area (or their representative) prior to their scheduled shadowing
     experience. For example, nurses and nursing students would contact the group SGN office.
     Physicians who are shadowing should contact the group SGH.
        1.4.1. All vendors will sign into the front information desk and will contact the surgical
        or other clinical area for directions on how to locate the provider(s) to be visited.
        Vendors are not allowed in patient care areas, except as defined in paragraph 3.2.
59MDWI41-128 8 AUGUST 2014                                                                     3


       1.4.2. All shadowing personnel will complete HIPAA training and will sign a patient
       confidentiality (non-disclosure) statement. (Attachment 2)
   1.4.3. Sponsors for base access should be coordinated well in advance.
       1.4.4. Shadowing personnel will be appropriately dressed in professional attire or school
       uniform.
       1.4.5. Shadowing personnel will only observe, and not engage in any type of patient care
       activities.
       1.4.6. Shadowing personnel will not engage in any type of patient care activities
2. Interested Physicians. The guidance for interns, residents and fellows of the San Antonio
Uniformed Services Health Education Consortium is located in 59 MDWI 44-105,
Undergraduate and Graduate Medical Education Trainee Supervision, and is managed by the
Graduate Medical Education program office.
   2.1. Interested physicians, who will not provide patient care, but wish to visit the MTF and
   some of its patients, may do so by following the procedures established for shadowing
   program.
   2.2. Interested healthcare professionals who will be providing patient care must report to the
   Credentials Management office and accomplish the same privileging requirements as regular
   authorized/affiliate staff. Volunteer privileged providers must process through the Volunteer
   Program in accordance with 59 MDWI 38-101, Volunteer Services, so that malpractice
   insurance is covered as for government employees. Volunteer privileged providers must also
   follow guidance in DoDI 1100.21 and 10 U.S.C. § 1588(d)(1)(B) for purposes of the Federal
   Tort Claims Act (10 U.S.C. § 2733 and 28 U.S.C. §§ 2671-2680).
3. Health Care Industry Representatives. Overall guidance for health care industry
representatives is provided by 59 MDWI 23-102, Policies for Commercial Vendors/
Representatives. This instruction must be reviewed with vendors or healthcare industry
representatives that will visit Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center (WHASC) and operating
rooms.
   3.1. Healthcare industry representatives and commercial vendors that come to the WHASC
   shall not engage in unethical activities or behaviors which might appear inconsistent with
   good patient care.
   3.2. The 59 MDWI 23-102, paragraph 2.5 states: “Representatives and vendors will sign in
   at the front desk and be confined to non-patient care areas”. No business will be
   conducted within view or hearing range of patients, except in the rare case of servicing
   medical equipment when specifically requested by a provider.
   3.3. The only exception is if 59 MDW providers/surgeons need to contact the vendor for
   procedural and/or intraoperative guidance directly related to the product/implant which was
   supplied by the vendor. The Operating Room and Sterile Processing personnel are
   responsible for coordinating Operating Room access for the vendor once WHASC front desk
   sign-in is completed.
   3.4. Each vendor’s company will ensure each vendor has the essential infection control
   training and proper immunizations, if appropriate. Each vendor’s company will also ensure
 4                                                            59MDWI41-128 8 AUGUST 2014


     that proper HIPAA training is completed, if necessary. If HIPAA training is essential for
     vendors, the vendors must bring a current certificate with them from the contracting
     company.
4. Surveyors. During performance of official duties, civilian accreditation surveyors and/or
inspectors, are permitted in patient care areas when accompanied by a MTF member of the staff.
     4.1. Surveyors and inspectors (to include but not limited to: Accreditation Association of
     Ambulatory Health Care, College of American Pathologists, and others) will be issued a
     Visitor’s badge through the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for the survey or
     inspection, e.g., Inspector General’s Office, Laboratory, et el. OPR will arrange for the
     Visitor’s badge(s) prior to arrival or immediately upon arrival (if “no-notice”).
5. Other Persons. Visitors of patients, and patient escorts are not addressed by this instruction.




                                             GLENN A. YAP, Colonel, USAF, MSC
                                             Administrator, 59th Medical Wing
59MDWI41-128 8 AUGUST 2014                                                             5


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Handbook for Ambulatory Health Care, AAAHC, current edition
AFPD 41-1, Health Programs and Resources, 15 April 1994
AFI 41-108, Training Affiliation Agreement Program 4 May 2011
AFI 44-119, Medical Quality Operations, 16 August 2011
59 MDWI 23-102, Policies for Commercial Vendors/ Representatives, 8 November 2011
59 MDWI 44-105, Undergraduate and Graduate Medical Education Trainee Supervision, 25
February 2011
59 MDWI 36-2601, Human Resource Development, 13 June 2014
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Acronyms and Abbreviations
AAAHC—Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care
AFMS—Air Force Medical Service
DET—Department of Education and Training
HIPAA—Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
IAW—In Accordance With
MDW—Medical Wing
MDWI—Medical Wing Instruction
MTF—Medical Treatment Facility
WHASC—Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center
 6                                                           59MDWI41-128 8 AUGUST 2014


                                          Attachment 2
            NON-DISCLOSURE/PATIENT CONFIDENTIALITY STATEMENT

59th Medical Wing
2200 Bergquist Dr Suite 1
JBSA-Lackland TX 78236-5300

                        PATIENT CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT

As a member enrolled in the Shadow program of 59th Medical Wing (MDW), you may have
access to what this agreement refers to as "confidential information." The purpose of this
agreement is to help you understand your responsibility regarding confidential information.

Confidential information includes patient/member information, employee/volunteer/student
information, financial information, other information relating to the 59th MDW. You may learn
of or have access to some or all of this confidential information through your shadowing
activities.

Confidential information is valuable and sensitive and is protected by federal law, Health
Insurance Portability Accountability Act (HIPAA) and by strict 59th MDW policies. The intent
of these laws and policies is to assure that confidential information will remain confidential –
that is, it will be used only as necessary to accomplish the organization's mission. You are
required to conduct yourself in strict conformance to applicable laws and the 59th MDW’s
policies governing confidential information. Your principal obligations in this area are explained
below. You are required to read and to abide by these duties. The violation of any of these
requirements will subject you to discipline, which might include, but is not limited to,
termination of participation in the shadow program and to legal liability.

As a Shadow, you understand that you may have access to confidential information which may
include, but is not limited to, information relating to:

     Patients/members (such as records, conversations, admittance information, patient/member
     financial information, etc),
     Employees/volunteer/students (such as salaries, employment records, disciplinary actions,
     etc.),
     59th MDW information (such as financial and statistical records, strategic plans, internal
     reports, memos, contracts, peer review information, communications, proprietary computer
     programs, source code, proprietary technology, etc.) and
     Third party information (such as computer programs, client and vendor proprietary
     information, source code, proprietary technology, etc.).

Accordingly, as a condition of and in consideration of your access to confidential information,
you promise that:

1. You will use confidential information only as needed to perform your legitimate duties as a
shadow affiliated with the 59th MDW. This means that:
59MDWI41-128 8 AUGUST 2014                                                                        7



   You will only access confidential information for which you have a need to know; and
   You will not in any way divulge, copy, release, sell, loan, review, alter or destroy any
   confidential information except as properly authorized within the scope of activities affiliated
   with the 59th MDW; and
   You will not misuse confidential information or carelessly care for confidential information.

    You will report activities by any individual or entity that you suspect may compromise the
confidentiality of confidential information. Reports made in good faith about suspect activities
will be held in confidence to the extent permitted by law, including the name of the individual
reporting the activities.
    You understand that your obligations under this Agreement will continue after termination of
your shadowing opportunity.
    You understand that you have no right or ownership interest in any confidential information
referred to in this Agreement. The 59th MDW may at any time revoke your access to
confidential information. At all times during your shadowing opportunity, you will safeguard and
retain the confidentiality of all confidential information.
    You will be responsible for your misuse or wrongful disclosure of confidential information
and for your failure to safeguard access to confidential information.

I hereby acknowledge that I have read and understand the foregoing information and that my
signature below signifies my agreement to comply with the above terms.


Date: ___________            Signature: _______________________________________

                             Print Name: _____________________________________

                             Preceptor: _____________________________________
