BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 65-102
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                               15 AUGUST 2011
                                                        Incorporating Change 1, 11 October 2013
                                                             Certified Current on 29 August 2013
                                                                         Financial Management

                                                 GUIDELINES FOR LOCAL STAFF TRAVEL


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 59 MDW/SGAR                                                    Certified by: 59 MDW/SGAR
                                                                   (Major Neva VanDerSchaegen)
                                                                                        Pages: 6
Supersedes:    59MDWI65-102,
               24 February 2009


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 65-1, Management of Financial Services.
This instruction establishes guidelines for reimbursement of staff travel in the San Antonio local
area and use of gift and grant funding for temporary duty (TDY). This instruction applies to all
personnel, assigned or contracted to the 59th Medical Wing (MDW). This instruction does not
apply to the Air National Guard Air Force Reserve or medical Geographically Separated Units
(GSU) in San Antonio. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System Records Disposition
Schedule.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Updated local travel reimbursement policy for Air Force personnel assigned to medical
geographically separated units in San Antonio; updated local travel areas for San Antonio to
include the corporate limits of San Marcos; removed requirement for Group Resource Advisors
or Administrators to request approval from 59 MDW Chief of Resource Operations prior to
seeking reimbursement for commuting distance.
1. Staff Travel in the Local Area.
2                                                            59MDWI65-102 15 AUGUST 2011


    1.1. General Information. TDY orders are normally not published for official travel within
    the defined local area unless the TDY Orders Approving Official determines overnight
    lodging is required for mission accomplishment. TDY orders will always be published when
    official travel is to locations outside the defined local area. The local area is defined by the
    following counties as designated by the Air Education and Training Commander: Atascosa,
    Bandera, Bexar, Comal, Guadalupe, Kendall, Medina, Wilson, and the corporate limits of
    San Marcos, Texas. Reimbursement for local travel can only be claimed if it’s official
    business and more advantageous to the government. Travel between place of duty and
    domicile and travel between place of duty and place where meals are taken are not
    reimbursable. If a member’s domicile to place of duty [i.e. San Antonio Military Medical
    Center (SAMMC)] commuting distance exceeds the member’s domicile to permanent duty
    station (PDS) (i.e. Lackland AFB), paragraphs 1.2 and 1.2.1 below also apply. The member
    will not be reimbursed for the increased commuting distance to SAMMC, unless the strict
    exceptions outlined in paragraphs 1.2. and 1.2.1 are met. For duty locations outside of the
    SAMMC campus, increased commuting distance for duty locations different from the
    member’s PDS may be reimbursed. The member can seek approval and reimbursement in
    Defense Travel System (DTS) through their group resource advisor.
    1.2. Procedures for Requesting Local Travel Reimbursement for Official Business. The
    policy provided herein follows the Joint Federal Travel Regulation (JFTR), Chapter 3, Parts
    D and F. This policy applies to member’s official travel in the local area to official functions
    such as meetings in the San Antonio area (i.e., Randolph Air Force Base, Fort Sam Houston,
    North Central Federal Clinic, etc.). The 59 MDW members (excluding contractors) have the
    option to ride the bus provided to SAMMC [also known as Brooke Army Medical Center
    (BAMC)], staff shuttle provided by the 59 MDW to SAMMC, or request a U-Drive-It (UDI)
    Government Owned Vehicle (GOV) from 802nd Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS)
    Vehicle Dispatch by submitting an email to 37LRS.Dispatch@lackland.af.mil (“802 LRS
    Dispatch” in the Lackland Global Email Listing) or calling 671-3318/3319. The UDI should
    also be requested for local travel for destinations not including the SAMMC immediate
    campus. The bus operates Monday-Friday (except Federal Holidays) leaving Wilford Hall
    Medical Center at 0630 at hourly intervals until 1730 and begins from BAMC at 0600 and
    subsequent hourly intervals until 1700. The shuttle operates Monday-Friday (except Federal
    Holidays) leaving Wilford Hall Medical Center (WHMC) at 0500 at 30 minute intervals until
    1930 and begins from SAMMC at 0530 and subsequent 30 minute intervals until 2000. The
    WHMC shuttle will not run at the same/overlapping time as the SAMMC bus. The 59th
    Medical Logistics and Readiness Squadron Contract Services Flight noncommissioned
    officer in charge (292-8364) is the point of contact for the 59 MDW shuttle.
       1.2.1. The shuttle to SAMMC is the government intended and provided source of travel.
       However, this means that the member can seek reimbursement for privately owned
       vehicle expenses on official travel only if no space exists on the conveyance, if the travel
       occurs outside the scheduled availability of such conveyances, or if the situation
       prompting official travel involves such urgency that the employee cannot wait for the
       GOV conveyance. The only exceptions for reimbursement then are if the shuttle isn't
       running during the time of need (outside normal hours of ops) or it’s "more advantageous
       to the government”. There must be an urgent and compelling need for the member to be
       at the location quicker than the shuttle can provide. For the official business travel
59MDWI65-102 15 AUGUST 2011                                                                3


     to/from meetings at SAMMC, this exception criteria would be it's more advantageous for
     them to be out of the duty section for less time than the shuttle affords. The approval
     authority at a minimum is the member’s squadron commander. See instructions in
     paragraph 1.2.3. for submission of a local travel voucher in DTS or contact your
     respective group resource advisor.
     1.2.2. The UDI request (for local travel not to SAMMC) should be submitted at least a
     duty day prior to the day of the need with the additional paperwork required by 37 LRS.
     If a GOV is not available, 802 LRS Vehicle Dispatch (802 LRS/LGRDD) will provide a
     non-availability letter and the member can request reimbursement for the use of their
     Personally Owned Conveyance (POC) at the full mileage rate using a local voucher in the
     Defense Travel System (DTS) routed through the member’s applicable supervisor for
     approval and group/wing resource advisor. The non-availability statement and approval
     from the member’s squadron commander or above must be attached in DTS to the local
     voucher as substantiating documentation. The local voucher must be submitted within 5
     duty days of the event.
     1.2.3. If the member chooses to use their POC (for local travel not to SAMMC) without
     checking on the availability of a GOV, then the member will only be reimbursed at the
     middle GOV Advantageous POC Rate in DTS (Titled: “POC Use Gov Vehicle
     Available”) as long as it’s more advantageous to the government (i.e, severe mission
     delay). Use of POC for pure personal convenience will not be reimbursed. The local
     voucher should also be submitted in DTS with attached written approval (email is
     sufficient) from the member’s squadron commander or above. Mileage claimed should
     be actual odometer mileage or mileage calculated using a web-based map tool of the
     actual distance traveled. The local voucher must be submitted within 5 duty days of the
     event.
     1.2.4. If the member chooses to use their POC (for local travel not to SAMMC) when
     government transportation has been specifically scheduled or procured for that function
     or member, and is available for them to use, the member will be reimbursed at the lowest
     GOV Advantageous POC Rate in DTS (Titled: “POC Use Dedicated Gov Vehicle”). The
     specific reimbursement rates for POCs are outlined in JFTR Chapter 2: Administration
     and General Procedures, Part H: Mileage and Monetary Allowance in Lieu of
     Transportation Rates.
  1.3. The 59 MDW members can also be reimbursed for other local travel expenses including
  parking and tolls.




                                         GLENN A. YAP, Colonel, USAF, MSC
                                         Administrator
 4                                                     59MDWI65-102 15 AUGUST 2011


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 65-1, Management of Financial Services, 1 July 1996
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
The Joint Federal Travel Regulation, 1 April 2011
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
BAMC—Brooke Army Medical Center
DTS—Defense Travel System
GOV—Government Owned Vehicle
JFTR—Joint Federal Travel Regulation
LRS—Logistics Readiness Squadron
MDW—Medical Wing
PDS—Permanent Duty Station
POC—Personally Owned Conveyance
SAMMC—San Antonio Military Medical Center
TDY—Temporary Duty
UDI—U-Drive-It
WHMC—Wilford Hall Medical Center
59MDWI65-102 15 AUGUST 2011                  5


                              Attachment 2
                        AETC TRAVEL LETTER
6   59MDWI65-102 15 AUGUST 2011
