BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 41-219
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                            7 JANUARY 2014

                                                                               Health Services

                                                                THE PATIENT SQUADRON




               COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 59 MDSS/SGSBTA                                                 Certified by: 59 MDSS/CC
                                                                     (Lt Col William J. Fecke)
Supersedes:    59MDWI 41-219, 27 January                                              Pages: 13
               2010


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 41-2, Medical Support. This publication
provides guidance, establishes policies and assigns responsibilities for management of active
duty personnel who are attached on temporary duty (TDY) or assigned to the Patient Squadron at
the 59th Medical Wing (59 MDW) in accordance with (IAW) AFI 41-210, TRICARE Operations
and Patient Administration Functions. This publication applies to all military, civilian and
contract personnel assigned to or under contract with Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center
(WHASC) involved with the medical management, care, treatment and disposition of Patient
Squadron personnel. This instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard or Air Force
Reserve, the 359th Medical Group, or the 959th Medical Group. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. The authority to waive requirements is
the publication approval authority. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System Records
Disposition Schedule.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The publication has been revised. This rewrite of 59 MDWI 41-219 includes updated Medical
Care Case Management responsibilities; updated Recovery Care Coordinator responsibilities,
and updated Non-medical Care manager responsibilities.
1. Policies.
 2                                                          59MDWI41-219 7 JANUARY 2014


     1.1. This serves as guidance on managing Air Force active duty, activated Air Force Reserve
     and activated Air National Guard personnel referred to WHASC, the San Antonio Military
     Medical Center (SAMMC) or local area medical facilities for evaluation and treatment for
     periods greater than 14 days:
        1.1.1. Personnel in outpatient status who are TDY (attached) to Joint Base San Antonio
        must report to the Patient (Pt) Squadron (Sq) at WHASC within one duty day of their
        arrival. Pt Sq staff will collect a copy of orders, lodging information and provide further
        instruction.
        1.1.2. Personnel who receive permanent change of station (PCS) orders are assigned to
        the Pt Sq and will report to the Pt Sq office within one duty day of their arrival. Pt Sq
        staff will obtain a copy of orders, initiate in-processing, obtain all contact information
        and provide further instruction.
        1.1.3. The Aeromedical Staging Facility (ASF) will coordinate transportation and
        transfer of deployed personnel returning from the Area of Responsibility (AOR) through
        the Aeromedical Evacuation System or commercial air transport. Personnel moving via
        the aeromedical evacuation system are tracked through the US Transportation Command
        Regulating and Command & Control Evacuation System. ASF and SAMMC Patient
        Administration will communicate pertinent clinical and administrative information to the
        Pt Sq through the appropriate channels to ensure proper tracking and accountability of
        inbound personnel. Pt Sq staff will populate the Pt Sq databases with the information,
        obtain lodging information and give further instruction if applicable.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. 59 MDW Commander.
        2.1.1. Holds the authority for assigning patients to the Pt Sq. Patients can only be
        assigned to the Pt Sq with permission from the 59 MDW/CC or his/her delegated
        authority. Official PCS orders to the Pt Sq must originate from the patient’s losing
        location upon request from the Pt Sq.
        2.1.2. The 59 MDW Commander may appoint the 59th Medical Support Squadron
        Commander (59 MDSS/CC) as the Pt Sq Commander.
     2.2. 59 MDSS/CC.
        2.2.1. Assumes all command responsibilities for the Pt Sq and all personnel assigned.
        The 59 MDSS/CC has G-Series orders and Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ)
        authority over all patients assigned to the Pt Sq.
            2.2.1.1. Ensures patients are assigned with official orders in a PCS or permanent
            change of assignment status and in accordance with AFI 41-210, TRICARE
            Operations and Patient Administration Functions.
        2.2.2. Exercises administrative oversight and management of all patients attached (TDY)
        to the Pt Sq. UCMJ authority for attached patients remains with their home unit
        commander.
        2.2.3. Maintains accountability of all assigned patients and ensures adherence to all
        Department of Defense and Air Force directives, as well as those outlined in the UCMJ.
59MDWI41-219 7 JANUARY 2014                                                                    3


      2.2.4. Ensures all patients assigned or attached are educated on the chain of command.
          2.2.4.1. The rank of the patient will determine the appropriate chain of command e.g.
          officers would report to the Patient Squadron Section Commander or above
          depending on their rank. Regardless of whether a patient is "attached" or "assigned"
          to the Patient Squadron the chain of command is as follows:
             2.2.4.1.1. Noncommissioned Officer in Charge (NCOIC), Patient Squadron.
             2.2.4.1.2. Section Chief, Patient Squadron.
             2.2.4.1.3. Pt Sq Section Commander.
             2.2.4.1.4. TRICARE Operations & Patient Administration (TOPA) Flight
             Commander.
             2.2.4.1.5. Commander, 59th Medical Support Squadron.
             2.2.4.1.6. Commander, 59th Medical Support Group.

Figure 2.1. Patient Squadron Structure.




      2.2.5. Ensures a message is sent to each Military Treatment Facility (MTF) annually (via
      Air Force Medical Operations Agency) describing the procedures to follow when sending
      a patient TDY for care to the 59 MDW (Attachment 2). The Pt Sq brochure should
      accompany this message as an attachment.
4                                                           59MDWI41-219 7 JANUARY 2014


       2.2.6. Appoints a Special Duty Officer (SDO) to assist family members and Casualty
       Affairs with administrative needs should a death occur. If necessary, the SDO may be
       assigned from outside the Pt Sq.
    2.3. Pt Sq Section Commander.
       2.3.1. Pt Sq Section Commander will be an Air Force Medical Service officer from any
       corps equal to or junior in grade to the 59 MDSS/CC.
       2.3.2. May also serve in an additional official capacity (e.g., TOPA Flight Commander,
       clinical provider).
       2.3.3. Establishes unit-specific policies and communications.
    2.4. Chief of Medical Staff (SGH).
       2.4.1. Ensures proper medical management, care, treatment and disposition of patients
       permanently assigned or attached to the Pt Sq for the purpose of medical evaluation and
       treatment.
       2.4.2. Reviews patient’s medical history makes recommendations regarding assigning
       personnel to the Pt Sq. Member’s status in Pt Sq may change from attached to assigned
       at any time based on changes in patient’s medical condition or required treatment plan.
       Generally, personnel are considered for possible assignment to the Pt Sq if (1) they are
       likely to be hospitalized 90 calendar days or more, (2) they are unlikely to return to their
       unit, (3) they are hospitalized while en route to a PCS or (4) otherwise separated from
       their unit and assignment to the MTF is necessary to ensure effective personnel
       management.
       2.4.3. When required, ensures eligible patients undergo Medical Evaluation Board
       (MEB) consideration IAW AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards, and AFI
       41-210.
       2.4.4. Ensures a medical case manager is assigned to patients that require assistance with
       complex medical and social issues.
    2.5. Section Chief and NCOIC, Patient Squadron.
       2.5.1. Verifies TDY and PCS orders and duty status of each patient to ensure proper
       assignment and attachment to the Pt Sq via 59 MDW Personnel Center and Military
       Personnel Section (MPS).
       2.5.2. Notifies Pt Sq Section Commander of newly assigned personnel and assists with
       unit, group and wing in-processing requirements.
       2.5.3. Refers patients to case management office and other departments, as appropriate.
       2.5.4. Ensures all patients are briefed on entitlements by responsible base support
       agencies.
       2.5.5. Maintains accurate rosters of all assigned patients.
       2.5.6. Organizes, schedules, and creates agenda for the biweekly Pt Sq inter-professional
       crosstalk meetings. Discusses and updates information on each patient who is assigned
       or attached to the Pt Sq. Records minutes and provides sign-in sheet to annotate
59MDWI41-219 7 JANUARY 2014                                                                  5


     attendance by all key players to include, but not limited to, the following: 59
     MDW/SGH; 59 MDSS/CC; 59 MDSS/CCF; TOPA Flight Commander; Pt Sq Section
     Commander; Medical Care Case Managers (MCCM); Recovery Care Coordinators
     (RCC), Nonmedical Care Managers (NMCM), Internal Medicine representative, Medical
     Management Branch Chief, and Physical Evaluation Board Liaison Officers.
     2.5.7. Updates Patient Squadron rosters after notification from MEB office.
  2.6. Medical Care Case Manager.
     2.6.1. Ensures AD patients assigned to Case Management Services check-in with the Pt
     Sq upon arrival.
     2.6.2. Attends the biweekly Patient Squadron cross-talk meetings. Discusses and
     updates information on each patient who is assigned or attached to the Pt Sq and being
     followed by Case Management Services.
     2.6.3. Support injured personnel returning from the AOR via Aeromedical Evacuation
     and/or commercial air, and their families, as necessary. Notifies Pt Sq staff of patients
     coming to the SAMMC or WHASC.
  2.7. Recovery Care Coordinator.
     2.7.1. RCCs work for the Recovery Care Coordination Branch of the Warrior & Survivor
     Care Division of the Air Force Wounded Warrior Program (AFW2). They ensure the
     development, implementation and oversight of the Comprehensive Recovery Plan (CRP)
     which includes the following:
        2.7.1.1. Establishes career goals and timelines for accomplishment and documents
        nonclinical support provided to recovering Airmen.
        2.7.1.2. Consults and collaborates with multidisciplinary teams during the initial
        treatment phase and continuing throughout the continuum of care, including support
        during the disability evaluation system process.
        2.7.1.3. Provides assistance to the Airmen, family and extended family members to
        navigate through the continuum of care which involves initial assessment,
        comprehensive assessment, linkage to family support programs, and ongoing follow
        up.
        2.7.1.4. Facilitates an efficient, effective and smooth rehabilitation and transition
        back to active duty or civilian life as a veteran through coordination with appropriate
        personnel (Military Service Coordinators/Veterans Affairs Liaisons and other
        agencies).
        2.7.1.5. Ensures that the Airmen and family have access to all medical and non-
        medical care management services including, but not limited to medical care,
        rehabilitation, education, employment-related programs, and disability benefits.
        2.7.1.6. Assists in coordinating local and state resources, including referral to
        governmental and non-governmental agencies as appropriate, where the Airmen and
        family will reside.
  2.8. Non-medical Care Manager.
 6                                                           59MDWI41-219 7 JANUARY 2014


        2.8.1. NMCMs work for the Warrior Care Support Branch of the Warrior & Survivor
        Care Division of the AFW2 program. They ensure service members and family or
        designated caregivers get needed non-medical support such as assistance with resolving
        financial, administrative, personnel, and logistical problems.
        2.8.2. Provides feedback on the effectiveness of the CRP in meeting the service
        member’s personal goals.
        2.8.3. Communicates with the service member and family or designated caregiver
        regarding non-medical matters that arise during care, management, and transition; assist
        the member in resolving non-medical issues.
        2.8.4. Assists the service member with finding the resources to maintain or improve his
        or her welfare and quality of life.
     2.9. Pt Sq Administrative Staff.
        2.9.1. Complete an initial intake on personnel here TDY for greater than 14 days.
        2.9.2. Will complete a follow-up intake and establish a 6-part folder for tracking and
        updating administrative issues and concerns related to the care of all personnel who PCS
        to this location.
        2.9.3. Will assist with in-processing all Air Force personnel reporting from their primary
        duty location.
3. Pt Sq Personnel Responsibilities.
     3.1. All patients will adhere to AF standards, to include:
        3.1.1. Compliance with all Air Force Instructions (AFI), to include, but not limited to
        AFI 1-1, Air Force Standards, AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air
        Force Personnel, and AFI 36-3003, Military Leave Program.
     3.2. Report to all appointments, both medical and non-medical, on time and in uniform (Air
     Force Physical Training gear is appropriate for situations where other duty uniforms would
     not be practical).
        3.2.1. If for any reason a patient cannot make a scheduled appointment, he or she must
        contact his or her MCCM prior to the appointment to reschedule.
        3.2.2. Failing to attend scheduled appointments is a UCMJ violation and may result in an
        administrative or disciplinary action.
     3.3. Patients must keep the Pt Sq chain-of-command informed of all movements outside of
     the local area. All TDYs and leaves must be approved by the Pt Sq chain of command prior
     to departure.
4. Procedures for Initial Reporting.
     4.1. All Air Force personnel are required to report to the Pt Sq section for in-processing and
     mandatory briefings upon arrival to the San Antonio area. The only deviation is if the
     individual arrives during non-duty duty hours between 1630 Friday and 0730 Mondays or
     Federal holidays as applicable. These individuals must report to the Pt Sq on the next duty
     day.
59MDWI41-219 7 JANUARY 2014                                                                     7


       4.1.1. Active Duty personnel in a medical TDY greater than 14 days or PCS status may
       be assigned a MCCM based on their specific medical needs.
       4.1.2. Personnel arriving via aeromedical evacuation (from AOR or other location) or
       commercial flight and subsequently admitted to SAMMC will have a MCCM and
       possibly a RCC and NMCM assigned to assist them as necessary.
          4.1.2.1. The patient may be assigned a Family Liaison Officer (FLO) to assist with
          any day-to-day requirements.
          4.1.2.2. FLOs are generally assigned when patients are wounded in action, or in a
          seriously ill/injured, or very seriously ill/injured status. In these cases, the AFW2
          program is responsible for appointing, assigning and training the FLO. FLOs, RCCs,
          NMCMs and MCCMs will work closely in these cases to decrease duplication of
          services.
   4.2. Personnel who are aeromedically evacuated and admitted to SAMMC will have a
   MCCM and RCC to assist them with lodging and orders extensions.
       4.2.1. Personnel who are aeromedically evacuated from the AOR for outpatient
       treatment will have lodging and transportation arranged by the 559th Aeromedical
       Squadron Patient Movement office. Pt Sq administrative personnel and RCC may assist
       as necessary.
       4.2.2. If admitted to SAMMC, a RCC will assist with lodging, transportation and orders
       extensions. Pt Sq administrative personnel may assist as required.
   4.3. Personnel who PCS to the Pt Sq must have an accepting physician for their continued
   care. They will, in most cases, have been evaluated by a specialty service at either WHASC
   or SAMMC. In rare occasions, that PCS determination will be coordinated via telephone or
   e-mail due to the severity of illness/disease.
       4.3.1. When PCS is required, the Pt Sq will generate a MPS message; the Military
       Personnel Flight Message (MPFM) assignment request will be forwarded to the
       member’s servicing MPS, Unit CSS and First Sergeant.
          4.3.1.1. There is an initial 14-day suspense for a response to the MPFM.
          4.3.1.2. The projected assignment is approximately 45 days for the date on the
          MPFM.
          4.3.1.3. Special circumstances may require a modification to this time table; this will
          normally require a shorter suspense on the aforementioned time table.
   4.4. Personnel who remain overnight in the San Antonio area will only need to be tracked if
   their status changes; they should check-in with their unit of assignment upon return to home
   station. Should status change for the member and they require case management or
   attachment to the Pt Sq, the Pt Sq staff will coordinate this with the individual’s home unit.
5. Disposition.
   5.1. TDY personnel (attached) will sign out with the Pt Sq the day of but no earlier than 1
   day prior to the departure date. This allows the member to schedule a return flight and report
   to the airport for check-in and departure prior to the start of the duty day and also weekends.
 8                                                          59MDWI41-219 7 JANUARY 2014


     5.2. PCS personnel (assigned) will out-process using the standard 59 MDW Out-processing
     Checklist, the Virtual Military Personnel Flight Out-processing Checklist and attend at
     minimum, a one-hour Transitional Assistance Program briefing for short-notice medical
     retirements/separations. This will be completed prior to beginning permissive TDY to ensure
     all military requirements have been met.
6. Employment.
     6.1. One of the goals of the Pt Sq is to ensure all assigned personnel are placed in a work
     program that is conducive to their treatment and beneficial to the United States Air Force.
     6.2. Upon arrival to the Pt Sq, the Pt Sq Section Commander and staff will coordinate with
     members of the healthcare team to determine the best placement for each individual. This is
     a cooperative effort and assigned personnel will have input to ensure they are in a work
     environment that is the right fit for them and the Air Force.
     6.3. The Pt Sq will make every effort to place assigned personnel in jobs pertaining to their
     Air Force Specialty Code if medically cleared to do so.
7. Patient Squadron Members Geographically Separated.
     7.1. At any given time, attached or assigned Pt Sq personnel may be geographically
     separated from the 59 MDW and San Antonio. It is the responsibility of the Pt Sq Section
     Commander, with the assistance of the Section Chief or NCOIC, to ensure these personnel
     are cared for, both medically and administratively. Pt Sq staff will continue tracking these
     personnel and communicating their status during inter-professional crosstalk meetings.
     7.2. MCCM services will continue until personnel return to their home unit or under the care
     of another Pt Sq. RCC, NMCM and FLO services will continue as required.
     7.3. Pt Sq staff may visit these personnel at their care locations when practical. Pt Sq staff
     will coordinate these visits through the MCCM, RCC or FLO to ensure the appropriate
     coordination between the care facility and the patient being seen.
8. SAMMC AF Liaison/Case Manager.
     8.1. The SAMMC AF Liaison/Case Manager is a vital link between the Pt Sq and personnel
     who receive inpatient care at SAMMC.
     8.2. Pt Sq staff should discuss the geographically separated patients receiving care at
     SAMMC or the Center for the Intrepid with the SAMMC AF/Liaison Case Manager on a
     regular basis. The conversation should, at a minimum, include the following:
        8.2.1. Synopsis of those patients who are missing scheduled appointments.
        8.2.2. Review of personnel who require assistance from Pt Sq staff.
        8.2.3. Listing of those patients who need employment and recommendations for
        employment.
59MDWI41-219 7 JANUARY 2014                                                          9


     8.2.4. Any other pertinent information that the SAMMC Air Force Case Manager deems
     necessary to provide better care for the patients medically and administratively.




                                       GLENN A. YAP, Colonel, USAF, MSC
                                       Administrator, 59th Medical Wing
 10                                                     59MDWI41-219 7 JANUARY 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 1-1, Air Force Standards, 7 August 2012
AFI 41-210, TRICARE Operations and Patient Administration Functions, 6 June 2012
AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance for Air Force Personnel, 18 July 2011
AFI 36-3003, Military Leave Program, 26 October 2009
AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards, 5 November 2013
AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System, 2 August 2013
AFPD 41-2, Medical Support, 28 June 2013
59 MDWI 41-122, Patient Transfers, 23 June 2009
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFW2—Air Force Wounded Warrior
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ASF—Aeromedical Staging Facility
CRP—Comprehensive Recovery Plan
FLO—Family Liaison Officer
IAW—In Accordance With
MCCM—Medical Care Case Manager
MDW—Medical Wing
MEB—Medical Evaluation Board
MPFM—Military Personnel Flight Message
MPS—Military Personnel Section
MTF—Military Treatment Facility
NCOIC—Noncommissioned Officer in Charge
NMCM—Nonmedical Care Manager
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PT—Patient
RCC—Recovery Care Coordinator
SAMMC—San Antonio Military Medical Center
59MDWI41-219 7 JANUARY 2014                        11


SDO—Special Duty Officer
SGH—Chief of the Medical Staff
SQ—Squadron
TDY—Temporary Duty
TOPA—TRICARE Operations & Patient Administration
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
WHASC—Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center
 12                                                   59MDWI41-219 7 JANUARY 2014


                                    Attachment 2
                 PATIENT SQUADRON ASSIGNMENT CHECKLIST

Figure A2.1. Patient Squadron Assignment Checklist.
59MDWI41-219 7 JANUARY 2014   13
