BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                              59TH MEDICAL WING
59TH MEDICAL WING                                                       INSTRUCTION 33-104

                                                                         16 NOVEMBER 2011
                                                          Certified Current on 5 December 2013
                                                            Communications and Information

                                                            DATA QUALITY MANAGEMENT
                                                                    CONTROL PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 59 MDW/SGARX                                                 Certified by: 59 MDW/SGAR
                                                                           (Lt Col Paul Conner)
Supersedes:   59MDWI 33-104,                                                            Pages: 8
              29 September 2008


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 33-1, Information Resources
Management. This Medical Wing Instruction (MDWI) establishes 59 Medical Wing (MDW)
policies, procedures, and guidelines for the systematic review, validation, reconciliation and
auditing of source financial, workload and personnel data entered into the Composite Health
Care System (CHCS), Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application (AHLTA),
Coding Compliance Editor, and reported in the Medical Expense and Performance Reporting
System and Expense Assignment System (MEPRS/EAS). They also pertain to the Uniform
Business Office’s (UBO) analysis and reporting of accounting-related activities as they relate to
data quality. This instruction applies to the 59 MDW staff and subordinate organizations
responsible for entering data into CHCS, AHLTA, MEPRS/EAS, and to the UBO accounting
systems for the management and follow-up of accounts, including recovery, depositing, posting,
reconciliation, and procedures for third party collection. This instruction does not apply to the
Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve. This is a compliance-driven instruction. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System Records Disposition
Schedule located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
 2                                                        59MDWI33-104 16 NOVEMBER 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been modified to reflect changes in organizational process and review of
Data Quality Management Committee (DQMC) information and action items. This publication
has been updated to reflect the most recent reference documentation.
1. Objectives.
     1.1. To improve the quality of financial and clinical workload data by providing leadership
     oversight and an infrastructure necessary to improve the submission and use of complete,
     accurate, and timely data.
     1.2. To assure the uniformity and standardization of data quality across the 59 MDW.
2. Overview. Data quality is paramount to successful mission accomplishment as the 59 MDW
evaluates overall effectiveness of its healthcare services, negotiates with care support
contractors, and collects information to justify expenditures and budgets. Decision-makers of
this data driven healthcare enterprise must have reliable information. Professional, technical,
and support staff will use their expertise in the assurance of relevant and current clinical and
workload data. Data is used to monitor performance improvement efforts and improve
outcomes.
     2.1. Key to building a “most effective organization” and achieving the objectives of this
     instruction is accurate and timely data. The 59 MDW must therefore have the capacity to
     gather meaningful data to be converted to meaningful information on which its leadership
     can make informed business and clinical decisions.
3. Dimensions of Data Quality.
     3.1. Quality data is data that fit the customer’s intended use in daily operations, decision-
     making, and planning. This requires that data: (a) possess desired features of the user, be
     relevant, comprehensive, contain proper detail, and easy to understand, and (b) be free of
     defects.
     3.2. Four major dimensions of data quality:
        3.2.1. Accuracy — recording of facts correctly.
        3.2.2. Completeness — having all relevant data collected and recorded.
        3.2.3. Consistency — uniformity of the format for recording the data.
        3.2.4. Timeliness — recording of the data in the required time frame following the
        occurrence.
4. Data Quality Validation and Reconciliation Process. The Data Quality Management
Control Program (DQMCP) will provide executive leadership oversight and structure to improve
the use and submission of complete, accurate, and timely data. It will assure uniformity and
standardization of information within the 59 MDW.
59MDWI33-104 16 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                 3


   4.1. The data quality (DQ) validation and reconciliation process requires the following
   actions:
      4.1.1. Establish monthly internal management controls through audits of source
      workload information [Standard Inpatient Data Record (SIDR), Standard Ambulatory
      Data Record (SADR), MEPRS-EAS, Worldwide Workload Report (WWR)] and UBO
      compliance requirements. Workload reconciliation explains the relationship between
      data derived from CHCS and reported in MEPRS/EAS within pre-determined parameters
      and defined in relevant business rules. CHCS data must meet required outputs for
      MEPRS/EAS to provide for full accountability of the workload reported. Table 4.1
      identifies current Data Quality Management Committee (DQMC) management tools.

Table 4.1. DQMC Management Control Tools.

DQMC Tool                       Process Owner(s)                Purpose
Financial, workload, and        59 MDW/SGAR                     Validate integrity of financial,
labor hours reconciliation                                      workload, and labor hours
                                                                data between the Source Data
                                                                Collection System (SDCS)
                                                                and MEPRS/EAS
UBO program compliance          59 MDW/SGAR                     Maximize allowable health
                                                                care recovery cost within
(UBO programs are third
                                                                compliance guidelines
party collections, medical
service accounts, and medical
affirmative claims)
In/Outpatient Workload          59 MDW/SGAR and                 Assess and measure CHCS
Reconciliation                  organizations responsible for   in- and outpatient DQ in
                                entering data into CHCS,        MEPRS/EAS
                                AHLTA and reported in
                                MEPRS/EAS
DQMC Review List                Data Quality Assurance Team     Identify and correct financial
                                (DQAT)                          and clinical workload data
Commander’s Data Quality        Data Quality Manager            Monthly certification
Statement                                                       statement for financial and
                                                                clinical workload
   4.2. The 59 MDW Commander will appoint a DQ manager responsible for achieving
   program goals and implementing this instruction. The DQ manager will organize a cross-
   functional team (paragraph 4.2.1) to monitor data quality and work with that team to align
   and share responsibilities for the DQMCP.
      4.2.1. The DQ Manager will establish and charter a Data Quality Assurance Team
      (DQAT) to monitor financial and clinical workload data quality assurance and
      management controls, and allowable healthcare cost recovery within UBO compliance
      guidelines. The DQAT at the 59 MDW functions as the DQMC.
 4                                                     59MDWI33-104 16 NOVEMBER 2011


            4.2.1.1. The DQMC will provide staff assistance review/analysis to clinics not
            meeting standards. Analysis may include formalized business process improvement
            initiatives, coding analysis, cost analysis, and/or other needed assistance.
               4.2.1.1.1. Provide on-site in and outpatient DQMC training.
               4.2.1.1.2. Provide appropriate management reports listed in paragraph 5.2.
        4.2.2. Membership will include (as a minimum) the DQ Manager, representatives of
        clinical activities, MEPRS/EAS Coordinator, Budgeting/Accounting, Patient
        Administration, Health Information Manager, CHCS Functional Administrator,
        Information Management, and Uniform Business Office. Advisors are 59 MDW/SGAI
        (Information Systems Flight).
        4.2.3. DQMC will be a subcommittee of the 59 MDW Information Management
        Committee (IMC) for tracking of data quality related issues. The Commander’s Data
        Quality Statement will be forwarded through the IMC. Additionally, DQMC information
        will be forwarded to the Health Plans Management Committee (subcommittee of the
        Executive Committee of the Medical Staff) as appropriate (information concerning
        provider coding, business plan performance, provider processes, DQ Statement, etc).
        4.2.4. Meeting minutes will be maintained and forwarded to the IMC. All business items
        will be tracked through the IMC until closure. (See 59MDWI 41-102, Medical
        Committees and Functional Reviews.)
        4.2.5. Documentation of validation, reconciliation, and compliance procedures (Table
        4.1) will be retained by the DQ Manager and made available to the Air Force Audit
        Agency, Office of the Inspector General, and other military/governmental agencies as
        appropriate.
     4.3. Identify levels 1 and 2 functional area representatives to input data and oversee the
     DQMC program at clinic, squadron, and group levels.
     4.4. Establish a monthly review (quarterly for UBO compliance) processes using the tools
     identified in Table 4.1 [processes will include monthly (or quarterly) reconciliation and
     validation of workload captured within the CHCS and the flow of this information into
     MEPRS/EAS, along with full UBO compliance].
     4.5. Report findings monthly to the IMC and use those findings as an avenue to correct
     deficiencies and improve processes.
5. Standards, Metrics, and Management Reports.
     5.1. Standards and Metrics. The DQ Manager will, by applying the four dimensions of
     accuracy, timeliness, completeness, and consistency, develop common sets of standards and
     metrics to manage and measure the quality of critical data sources for the direct care and
     purchased care systems (CHCS, MEPRS/EAS), the UBO, and the Commander’s DQ
     Statement.
        5.1.1. United States Air Force Standards will be used for each metric.
        5.1.2. Metrics will not be ends in themselves. In addition to measurers of performance,
        they will serve as warning signs of problems and process improvement opportunities.
59MDWI33-104 16 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                5


     5.1.3. HQ USAF/SG-level data quality metrics are available through The Biometric Data
     Quality Assurance Service [Biometric Data Quality Assurance Service (BDQAS),
     https://bdqas.afms.mil]  and    the    Air     Force     Executive    Global    Look
     (https://egl.afms.mill).
  5.2. Management Reports. (This list is not intended to be all inclusive, but represents major
  in- and outpatient reports supporting the 59 MDW’s DQMC program.)
     5.2.1. DQ Review List. (Monthly review of previous month’s data to support
     Commander’s Data Quality Statement.)
     5.2.2. End of Day (EOD) Processing Report. (DQMC-generated monthly report
     identifying clinics not completing daily EOD.)
     5.2.3. Duplicate Patient Appointment Report. (DQMC-generated monthly report
     identifying clinics with duplicate patient appointments.)
     5.2.4. CHCS Registration Date Potential Duplicate Patient List. (Identifies two or more
     patient data records in CHCS that belong to the same patient.)
         5.2.4.1. Duplicate CHCS Patient Records Report. (DQMC-generated monthly report
         identifying duplicate patient electronic health records in CHCS for notification to
         Group Practice Administrators.)
     5.2.5. Record Status Report. (Daily CHCS report showing number of uncoded inpatient
     records, records with Admission and Disposition errors and number of records awaiting
     approval.)
     5.2.6. CHCS Clinical Records Delinquent List. (Report listing all medical records that
     are incomplete or delinquent.)
     5.2.7. CHCS Ad Hoc Record Status Report. (Report listing all medical records pending
     coding.)
     5.2.8. CHCS Records Not Received by Clinical Records Report. (Report identifying all
     discharged patients by unit to account for all medical records for each day.)
     5.2.9. Multiple Clinic Visit Report. (Ad hoc report allows clinics to review patients
     having one or more appointment in their clinic on the same day.)
     5.2.10. HQ USAF/SG reports are available through the Air Force BDQAS website at:
     https://bdqas.afms.mil.
         5.2.10.1. Standard Ambulatory Data Record (SADR) measures timeliness and
         completeness of ambulatory data with Daily Outpatient Workload Report from
         CHCS.
         5.2.10.2. Daily Outpatient Workload Report consists of completed encounters only
         and captures appointment status types (Appointment Scheduled, Walk-In, and Sick-
         Call).
         5.2.10.3. Standard Inpatient Data Record (SIDR) compares SIDR completed
         dispositions with inpatient dispositions obtained from the Worldwide Workload
         Report.
 6                                                      59MDWI33-104 16 NOVEMBER 2011


            5.2.10.4. Worldwide Workload Report captures visits, occupied bed days, admission,
            and dispositions. It measures timeliness of data submission.
6. Reporting Timelines.
     6.1. MEPRS/EAS Reporting. Reviews and corrections of CHCS data must be completed at
     the clinical data entry level by the 4th duty day of each month to meet the 5th duty day HQ
     USAF/SGMC reporting requirement. The MEPRS Program Administrator has 45 days to
     audit MEPRS data and identify discrepancies (system output transmitted to central systems
     no later than 45 days after end of reporting month). Audit adjustments will normally result in
     resubmission of the WWR after the 5th duty day, provided the original WWR was
     transmitted by the 5th duty day.
        6.1.1. SIDR/CHCS. System output transmitted to central systems no later than 45 days
        after disposition.
        6.1.2. WWR/CHCS. System output transmitted to central systems no later than 10 days
        after end of reporting period.
        6.1.3. SADR/ADS. System output transmitted to central systems no later than 14 days
        after encounter.
     6.2. DQMC Members complete the DQ Review List and provide a completed report to the
     DQMC Program Coordinator by the first Wednesday of each month (or as soon as feasibly
     possible) to be briefed at the DQMC the third Thursday of the month, forwarded to the IMC
     the third Thursday, and briefed to the Board of Directors.
        6.2.1. The DQ Review List should accurately reflect current DQMC efforts and
        outcomes.
     6.3. The Data Quality Manager ensures the DQ Statement and accompanying documentation
     is prepared and signed by the Military Treatment Facility commander.
        6.3.1. The commander’s DQ Statement should accurately reflect current DQMC efforts
        and outcomes. It is not intended to be a statement saying all our data (transmission,
        validation, reconciliation, etc.) meets standards; only the status of the program at a
        particular date and time.
     6.4. DQ Manager forwards the electronic Commander’s DQ Statement to Air Force Medical
     Operations Agency/SGAC to arrive by the 25th day of each month. The signed
     Commander’s DQ Statement will be retained on file/electronically for review upon request.




                                              GLENN A. YAP, Colonel, USAF, MSC
                                              Administrator
59MDWI33-104 16 NOVEMBER 2011                                                              7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 33-1, Information Resources Management, 27 June 2006
Composite Health Care System (CHCS) Data Quality Users Training Guide, Version 2.5, 5
March 2001
DOD Inspector General Report No. D-2002-141, Financial Management, Implementation of the
Data Quality Management Control Program for the Military Health System, 29 August 2002
DoD Instruction 6040.40, Military Health System Data Quality Management Control
Procedures, 26 November 2002
DoD 6010.15-M, Military Treatment Facility (MTF) Uniform Business Office (UBO) Manual, 9
November 2006
59MDWI 41-101, Medical Expense & Performance Reporting System (MEPRS), 7 December
2009
59MDWI 41-102, Medical Committees and Functional Reviews, 4 March 2009
59MDWI 41-212, Patient Admissions, In-House Transfers, Discharges, and Leaving Against
Medical Advice, 22 June 2009
59MDWI 41-213, Management of Health Records and Documentation, 20 February 2009
59MDWI 41-107, Verification of Eligibility, 5 January 2009
59MDWI 44-145, Patient Assessment/Reassessment, 8 October 2009
59MDW Strategic Plan, Volume 5a, Management of Information Plan, 15 April 2011
Military Health System Coding Guidance: Professional Services and Specialty Coding
Guidelines, Version 2.0, Unified Bio-statistical Utility, 1 September 2010
Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A-123, Management Accountability and
Control, 21 June 1995
Wilford Hall Medical Center Coding Compliance Plan, 1 September 2007
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AHLTA—Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application
BDQAS—Biometric Data Quality Assurance Service
CHCS—Composite Health Care System
DQ—Data Quality
DQAT—Data Quality Assurance Team
 8                                            59MDWI33-104 16 NOVEMBER 2011


DQMC—Data Quality Management Committee
DQMCP—Data Quality Management Control Program
EAS—Expense Assignment System
EOD—End of Day
IMC—Information Management Committee
MDW—Medical Wing
MDWI—Medical Wing Instruction
MEPRS—Medical Expense and Performance Reporting System
SADR—Standard Ambulatory Data Record
SIDR—Standard Inpatient Data Record
UBO—Uniform Business Office
WWR—Worldwide Workload Report
