BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 41-132
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                             17 OCTOBER 2012

                                                                                 Health Services

                                                 4A0 ENLISTED PERSONNEL MOVEMENT




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 59 MDW/SGAE                                                   Certified by: 59 MDW/SGAR
                                                                            (Lt Col Paul Conner)
                                                                                         Pages: 6




This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 41-1, Health Care Programs and
Resources and respective enlisted career field education and training plans. The prevailing goal
of our assignment and rotation process is to ensure all assigned Health Services Management
(4A0X1) personnel are provided an opportunity for positive, professional development through a
variety of career-broadening duty assignments. At the same time, we must also ensure mission
requirements are met equitably by placing the right number of personnel in the right job at the
right time. This medical wing instruction (MDWI) outlines guidance for movement of personnel
within the 59th Medical Wing (59 MDW) to meet these goals. This instruction applies to all
personnel assigned, attached, or on contract to the 59 MDW with the exception of the 359th
Medical Group and the 959th Medical Group. This instruction does not apply to the Air
National Guard or Air Force Reserve. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System            Records            Disposition           Schedule           located           at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.


1. Responsibilities.
2                                                           59MDWI41-132 17 OCTOBER 2012


    1.1. The 59 MDW Commander (59 MDW/CC) will ensure a wing-level 4A0 Functional
    Manager is assigned.
    1.2. The 59 MDW Vice Commander (59 MDW/CV) is the final authority on issues that
    cannot be resolved at lower levels.
    1.3. Wing Functional Manager will:
       1.3.1. Provide guidance and assistance to commanders regarding career development
       programs and utilization of personnel within the 4A0X1 Air Force Specialty Code
       (AFSC).
       1.3.2. Manage inbound allocations and assign personnel to specific position numbers
       within the wing with the group superintendents coordination. Coordinate intergroup
       longevity moves within the wing.
       1.3.3. Chair monthly meetings with group representatives to review and discuss AFSC-
       related issues including, but not limited to, current skill mixes and staffing levels in all
       squadrons, groups and wing staff; projected gains and losses; lengths of assignments;
       deployments, training requirements, and the varying mission requirements.
           1.3.3.1. Develop an agenda and maintain a written record of each meeting.
           1.3.3.2. Distribute meeting minutes to all participants for review afterwards.
       1.3.4. Develop and maintain a mechanism for managing personnel rotations.
       1.3.5. Systematically review the various duty positions and rotation schedules to
       determine if moves/transfers are in the best interest of the organization, mission and, to
       the greatest extent possible, individuals’ professional growth and development.
       1.3.6. Coordinate on applicable authorization change requests prior to groups’
       submission to the wing manpower office.
    1.4. Group commanders,       in   consultation   with    group    administrators   and   group
    superintendents, will:
       1.4.1. Appoint primary and alternate 4A0 group functional managers, in writing, to
       expertly advise and represent them on 4A0 utilization and training.
       1.4.2. Be responsible for the career development of assigned personnel.
    1.5. Group Functional Managers will:
       1.5.1. Attend all scheduled meetings (or send designee).
       1.5.2. Track placement of personnel, rotation due dates, and unit type code assignments,
       and facilitate personnel integration within their respective units.
       1.5.3. Manage AFSC-related training, ensuring those in upgrade statuses are granted an
       opportunity to train in the various functional areas.
       1.5.4. Ensure personnel attend in-service and complete readiness skills verification
       training.
       1.5.5. Assist with completion of sponsor allocation notices.
59MDWI41-132 17 OCTOBER 2012                                                                    3


      1.5.6. In/Outprocess personnel with permanent change of assignments utilizing each
      group’s permanent change of assignment checklist.
      1.5.7. Forward individual preference worksheets to personnel due to rotate and
      completed worksheets to the wing functional manager for consideration.
2. Assignment Policies and Procedures.
   2.1. General Information.
      2.1.1. Due to the diverse nature of the health services management career field, an
      effective rotation plan for assigned personnel is critical in meeting dynamic health care
      delivery requirements. Importance will be placed on ensuring deliberate force
      development at both tactical and operational levels to better manage capability.
          2.1.1.1. The standard tour length for 4A0X1 personnel will be in accordance to
          Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) 4A0X1, Health Services
          Management relative to the maximum recommended time in core functional areas.
              2.1.1.1.1. The tour length for senior noncommissioned officers (SNCOs) serving
              as squadron superintendents is normally 36 months. Tour lengths for flight chiefs
              will vary from 24 to 36 months depending on mission requirements.
              Commanders reserve the authority to extend the tour length for squadron
              superintendents.
              2.1.1.1.2. Personnel assigned to the wing staff in AFSC-neutral positions will
              rotate after 12 months unless mission needs dictate otherwise.
          2.1.1.2. Airman Basic – Senior Airmen assigned to inpatient/outpatient records
          department and the inpatient wards should rotate at the 18-month mark unless mission
          needs warrant an extension, or additional training in this functional area is necessary.
              2.1.1.2.1. Direct-duty assignment accessions and technical school graduates will
              normally be assigned to core functional areas as outlined in CFETP 4A0X1. In
              the rare event this is not possible, these apprentice-level personnel will be
              assigned to non-traditional functional areas when there is, at a minimal,
              journeyman-level 4A0s (Airman Leadership School graduate) assigned.
   2.2. Initial Assignment of Personnel.
      2.2.1. Wing functional managers, with group superintendent coordination, will allocate
      inbound personnel to individual groups based on mission requirements, individual career-
      broadening opportunities, and, when possible, individual desires. When making
      assignments, the number of personnel authorized and assigned, projected losses/gains,
      workload, and skill level mix will be considered.
      2.2.2. Prior to arrival, the group functional managers will provide personnel with an
      individual preference worksheet to indicate their assignment preferences via email.
      He/she will forward the completed worksheet(s) to the wing functional manager.
   2.3. Longevity moves and intra-group transfer of personnel.
      2.3.1. Group superintendents, in collaboration with their functional managers, may
      exercise intra-group transfers at their discretion to accommodate mission requirements.
4                                                      59MDWI41-132 17 OCTOBER 2012


    However, if personnel are moved within a group their initial date of assignment to the
    original duty section and group remains unchanged. This ensures equitability in the
    longevity rotation process. Exception: 4A0X1 personnel assigned to the 59th Medical
    Support Squadron may rotate internally.
    2.3.2. Personnel will be selected for longevity moves based on their date of assignment
    to their duty section. All moves/transfers are based on mission continuity, retainability,
    merit, and when possible, individual desires.
       2.3.2.1. Moves/transfers will normally be reviewed and coordinated at wing
       functional meetings. These move recommendations are then coordinated by the
       group functional managers with respective group superintendents, administrators and
       commanders (or designee) before implementation.
       2.3.2.2. As part of the longevity move, personnel should complete an individual
       preference worksheet to indicate their assignment preferences, and then return the
       completed worksheet to their respective wing functional manager through their group
       functional manager at least 6 months prior to their scheduled rotation date.
       2.3.2.3. Gaining supervisors will complete the 59 MDW Personnel Action Change
       (PAC) Worksheet for individuals involved in longevity moves. The worksheet will
       be coordinated through all identified offices and processed through the 59 MDW
       Manpower Office and 59 MDW Personnel Center to ensure new position numbers,
       reporting officials, duty titles, and other information are correctly identified and
       updated.
       2.3.2.4. Losing supervisors will complete an enlisted performance report or letter of
       evaluaion, in accordance with AFI 36-2406, Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems,
       on subordinates rotating, and ensure a copy of the PAC worksheet accompanies it.
    2.3.3. SNCOs may request to rotate prior to completing longevity norms in their current
    duty location. These requests will be reviewed and discussed at the wing functional
    manager’s meeting. SNCOs are encouraged to seek the versatility required at the senior
    levels of enlisted leadership.
    2.3.4. Reasons that may prevent an individual from participating in a longevity move
    include, but are not limited to, the following: unfavorable information files, control roster
    action and/or documented poor performance. Group superintendents from the losing and
    gaining organizations, in consultation with group functional managers and first sergeants,
    should carefully review these moves and seek input/advice from the wing functional
    manager. Ultimately, the gaining group superintendent will decide whether or not to
    accept individuals with negative quality force indicators. In cases where it is determined
    the individual will not be considered for an inter-group move, the individual will remain
    within his/her current unit of assignment until the situation is rectified.
       2.3.4.1. Other circumstances that may preclude a move include individuals with less
       than 12 months retainability on station for any of the following reasons: permanent
       change of station orders or approved retraining, separation or retirement date.
       Individuals falling in these categories will not be considered for rotation unless the
       gaining group superintendent agrees to accept them.
59MDWI41-132 17 OCTOBER 2012                                                              5


        2.3.4.2. Deployed individuals who are due to rotate will be eligible 6 months after
        the reconstitution period. The group functional manager will coordinate completion
        of an individual preference worksheet. For extenuating circumstances, the individual
        may rotate within 90 days using the same approval process as other longevity moves.
     2.3.5. The wing functional manager will address any extenuating circumstances that
     necessitate unscheduled reassignment (e.g. change in mission requirements, promotions
     to ensure duties are commensurate with skill-level progression, removal in the case of
     poor performance).
     2.3.6. Personnel in any AFSC may submit an application for a corps-neutral position;
     however, prior coordination with the respective Wing Functional Manager is required.




                                        GLENN A. YAP, Colonel, USAF, MSC
                                        Administrator
 6                                                     59MDWI41-132 17 OCTOBER 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 41-1, Health Care Programs and Resources, 15 April 1994
AFI 36-2406, Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems, 15 April 2005
CFETP 4A0X1, Health Services Management, 1 October 2007
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
CFETP—Career Field Education and Training Plan
MDW—Medical Wing
MDWI—Medical Wing Instruction
PAC—Personnel Action Change
SNCO—Senior Noncommissioned Office
