BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 44-193
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                                   20 APRIL 2012
                                                                    Certified Current on 1 July 2014
                                                                                            Medical

                                                         MANAGEMENT OF INCAPACITATED
                                                                           PROVIDERS



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 59 MDOS/SG05K                                        Certified by: 59 MDOS/CC (Lt Col Brent
                                                                                         Epling)
                                                                                        Pages: 3




This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 44-1, Medical Operations. This
instruction outlines procedures for managing medical or surgical procedures in the event a health
care professional becomes incapacitated throughout the facilities of the 59th Medical Wing
(MDW). For the purposes of this document an incapacitated provider is a physician or health
care worker who has acutely become physically or mentally impaired in the ability to provide
patient care. This instruction applies to all personnel assigned, attached, or on contract to the 59
MDW. This instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System Records Disposition
Schedule located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm


1. Operating Room (OR) Procedures. In the event that the surgeon or anesthesia provider
becomes incapacitated in an operating room during a surgical case, the remaining provider in the
room will assume immediate care of the patient and the incapacitated provider. He/she will
direct ancillary staff to initiate the call for help from the flight commander or service chief of the
incapacitated provider. Then he/she will take over care of the patient and begin Basic Life
Support (BLS) procedures, if applicable, to assure that the patient is stabilized, observed, or
 2                                                                59MDWI44-193 20 APRIL 2012


recovered as necessary. The flight commander or service chief will immediately determine if the
procedure should be finished or simply rescheduled and designate a replacement for the
incapacitated provider if appropriate. Once urgent medical needs are provided for the patient
and/or incapacitated provider, the clinic flight commander will notify the group SGH. If the
group SGH is unavailable, the 59 MDW/SGH will be notified.
2. Minor medical, dental or surgical procedures outside the OR including conscious
sedation.
     2.1. In the event the provider who in the course of seeing the patient and/or doing a
     procedure becomes incapacitated, the medical/dental personnel assisting the provider will
     begin BLS procedures and direct ancillary staff to initiate the call for help from the flight
     commander or service chief of the service of the incapacitated provider. Responding staff
     will stabilize the patient and transport them to an empty treatment room. The flight
     commander will make arrangements for the patient to have the procedure completed by
     another provider if possible, or arrange for the safe termination and rescheduling of the
     procedure. In the event that the flight commander is unavailable, the service chief or
     squadron commander will make the arrangements. Once urgent medical needs are addressed
     for both the patient and for the incapacitated provider, the clinic flight commander will notify
     the group SGH. If the group SGH is unavailable, the 59 MDW/SGH will be notified.
     2.2. If the patient has not undergone a procedure and is stable, he/she will be escorted to the
     waiting area. The patient will be given the option of rescheduling the appointment or waiting
     until an alternate provider is available. If the patient opts to leave without seeing an alternate
     provider, the clinic nurse will review the patient’s clinical status to ensure his or her needs
     are met, including medication refills, ordering labs and any other care that is necessary, prior
     to discharge from the facility.




                                                HELEN HOOTSMANS, Colonel, USAF, MC, FS
                                                Chief of the Medical Staff
59MDWI44-193 20 APRIL 2012                                                 3


                                     Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations, 1 September 1999
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Acronyms and Abbreviations
BLS—Basic Life Support
MDW—Medical Wing
OR—Operating Room
