BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 44-103
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                                 20 AUGUST 2013

                                                                                            Medical

                                                     QUALITY ASSESSMENT FOR POINT OF
                                                                       CARE TESTING

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 59 MDST Laboratory Flight/SGVLL                          Certified by: 59 MDTS/CC (Colonel
                                                                               Jeffery A. Johnson)
Supersedes:    59MDWI 44-103, 20 April                                                     Pages: 8
               2005


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 44-1, Medical Operations. This
instruction applies to any clinical service, or outpatient, involved with procedures pertinent to the
Point of Care Testing (POCT) program. This instruction establishes policies and procedures to
ensure POCT is performed with the same high standards as tests performed within the 59 MDTS
Laboratory Flight’s (59 MDTS Laboratory Flight) main laboratory. These policies and
procedures provide a means to ensure that POCT results accurately reflect the patient’s state of
health. Patient health information must be handled in accordance with AFI 41-210, TRICARE
Operations and Patient Administration Functions. This instruction applies to all personnel
assigned or on contract to the 59th Medical Wing (MDW). This instruction does not apply to the
Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve. Note: This publication requires the collection and
maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974. Privacy Act System Notices
F044 AF SG D, Automated Medical/Dental Record System and F044 AF SG E, Medical Record
System, apply. Collected information is “For Official Use Only.” Request to release Privacy Act
information to persons or agencies outside the DoD must be IAW AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy
Act Program, DoD 5400.7 Freedom of Information Act and Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act (HIPAA) of 1996 Pub. L. 104-191. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force
Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information
Management System Records Disposition Schedule. The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                          59THMDWI44-103 20 August 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Updated tests authorized in the 59 MDW; updated tests authorized as Physician Performed
Testing; removed spun microhematocrit; added Roche CoaguChek XS Plus for Prothrombin
Time/International Normalized Ratio (PT/INR) testing; updated minimum requirement for
individuals who are trained to perform POCT; removed Joint Commission references; updated
59 LSQ Operating Instructions (OI) references, removed references to manual urine dipsticks,
changed 59 LSQ to 59 MDTS Laboratory Flight.
1. Responsibilities.
     1.1. In consultation with the Chief of the Medical Staff, the Chief Nurse Executive, and the
     59 MDTS Laboratory Flight Chief, Support Services, the 59 MDTS’s Medical Director will:
        1.1.1. Specify tests authorized to be performed in the facility.
            1.1.1.1. Tests that are authorized: whole blood glucose, fecal occult blood, automated
            urine dipsticks and PT/INR.
            1.1.1.2. Tests performed as Provider Performed Testing: wet prep by potassium
            hydroxide (KOH), urine sediment microscopy, ferning, vaginal wet prep, pinworm
            prep and nitrazine swabs.
        1.1.2. Ensure a viable process exists to implement and maintain a quality program for
        each test performed.
     1.2. The 59 MDTS Laboratory Flight Commander will appoint a POCT Program
     Coordinator.
     1.3. The POCT Program Coordinator will:
        1.3.1. Provide a POCT current procedure manual at current registered POCT site(s).
        1.3.2. Provide initial training to Nurse Managers, Program Managers and alternate
        Program Managers of designated POCT sites.
        1.3.3. Provide consultation for developing appropriate quality control (QC) procedures.
        1.3.4. Inspect 59 MDW POCT sites semi-annually and provide a written report of the
        findings to the Laboratory Quality Improvement Committee and the POCT site’s
        program manager, squadron commander, and medical director.
        1.3.5. At least once per month review all Quality Control logs and proficiency testing
        records.
        1.3.6. Provide a yearly summary report to the Laboratory Quality Improvement
        Committee.
        1.3.7. Retain all Quality Control forms and records for two years in accordance with Air
        Force Records Disposition Schedule. These will be centrally filed in 59 MDTS
        Laboratory Flight/SGVLL in order to comply with College of American Pathologists
        requirements.
     1.4. Squadron Commanders, Flight Commanders, Department Chairpersons, Group Senior
     Nurse Executives, and Risk Management as needed will:
59THMDWI44-103 20 August 2013                                                                 3


     1.4.1. Ensure only whole blood glucose, fecal occult blood, automated urinalysis using
     the Clinitek 50/Status; tests formally authorized by the 59 MDTS Laboratory Flight’s
     Medical Director are performed.
     1.4.2. Ensure equipment and reagent quality control are performed and documented.
     1.4.3. Ensure appropriate supervisory review is accomplished and documented.
     1.4.4. Identify by letter to SGVLL, a Nurse Manager, and a Program Manager as the
     individuals accountable for ensuring compliance with all requirements of the POCT
     program.
     1.4.5. Identify by letter to SGVLL a Medical Director for a POCT site when requested
     by SGVLL.
  1.5. Nurse Managers or designee and Program Managers will:
     1.5.1. Identify by letter to SGVLL all personnel authorized to perform testing, their
     operator identification numbers, and colorblind status. Colorblind personnel are not
     authorized to perform urine dipstick or Hemoccult testing.
     1.5.2. Serve for a period of at least six months in order to ensure continuity within the
     POCT program.
     1.5.3. Seek guidance and initial training from SGVLL.
     1.5.4. During the first year of an individual's duties, competency must be assessed at
     least semiannually. After an individual has performed his/her duties for one year,
     competency must be assessed annually
     1.5.5. Document the training of all personnel who perform POCT on the units. Training
     and competency records are to be kept in the individual’s two-part Competency
     Assessment folder or for military personnel in their electronic Career Field Education and
     Training Plan.
     1.5.6. Forward a copy of all competency verification forms/tests to SGVLL for
     compliance files.
     1.5.7. Review quality control forms at least weekly for completeness, compliance with
     standards, discrepancies, and documentation of corrective action.            Maintain
     documentation of same.
     1.5.8. Forward all QC documentation to SGVLL at least monthly.
     1.5.9. Maintain a readily available POCT program notebook at the POCT site. This
     notebook must contain the following information:
        1.5.9.1. A list of individuals who are trained to perform POCT. This list must
        include, at a minimum: individual’s last name, first name; unique operator
        identification number and tests authorized to perform. Note: All individuals
        performing tests that require color comparison must be documented as having normal
        color vision and visual acuity.
        1.5.9.2. A list of all tests performed by the POCT site.
        1.5.9.3. All in-use quality control, corrective action, and maintenance log sheets.
 4                                                          59THMDWI44-103 20 August 2013


            1.5.9.4. Procedure manual for all procedures performed in the POCT site, including
            safety and infection control guidelines. (See list of required OI’s, Attachment 2.)
            1.5.9.5. Letter from SGVLL authorizing the POCT site and identifying all tests
            authorized for use at this site.
        1.5.10. Notify the POCT Coordinator in writing, of those personnel who have left their
        POCT site. This will allow the POCT Coordinator to delete members’ names from
        laboratory’s Hospital Central Data System.
        1.5.11. Comply with accreditation requirements for POCT from College of American
        Pathologists and Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care.
     1.6. Medical Directors are ultimately responsible for the overall program at their POCT site.
2. Requirements of all Personnel Performing POCT.
     2.1. Be restricted to only those tests in which they have been trained, certified, and which are
     identified as being authorized for that work unit.
     2.2. Store all reagents according to the labeling requirements or as prescribed by OI. On all
     reagents and strips, the date “in-use”, the expiration date, and the user’s initials must be
     listed. Do not use expired reagents.
     2.3. Document appropriate control log sheets in accordance with this instruction and the
     POCT procedure manual.
     2.4. Comply with accreditation requirements for POCT from College of American
     Pathologists and Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care.
3. POCT Patient Results. Record POCT results on patients as part of the nursing functions on
the patient’s chart using Standard Form 558, Medical Record-Emergency Care and Treatment, or
Standard Form 600, Health Record-Chronological Record of Medical Care. The date and the
name of the individual who performed the test will be documented as well. This identifies the
results as being performed at the POCT site.
     3.1. POCT results within the 59 MDW are approved for use as a screen, or in monitoring
     procedures upon which clinical decisions may be made, when results are consistent with
     clinical/surgical expectations. When results are inconsistent with these expectations,
     additional confirmatory tests must be performed. The whole blood glucose procedure may
     be used to diagnose hypoglycemia and to guide therapy in emergent and urgent situations,
     but the procedure may not be used to definitively diagnose diabetes. All POCT results are
     recorded in a manner that identifies them as being performed at the POCT site.
4. Creation of New Point of Care Testing Sites. The creation of new Point of Care Testing
sites within Wilford Hall Ambulatory and Surgical Center requires cooperation between a
clinical service and an existing clinical laboratory. The clinical service contributes the financial
and personnel resources needed to perform the test, while the laboratory provides a medical
director, expertise on regulatory standards, and a license to perform testing granted by an
accrediting agency.
     4.1. To facilitate the creation of Point of Care sites, a committee has been established to
     coordinate and approve proposals. The committee is composed of the Medical Director of
     the Laboratory, the Laboratory’s Chief, Support Services, Chief of the Medical Staff, and the
59THMDWI44-103 20 August 2013                                                                   5


   Logistics Squadron Commander. The committee will meet on an ad hoc basis to consider
   requests for new Point of Care Testing sites within the wing.
   4.2. The committee will formally review all proposals and suggest for consideration possible
   alternatives with the intent of standardizing test methods within the facility and minimizing
   costs. The laboratory will design a quality assurance program for the proposed site and
   determine the extent of laboratory support needed to ensure compliance with regulatory
   standards. After a final review, the committee will approve or reject the proposal.
   Committee approval is required before a Point of Care Testing site can be established.
5. Physician Performed Testing. Patient management facilitated by immediate and direct
physician performance of some simple laboratory test at the time of a patient encounter, must be
maintained through standards to ensure the correctness of a test result. Any clinic or ward within
59 MDW that provides testing, personally performed by a physician in conjunction with the
physical examination or treatment of a patient, must be registered with the Center for Clinical
Laboratory Management and inspected for accreditation by the College of American
Pathologists. The 59 MDTS Laboratory Flight Point of Care Testing office provides this service
along with the listing of what tests are affected, pertinent operating instructions and preventive
maintenance logs.
   5.1. For provider performed testing, the Department Chairs/Service Chiefs will be
   responsible for identifying which waived or Physician Performed tests will be performed in
   their areas. Based on those decisions, all providers will need to be trained or recertified
   yearly on the tests identified. Training will be done in SWANK. Department Chairs/Service
   Chiefs will maintain documentation of training in the Provider Activity Files, not in the
   notebook in the clinic. Flight commanders are not involved in the process for providers
   unless dual-hatted as the service chief.
   5.2. Provider performed tests which require competency assessment include: amniotic fluid
   pH, vaginal pool fluid smears for ferning, fecal leukocytes, gastric biopsy urease, fecal and
   gastric occult blood, pinworm examination, post-coital mucus examination, KOH
   preparations, semen analysis (qualitative), urine dipstick, urine sediment microscopy and
   vaginal wet mount. Additionally, each service will be responsible to perform education
   testing of unknown samples or electronically viewed kodachromes with patient histories
   three times per year.
   5.3. Physician Performed Testing results should consist of the following components in the
   patient file: Patient identifier, test ordered/performed and physician name/identifier,
   date/time of specimen collection, test result and reference interval or interpretive notes, as
   appropriate.
6. Patient Safety. Patient safety is the responsibility of all healthcare workers and patients
alike. The purpose of these goals is to ensure organizations address specific areas of concern in
regards to patient safety.
   6.1. Outpatient Identification. Prior to any procedure, i.e. administering fluids for glucose
   tolerance testing, or drawing a patient’s blood, the following patient information process will
   occur.
6                                                         59THMDWI44-103 20 August 2013


    6.2. Verify the patient is the correct patient for whom the treatment is intended for by
    comparing the patient’s name and date of birth. Civilian patient verification is accomplished
    by comparing the patient’s full name and date of birth.
    6.3. Read Back of Telephone Orders and verbal laboratory results. Once personnel have
    taken a verbal telephone order or given a verbal laboratory result, the order or verbal result
    must be written on a requisition form or consult sheet and/or typed into Composite Health
    Care System (for verbal telephone orders). Personnel receiving the verbal telephone order or
    laboratory result will then read back the order to the personnel giving the verbal telephone
    order or supplying the laboratory result. Once the correct order has been received or
    laboratory result given, the receiving personnel will annotate “RB” next to the order and
    annotate their name, in the computer or on the consult sheet etc, to signify the read back
    process was completed. Compliance with this process will be measured through medical
    records checks.
    6.4. Improve the effectiveness of Alarm Systems in the laboratory: Regular preventive
    maintenance and monitoring alarms systems containing laboratory products, i.e., blood,
    reagents, etc. will be accomplished to ensure the alarms function properly and are audible.
    Various alarms in and outside the laboratory are for temperature controls of blood products,
    reagents, and temperature sensitive equipment. These tasks will be performed according to
    manufacturers instructions, applicable accrediting organizations, and established OIs.




                                             NICOLA A. CHOATE, Colonel, MC
                                             Chief of the Medical Staff
59THMDWI44-103 20 August 2013                                                      7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act and Civil Liberties Program, 5 June 2013
AFI 41-210, TRICARE Operations and Patient Administration Functions, 6 June 2012
AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations, 1 September 1999
AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, 20 January 2012
AFI 44-119, Medical Quality Operations, 16 August 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
SF 558, Medical Record-Emergency Care and Treatment
SF 600, Health Record-Chronological Record of Medical Care

Abbreviations and Acronyms
IAW—In Accordance With
KOH—Potassium hydroxide
MDW—Medical Wing
SGVLS—59 LSQ Chief, Support Services
OI—Operating Instruction
POCT—Point of Care Testing
PT/INR—Prothrombin Time/International Normalized Ratio
QC—Quality Control
 8                                                 59THMDWI44-103 20 August 2013


                                    Attachment 2
         POINT OF CARE TESTING PROGRAM REQUIRED DOCUMENTS

All Test Sites
59MDWI 44-103                   Quality Assessment for Point of Care Testing
59 LSQ/SGVLL 44-101AT           QA Procedures for the Point of Care Testing Program
59 LSQ/SGVLL 44-102AT           General Safety and Infection Control Policies
                                List of Operators with ID number and colorblind status
59 LSQ/SGVLL 44-103AT           QC/QM for Professional Services
Accu-Chek Inform/Advantage Glucose Sites
59 LSQ/SGVLL 44-001AT           Accu-Chek Inform Blood Glucose Determinations
59 LSQ/SGVLL 44-003AT           Whole Blood Glucose Determinations Using the Accu-Chek
                                Advantage Patient Monitor
Fecal Occult Blood
59 LSQ/SGVLL 44-010AT            Fecal Occult Blood Test
                                Fecal Occult Blood Log
Roche CoaguChek PT/INR
59 LSQ/SGVLL 44-30AT            Roche CoaguChek XS Plusmeter for PT/INR
Urine Dipstick
59 LSQ/SGVLL 44-022AT           Urinalysis Using the Clinitek 50
                                Urinalysis Clinitek 50 Daily Control Log
59 LSQ/SGVLL 44-023AT           Urinalysis Clinitek Status
                                Urinalysis Clinitek Status Daily Control Log
Physician performed Microscopy (PPM)
59 LSQ/SGVLL 44-025AT           Wet Prep by KOH
59 LSQ/SGVLL 44-045AT           Urine Sediment Microscopy
59 LSQ/SGVLL 44-055AT           Fern Test
59 LSQ/SGVLL 44-063AT           Vaginal Wet Prep
59 LSQ/SGVLL 44-067AT           Pinworm Preps
59 LSQ/SGVLL 44-68AT            Nitrazine Swabs (Amnio Test™)
