BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 44-107
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                               12 APRIL 2013
                                                          Incorporating Change 1, 6 JUNE 2013

                                                                                         Medical

                                                       BLOOD PRODUCTS AND CELLULAR
                                                                       COMPONENTS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 59 MDTS/SGVLL                                                    Certified by: 59 MDTS/CC
                                                                       (Colonel Jeffery Johnson)
Supersedes:    59 MDWI 44-107,                                                          Pages: 32
               9 March 2010


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 44-1, Medical Operations. This medical
wing instruction (MDWI) establishes policies, procedures, and responsibilities for the operation
of the 59th Medical Wing (MDW) Transfusion Services and Cellular Therapy and all clinical
areas that may require transfusion support at Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center. This
publication applies to all personnel assigned, attached, or on contract to the 59 MDW. This
instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve. This instruction does
not apply to the 359th and 959th Medical Groups. Note: This publication requires the collection
and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974. Privacy Act System of
Record Notices F044 AF SG D, Automated Medical/Dental Record System, F044 SG E, Medical
Record System, and F044 AF SG J, Air Force Blood Program, apply. Collected information is
“For Official Use Only.” Request to release Privacy Act information to staff members or
agencies outside DoD must be in accordance with (IAW) AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act
Program, DoD 5400.7-R/AF Supplement, Freedom of Information Act, and DoD 6025.18-R,
Health Information Privacy Regulation. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication. Requests for waivers must be submitted to the OPR listed above for
consideration and approval. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System Records Disposition
Schedule.
 2                                                                                       59MDWI44-107 12 APRIL 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: incorporated new hours of operation for Transfusion Services; narrowed scope of
services provided by Transfusion Services; removed patient as acceptable verifier for specimen
collection; removed massive transfusion protocol; removed progenitor cell infusion instructions;
added two samples for blood type verification on patients without history.

       1.     Program Responsibilities. ......................................................................................           3
       2.     Product and Services Availability. .........................................................................               3
       3.     Requests for Blood Products. .................................................................................             3
       4.     Blood Request Priorities Recognized by the Blood Bank. ....................................                                6
       5.     Pre-Transfusion Testing in the Blood Bank. ..........................................................                      6
       6.     Emergency Blood Product Release. .......................................................................                   7
       7.     Issue of Blood. .......................................................................................................    8
       8.     Administration of Blood Components. ..................................................................                     9
Table 8.1.    RBC Compatibility. ...............................................................................................        12
Table 8.2.    Plasma Compatibility. ............................................................................................        12
Table 8.3.    Pre-Transfusion Verification Procedure Example. ................................................                          13
       9.     Transfusion Reactions. ...........................................................................................        16
Table 9.1.    Hemolytic Transfusion Reaction. ..........................................................................                17
       10.    Massive Transfusions. ...........................................................................................         17
       11.    Progenitor Cell Requests. .......................................................................................         17
       12.    Consultative Services. ............................................................................................       20
Table 12.1.   Consultative Services. ............................................................................................       20

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                          21

Attachment 2—PROCEDURE FOR COLLECTING CROSSMATCH/TYPE & SCREEN
             SPECIMENS                                                                                                                  24

Attachment 3—LETTER FROM MEDICAL DIRECTOR                                                                                               26

Attachment 4—MAXIMUM SURGICAL BLOOD ORDER SCHEDULE (MSBOS)                                                                              27

Attachment 5—TRANSFUSION REACTIONS                                                                                                      29

Attachment 6—BLOOD COMPONENTS AND PLASMA DERIVATIVES                                                                                    31
59MDWI44-107 12 APRIL 2013                                                                      3


1. Program Responsibilities.
   1.1. The 59 MDW, Transfusion Services, (SGVLL), is licensed/inspected by and registered
   with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), license number 610-001, registration number
   1677552, and is accredited by the American Association of Blood Banks (AABB), College
   of American Pathologists (CAP), Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care
   (AAAHC), Health Services Inspection (HSI), Armed Services Blood Program (ASBP) and
   Department of Defense Clinical Laboratory Improvement Program (AFIP Pamphlet 1; No.
   40-24). The 59 MDW license and accreditation governs not only Transfusion Services
   activities, but also the personnel ordering and administering blood products to patients. All
   operational procedures and requests for blood products and cellular components will comply
   with regulatory requirements, standards, and Current Good Manufacturing Practices and
   Good Tissue Practices as set forth by these agencies. The progenitor cell area is registered
   with the FDA, registration number 3003926780 and is accredited by AABB, CAP, AAAHC,
   HSI, ASBP and Foundation for Accreditation of Cellular Therapy (FACT).
   1.2. Transfusion Service’s Apheresis Clinic/Cellular Therapy Laboratory department is
   responsible for the collection and processing of progenitor cell products.
   1.3. A review of transfusion practices is conducted to ensure all applicable standards are
   being met. This review is presented at the ambulatory surgery function which a
   multidisciplinary committee consisting of physicians and other medical center staff from
   departments responsible for the processing, ordering and administering of blood products and
   cellular components. Additionally, the committee performs chart reviews to audit compliance
   with established guidelines.
   1.4. The Department of Pathology as part of the laboratory process improvement program
   evaluates adverse usage trends and if a quality of care patient safety concern is identified in
   any aspect of organization performance, a referral is made to one or more of the appropriate
   oversight committees IAW 59 MDWI 41-102, Medical Committees and Functional Reviews.
   1.5. The responsibilities of the Transfusion Services Medical Director may be covered by an
   on-call pathologist or other qualified physician designated by the Medical Director.
2. Product and Services Availability.
   2.1. Allogeneic packed red blood cells (RBC) and fresh frozen plasma (FFP) are the primary
   products available through Transfusion Services.
       2.1.1. The Transfusion Service maintains a routine inventory of 10 RBCs: 4 O Negative
       and 6 O Positive.
       2.1.2. Additional products or alterations of these products can be provided with prior
       approval of the Transfusion Services Medical Director.
   2.2. After normal duty hours, weekends, holidays and down days no Blood Bank testing will
   be available. The blood bank staff will be on call for emergency transfusions.
       2.2.1. Only previously cross matched and emergency release RBCs will be available.
       See sections 6.1.4. for guidance.
3. Requests for Blood Products.
4                                                               59MDWI44-107 12 APRIL 2013


    3.1. Obtain informed consent for transfusion from the patient. Document on AF Form 1225,
    Informed Consent for Blood Transfusion and WHMC Form 1202, Disclosure and Consent-
    Medical and Surgical Procedures.
       3.1.1. A written transfusion note in the patient’s progress notes must include the
       indications for transfusion, products to be transfused and statement that informed consent
       has been obtained or give the reason it was not obtained.
       3.1.2. For patients that refuse to have blood products administered to them, follow the
       procedures in 59 MDWI 51-302, Informed Consent/Refusal of Treatment, Diagnostics,
       and Blood or Blood Products.
    3.2. Sample Requirements.
       3.2.1. Submit to the blood bank: An ethylene-diamine-tetra-acetic acid (EDTA) blood
       sample, properly collected, in a stoppered seven milliliter pink top tube (adult patients) or
       two milliliter purple tube (pediatric patients). The sample must be properly labeled and
       submitted with a completed 59 MDW Form 2982, Blood Bank Testing and Component
       Request. The 59 MDW Form 2982 is not required for routine Blood Type (ABO)/Rh
       testing. Incomplete, inaccurate or illegible requests will not be accepted and can disrupt
       the timeliness in receiving the requested product.
       3.2.2. Prior to collecting the recipient's blood sample, verify that 59 MDW Form 2982
       contains sufficient information for positive patient identification by comparing it to the
       patient wristband or comparing it to the patient identification card. The staff member
       who draws the blood sample must positively identify the patient and label the blood
       sample prior to leaving the patient's side. Actively involve the patient in the
       identification process, when the patient is conscious and competent. Label the blood
       specimen tube with: a firmly attached label bearing the patient's full name, unique patient
       identification number [currently family member prefix (FMP) and social security number
       (SSN)], date, and initials of phlebotomist. Imprinted labels may be used provided the
       information on the label and 59 MDW Form 2982 is identical. Compare, item by item,
       the information on the tube label against information on the patient’s wristband or patient
       identification card and 59 MDW Form 2982. The individual collecting the blood sample
       and a second staff member (verifier) will sign 59 MDW Form 2982 in the appropriate
       spaces (two different signatures). The verifier must view the sample collection. The
       provider number or name of physician requesting blood for transfusion must be written
       on 59 MDW Form 2982 in the appropriate spaces. In addition, all relevant blocks on 59
       MDW Form 2982 will be completed. See Attachment 2, Procedure for Collecting
       Crossmatch/Type & Screen Specimens.
       3.2.3. If the patient has been pregnant or received a transfusion of a blood product
       containing red cells within the preceding 90 days, or if the patient’s history is uncertain or
       unavailable, a freshly drawn blood sample for compatibility testing must be submitted
       within three days of the day of transfusion. Any immunized patient who develops a
       primary antibody response usually does so within the first three months following
       sensitization.
59MDWI44-107 12 APRIL 2013                                                                       5


     3.2.4. Patients without prior history of blood type must have two separate phlebotomies
     performed each collecting an appropriate sample to test the patient’s blood type. Blood
     types will be performed on each sample to verify blood type prior to transfusion.
  3.3. Federal law requires a physician's order to obtain blood components. All submitted
  paperwork should directly reflect the doctor’s orders for each request for blood products.
  When notified of impending need for blood, hospital staff will:
     3.3.1. Submit to the blood bank properly completed paperwork and accompanying blood
     samples for non-ambulatory patients.
     3.3.2. Send ambulatory patients with properly completed paperwork to the laboratory
     where blood samples will be collected.
     3.3.3. For elective surgery patients, submit the specimen and properly completed
     paperwork at least 24 hours prior to scheduled surgery.
     3.3.4. For non-surgical patients, submit the specimen and properly completed paperwork
     at least two hours prior to intended transfusion.
     3.3.5. For patients with known antibody or compatibility problems, submit specimen and
     properly completed paper work two days prior to intended transfusion, whenever
     possible, to allow adequate time for serological investigation and selection of appropriate
     blood products. Address all concerns with the Transfusion Services Medical Director.
     3.3.6. Coordinate with the blood bank all requests for patients who need blood
     components requiring special processing (e.g., irradiated, washed products, leukocyte-
     reduced, volume reduced products, etc.) as these products will need to be special ordered.
     Transfusion Services Medical Director coordination and approval is required.
     3.3.7. The 59 MDW Form 2982 is used to request up to nine of the same blood
     components. Prepare a separate request for each different component type. This is
     necessary due to the different storage and processing requirements of the components
     [i.e., an order for four units of packed red blood cells (PRBCs) and four units of FFP will
     be submitted on two separate requests, one for PRBCs and one for FFP].
     3.3.8. Crossmatched blood for a patient will be held only two days after being requested.
     Coordinate with blood bank when blood must be held longer than the two day limit.
     3.3.9. When patients are added onto the surgery or medical procedure schedule, it is the
     responsibility of surgery personnel to make absolutely sure that a blood specimen with
     accompanying paperwork has been submitted to the blood bank, and that blood is
     available for the patient before any surgery or invasive procedure is initiated that may
     require transfusion support. Unexpected antibodies in the patient’s plasma will require
     extended time to identify. If blood is required prior to the identification of an unexpected
     antibody(ies), units can be emergency-released (see Section 6).
     3.3.10. Read Back of Telephone Orders and Verbal Laboratory Results. Once a
     laboratory staff member has taken a verbal telephone order or given a verbal critical
     laboratory result, the order or verbal critical result either must be written on a requisition
     form or consult sheet and/or typed into the laboratory information system (for verbal
     telephone orders and critical laboratory results). The staff member receiving the verbal
     telephone order or critical laboratory result will then read back the order or critical
 6                                                              59MDWI44-107 12 APRIL 2013


        laboratory result to the staff member giving the verbal telephone order or supplying the
        laboratory result. Once the correct order has been received or laboratory result given, the
        receiving staff member and laboratory staff member will annotate “RB” next to the order,
        in the computer or on the consult sheet and document the name of the staff member doing
        the read back to signify the read back process was completed.
4. Blood Request Priorities Recognized by the Blood Bank.
     4.1. Routine. Patients who may require blood transfusions but not urgently. Blood bank
     personnel will crossmatch and have blood available to issue in approximately two to four
     hours depending on workload.
     4.2. As Soon As Possible (ASAP). Used for those patients who may require blood in less
     than two hours but are not an emergency transfusion. Blood bank personnel will perform a
     crossmatch procedure immediately upon receipt of such a request. Compatible blood should
     normally be available within two hours after receipt of specimen and paperwork. If blood is
     needed before the crossmatch is completed, the blood bank will release the blood under the
     provisions for Emergency Release of Blood Products (see Section 6).
     4.3. STAT. Used for those patients who require a blood transfusion within the hour. Blood
     bank staff personnel will perform a crossmatch procedure immediately upon receipt of the
     request. Crossmatched blood should normally be available within the hour. If blood is
     needed before the crossmatch is completed, the blood bank will release the blood under the
     provisions for Emergency Release of Blood Products (see Section 6).
     4.4. Emergency. Used for those patients who require blood transfusion immediately prior to
     the completion of patient testing and/or crossmatch of blood product (see Section 6).
5. Pre-Transfusion Testing in the Blood Bank.
     5.1. Type & Crossmatch (T&C). Used for those patients scheduled for surgery or medical
     procedures that usually require transfusion support. It consists of testing for ABO, Rh (D)
     type, a screen for unexpected blood group antibodies and crossmatch testing to verify
     compatibility. Units of packed red blood cells that have been T&C’d for a specific patient
     will be held for two days from the date of testing. After that, the T&C will expire and the un-
     issued units will be released back into the blood bank inventory. Unnecessary T&Cs tie up
     the blood and reduce the available blood inventory for other patients.
        5.1.1. See Attachment 4, Maximum Surgical Blood Order Schedule (MSBOS), for
        recommended number of units to crossmatch for selected surgical procedures.
     5.2. Type & Screen (T&S). Used for those patient scheduled for surgery or medical
     procedures that are less likely to require blood. Testing consists of ABO grouping, Rh (D)
     typing, and a screen for unexpected antibodies.
        5.2.1. If unexpected antibodies are detected, blood bank personnel will perform a
        crossmatch and have two units of red cells available which lack the corresponding
        antigen for patients expected to undergo surgical procedures. Units crossmatched due to
        presence of unexpected alloantibodies detected in a T&S request will be held for two
        days.
            5.2.1.1. When an unexpected antibody is detected which may delay the availability
            of blood or blood components, blood bank personnel will notify the requesting
59MDWI44-107 12 APRIL 2013                                                                    7


          physician and or ward nurse. If transfusion is required before compatible units can be
          found, the patient’s physician and the Transfusion Services Medical Director should
          discuss the risks and options. Blood Bank will maintain a manual record of the
          patient's antibody on 59 MDW Form 2944, Patient Serological Record, the Blood
          Bank will maintain the 59 MDW Form 2944.
      5.2.2. Upon completion of pre-transfusion testing, blood bank personnel will store each
      blood specimen and paperwork for 14 days as long as the patient does not have a history
      of unexpected antibodies, or a history of pregnancy or transfusion within the prior 90
      days. Samples for these patients are only good for three days. At any time during
      storage, the T&S may be converted to a crossmatch at the request of the patient’s
      provider.
      5.2.3. To convert a T&S to a crossmatch, notify the blood bank. Blood bank personnel
      will initiate a "STAT" crossmatch. The blood should be available within 15 minutes of
      notification. If the blood is needed before a crossmatch can be completed, blood can be
      emergency-released. The blood bank will initiate the crossmatch procedure as soon as
      possible after the emergency issue.
6. Emergency Blood Product Release. Request for Uncrossmatched Blood.
   6.1. In an emergency, the patient's physician may request blood to be released immediately
   before standard crossmatch testing is completed. In these situations, physicians complete and
   sign a 59 MDW Form 3588, Emergency Blood Product Release to document the urgency and
   acknowledge that the units are not fully crossmatched at the time of issue for transfusion.
   The patient's full name and unique patent identification number (currently FMP/sponsor
   SSN) are required when requesting emergency blood products. Direct communication with
   the blood bank is highly recommended to expedite such needs. The emergency release forms
   should be completed and returned to the blood bank within 24 hours. Emergency released
   blood products are fully tested for viral markers, to include HIV and hepatitis.
      6.1.1. Group O cells are available for immediate transfusion when the patient’s blood
      type is not known and there is no time to determine it.
      6.1.2. As soon as possible, submit to the blood bank: the patient's pre-transfusion blood
      sample (properly collected and labeled); and 59 MDW Form 2982, with the full name
      and unique patent identification number (currently FMP/sponsor SSN) for positive
      identification of the patient IAW paragraph 3.2.2 of this instruction.
      6.1.3. When a patient requires immediate transfusion with emergency-released group O
      blood, a sample of blood must be collected BEFORE starting the transfusion to enable
      the blood bank to determine the patient's ABO and Rh, and perform compatibility testing.
      6.1.4. After normal duty hours, weekends, holidays and down days call 292-5466 with
      the patient's full name and unique patent identification number (currently FMP/sponsor
      SSN) to prevent any delays in care.
          6.1.4.1. Calling is the only way to ensure that personal will be at the Blood Bank to
          prepare and issue emergency release red blood cells and/or previously cross matched
          blood products.
 8                                                              59MDWI44-107 12 APRIL 2013


            6.1.4.2. Documentation with the patient's full name and unique patent identification
            number (currently FMP/sponsor SSN) is required at time of pick-up.
     6.2. After all emergency-released blood products are issued, standard compatibility testing is
     initiated as soon as possible. Communication with the blood bank is important in this regard
     if use of additional blood is anticipated. If any compatibility problems are encountered
     during the follow-up serological testing, the patient’s physician will be notified immediately.
     6.3. The 59 MDW’s blood resources are limited; arrangements should be made to transfer
     the patient as soon as possible.
7. Issue of Blood.
     7.1. Only hospital personnel are authorized to pick up blood components from the blood
     bank. Such personnel must provide the blood bank with the patient’s full name and unique
     patent identification number (currently FMP/sponsor SSN) for positive identification or, if
     patient identity is unknown, the facility assigned unique designation and number (previously
     known as trauma name and number). They must supply information indicating the blood
     component requested (verbally or written). The blood bank technician will have the 59
     MDW Form 2982 and pickup slip and will read the following from the 59 MDW Form 2982
     ensuring it matches the pickup slip, while the individual assuming custody will confirm the
     information on the unit and the 59 MDW Form 3232, Blood Component Crossmatch/
     Transfusion Record (unit tag).
        7.1.1. The full name and identification number of the intended recipient is identical.
        7.1.2. The donor unit number and ABO & Rh are identical.
        7.1.3. The expiration date, the color and appearance of the blood component are
        acceptable.
        7.1.4. The component issued is the component requested.
        7.1.5. Patient antibody screen results and compatibility testing results (if required for the
        product).
        7.1.6. Patient special requirements have been met (cytomegalovirus (CMV) negative,
        irradiated, leukoreduced).
        7.1.7. The date, time, and name of individual accepting and the individual releasing the
        blood are correctly documented in the Defense Blood Standard System and other blood
        bank forms (e.g., 59 MDW Form 3424, Blood Product Source and Disposition) when in
        use. The person and department that obtains the product from Blood Bank is responsible
        for the product until its final disposition (cradle-to-grave). Blood issued to one
        department must not be transferred to another department. The exceptions are if the
        transfusion has already started and the patient is being transferred while also being
        transfused a blood product and patients being transferred between the operating room and
        the post-anesthesia care unit.
     7.2. Once packed red blood cells and fresh frozen plasma have been issued, the transfusion
     should begin within 30 minutes unless the products were issued in a validated cooler.
     Caution: Red blood cells and plasma issued without a cooler that are returned after 30
59MDWI44-107 12 APRIL 2013                                                                        9


   minutes cannot be reissued and must be destroyed by the blood bank. Note: DO NOT place
   red blood cells or plasma into refrigerators that are not authorized blood storage refrigerators.
      7.2.1. There are no refrigerators in the 59 MDW authorized to storage blood products
      outside of the blood bank.
8. Administration of Blood Components.
   8.1. Only Normal Saline (0.9% Sodium Chloride) can be added to blood. Other solutions
   may have deleterious and potentially fatal effects (e.g., 5% Dextrose solutions: may induce
   RBC aggregation or hemolysis; lactated Ringer's contains calcium that may induce clot
   formation in the blood bag or administration set).
      8.1.1. Dilution of Packed Red Blood Cells. To decrease viscosity of packed cells, 0.9%
      Sodium Chloride for Injection, United States Pharmacopoeia can be used (as ordered by a
      physician). The increased volume can increase the overall transfusion time.
   8.2. Drugs and medications should NEVER be added to blood or run through intravenous
   (IV) lines that contain blood or will subsequently be used for a blood transfusion without
   thoroughly rinsing/purging the line of the medication.
      8.2.1. As a rule of thumb to help assess how long to purge a line, extrapolation from
      studies done in saline-primed lines infused with blood indicate the following:
          8.2.1.1. 25% of saline is in the tubing 10 minutes after the infusion of the blood.
          8.2.1.2. 10% remains 30 minutes after start of infusion.
   8.3. Blood Warming.
      8.3.1. Blood can be warmed to help reduce the risk of hypothermia and associated
      complications, especially in pediatric and elderly patients. Cardiac arrhythmias have
      been associated with the rapid infusion of large blood volumes. Units of blood must be
      warmed in a manner that does not cause hemolysis. Warming will only be with devices
      that are FDA approved for transfusion applications.
      8.3.2. Warming devices must be equipped with a temperature sensing device and a
      warning system to detect malfunctions and prevent hemolysis or other damage.
      8.3.3. There must be procedures for blood warmer operation, validation, routine
      preventive maintenance and quality control as well as training and evaluations for staff
      competency. Blood warming devices and associated training/competency are the
      responsibility of the department utilizing the warmer(s). The Blood Bank can provide
      guidance.
      8.3.4. Indications for blood warming include: Massive transfusions, rapid infusion of
      blood components through a central line, adults receiving blood components over 50
      ml/min for > 30 minutes, children receiving blood components over 15 ml/kg/hr,
      neonatal exchange transfusion, trauma patients requiring core-rewarming measures,
      cardiopulmonary bypass surgical procedures during re-warming phase, patients with cold
      agglutinins active at 37C, plasmapheresis, Raynaud’s Syndrome or other cold-induced
      vasoactive effects.
10                                                           59MDWI44-107 12 APRIL 2013


     8.3.5. Contraindications to warming are few, but clinical advantages are minimal to
     absent during conventional slow infusion rates, the presence of clinically insignificant
     cold agglutinins, or patient shivering or discomfort due to feeling cold (warm the patient
     not the blood). Warming may render platelets, cryoprecipitate or granulocyte
     components less effective.
     8.3.6. In order to prevent hemolysis, blood should not be warmed over 42C.
     8.3.7. An operating instruction for each blood-warming device must be available to the
     transfusionist.
     8.3.8. Preventive maintenance must be performed IAW manufacturer’s instructions and
     records of maintenance should be readily available.
     8.3.9. Responsibility for performing training, quality control, and maintenance will
     reside with the functional area maintaining the blood warmer. Transfusion Services will
     be available for consult on the use of blood warmers within the medical center.
     8.3.10. Unauthorized blood warming methods include: placing the unit by a nearby heat
     source (heater or warming blanket, etc.), in a microwave oven, under warming lamps, or
     injecting heated saline into the unit. Unauthorized warming methods risk excessive RBC
     destruction and hemolysis, and will not be used.
     8.3.11. Unused warmed units of blood should be returned to the blood bank with
     adequate documentation that it was warmed to ensure that it is not returned to the blood
     bank inventory.
  8.4. IV Pumps and Pressure Bags:
     8.4.1. Mechanical pumps used to control the rate of infusion of blood into selected
     patients should be checked to ensure they are approved for the transfusion of blood
     products. Some pumps can be used with standard infusion sets; others require special
     configurations. Refer to the package inserts for required specifications. Only mechanical
     pumps that are approved by the FDA for blood transfusion will be used.
     8.4.2. Pressure bags or their equivalents maybe used in Urgent Care Center situations
     requiring rapid infusion of blood products in less than 5 minutes. The pressure should be
     adjusted so that the drip in the chamber is continuous, usually about 200 mmHg.
     Pressures >300 mmHg have been associated with RBC lysis and in some instances
     splitting the blood bag open at the seam. Note: ONLY CLEAR PRESSURE BAGS
     WILL BE USED.
  8.5. Blood Filters.
     8.5.1. ALL BLOOD PRODUCTS MUST BE TRANSFUSED THROUGH AN FDA-
     APPROVED FILTER. Standard 170-260 micron filters for routine transfusions and
     leukocyte-reducing filters for special indications are presently available. Some filters can
     ordinarily be used for two to four units of blood; however the manufacturer insert must
     be followed in all cases to ensure the filter is capable of specific multi-unit transfusions.
     If the initial transfusion requires more than 4 hours, a new filter should be used for
     subsequent blood products.
59MDWI44-107 12 APRIL 2013                                                                    11


     8.5.2. Leukocyte Reduction Filters (LRF). When components are not issued by the
     blood bank as leukoreduced, leukocyte reduction can be performed at bedside, during
     transfusion, using FDA-approved LRFs which reduce the leukocyte number in the final
     component to <5 X 106. The transfusionist is responsible for ensuring the appropriate
     leukocyte reduction filter is used when required. Components will be clearly marked as
     leukoreduced on the product label when leukoreduction is completed by the blood bank.
     Red blood cell specific LRFs are required for red blood cell transfusions and platelet
     specific LRFs are used for platelet transfusions. These filters use different methodologies
     to leukoreduce and are not interchangeable. Care must be used to ensure the correct filter
     is used with its specific corresponding blood product. Standard 170-260 micron first
     generation filters and microaggregate 10-40 micron second generation filters are not
     acceptable alternatives for leukocyte reduction filters. Check package insert for special
     priming requirements for some LRFs.
     8.5.3. LRFs are not required when the blood product is either leukoreduced following
     collection from the donor prior to issue or collected using a method that reduces the total
     white blood cell (WBC) count to less than 5 x 106. In these situations, the blood
     component will be clearly labeled as Leukocyte Reduced.
  8.6. Pre-transfusion verification procedure.
     8.6.1. Review the patient’s medical record to verify the physician’s order for transfusion,
     that informed consent has been obtained, to identify the products requested, and assess
     any special transfusion instructions that might impact patient care during transfusion (i.e.
     Leukoreduced, CMV negative, or Irradiated blood products). If possible, the transfusion
     should be discussed with the patient at this time with emphasis on possible side effects.
     8.6.2. Two staff members must complete the pre-transfusion verification procedure. One
     of the two staff members must be the transfusionist who will administer the blood
     product to the patient. The transfusionist must be a registered nurse (RN) or medical
     provider. The second staff member must be a qualified staff member who has been
     trained and demonstrated competence with the pre-transfusion verification procedure.
     Table 8.3. outlines an acceptable pre-transfusion verification procedure.
     8.6.3. One staff member will read aloud the patient’s full name and unique patent
     identification number (currently FMP/sponsor SSN) from the patient’s wristband. The
     other staff member will verify the full name and unique patent identification number is
     exactly the same on the 59 MDW Form 3232 attached to the blood product. The 59
     MDW Form 3232 must not be separated from the unit until the transfusion is complete.
     Actively involve the patient in this process, when the patient is conscious and competent.
     8.6.4. From the 59 MDW Form 3232, one staff member will read aloud the following
     information:
         8.6.4.1. Unit Number.
         8.6.4.2. Patient ABO/Rh.
         8.6.4.3. Donor ABO/Rh.
         8.6.4.4. Patient Antibody Screen result.
         8.6.4.5. Compatibility Testing result.
 12                                                            59MDWI44-107 12 APRIL 2013


          8.6.4.6. Component Type (RBC, FFP, PLT, Cryo).
      8.6.5. The other staff member will check the blood product label as the information is
      being read, and verify the unit number, donor ABO/Rh, and component type on the blood
      product label. The staff member will acknowledge the patient ABO/Rh, patient antibody
      screen result and compatibility testing result. If the antibody screen is positive, both staff
      members will confirm that the product is negative for the corresponding antigen. If the
      compatibility result is “least incompatible” or “emergency release,” the transfusionist will
      verify that the corresponding 59 MDW Form 3588 has been signed by the provider
      before starting the transfusion.
      8.6.6. Even when the results of the crossmatch testing say compatible, the transfusionist
      and verifier are still responsible for ensuring that the ABO of the donor unit is a
      compatible blood type with the ABO of the patient. Both staff members will ensure the
      patient blood type and donor blood type are compatible according to the following charts:

Table 8.1. RBC Compatibility.
              RBCs
               RBCs:            RBCs:
Patient’s ABO 1st hoice       2nd choice
  Unknown         O             None
      A           A               O
      B           B               O
     AB          AB           A, B, or O
      O           O             None

Table 8.2. Plasma Compatibility.
             PLASMA
               Plasma:         Plasma:
Patient’s ABO 1st choice      2nd choice
  Unknown         AB            None
      O            O           A, B, AB
      A            A              AB
      B            B              AB
     AB           AB            None
      8.6.7. One staff member will read the product expiration date and time from the blood
      product label. The other staff member will visually verify the product expiration date and
      time on the blood product label. OUTDATED BLOOD OR BLOOD PRODUCTS
      ARE NOT TO BE TRANSFUSED. Transfusion should be initiated in time to allow
      complete infusion before the expiration date & time on the component, and no longer
      than 4 hours after the infusion started. The transfusion must begin within 30 minutes
      from the time the product is issued from the blood bank. If the transfusion cannot begin
      within 30 minutes, the product must be returned to the blood bank. If an unexpected
      delay prevents the completion of the transfusion prior to expiration of the component,
      notify the blood bank immediately.
59MDWI44-107 12 APRIL 2013                                                                      13


       8.6.8. Both staff members will visually check that the product has normal appearance.
       The product should not be discolored and should not have clumps or white particulate
       matter.
       8.6.9. Both staff members will ensure special instructions or special requirements (i.e.
       Leukoreduced, CMV neg, Irradiated, etc) are met.
       8.6.10. Any discrepancies should be immediately addressed with the blood bank. Do not
       infuse the blood if any of the above items are unacceptable or questionable. Call the
       blood bank immediately.
       8.6.11. After checking all the identifying information, the transfusionist and verifier must
       sign the 59 MDW Form 3232 to indicate that the patient and blood component have been
       identified, document who started the transfusion, and record the date and time. If the unit
       cannot be started immediately after the identity check, the entire process must be repeated
       when the unit can be transfused.

Table 8.3. Pre-Transfusion Verification Procedure Example.
                    Staff Member 1:                              Staff Member 2:
 Step        Wristband and Blood Product                       59 MDW Form 3232
 1     Reads from WRISTBAND:                       Confirms on 59 MDW Form 3232:
            - Full Name, FMP, SSN                       - Full Name, FMP, SSN
 2     Confirms on Blood Product Label:            Reads from 59 MDW Form 3232:
            - Unit Number                               - Unit Number
            - Donor ABO/Rh                              - Patient ABO/Rh
            - Component Type                            - Donor ABO/Rh
       Verbally Acknowledges:                           - Patient antibody screen result
            - Patient ABO/Rh                            - Patient compatibility test result
            - Patient antibody screen result            - Component Type
            - Patient compatibility test result
 3     Reads from Blood Product Label:             Visually confirms on Blood Product Label:
            - Expiration Date/Time                      - Expiration Date/Time
 4     Ensures ABO of the donor unit is Ensures ABO of the donor unit is compatible
       compatible with ABO of the patient. with ABO of the patient.                     Reference
       Reference compatibility charts if needed    compatibility charts if needed
 5     Ensure product has normal appearance        Ensure product has normal appearance
 6     Ensure patient’s special requirements are Ensure patient’s special requirements are
       met (Leukoreduced, CMV neg, Irradiated) met (Leukoreduced, CMV neg, Irradiated)
 7     Sign 59 MDW Form 3232                       Sign 59 MDW Form 3232
*Note: One staff member MUST be the transfusionist. Steps do not have to occur in exact order.
   8.7. Starting a Transfusion.
       8.7.1. Obtain and record pre-transfusion vital signs on 59 MDW Form 3232. If the
       patient’s vital signs are not within acceptable limits (i.e. temp greater than 101.5°F)
       reevaluate the need for immediate transfusion with the requesting physician.
       8.7.2. Start infusion slowly. Care must be exercised to observe any side effects and
       avoid circulatory overload in susceptible patients. Infusion rates will vary according to
14                                                             59MDWI44-107 12 APRIL 2013


     patient’s blood volume, cardiac status and hemodynamic stability. Refer to the
     physician’s instructions and/or the specific department’s operating instructions for
     infusion rates. An RN is to remain at the bedside during the first 15 minutes of infusion
     for each blood component transfused and provide oversight of the transfusion.
     8.7.3. Obtain and record vital signs after the first 15 minutes of infusion (on 59 MDW
     Form 3232) and again after the unit is completely infused (on 59 MDW Form 3232).
     8.7.4. Blood infusion sets should not be “piggy-backed” into other lines unless
     absolutely necessary. When this situation cannot be avoided, the injection port closest to
     the IV line should be selected and the primary IV line closed off. Confirm that this line
     has been properly rinsed/purged if solutions other than normal saline have been infused.
     Straight-type sets are primed directly with the blood component. Y-type sets can be
     primed with blood or normal saline. A new set is typically used for each product
     transfused. If two units are given consecutively, and they are ABO compatible, one set
     may be used for both.
     8.7.5. If there are no adverse reactions, regulate the infusion rate to complete the
     transfusion within 4 hours or within the expiration time of the product. Infuse at the rate
     prescribed by the provider.
     8.7.6. Observe for adverse reactions at least one hour after completion of the blood
     transfusion. Report signs and symptoms of adverse reactions to the patient’s physician
     immediately. Adequate information must be present in the medical record to show that
     all protocols were followed in the event of a transfusion reaction or associated
     complication.
  8.8. Administration of Platelets and FFP.
     8.8.1. Administer through a standard 170-260 micron blood filter.
     8.8.2. Infuse at one to two milliliters per minute or as tolerated by patient. Platelets may
     be infused in as little as 15 minutes unless specified otherwise by the physician. The first
     10-15 minutes of a blood transfusion is when most severe reactions tend to declare
     themselves.
     8.8.3. In patients with a history of febrile transfusion reactions, transfuse at slower rate.
  8.9. Administration of Rh Immune Globulin (RhIg).
     8.9.1. It is imperative that all Rh-negative women receive the maximum protection
     against Rh alloimmunization. Potential RhIg candidates include Rh-negative patients
     with: pregnancy termination through delivery, abortion, or miscarriage, amniocentesis,
     invasive obstetric procedures, and abdominal trauma during pregnancy.
     8.9.2. Additionally, other Rh-negative patients (male and female) that receive Rh-
     positive red cells or Rh-positive platelets may be candidates for RhIg.
     8.9.3. One vial of RhIg should protect an Rh-negative patient for transfusion of up to six
     Rh-positive apheresis platelets. The blood bank medical director will advise the provider
     for the first Rh-positive platelet transfuse to an Rh-negative patient.
     8.9.4. Each department in the facility that administers RhIg should ensure that:
59MDWI44-107 12 APRIL 2013                                                                    15


         8.9.4.1. RhIg is administered to all identified candidates as soon as possible after
         exposure, but within 72 hours of the alloimmunizing event, whenever possible.
         8.9.4.2. That the dose administered is adequate.
         8.9.4.3. That women who are pregnant or have recently been pregnant will be
         considered for RhIg administration when all of the following apply: the woman’s test
         for the D antigen is negative, the woman is not actively immunized to the D antigen
         (does not already have anti-D from a prior alloimmunizing event), and the Rh type of
         the fetus/infant is unknown or the fetus/infant is Rh positive.
         8.9.4.4. That any Rh-negative patient that is exposed to Rh-positive red cells or
         platelets is evaluated for administration of RhIg as long as the patient is not actively
         immunized to the D antigen (does not already have anti-D from a prior
         alloimmunizing event).
     8.9.5. RhIg is distributed from the Pharmacy.          Return the third-copy of the
     administration form in the RhIg box to the blood bank.
  8.10. Time Limits for Infusion.
     8.10.1. Most blood components are infused within two hours, although the time limit can
     extend up to four hours.
     8.10.2. Post-transfusion. Immediately after a unit has been infused, the transfusionist
     must complete and sign the "Transfusion Record" section of the 59 MDW Form 3232. If
     a transfusion reaction occurs, check the appropriate sections of the form. See section 9 of
     this instruction.
     8.10.3. Place the chart copy (white) of the 59 MDW Form 3232 in the patient's chart
     after all required information regarding the transfusion has been recorded. 59 MDW
     Form 3232 must be completely filled out after each transfusion. Incomplete 59 MDW
     Form 3232s will be returned to the transfusion site for inclusion of missing information.
     8.10.4. Return the blood bank copy (yellow) to the blood bank within 24 hours. The
     completed 59 MDW Form 3232 provides documentation of the component’s transfusion
     and final disposition.
     8.10.5. The empty unit and its attached infusion set are biologically contaminated waste
     products and should be disposed of according to hospital policy. In the event of a
     transfusion reaction, the bag and set should be wrapped in plastic and returned to the
     blood bank for a transfusion reaction workup.
  8.11. Deviations from Standard Administration of Blood Products.
     8.11.1. Any deviations from the standard administration of blood components must be
     immediately reported to the Transfusion Services Medical Director.
     8.11.2. Occurrences involving administration of blood products that are reported to Risk
     Management which have not been reported to Transfusion Services should be forwarded
     to the Transfusion Services Medical Director.
     8.11.3. Each deviation is evaluated to determine the extent of the error and/or
     noncompliance. In some instances Air Force Blood Program Division notification is
 16                                                            59MDWI44-107 12 APRIL 2013


      required. Findings will be coordinated with Risk Management and the involved service if
      the scope of the deviation extends beyond Transfusion Services.
9. Transfusion Reactions.
   9.1. For all suspected transfusion reactions, IMMEDIATELY stop the transfusion.
   9.2. Keep the IV open with normal saline. Do not exceed patient’s fluid tolerance in cases
   of renal and cardiopulmonary disorders, etc.
   9.3. Notify the resident/attending physician and the blood bank. The blood bank will contact
   the Transfusion Services physician. It is the responsibility of the resident/attending physician
   in consultation with the Transfusion Services physician to determine if the transfusion should
   be continued.
   9.4. If resident/attending physician decides to terminate the transfusion, document time
   stopped, amount given, and vital signs for the end of the transfusion on the 59 MDW Form
   3232.
   9.5. Submit the following to the Blood Bank for the transfusion reaction investigation.
      9.5.1. AF Form 1224, Blood Transfusion Reaction Investigation, with Sections I and II
      completed.
      9.5.2. One 7 ml pink top (EDTA) and one 3 ml purple top (EDTA) drawn carefully to
      avoid hemolysis.
      9.5.3. The implicated unit of blood, the administration set, and the completed copy
      (yellow) of 59 MDW Form 3232. File the original copy (white) of 59 MDW Form 3232
      in the patient's chart.
      9.5.4. The recipient’s first voided urine sample.
      9.5.5. If a Hemolytic Transfusion Reaction is suspected after multiple transfusions,
      submit the blood bags from all transfused units and a completed copy (yellow) of 59
      MDW Form 3232 for each unit transfused.
   9.6. In accordance with FDA regulations, a Transfusion Services physician will investigate
   all suspected transfusion reactions and submit a formal report for the patient's chart and
   blood bank records.
   9.7. Transfusion reactions may be classified as immune or non-immune. They are medical
   emergencies until proven otherwise. Adverse effects can include:
      9.7.1. Transmission of infectious disease.
      9.7.2. Post-transfusion purpura (PTP).
          9.7.2.1. PTP is rare, characterized by acute thrombocytopenia occurring up to 1 week
          out from an RBC transfusion. Patients usually have been sensitized to platelets from
          previous transfusion or pregnancies destroying autologous as well as transfused
          platelets.
      9.7.3. Alloimmunization.
      9.7.4. Air Embolism (rare).
59MDWI44-107 12 APRIL 2013                                                                  17


      9.7.5. Transfusion Related Acute Lung Injury (TRALI).
          9.7.5.1. As one of the most serious complications of transfusion, it is characterized
          by acute respiratory distress (x-ray essential) and severe hypoxemia with bilateral
          pulmonary edema occurring within 6 hours post-transfusion. The condition is
          transient, cleared within 72 hrs, but is fatal in 6-10% of patients. TRALI is immune-
          mediated from antibodies of donor origin, with exceptions, and lacks a precise
          pathogenic mechanism of action. If TRALI is suspected, obtain x-ray and evaluate
          for bilateral pulmonary edema.
          9.7.5.2. TRALI is mitigated by the policy of the 59 MDW’s primary blood supplier
          to defer female donors who have a history a pregnancy and any donors with a history
          of blood transfusion, organ transplantation, or tissue transplantation from donating
          apheresis platelets or plasma. Additionally, the supplier does not manufacture FFP
          from these donors.
      9.7.6. Transfusion Associated Graft versus Host Disease (GVHD).
      9.7.7. Circulatory overload.
      9.7.8. Hemolytic transfusion reaction.

Table 9.1. Hemolytic Transfusion Reaction.
SIGNS                                   SYMPTOMS
Fever                                   Chills
Diaphoresis                             Flushing
Urticaria                               Agitation
Tachycardia                             Apprehension
Hypotension / Shock                     Pain, infusion site
Hypertension                            Lumbar, flank pain
Hemoglobinemia                          Chest pain
Hemoglobinuria                          Abdominal pain
Generalized Bleeding                    Nausea & vomiting
Renal Failure                           Dyspnea
Positive Direct Antiglobulin Test       Diarrhea
Jaundice                                Pruritis
Serological Incompatibility             Anxiety
      9.7.9. Bacterial contamination.
      9.7.10. Anaphylactic reactions.
      9.7.11. Allergic reactions.
10. Massive Transfusions.
   10.1. The 59 MDW’s blood resources are limited; arrangements should be made to transfer
   the patient as soon as possible.
11. Progenitor Cell Requests.
   11.1. Requests.
18                                                           59MDWI44-107 12 APRIL 2013


     11.1.1. Hematology/Oncology identifies the patients that are candidates for progenitor
     cell transplantation. The Bone Marrow Transplantation Director (BMTX) defines the
     selection criteria for autologous or allogeneic donors of hematopoietic progenitor cells
     (HPC). Clinicians in the Bone Marrow Transplant Service Program determine the
     collection type and required processing technique. Decisions for transplantation are
     based on the risk factors associated with graft versus host and the probability of
     successful engraftment. Factors affecting the decision to transplant include availability of
     a donor, collection, processing, storage, distribution and administration of the services.
     Prospective donors shall be educated concerning the process of donation and
     transplantation.
     11.1.2. There are two sources of progenitor cells. One source is an anticoagulated bone
     marrow aspirate. The second is collected from peripheral blood after the donor or patient
     has been stimulated with cytokine stimulation (i.e. GCSF or GmCSF). Additionally,
     Therapeutic T cells or Lymphocytes may be requested.
     11.1.3. Donors may be autologous or Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA)-matched
     allogeneic. Selections are made in conformance with applicable guidelines and standards
     (FDA, AABB and FACT). Compliance with donor eligibility requirements are
     documented on 59 MDW Form 3560, Requisition for Hematopoietic Cell Collection and
     Processing Form and DD Form 572, Blood Donation Record. All documentation must
     be complete before donation and processing of the product can proceed. Deviations must
     be documented and approved by either the Medical Director, Transfusion Services;
     Medical Director, Cellular Immunology; or designee, based on the nature of the
     deviation.
     11.1.4. Within 30 days of each collection, a sample of the prospective donor’s blood
     must be tested in accordance with AABB Standards for Cellular Therapy Product
     Services and FDA regulations. If collecting Therapeutic T cells (or Lymphocytes),
     testing must be performed within seven days. Request the testing using 59 MDW Form
     3560. Draw donor testing tubes as appropriate. Label with donor number. Send the
     tubes, the form and the prospective donor to the blood bank for evaluation.
     11.1.5. Prior to the administration of hematopoietic growth factor to the donor or
     myeloblastic therapy of the recipient, a pregnancy assessment of female donors shall be
     performed in accordance with AABB and FACT standards. Document on 59 MDW
     Form 3560 the risk assessment for Hemoglobinopathy.
     11.1.6. Collections are coordinated through the Operating Room (bone marrow harvests)
     or through Transfusion Services (peripheral blood progenitor cells via apheresis). The
     Progenitor Cell Laboratory provides anticoagulated media and a Unit Collection Label
     for Bone Marrow collections. Schedule Progenitor Cell/Therapeutic T Cell collections
     through Apheresis. Instruct the prospective donor to report to Apheresis on the scheduled
     collection date. Cells are collected, processed and stored as directed on 59 MDW Form
     3560.
  11.2. Informed consent for the transplant is obtained from the patient prior to the
  mobilization and collection of the donor by the Bone Marrow Transplant physician.
  Document on WHMC Form 1202. See procedures in 59 MDWI 51-302. The SF Form 509,
59MDWI44-107 12 APRIL 2013                                                                   19


  Medical Record – Progress Note should include the indications, products to be transfused,
  and statement that informed consent is obtained or reason not obtained.
  11.3. Informed consent for the collection process is obtained from the donor prior to
  collection.
  11.4. Transport of Progenitor Cell Products to the San Antonio Military Medical Center by
  arrangement only.
     11.4.1. Notify the Progenitor Cell Laboratory to schedule an infusion. The lab will send
     the requesting physician a Medical Issue Order for Cryopreserved Products. Based upon
     the information on the order, the laboratory will prepare the product for issue. The
     Progenitor Cell Laboratory is not responsible for the delivery or the administration of the
     product.
     11.4.2. BMTX staff must provide patient’s full name, SSN, and type of product when
     requesting product from the Progenitor Cell Laboratory.
         11.4.2.1. Sign the 59 MDW Form 5015, Progenitor Cell (HPC) Transplant Record.
         All three copies of the HPC Transplant Record and a quality assurance survey card
         accompany the product to the ward.
         11.4.2.2. If a product does not conform to standards, the provider must sign a Non
         Conforming Product Notification. One copy is kept by the Progenitor Cell
         Laboratory and one copy is given to the provider for the patient’s chart. Prior to
         infusing a non conforming product, the recipient must be notified by the provider and
         the notification documented on the Non Conforming Product Notification.
  11.5. Patient Identification. Prior to the product being thawed or infused, both the provider
  and attending Bone Marrow Transplant staff must make a positive identification of the
  recipient. The patient identification (ID) bracelet is compared to the 59 MDW Form 5015,
  prior to the thawing process. Once the ID is established each product bag label must be
  compared either to the HPC Transplant Record or patient ID band to ensure the product bag
  is intended for that recipient. Good nursing practice should include asking the patient to
  verify the armband information verbally if the patient is coherent or the guardian is present.
  11.6. All identification forms remain attached to the container until the infusion of the bag
  has been completed. If the infusion is interrupted the form should remain attached to the
  product bag.
  11.7. Note the patient’s vital signs at the beginning and end of the infusion on the
  transfusion portion of the 59 MDW Form 5015.
  11.8. For cryopreserved products, thaw the product as described in SGVLB Operating
  Instruction 44A-214, Infusion of Hematopoietic Progenitor Cell (HPC) Components. The
  label attached to the product must be checked for patient identification information prior to
  thawing.
  11.9. For fresh products, confirm the patient identification with the label attached to the
  product. Infuse the product according to the guidelines provided by the provider.
  11.10. Monitor the patient during and after the infusion for any adverse reactions.
 20                                                          59MDWI44-107 12 APRIL 2013


       11.10.1. These can be, but are not limited to hives, chills, dyspnea cough,
       hyper/hypotension, back/flank pain, bradycardia, or chest pain.
       11.10.2. Document adverse reactions on the 59 MDW Form 5015.
       11.10.3. It is the responsibility of the resident/fellow/attending clinician to determine
       whether symptoms indicate a transfusion reaction. If it is determined to be an infusion
       reaction, immediately notify the Medical Director, Transfusion Services and Cellular
       Therapy.     DO NOT STOP THE INFUSION UNLESS DIRECTED BY THE
       PROVIDER. The transfusion rate may be slowed or stopped as directed. With this
       exception, all other directions in Section 9, Transfusion Reactions, apply.
   11.11. When the infusion is finished, file a copy of the 59 MDW Form 5015 in the patient’s
   chart. Return 2 copies of the HPC Transplant Record to the laboratory along with the quality
   assurance survey card. The transport container is also returned to the laboratory.
   11.12. Quality Assurance (QA) audits are periodically performed to assess collection,
   processing and infusion processes. Results are reported to the Quarterly Progenitor Cell
   Transplant QA Committee for corrective action and/or improvement.
12. Consultative Services. Consultative Services are provided by the Transfusion Services
medical director and staff blood bank specialists. Services include, but are not limited to:

Table 12.1. Consultative Services.
 ABO/Type switching alternatives                Irradiated blood products
 Allogeneic donations/transfusions              Long term effects of chronic transfusion
 Approaches to reducing blood loss              Massive transfusions
 Autoimmune disorders                           Patients with hemolytic anemia
 Autologous donations/transfusions              Peripheral blood progenitor collections
 Blood Bank regulations                         Regulatory environment
 Bone marrow transplant requirements            Special antibody problems
 CMV seronegative blood products                Special compatibility problems
 CMV safe blood products                        Special needs for burn patients
 Dealing with federal investigators             Specialized transfusion audits
 Directed donation transfusions                 Therapeutic apheresis
 Education in Transfusion Medicine                     Plasmapheresis
 Emergency transfusion needs                           Leukoctypheresis
 Filters for blood transfusions                        Exchange transfusion
 Hem/Onc special requirements                   Transfusion reactions in critically ill patients
 Immunomodulatory effects of transfusion        Transfusion-associated coagulopathies
          Infections                            Volume-reduced blood products
          Pre and post transplant               Washed blood products
          GVHD                                  Granulocyte transfusions




                                            HELEN HOOTSMANS, Colonel, USAF, MC, FS
                                            Chief of the Medical Staff
59MDWI44-107 12 APRIL 2013                                                                  21


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations, 1 September 1999
AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, 20 January 2012
AFI 44-105, The Air Force Blood Program, 11 January 2012
AFI 44-119, Medical Quality Operations, 16 August 2011
59 MDWI 41-102, Medical Committees and Functional Reviews, 4 March 2009
59 MDWI 51-302, Informed Consent/Refusal of Treatment, Diagnostics and Blood or Blood
Products, 12 March 2010
American Association of Blood Banks (AABB) Blood Transfusion Therapy, A Physician’s
Handbook, Current Edition
AABB Circular of Information for the Use of Cellular Therapy Products, Current Edition
AABB Pediatric Transfusion Therapy, Current Edition
AABB Standards for Blood Banks and Transfusion Services, Current Edition
AABB Standards for Cellular Therapy Product Services, Current Edition
AABB, Technical Manual, Current Edition
American Red Cross (ARC) and AABB Circular of Information for the Use of Human Blood
and Blood Components, Current Edition
Foundation for Accreditation of Cellular Therapy (FACT), International Standards for Cellular
Therapy Product Collection, Processing and Administration, Current Edition
The Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care, Accreditation Handbook Including
Medicare Requirements for Ambulatory Surgery Centers, Current Edition
Lippincott Manual of Nursing Practice, Current Edition
Medical-Surgical Nursing: Assessment and Management of Clinical Problems, Current Edition
Menitove J (ed). Bethesda: American Association of Blood Banks; 2000
Patient Care Standards: Collaborative Practice Planning Guides, Current Edition
Standards for Cellular Therapy Product Services, Current Edition
Prescribed Forms
59 MDW Form 2944, Patient Serological Record
59 MDW Form 2982, Blood Bank Testing and Component Request
59 MDW Form 3232, Blood Component Crossmatch/ Transfusion Record
59 MDW Form 3424, Blood Product Source and Disposition
59 MDW Form 3560, Requisition for Hematopoietic Cell Collection and Processing Form
 22                                                      59MDWI44-107 12 APRIL 2013


59 MDW Form 3588, Emergency Blood Product Release
59 MDW Form 5015, Progenitor Cell (HPC) Transplant Record
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1224, Blood Transfusion Reaction Investigation
AF Form 1225, Informed Consent for Blood Transfusion
DD Form 572, Blood Donation Record
WHMC Form 1202, Disclosure and Consent-Medical and Surgical Procedures
SF Form 509, Medical Record – Progress Note

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAAHC—Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care
AABB—American Association of Blood Banks
ABO—Blood Type
ASAP—As Soon As Possible
ASBP—Armed Services Blood Program
BMTX—Bone Marrow Transplant Unit
CAP—College of American Pathologists
CMV—Cytomegalovirus
EDTA—Ethylene Diaminetetraacetic Acid
FACT—Foundation for Accreditation of Cellular Therapy
FDA—Food and Drug Administration
FFP—Fresh Frozen Plasma
FMP—Family Member Prefix
GVHD—Graft versus Host Disease
HLA—Human Leukocyte Antigen
HSI—Heath Services Inspection
HPC—Hematopoietic Progenitor Cells
IAW—In Accordance With
ID—Identification
IV—Intravenous
LRF—Leukocyte Reduction Filters
MDW—Medical Wing
59MDWI44-107 12 APRIL 2013                    23


MDWI—Medical Wing Instruction
MSBOS—Maximum Surgical Blood Order Schedule
PRBC—Packed Red Blood Cells
PTP—Post-Transfusion Purpura
QA—Quality Assurance
RBC—Red Blood Cells
RhIg—Rh Immune Globulin
RN—Registered Nurse
SSN—Social Security Number
T&C—Type & Crossmatch
TRALI—Transfusion Related Acute Lung Injury
T&S—Type & Screen
WBC—White Blood Cells
 24                                                            59MDWI44-107 12 APRIL 2013


                                         Attachment 2
 PROCEDURE FOR COLLECTING CROSSMATCH/TYPE & SCREEN SPECIMENS

A2.1. The following information is provided to further describe requirements outlined in section
3 of this instruction. It is recommended this information be incorporated into a checklist for
nursing staff personnel to use for training and competency assessment.
A2.2. Prepare 59 MDW Form 2982 from physician’s orders. Ensure the following information
is provided:
   A2.2.1. Patient’s full name.
   A2.2.2. Patient’s unique identification number (currently FMP/sponsor SSN).
   A2.2.3. Requesting location.
   A2.2.4. Date.
   A2.2.5. Name of requesting provider.
   A2.2.6. Provider number.
   A2.2.7. Unit Cost Accounting (UCA) Code.
   A2.2.8. Specify the request priority (Routine, ASAP, STAT, or Emergency).
   A2.2.9. Select the test being requested (Type & Screen or Type & Crossmatch).
   A2.2.10. Has informed consent been obtained? (Check YES or NO as appropriate).
   A2.2.11. Has the patient been transfused or pregnant in the last three months? (Check YES
   or NO as appropriate).
   A2.2.12. The individual verifying the transfusion/pregnancy status of the patient signs the
   form in the block provided.
   A2.2.13. When a type & crossmatch is requested, annotate the number of blood products
   desired under blood component request.
       A2.2.13.1. Up to 9 units may be requested on a form.
       A2.2.13.2. Only one component type may be requested on a form.
   A2.2.14. Indicate any special requirements requested (CMV negative, Irradiated,
   Leukoreduced).
A2.3. Organize phlebotomy supplies.
A2.4. Positively identify patient IAW paragraph 3.2.2 of this instruction.
   A2.4.1. Prior to initiating specimen collection, compare the patient information on 59 MDW
   Form 2982 and the patient’s arm band (inpatients) or ID card (outpatients). Name and
   FMP/SSN must match before continuing.
   A2.4.2. Identification check must be performed at bedside.
   A2.4.3. If patient armband is missing; do not continue until patient identification is
   available.
59MDWI44-107 12 APRIL 2013                                                                 25


   A2.4.4. A second individual will verify the patient identification at bedside.
       A2.4.4.1. For all collections, the second individual will be a staff member.
       A2.4.4.2. For outpatient collections in the laboratory specimen collection area, the
       second individual may be a second hospital staff member or the patient.
A2.5. Perform the specimen collection per local operating procedures.
A2.6. Label the specimen while at the patient’s bedside or phlebotomy chair. The specimen
label must include the following:
   A2.6.1. Patient’s full name.
   A2.6.2. Patient’s unique identification number (currently FMP/sponsor SSN).
   A2.6.3. Date of specimen collection.
   A2.6.4. Initials of phlebotomist.
A2.7. Phlebotomist and verifier will compare specimen, 59 MDW Form 2982, and patient
identification to ensure identification information matches.
A2.8. The phlebotomist will sign 59 MDW Form 2982 to document collection and labeling of
the specimen.
A2.9. The verifier will sign 59 MDW Form 2982 to document verification of the patient identify
and proper labeling of the specimen.
A2.10. Forward the specimen and 59 MDW Form 2982 to the laboratory.
 26                                                              59MDWI44-107 12 APRIL 2013


                                           Attachment 3
                           LETTER FROM MEDICAL DIRECTOR

MEMORANDUM FOR MT
SUBJECT: Maximum Surgical Blood Order Schedule (MSBOS) Recommendations
FROM: Medical Director, Transfusion Services
1. Please remember MSBOS recommendations are to be used as a guideline. Each case should be
individually assessed. A hemophiliac going for a cholecystectomy may require 2-4 units to be
crossmatched even though it is listed as a T&S procedure. If you have a clinical problem and feel
your patient may need more blood available than the MSBOS suggests, please call the blood bank at
292-7280/7414 and discuss the patient’s needs with the staff. The Medical Director or designee will
be contacted for approval. The blood bank can usually supply additional units of blood for
reasonable requests.
2. If a type and cross (T/C) is ordered for a T/S procedure without prior approval, only a T/S will be
performed. The computer will result a "Type and Screen Done per MSBOS."
3. Thank you for your cooperation in sticking to the MSBOS guidelines. Blood is a community
resource, and your cooperation will help to ensure that our blood inventory continually optimizes
transfusion support for all our patients.


                                                      Chief Pathology Consultant to AF/SG
                                                      Medical Director WHASC Laboratory
59MDWI44-107 12 APRIL 2013                                 27


                                       Attachment 4
           MAXIMUM SURGICAL BLOOD ORDER SCHEDULE (MSBOS)

Table A4.1. Maximum Surgical Blood Order Schedule.
                GENERAL SURGERY
               Appendectomy                   T&S
         Breast Biopsy - excisional           T&S
       Cholecystectomy -laparoscopic          T&S
           Cholecystectomy- open              T&S
    Colectomy- total or Hemicolectomy         T&S
          Exploratory Laparotomy              T&S
         Gastric Band, Laparascopic           T&S
        Gastric Bypass, Laparascopic          T&S
             Hemorrhoidectomy                 T&S
             Hiatal hernia repair             T&S
           Inguinal herniorrhaphy             T&S
              Lipoma excision                 T&S
             Lymph node biopsy                T&S
  Mastectomy-Modified, Radical and Simple     T&S
                Nisson Wrap                   T&S
               Pancreatectomy                 T&S
                Pilonidal cyst                T&S
          Reduction mammoplasty               T&S
            Small bowel resection             T&S
            Splenectomy-elective               2
               Thyroidectomy                  T&S
                Vein stripping                T&S
                        OB/GYN
                 A P Repairs                  T&S
             Ectopic pregnancy                T&S
      Evacuation of retained products         T&S
          Exploratory Laparotomy              T&S
                 PLASTIC SURGERY
          Burn/Skin Graft Variable            T&S
            Cleft lip/palate repair           T&S
                   TA Flap                    T&S
                   ORAL SURGERY
  Mandibular Reconstruction with bone graft   T&S
                    ORTHOPEDICS
               Amputation-hip                  3
               Amputation-leg                 T&S
                 Hip nailing                   2
            Hip replacement-total              2
        Knee replacement, first time          T&S
28                                                   59MDWI44-107 12 APRIL 2013


          Knee replacement, redo                2
      Open procedures-hip or femur             T&S
             Scoliosis Fusion                   4
      Spinal Fusion/Instrumentation             2
                      UROLOGY
                Cystostomy                     T&S
 Transurethral resection of bladder/prostate   T&S
                Urethrolysis                   T&S
         Vaginal vault suspension              T&S
            Pubovaginal sling                  T&S
59MDWI44-107 12 APRIL 2013                                                                              29


                                          Attachment 5
                                 TRANSFUSION REACTIONS

Table A5.1. Transfusion Reactions.




                    Signs and
      Type          Symptoms             Usual Cause              Treatment              Prevention
 Acute           Hemoglobinemia       Incompatibility due    Stop transfusion;         Avoid clerical
 Intravascular   & hemoglobinuria,    to clerical errors,    hydrate, support blood    error; ensure
 Hemolytic       fever, chills,       involves ABO           and respiration;          proper sample
 (Immune)        anxiety, shock,      (primarily) or other   induce diuresis, treat    and recipient
                 DIC, dyspnea,        erythrocyte Ag-Ab      shock and DIC             identification
                 chest pain, flank    incompatibility
                 pain

 Delayed         Fever, malaise,      Usually involves       Monitor hematocrit,       N/A
 extravascular   indirect             non-ABO Ag-Ab          renal function,
 hemolytic       hyperbilirubinemia   incompatibility        coagulation profile; no
 (Immune)        increased urine,     occurring 3-10 days    acute treatment
                 urobilinogen,        post transfusion       generally required
                 falling hematocrit

 Febrile         Fever, chills        Antibodies to          Stop transfusion; give    Transfuse
                                      leukocytes or plasma   antipyretics;             leukocyte
                                      proteins               acetaminophen (or         reduced
                                                             aspirin if not            components
                                                             thrombocytopenic )

 Allergic        Urticaria (hives),   Antibodies to plasma   Stop transfusion; give    Pre-transfusion
                 rarely hypotension   contents (including    antihistamine (PO or      washed red cell
                 or anaphylaxis       IgA)                   IM); if severe,           components, IgA
                                                             epinephrine and/or        deficient
                                                             steroids                  components
 Hypervolemic    Dyspnea,             Too rapid and/or       Induce diuresis;          Avoid rapid or
                 hypertension,        excessive blood        phlebotomy; support       excessive
                 pulmonary edema,     transfusion            cardiorespiratory         transfusion
                 cardiac                                     system as needed
                 arrhythmias
 TRALI           Dyspnea, bilateral   Anti-HLA or anti       Support blood             N/A
                 pulmonary edema,     leukocyte antibodies   pressure and
                 normal cardiac       in donor               respiration (may
                 pressure                                    require intubation)
30                                                                59MDWI44-107 12 APRIL 2013


Bacterial sepsis   Shock, fever, chills   Contaminated blood   Stop transfusion;   Care in blood
                                          component            support blood       collection and
                                                               pressure, give      storage
                                                               antibiotics
59MDWI44-107 12 APRIL 2013                                                                   31


                                        Attachment 6
                BLOOD COMPONENTS AND PLASMA DERIVATIVES

Table A6.1. Blood Components and Plasma Derivatives.
                                              Approx.
 Component/Product           Composition       Volume                 Indications
              PRODUCTS ROUTINELY AVAILABLE IN THE BLOOD BANK
Red Blood Cells,         RBC (approx. HCT 330 ml       Increase red cell mass in symptomatic
Adenine-Saline Added 60%); reduced                     anemia (WBC and platelets not
                         plasma, WBC, and              functional)
                         platelets; 100 ml of
                         additive solution
Leukocyte Reduced        >85% original        225 ml   Increase red cell mass; <5X106WBC to
PRBCs                    volume of RBC;       (varies) prevent febrile reactions due to
                                 6
(prepared by filtration) <5X10 WBC few                 leukocyte antibodies WBC to decrease
                         platelets; minimal            the likelihood of alloimmunization to
                         plasma                        leukocyte or HLA antigens or CMV
                                                       transmission
Fresh Frozen Plasma      plasma; all          220 ml   Treatment of some coagulation
                         coagulation factors;          disorders
                         complement (no
                         platelets)
Thawed Plasma            Plasma with          220 ml   Treatment of some coagulation
                         somewhat reduced              disorders
                         amounts of Factors
                         V and VIII
     PRODUCTS NOT ROUTINELY AVAILABLE IN THE BLOOD BANK, CAN BE
             SPECIAL ORDERED WITH MEDICAL DIRECTOR APPROVAL
Washed PRBCs             RBC (approx. HCT 180 ml       Increase red cell mass; reduce risk of
                         75%); <5X108                  allergic reactions to plasma proteins
                         WBC no plasma
PRBCs                    RBC (approx. HCT 180 ml       Increase red cell mass; minimize febrile
Frozen/Deglycerolized 75%); <5X108                     or allergic transfusion reactions; use
                         WBC no platelets;             for prolonged RBC storage reactions
                         no plasma
Granulocytes, Pheresis granulocytes           220 ml   Provide granulocytes for selected
                         (>1.0X1010PMN/u               patients with sepsis and severe
                         nit); lymphocytes;            neutropenia (<500PMN/l)
                         platelets
                         (>2.0X1011/unit);
                         some PRBCs
Platelets, Apheresis     platelets            300 ml   Same as platelets; sometimes HLA
                         (>3X1011/unit);               matched
                         RBC; WBC;
                         plasma
32                                                        59MDWI44-107 12 APRIL 2013


Leukocyte-Reduced       platelets (as       300 ml Same as platelets; <5X106WBC to
Platelets               above); <5X106             decrease the likelihood of
                        WBC per final              alloimmunization to leukocyte or HLA
                        dose of platelets          antigens or CMV transmission
Cryoprecipitated AHF    fibrinogen; Factors 15 ml  Deficiency of fibrinogen; Factor XIII;
                        VIII and XIII, von         2nd choice in treatment of Hemophilia
                        Willebrand factor          A, von Willebrand’s disease
                             AVAILABLE FROM PHARMACY
Factor VIII             Factor VIII; trace  25 ml  Hemophilia A (Factor VIII deficiency),
(concentrates;          amounts of other           von Willebrand’s disease (off-label use
recombinant human       plasma proteins            for selected products only)
factor VIII)            (products vary in
                        purity)
Factor IX Complex,      Factor IX; trace    25 ml  Hereditary factor II, IX, or X
Coagulation Factor IX   amounts of other           deficiency
                        plasma proteins
                        (products vary in
                        purity)
Anti-inhibitor          Factor VIII         30 ml  Patients with antibody to Factor VIII
Coagulation Complex     inhibitor bypassing        (Note: indications for use not well
                        activity                   established)
Albumin/Plasma          albumin, some -, (5%);    Volume expansion
Protein Fraction        -globulins         (25%)
Immune Globulin         IgG antibodies;     varies Treatment of hypo- or
                        preparations for IV        agammaglobulinemia; disease
                        and/or IM use              prophylaxis; autoimmune
                                                   thrombocytopenia (IV preparations
                                                   only)
Rh Immune Globulin      IgG anti-D;         1 ml   Prevention of hemolytic disease of the
                        preparations for IV        newborn due to the D antigen;
                        and/or IM use              treatment of autoimmune
                                                   thrombocytopenia (IV preparations
                                                   only)
Antithrombin            antithrombin; trace 10 ml  Treatment of antithrombin deficiency
                        amounts of other
                        plasma proteins
Alpha1-Proteinase       Alpha1-PI (alpha1- varies  Congenital deficiency of Alpha1-PI
Inhibitor (PI)          antitrypsin); other        with evidence of panacinar emphysema
                        plasma proteins
