BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                     59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 44-133
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                              8 OCTOBER 2013

                                                                                         Medical

                                          PLAN FOR THE PROVISION OF PATIENT CARE



           COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
______________________________________________________________________________

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
______________________________________________________________________________

OPR: 559 MDG/SGH                                       Certified by: 559 MDG/CC
                                                          (Colonel Steven Caberto)
Supersedes: 59MDWI 44-133, 17 May 2011                                   Pages: 18
______________________________________________________________________________

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 44-1, Medical Operations. This medical
wing instruction (MDWI) outlines practices and procedures for providing patient and community
health care throughout the 59th Medical Wing (MDW) and incorporates Department of Defense
(DoD) patient safety standards. This plan is consistent with the vision, mission, and values of
the 59 MDW. This instruction applies to all personnel assigned, attached, or under contract to
the 59 MDW. This instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve,
personnel assigned the 959th Medical Group at San Antonio Military Medical Center (SAMMC)
or the 359th Medical Group. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication. Requests for waivers must be submitted to the OPR listed above for
consideration and approval. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
System Records Disposition Schedule.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include updated references, deleted inpatient services and references to hospital.

1. Overview. Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center (WHASC) is a collection of academic
primary care and subspecialty medical clinics and the largest ambulatory surgical center in the
2                                                     59THMDWI44-133 8 OCTOBER 2013

Department of Defense, servicing a large beneficiary and trainee population including active
duty military personnel, activated Reserve, Guard, retirees and their dependents, veterans,
secretarial designees and beneficiaries of federal interagency agreements (such as members of
foreign services or intelligence agencies), and civilian employees ill or injured on the job.

    1.1. Due to the Base Realignment and Closure Law of 2005 which directed the movement
    of inpatient services at 59 MDW to SAMMC, the San Antonio Military Healthcare System
    has been established. The 59 MDW is the Air Force component at both WHASC and the
    integrated inpatient facility known as the SAMMC.

2. 59 MDW Structure and Responsibilities.

    2.1. The Board of Directors (BOD) provides strategic guidance and management oversight
    for meeting the wing’s mission.

        2.1.1. The BOD is directly responsible for meeting the health care needs of the
        beneficiary community. This is carried out through goal-focused allocation of resources
        supported by business case analyses, continuous process and healthcare improvement
        activities, risk management, credentialing of medical staff, provision of oversight,
        policy setting and establishment/implementation of standards for patient care and
        clinical practice guidelines. The clinic provides ongoing, periodic competence
        assessment, and evaluates staff members’ continuing abilities to perform throughout
        their association with the clinic. The BOD determines types of services provided and
        types of services purchased from or shared with the civilian and military communities
        based on business case analysis and applicable law.

        2.1.2. The Board of Directors will:

            2.1.2.1. Ensure patient rights are respected throughout the organization and that
            business relationships with patients and business associates are conducted in an
            ethical manner.

            2.1.2.2. Identify and consider needs of beneficiaries in developing patient care
            programs. Methods used to gather patients’ inputs include, but are not limited to,
            customer surveys and direct feedback.

            2.1.2.3. Ensure the implementation of an ongoing, collaborative and effective
            interdisciplinary program to provide, monitor, evaluate and improve patient care
            outcomes and organizational process improvement. This program ensures all
            patients receive care without regard to race, religion or socioeconomic status and
            also ensures a uniform level of patient care is provided throughout the organization.

            2.1.2.4. Provide adequate and appropriate resources to manage the health care of
            its beneficiary population; ensure health care is delivered safely in compliance with
            The Joint Commission National Patient Safety Goals; and support innovations
59THMDWI44-133 8 OCTOBER 2013                                                                    3

           which improve patient care interventions, promote health and embrace population
           health principles.

   2.2. Responsibilities of Wing Staff Functionals.

       2.2.1. Chief Medical Officer (CMO) leads day to day operations and integrates all
       medical groups to deliver health care. Ensures that Accreditation Association for
       Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC) and other AF inspection requirements are met.
       Provides support to graduate medical education and enlisted medical technician
       training. Serves as the principle liaison between the San Antonio SAMMC and the 59
       Medical Wing. The CMO is also charged with participating in the business and
       strategic planning of the facility. Participates/oversees multiple 59 MDW Committees
       and is a Member of the Board of Directors.

       2.2.2. The Chief of the Medical Staff (SGH) is responsible for ensuring appropriate
       credentialing processes are in place, and that the 59 MDW Commander or designee
       awards appropriate clinical privileges, considering each provider’s health status,
       training, experience and demonstrated performance within the capability of the medical
       facility. Refer to AFI 44-119, Medical Quality Operations and 59MDWI 90-201,
       Compliance and Continuous Process Improvement. The SGH will also be responsible
       for the Health Care Integrators, Case Managers and the Group Practice Managers.
       2.2.3. The Chief Nurse Executive (SGN) is responsible for nursing care provided and
       establishes nursing standards of practice for the 59 MDW. The SGN and Nursing
       Executive Function, a subcommittee of the Executive Committee of the Medical Staff
       (ECOMS), approves all nursing policies, procedures, and standards of nursing practice
       and patient care. See 59MDWI46-104, Nursing Care and Documentation, for
       additional information. The SGN and nursing leaders throughout the facility participate
       in ECOMS, process improvement, and risk management activities. The SGN
       participates in non-credentialed provider peer review in accordance with AFI 44-119.

       2.2.4. The Wing Administrator (SGA) along with the group commanders, are
       responsible for the management of facilities, funds, equipment, supplies and manpower
       to ensure patient and staff safety and to minimize organizational risks.

   2.3. Group Responsibilities.

       2.3.1. Refer to www.whasc.af.mil or http://www.sammc.amedd.army.mil/ for up-to-
       date information on the services offered by the 59 MDW Groups and their squadrons.

       2.3.2. The 59th Medical Operations Group (59 MDOG) plans, directs and provides
       outpatient patient care-related activities, to include ambulatory surgical, medical
       specialties, primary care, ambulance transportation and urgent care services. This
       group is comprised of four squadrons.

       2.3.3. The 959th Medical Group (959 MDG) plans, directs and provides or arranges for
       the full scope of inpatient clinical health care services from admission to discharge. It is
4                                                      59THMDWI44-133 8 OCTOBER 2013

        comprised of three squadrons and one division and is located at SAMMC (Fort Sam
        Houston).

        2.3.4. The 59th Clinical Support Group (59 CSPG) plans, directs and provides for
        support services to include Pharmacy, Laboratory, and Nutritional Medicine.
        Additionally the group oversees Clinical Research. It is comprised of two squadrons
        and one division.

        2.3.5. The 59th Medical Support Group (59 MDSG) plans and provides for support
        services and is responsible for: Logistics, Facility Management, Medical Readiness,
        Patient Administration, Beneficiary Services, TRICARE operations, Medical Records,
        Medical Information Services, and the Consolidated Commanders Support Staff. It is
        comprised of two squadrons.

        2.3.6. The 59th Dental Group (59 DG) implements and maintains comprehensive
        programs for the prevention and treatment of dental disease to ensure maximum
        individual readiness and optimal oral health. It is comprised of three squadrons.

        2.3.7. The 559th Medical Group (559 MDG) plans, directs and provides outpatient
        clinical services and primary care for trainee health (which includes all United States
        Air Force Basic Military Trainees and Technical School Trainees), Flight Medicine,
        Preventive Medicine (which includes Trainee Health Surveillance), Occupational
        Health, Optometry, Health and Wellness Center, Aeromedical Staging Facility and the
        Behavioral Analysis Service. It also plans, directs and provides for the Personnel
        Reliability Program and the Drug Demand Reduction programs. This group is
        comprised of two squadrons.

3. Ethics, Rights, and Responsibilities.

    3.1. Ethics. Title 5 Code of Federal Regulations Part 2635, Standards of Ethical Conduct
    for Employees of the Executive Branch, is the ‘code of conduct’ for Federal Agencies. The
    DoD Joint Ethics Regulation incorporates the aforementioned regulations and provides
    supplementary rules applicable to DoD employees. AFI 44-119 describes a clinical quality
    program designed “to establish a culture in which errors are proactively identified, incidents
    are reported freely without retribution, and safety is rooted in the daily operations of the
    healthcare organization.” It creates a framework of due process for clinical adverse actions
    so as to protect patients and providers, as well as to uphold the quality and integrity of the
    Air Force Medical Service (AFMS). AFI 36-2909, Professional and Unprofessional
    Relationships, “establishes command, supervisory and personal responsibilities for
    maintaining professional relationships” among and between Airmen, civilian employees and
    contractors. The AFMS established a Code of Ethics that is available at Attachment 2. An
    ethics council is directed on an ad-hoc basis by ECOMS if indicated or requested.

    3.2. Individual Rights and Responsibilities. Patients receive instruction on their rights and
    responsibilities and advanced directives through posters and brochures located in patient
    care areas. Patients will receive a written copy of these rights as well as information on
59THMDWI44-133 8 OCTOBER 2013                                                                   5

   advanced directives upon pre-admit with same-day surgery. The 59 MDW will provide care
   to patients with respect for human dignity and the uniqueness of individuals. Care provided
   will be equal to all others without consideration of social or economic status, race, religion,
   personal attributes, values or personal and cultural beliefs, nature of health problems, and
   preferences. Patients are involved in the decisions about their care, treatment, and services
   provided as discussed in 59MDWI 41-123, Patient’s Rights.

       3.2.1. Informed Consent and Disclosure. Informed consent policies are discussed in
       59MDWI 51-302, Informed Consent/Refusal of Treatment, Diagnostics, Blood or Blood
       Products. Anesthesia, attending physicians, and nursing staff ensure written disclosure
       is made and the consent form is signed and witnessed prior to procedures. Providers
       obtain informed consent from the patient prior to procedures and discuss risks, benefits,
       alternatives and other options. Specific requirements for the treatment of minors and
       informed consent are covered in 59MDWI 44-121, Treatment of Minors. Consent is
       also obtained prior to videotaping as discussed in 59MDWI 44-169, Consent for
       Medical Audio Visual Documentation. Additionally, patients and, when appropriate,
       their families are informed about the outcomes of care, treatment, and services,
       including unanticipated outcomes as outlined in 59MDWI 44-130, Patient Safety.

       3.2.2. Observers in Patient Care Areas.

            3.2.2.1. Only persons authorized to perform or assist in the procedure are allowed
            in patient care areas. Essential personnel are those who perform essential tasks for
            patient care such as medical assistants, medical technicians, administrative
            personnel and medical/dental providers.

            3.2.2.2. Exceptions to these will be made by the judgment of the medical/dental
            provider in cases of observation for educational purposes (with consent of the
            patient and/or parent), language interpreters, or a parent/guardian whose assistance
            is critical for the management of their child.

       3.2.3. Refusal of Care.

            3.2.3.1. Patients have the right to refuse care, treatment, and services in accordance
            with law and regulation. They may refuse blood and blood products as outlined in
            59MDWI 51-302, Informed Consent/Refusal of Treatment, Diagnostics and Blood
            or Blood Products. 59MDWI 51-302 outlines processes related to competent adult
            patients who refuse care and desire to leave the facility “Against Medical Advice”.

            3.2.3.2. Methods by which a patient may be dismissed from care or refused care.
            Due to the nature of the military beneficiary's entitlement to services, terminating
            the doctor-patient relationship for a lack of therapeutic alliance or other reasons is
            potentially more difficult than in the private sector. Should a particular provider
            feel unable to properly care for a particular patient due to a lack of therapeutic
            alliance, ethical reasons, etc., he or she should first seek consultation. Sources for
            consultation include the SGH, the Ethics Function, the base legal office or medical
6                                                 59THMDWI44-133 8 OCTOBER 2013

        legal consultant, or a professional peer. If the problem cannot be remedied, then
        the provider may refer the patient to another provider where appropriate care can be
        delivered. The provider must be cautious to avoid abandonment by carefully
        documenting treatment recommendations and timelines. In acute situations of a
        patients inappropriate or aggressive behavior, security forces should be contacted to
        intervene. In less acute or chronic situations, the provider should consult with his
        or her chain of command.

    3.2.4. End-of-Life Decisions/Care. The patient at or near the end of his or her life has
    the right to physical and psychological comfort. The 59 MDW provides care that
    optimizes the dying patient’s comfort and dignity and addresses the patient’s and his or
    her family’s psychosocial and spiritual needs as addressed in 59MDWI 44-150,
    Advance Directives and End-Of-Life. An Ad-Hoc Ethics Council directed by ECOMS;
    as well as Medical Law and Chaplain Service are available to answer questions and
    assist with complex or unusual cases. Patients are educated on their right to execute
    advance directives through the primary care clinics and admission process to Same Day
    Surgery. Staff receives education through annual training, lectures, and at appropriate
    staff meetings.

    3.2.5. Resolution of Complaints. Patient concerns are captured in both written and
    verbal format and handled at the lowest level possible in accordance with 59MDWI 41-
    115, Patient Advocate Program. Each clinical area has a trained Patient Advocate who
    handles most concerns promptly at the point of service. Issues that cannot be handled at
    the clinic level are referred to the flight or squadron commander or the Group or Wing
    Patient Advocate.        Additional avenues for complaint or inquiry include the
    Commander’s Action Line, the Inspector General, and the AAAHC.

    3.2.6. Medical Research. Patients are offered opportunities to participate in medical
    research approved by the 59 MDW Institutional Research Review Board (IRB) and the
    Surgeon General in accordance with AFI 40-402, Protection of Human Subjects in
    Biomedical and Behavioral Research. The IRB reviews clinical investigation protocol
    applications, consent forms, progress reports, and final reports, and serves as the
    oversight for the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee to protect the rights and
    welfare of research subjects.

    3.2.7. The 59 MDW respects the needs of patients for privacy and confidentiality,
    which is addressed in each clinical area. The patient’s right to a secure environment is
    recognized and promoted through the 59 MDW Patient Safety Program, Risk
    Management Fall Prevention Program, recurring training and clinic security. The
    release of protected healthcare information is governed by DOD Directives 5400.7,
    DoD Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Program, and DoDD 6025.18, Privacy of
    Individually Identifiable Health Information in DOD Health Care Programs, AFI 41-
    210, Patient Administration Functions, and AFI 33-332, Privacy Act and Civil Liberties
    Program.
59THMDWI44-133 8 OCTOBER 2013                                                                       7

        3.2.8. Competent personnel are defined as having the knowledge, skills, abilities and
        behavior required to adequately carry out job responsibilities as defined by the
        supervisor, other leadership and as outlined in the job description.

4. Provision of Care, Treatment, and Services.

    4.1. Care, treatment, and services are provided through the successful coordination and
    completion of a series of processes that include an appropriate initial assessment of needs;
    development of a plan; the provision, ongoing assessment of whether the care, treatment or
    services provided are meeting the patient’s needs; and either the successful discharge of the
    patient or referral or transfer of the patient for continuing care, treatment or services. This is
    accomplished through successful communication between patients and their families, case
    managers, social workers, discharge planners, lead agent contracted staff, providers, nursing
    staff, and other healthcare workers as required.

    4.2. Plans for Services.

        4.2.1. The 59 MDW accepts for care, treatment, and service only those patients whose
        identified care, treatment, and service needs it can meet. Each direct patient care flight
        defines its plan and scope of patient care services. These plans address the type and age
        of patients served; scope and complexity of the patient’s needs; the extent to which the
        level of care or service provided will meet the patient's needs; the availability of
        necessary staff, physical space and other resources needed by the service; recognized
        standards or guidelines for practice, methods that will be used to assess and improve the
        performance of care and services provided, required minimum competencies for
        assigned staff; and plans to meet adequate competent staffing mix in accordance with
        patient acuity. Pediatric patients are defined as age 0 to 18, although the upper age limit
        can be extended to age 23, as clinically indicated. The types of treatments offered at 59
        MDW are listed in Attachment 3.

             4.2.1.1. Each flight/squadron reviews their plan annually, certifying it as current or
             revising it as needed to reflect changes in the section’s scope of care or services,
             changes in staffing, etc. Current plans are submitted to ECOMS for approval.
             Flights maintain a current Plan of Services with a copy maintained by the group
             commander or process improvement advisor.

    4.3. Entry to Care, Treatment, and Services.

        4.3.1. Patients gain access through the telephone and internet appointment system,
        telephone consultation, urgent care center, aeromedical evacuation, consultation
        referral, acute care clinics, mail-in requests, periodic dental examination programs,
        walk-in to some clinics and through sharing agreements. Policies and standards for
        access are determined on the basis of an assessment of the severity of the illness and
        Federal law. Available care and access standards are discussed in AFI 41-210.
        Education on access to the healthcare delivery system and on referral policies is
        available to beneficiaries through the TRICARE Service Center and a variety of
8                                                  59THMDWI44-133 8 OCTOBER 2013

    additional mechanisms, including:          Patient Representative Program; TRICARE
    briefings to beneficiaries; military and civilian media (as coordinated through 59 MDW
    Public Affairs Office); attendance of newly assigned personnel at Newcomer’s
    Orientation; TRICARE newsletters; and the SAMMC public website located at
    http://sammc.amedd.army.mil.

    4.3.2. Leadership ensures safe, timely, appropriate assessment and reassessment of
    patients throughout the continuum of care. This is facilitated through training of
    personnel that includes formal training, readiness training, monthly in-service training
    and on the job training. Non-credentialed personnel complete annual competency skills
    training. All personnel are required to complete annual facility refresher training.
    Beneficiaries enrolled to Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center are assigned to
    Primary Care Managers (PCMs) in one of three 59 MDOG Primary Care Clinics
    (Internal Medicine, Family Health or Pediatrics) or to PCMs within the 559th Medical
    Group (Flight Medicine). Assessment standards for patients are outlined in 59MDWI
    44-145, Patient Assessment/Reassessment. Diagnostic testing is performed as necessary
    to determine patients’ health needs.

    4.3.3. Assessment and treatment of urgent conditions after normal clinic hours are
    available in the urgent care clinic.

    4.3.4. Patient and Family Education. The patient and family education process is
    collaborative and interdisciplinary as appropriate to the situation. Health care workers
    within 59 MDW use an interactive approach when conducting patient education to
    ensure that information is understood, appropriate and useful to the patient. The
    process is supported through allocation of material and resources. Interdisciplinary
    Patient and Family Education working groups may be chartered to facilitate program
    implementation. The 59 MDW Population Health Committee provides oversight.

    4.3.5. Nutritional Care. Nutritional education and assessment is accomplished by
    Nutritional Medicine Clinic either by a provider referral or through needs identified by
    nursing outpatient functional assessments. The 59MDWI 41-103, Ambulatory Nutrition
    Screening, discusses processes on referring outpatients for further nutritional evaluation
    and education.

    4.3.6. Pain Management. A comprehensive pain assessment is conducted as
    appropriate to the patient’s condition and the scope of care, treatment, and services
    provided. The 59 MDW has a uniform process to assess and monitor patients’ pain
    state as detailed in 59MDWI 44-124, Pain Management.

    4.3.7. Restraints. The 59th MDW does not use restraints.

    4.3.8. Resuscitation. Staff members are trained in cardiopulmonary resuscitation and
    advanced life support as recommended by their respective department chairpersons,
    ratified by ECOMS, and approved by the 59MDW/CC or designee in accordance with
    AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, and 59MDWI 44-142, Wilford Hall
59THMDWI44-133 8 OCTOBER 2013                                                                  9

        Ambulatory Surgical Center Code Blue Management. Step by step procedures for code
        blue response can be found in 59MDWI 44-142, page 2 attachment 2.

        4.3.9. Anesthesia Care, Operative and Other Procedures. The use of sedation for the
        performance of invasive procedures in other areas outside the operating rooms is
        governed by 59MDWI 44-137 Procedural Sedation. Each service determines the
        invasive procedures performed in their clinics. The clinical services within 59 MDOG
        and 59 DG conduct a review of operative, invasive and non-invasive procedures that
        place patients at risk. As required, ECOMS charters an Invasive Procedures Workgroup
        to standardize similar invasive procedure processes across the wing, perform reviews,
        and recommend items for improvement.

        4.3.10. Victims of Abuse. Victims of physical assault, sexual assault, sexual
        molestation, domestic abuse, or elder or child abuse and neglect are assessed and treated
        in accordance with 59MDWI 40-302, Management of Suspected Abused Patients.
        Suspected incidents of spousal or intimate partner abuse are referred immediately to
        Family Advocacy. Suspected incidents of child abuse or child neglect are referred
        immediately to Family Advocacy and to Texas Child Protective Services.

        4.3.11. Rehabilitative Care and Other Services. Patients are referred to rehabilitative
        services through the network. Providers, in conjunction with physical therapy,
        occupational therapy, discharge planning and other interdisciplinary team members,
        plan and provide for rehabilitative care after hospitalization.

5. Discharge or Transfer.

    5.1. Discharge planning is provided on admission to same day surgery patients to ensure
    that the transition to outpatient care is smooth and that the appropriate services and
    equipment are utilized. Discharge planning involves discharge planners, social workers,
    providers, physical therapy, nursing, and others as required. Planned follow-up is noted in
    the record or discharge summary and is outlined in 59MDWI 44-152, Medical Management
    Program.

    5.2. Transfer of patients to a hospital requires physician and nursing contacting the
    institution and completing a memorandum of transfer in accordance with Omnibus Budget
    Reconciliation and Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Acts, Texas law, and
    59MDW 41-122, Patient Transfers. Prior to discharge, necessary medical care is arranged
    as appropriate, to include, rehabilitative care, home care and follow-up needs.

    5.3. Coordinating referrals to other clinics and services internal or external to the
    organization is the responsibility of the referring clinic, and should be conducted as
    prescribed in 59MDWI 41-119, Outpatient Referrals and Consultations.

    5.4. In case of a major disaster or national emergency the 59 MDW follows the contingency
    plans contained in the Medical Contingency Response Plan.
10                                                     59THMDWI44-133 8 OCTOBER 2013


6. Medication Management.

     6.1. Medication selection, ordering, transcribing, preparing, dispensing, and administering
     is outlined in 59MDWI 44-115, Pharmacy and Medication Management, and follows Texas
     law and Air Force guidelines found in AFI 44-102 and Joint Commission National Patient
     Safety Goals.

     6.2. Medications stocked are, at a minimum, those required by Department of Defense
     Basic Core Formulary located at http://pec.ha.osd.mil/bcf.php. Additional medications are
     added to the formulary by the Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee after appropriate
     evaluation. A process to special order medications is available through the pharmacy. Drug
     recalls are closely monitored by the pharmacy and reported immediately to providers
     electronically. Patients are evaluated and treated as necessary. Complications of drug and
     immunization therapy are reported to the hotline 292-DRUG.

7. Surveillance, Prevention, and Control of Infection. 59MDWI 44-157, Infection Prevention
and Control Program, defines a coordinated process to reduce the risks, monitor, evaluate,
report, and follow-up actions of nosocomial infections in patients and health care workers. All
facility personnel, to include volunteers, civilian and contracted employees, are involved and are
supported by the wing Infection Control Office which reports to the SGH and ECOMS. The
wing commander appoints a qualified healthcare professional as chairperson of the Infection
Control Function and also appoints a certified Infection Preventionist.

8. Improving Organization Performance.

     8.1. The 59 MDW staff is commissioned to recognize and advance compliance, patient
     safety, risk management and continuous process improvement using outcomes of patient
     care, analysis of business practices, and customer satisfaction to achieve the wing’s goals.
     Metrics describing processes or outcomes that are high risk, high volume, high cost, and
     problem prone, are given priority. Details are specified in the 59MDWI 90-201,
     Compliance and Continuous Process Improvement. Performance data is reviewed by the
     groups, ECOMS, Process Improvement Comittee and the BOD.

     8.2. Measurement. Objective measures taken over time become the basis for determining
     the level of performance. The 59 MDW utilizes the Balanced Score Card, developed in the
     1990's by Drs. Robert Kaplan (Harvard Business School) and David Norton (Renaissance
     Solutions, Inc.), as an organizational framework and tool for describing, implementing and
     managing strategy at all levels of the organization. The wing has identified nine operational
     drivers that impact the wing’s three missions (core competencies). Performance indicators
     and objective measures have been developed to assess over time the status of each of these
     operational drivers and core competencies, respectively. Operational measure OM 1.2
     measures the delivery of integrated quality care and performance indicator PM 1.5 measures
     the delivery of quality clinical outcomes. In addition, once each quarter, a dashboard of
     clinical performance indicators comprised of measures and the Air Force Clinical
     Performance Metrics are presented to the BOD for review. The Balanced Scorecard
59THMDWI44-133 8 OCTOBER 2013                                                                   11

    contains non-clinical goals and measures as well that are aligned with the Air Education and
    Training Command Balanced Scorecard.

    8.3. Potential Sentinel Events are referred to Patient Safety (SGHP). SGHP initiates a
    review of the event and charters a Sentinel Event Workgroup. If the event meets sentinel
    event criteria, a root cause analysis (RCA) is completed. SGHP oversees the reporting,
    RCA, tracking, follow-up, and BOD/ECOMS briefs. In addition, SGHP briefs the BOD and
    ECOMS on Sentinel Events.

    8.4. Notice to Airmen (NOTAMs). Messages from the Air Force Surgeon General
    regarding important lessons learned throughout the AFMS. NOTAMs are posted on the
    Intranet and disseminated throughout the organization. Response is tracked.

9. Use of Clinical Practice Guidelines (CPGs). CPGs improve the quality, utilization, and
value of health care services. They help providers and patients make decisions about preventing,
diagnosing, treating, and managing selected conditions. DoD, Veterans Administration and
other proposed CPGs are forwarded to the Population Health Improvement Committee for
review and then presented to the ECOMS for final approval.

10. Management of the Environment of Care. The 59 MDW leadership ensures a safe,
functional, supportive and effective environment for patients, staff members and other
individuals in the facility. This is crucial to providing quality patient care and achieving good
outcomes. This is accomplished through effectively implementing Environment of Care
Management plans and processes. Formal structures are in place to oversee these processes.
Two committees, the Facility Environment of Care Committee, and the Facility Infrastructure
Committee are responsible for managing and monitoring the Environment of Care processes.
Staff receive training in applying the management plans at Newcomers Orientation, recurring
annual training, through email, newsletters, and commander’s calls. The Safety Officer conducts
annual and semi-annual hazard assessments of each group and each commander has appointed a
unit safety representative who assists in implementing and managing internal safety programs.

11. Management of Human Resources. Staffing plans are outlined in group plans for
provision of patient care.

    11.1. The 59 MDW staff includes active duty, Reserve, National Guard, civil services,
    contracted civilians, and volunteers.

    11.2. Numbers of authorized active duty personnel by rank and Air Force Specialty Code
    are established in accordance with Air Force Manpower Standards and formulas. Staffing
    plans for patient care areas are developed based on level and scope of care, acuity levels,
    competencies required, and customer need. Staffing issues are addressed by leaders at the
    flight, squadron, group and wing level.

    11.3. Credentialed providers are defined in accordance with AFI 44-119 and include
    dentists, clinical psychologists, clinical pharmacists, chiropractors, clinical social workers,
    clinical dietitians, nurse anesthetists, nurse practitioners, occupational therapists,
12                                                      59THMDWI44-133 8 OCTOBER 2013

     optometrists, physical therapists, physician assistants, physicians, podiatrists, audiologists
     and speech therapists.

     11.4. Non-credentialed personnel include registered nurses, licensed practical nurses,
     enlisted and civilian medical, pharmacy, lab, radiology and dental technicians, registered
     dental hygienists, pharmacists, laboratory officers, public health officers, bioenvironmental
     engineers, aerospace physiologists, and administrators.          Non-credentialed personnel
     maintain competency in accordance with Air Force, 59 MDWI 36-2601, Human Resource
     and Development Programs, AAAHC Human Resources Standards, and state licensing
     authorities.

     11.5. Orientation and education of staff is accomplished through newcomer’s orientation
     and unit specific training. Annual training required by the Air Force and other regulatory
     bodies is accomplished through briefings, the intranet and the annual “Safety Storm”
     campaign. Personnel participate in training programs to acquire, maintain, and improve job
     competency.

         11.5.1. Each group has an education and training officer to insure competency is
         assessed, maintained, and improved for each individual based on AFPD 44-1, Medical
         Operations; 59MDWI 36-2601; and AAAHC standards and elements of performance.




                                             NICOLA A. CHOATE, Colonel, USAF, MC
                                             Chief of the Medical Staff
59THMDWI44-133 8 OCTOBER 2013                                                           13


                                       Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations, 1 September 1999

AFI 33-332, Privacy Act and Civil Liberties Program, 5 June 2013

AFI 36-2909, Professional and Unprofessional Relationships, 1 May 1999

AFI 40-402, Protection of Human Subjects in Biomedical and Behavioral Research, 5 May 2005

AFI 41-117, Medical Service Officer Education, 19 October 2011

AFI 41-210, Tricare Operations and Patient Administration Functions, 6 June 2012

AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, 20 January 2012

AFI 44-103 The Air Force Independent Duty Medical Technician Program, 1 May 2005

AFI 44-119, Medical Quality Operations, 16 August 2011

AFI 46-101, Nursing Services and Operations, 28 October 2011

59MDWI 36-2601, Human Resource and Development Programs, 8 February 2011

59MDWI 40-302, Management of Suspected Abused Patients, 31 July 2009

59MDWI 41-102, Medical Committees and Functional Reviews, 4 March 2009

59MDWI 41-103, Ambulatory Nutrition Screening, 8 September 2005

59MDWI 41-115, Patient Advocate Program, 26 July 2013

59MDWI 41-119, Outpatient Referrals and Consultations, 3 March 2009

59MDW 41-122, Patient Transfers, 23 June 2009

59MDWI 41-123, Patient’s Rights, 2 June 2009

59MDWI 41-213, Management of Health Records and Documentation, 20 February 2009

59MDWI 44-121, Treatment of Minors, 2 December 2010
14                                                   59THMDWI44-133 8 OCTOBER 2013

59MDWI 41-122, Patient Transfers, 23 June 2009

59MDWI 44-105, Undergraduate and Graduate Trainee Supervision, 25 February 2011

59MDWI 44-115, Pharmacy and Medication Management, 28 August 2013

59MDWI 44-124, Pain Management, 21 June 2013

59MDWI 44-125, Nutrient-Drug Interactions, 24 April 2006

59MDWI 44-130, Patient Safety, 16 July 2013

59MDWI 44-137, Procedural Sedation, 21 December 2010

59MDWI 44-142, Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center Code Blue Management, 10 April
2013

59MDWI 44-145, Patient Assessment/Reassessment, 8 October 2009

59MDWI 44-150, Advanced Directives and End-Of-Life, 17 May 2011

59MDWI 44-152, Medical Management Program, 31 December 2008

59MDWI 44-157, Infection Prevention and Control Program, 23 May 2013

59MDWI 44-169, Consent for Medical Audio Visual Documentation, 7 February 2011

59MDWI 46-104, Nursing Care and Documentation, 9 August 2011

59MDWI 51-302, Informed Consent/Refusal of Treatment, Diagnostics, Blood or Blood
Products, 12 March 2010

59MDWI 90-201, Compliance and Continuous Process Improvement, 7 March 2013

59MDWI 91-203, Medical Wing Safety Program, 9 February 2009

DoD Directive 5400.7, DoD Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Program, 2 January 2008

DoD Directive 6025.18, Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health Information in DOD Health
Care Programs, 2 December 2009

Public Law 104-109, The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, 21
August 1996
59THMDWI44-133 8 OCTOBER 2013                                15


Prescribed Forms

None

Adopted Form

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms

AAAHC—Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care

AFMS—Air Force Medical Service

BOD—Board of Directors

CMO—Chief Medical Officer

CPG—Clinical Practice Guidelines

DoD—Department of Defense

ECOMS—Executive Committee of the Medical Staff

IAW—In Accordance With

IRB—Institutional Research Review Board

PCM—Primary Care Manager

MDW—Medical Wing

MDWI—Medical Wing Instruction

NOTAM—Notice to Airmen

OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility

SAMMC—San Antonio Military Medical Center

SGA—Wing Administrator

SGH—Chief of Medical Staff

SGHP—Patient Safety
16                                                      59THMDWI44-133 8 OCTOBER 2013

SGN—Chief Nurse Executive

RCA—Root Cause Analysis

SAMMC—San Antonio Military Medical Center

WHASC—Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center

Terms

Beneficiaries Served—Patients of all ages are served, from neonates through geriatric.

Patient Care—The application of knowledge, judgment, and skill derived from the principles of
biological, physical, behavioral, psychological, spiritual and medical sciences applied to patients
they access health services, are treated and discharged. Patient care is an interdisciplinary effort
between the patient and healthcare professionals and takes into account the patient’s culture and
language, needs, desires, responsibilities, and rights. The facility provides for competent staff to
provide patient care as evidenced by review of credentials and qualifications, experiences,
education and abilities are confirmed during orientation. If care, treatment, or service is not
within the realm of the organization then the plan is coordinated with outside resources in a
manner to provide safe patient care.
59THMDWI44-133 8 OCTOBER 2013                                                                     17


                                          Attachment 2

                          59 MDW MEDICAL CODE OF ETHICS

A2.1. The 59 MDW has adopted the Air Force Medical Service Code of Ethics, which follows:

    A2.1.1. The 59 MDW shall treat all patients, clinical staff, ancillary staff, visitors and others
    with respect, dignity, and courtesy.

    A2.1.2. The 59 MDW provides quality care and practices with compassion, competence,
    and integrity; and its staff will do so without regard to age, color, disability, ethnicity,
    national origin, race, rank, religious preference, or sex. The 59 MDW will evaluate and
    monitor quality of care and services.

    A2.1.3. The 59 MDW will, to the extent allowed by law and regulation, protect the
    confidentiality of information regarding patient care. Patients will be clearly informed of
    their conditions, prognoses, and treatment options.

    A2.1.4. The 59 MDW shall recognize and address conflicts between or among patients and
    staff. Patients and staff will be apprised of any circumstances created by law, regulation, or
    contractual relations, which may significantly affect the care, rendered.

    A2.1.5. The 59 MDW recognizes and respects the diverse ethical perspectives of its staff
    and will work in partnership with the staff to enhance ethical and clinical quality standards.
18                                                  59THMDWI44-133 8 OCTOBER 2013


                                       Attachment 3

                  CLINICAL SERVICES OF 59 MDW EXCLUDING SAMMC

Table A3.1. Clinical Services of 59 MDW excluding SAMMC.
 Acupuncture           Dermatology               Nutritional Therapy             Physical
                                                                                 Medicine &
                                                                                 Rehabilitation
 ADAPT                  Dermatology Vein            Neurology                    Physical Therapy


 Adolescent Medicine    Diabetic Education          Nutritional Medicine         Preventive Care
                                                                                 (Health and
                                                                                 Wellness Center)
 Aerospace Medicine     Diagnostic Radiology        Obstetrics                   Podiatry
 Allergy/Immunology     Endocrinology – Diabetes    Occupational Medicine        Prosthetic
                        Center of Excellence                                     Therapy
 Anatomic and Histo-    Endodontics                 Occupational Therapy         Prosthodontics
 Pathology
 Anesthesiology         Family Health               Ophthalmology                Psychiatry
 Apheresis Unit         Family Advocacy             Optometry                    Psychology
 Audiology              Gastroenterology            Oral Pathology               Pulmonary
                                                                                 Function Testing

 Behavioral Health      General Surgery             Oral/Maxillofacial Surgery   Pulmonary
                                                                                 Medicine
 Cardiac                Geriatrics                  Orthodontics                 Pulmonary
 Rehabilitation                                                                  Rehabilitation
 Cardiology             Gynecology                  Orthopedic Surgery           Refractive
                                                                                 Surgery
 Child Psychiatry       Hyperbaric Therapy          Otolaryngology               Sleep Medicine
 Chiropractic Care      Immunizations Clinic        Pain Management (moves       Social Services
                                                    to SAMMC October 2013)
 Clinical Social Work   Internal Medicine           Pathology                    Speech Pathology
 Congestive Heart       Interventional Radiology    Pediatrics                   Speech Therapy
 Failure Clinic
 Coumadin Clinic        Maxillofacial Prosthetics   Pediatric Dentistry          Urology
 Dental Primary Care    Neuropsychology             Periodontics                 Urgent Care
                                                    Pharmacy                     Wound-Ostomy
                                                                                 Clinic
