BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 41-122
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                           24 DECEMBER 2013

                                                                                 Health Services

                                                                        PATIENT TRANSFERS



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 59 MDSS/SGSBTA                                                   Certified by: 59 MDSS/CC
                                                                         (Lt Col William Fecke)
Supersedes:    59MDWI 41-122, 23 June                                                   Pages: 7
               2009


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 41-1, Health Care Programs and
Resources. This 59th Medical Wing Instruction (MDWI) outlines procedures for transferring
patients to and from the Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center (WHASC). This publication
applies to all personnel assigned, attached, or under contract to the 59th Medical Wing (MDW)
with the exception of personnel working under the purview of the 959th Medical Group [San
Antonio Military Medical Center (SAMMC)] and those at 359th Medical Group (Randolph
AFB). Transfer of patients from the WHASC is based on the patient’s need for services and our
ability to provide those services. The determination as to our ability to care for patients
transferred out is based on all applicable 59 MDW, Air Force, and Department of Defense (DoD)
regulations as well as the patient’s consent for treatment. This instruction does not apply to the
Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve. This instruction requires the collection and
maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by Title 10, United
States Code, Section 8013. Privacy Act System of Record F044 AF SG Q, Family Advocacy
Program Record, applies. Collected information is “For Official Use Only.” Request to release
Privacy Act information to persons or agencies outside the Department of Defense (DoD) must
be in accordance with (IAW) AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program, DoD 5400.7,
Freedom of Information Act, and DoD 6025.18-R, DoD Health Information Privacy. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. The
authority to waive requirements is the publication approval authority. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force
Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information
Management System Records Disposition Schedule.
 2                                                        59MDWI41-122 24 DECEMBER 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include deleted references to in-patient services and updated responsibilities.
1. Transferring Patients to Other Medical Treatment Facilities (MTFs).
     1.1. All clinics within the WHASC will:
        1.1.1. Coordinate all patient transfers to other facilities as directed by a medical provider.
        1.1.2. No ambulance company may be called without contacting the Medical Response
        Center (MRC).
        1.1.3. MRC will dispatch first to Lackland Emergency Medical Service if, available, and
        then to local Emergency Medical Service services (AMR, Metro, etc.).
        1.1.4. The contract ambulance company must provide an attendant, whose background
        check has been completed, to accompany minor patients in the back of the ambulance.
        1.1.5. In those cases where the contract company cannot supply such personnel, the
        transferring unit is responsible for providing an attendant (e.g., family member, legal
        guardian or military escort in compliance with AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management)
        to ride in the back of the ambulance with the patient.
     1.2. Physician must complete 59 MDW Form 27, Patient Transfer Record, and explain why
     patient requires ambulance transport.
     1.3. Patients not already in the Urgent Care Center should keep patient in clinic until the
     ambulance arrives.
     1.4. Physician Responsibilities.
        1.4.1. Physician must complete 59 MDW Form 27 and explain why patient requires
        ambulance transport.
        1.4.2. The attending physician will appropriate level of service (e.g., Basic Life Support
        (BLS), Advanced Cardiac Life Support, Pediatric Advanced Life Support, Neonatal
        Resuscitation Program, etc.) needed for the patient’s transfer.
        1.4.3. Determine when patients need to be transferred to another facility in order to
        obtain appropriate medical care. The decision to transfer a patient to another facility is
        based on the patient’s healthcare needs and the ability of the WHASC to meet these
        needs.
        1.4.4. Ensures patient and appropriate family members are involved in all decisions
        regarding transfers.
        1.4.5. For all direct admission to SAMMC, a provider must obtain an accepting
        physician for all in-patient admission transfers. As for life-threatening emergencies, an
        effort should be made to call the destination emergency room after patient has left the
        facility.
        1.4.6. Determines the need or type of medical attendant to accompany the patient during
        transport IAW 59MDWI 24-301, Transportation of Patients and Materials. Determines
59MDWI41-122 24 DECEMBER 2013                                                                  3


     method of transportation (i.e., Government Air, or ground ambulance).            If ground
     ambulance is required, specifies the need for Advanced Life Support or BLS.
     1.4.7. Ensure appropriate life support measures are available during transfer. If the
     patient is being transferred by one of our ambulances and/or crew, a medical attendant
     will be present in the “back” of the ambulance at all times. If not otherwise ordered by
     the physician, vital signs will be taken every 5 minutes for critical patients and every 15
     minutes for all other patients.
     1.4.8. The clinics will notify the MRC using 911 for all life-threatening conditions. And
     for non-emergency issues; the clinics will call (210) 292-7654 to request an ambulance.
     The 59 MDW Form 27 will be used for all patients who need to be transferred to another
     facility.
     1.4.9. The clinic staff completes the 59 MDW Form 27 fully documenting patient’s
     medical condition, makes a copy of the patient’s encounter and gives to the ambulance
     service. Sufficient documentation is necessary to ensure coverage of transport by
     insurance. Failure could result in completion of statement of medical necessity by
     transferring physician at a later date.
     1.4.10. For same day surgery patients transferred from the WHASC, provider must enter
     a progress note, document in Essentris or Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology
     Application, and enter a physician transfer note.
     1.4.11. For all emergency medical contingencies refer to AETCI 10-202, Contingency
     Operations and Preparation and 59 MDW Medical Contingency Response Plan.
     1.4.12. When a transfer is required due to a complication from procedure, infusion or
     any other kind of treatment, the physician will file a report to the 59 MDOG/SGH so the
     event will be listed on the unplanned patient transfer log. The report will contain patient
     and physician information, procedure, complication, risks involved, and the patient's
     outcome. The unplanned transfers log is reviewed at the Ambulatory Surgery Forum
     quarterly. Trends and action items are reported from there to Executive Committee of the
     Medical Staff and to the Board of Directors.
     1.4.13. A registered nurse will provide a “patient report” via telephone to nursing staff of
     receiving facility on transferred patients that require in-patient admission, with the
     [exception of patients transferred via Transportation Command Regulating and
     Command & Control Evacuation Center or if the patient has a life-threatening emergency
     and was transported to an emergency room (ER)].
  1.5. The TRICARE Service Center will:
     1.5.1. Provide information to patients and their families concerning health benefits
     available and cost sharing involved under the various programs through which patients
     are transferred from the WHASC to other providers of care. These programs include, but
     are not limited to, TRICARE, Veterans Affairs, Medicare, Alternative Care, Health Care
     Finder, and Participating Provider Programs.
     1.5.2. Assist patients and their families in applying for authorized special health benefits
     program coverage, TRICARE Home Health Care Demonstration, and other services as
     required.
 4                                                       59MDWI41-122 24 DECEMBER 2013


        1.5.3. If required, process the DD Form 2161, Referral for Civilian Medical Care.
2. Transferring Patients from Mental Health.
     2.1. Patients emergently identified as requiring in-patient level care should be routed to the
     SAMMC ER. Should SAMMC ER be on diversion, transfer to an alternate facility will be
     handled on a case by case basis.
     2.2. WHASC Mental Health Clinic (MHC) will ensure the safety of patient while awaiting
     transport.
        2.2.1. A WHASC MHC technician will be assigned to ensure positive control of patient.
        2.2.2. Engage the patient's command structure for further positive control support while
        in WHASC MHC. This serves two purposes in that it provides an additional layer of
        safety control as well as optimizes command accountability awareness of their member.
            2.2.2.1. If patient’s command is unable/unwilling to report to WHASC MHC, the
            provider should recommend a representative from the patient’s command meet the
            patient at SAMMC ER. If command is unwilling/unavailable to emergently meet
            patient at SAMMC ER, advise command patient's disposition could include
            admission to SAMMC in-patient mental health (210) 916-2069 or network facility (to
            include Laurel Ridge Treatment Center (210) 491-9400).
            2.2.2.2. Advise command they are responsible for maintaining acute positive control
            of patient in the unlikely event they are not admitted and they are likewise responsible
            for maintaining accountability of the patient while the patient is admitted and at the
            time of discharge. Encourage proactive command engagement with in-patient facility
            to accomplish this. Advise command the WHASC MHC will maintain high interest
            accountability during admission and following discharge.
     2.3. The provider will call SAMMC mental health (MH) consultation team pager: (210)
     594-6127 or (210) 513-2243 to advise the psychiatry team of incoming patient's clinical
     condition and associated recommendation for in-patient level care to optimize continuity of
     care. WHASC MHC provider should provide SAMMC MH consultation team with MHC
     provider's pager or contact information and request SAMMC consultation team re-engage
     referring provider to apprise of ultimate disposition including whether patient was admitted
     or not and if admitted, where. Note: SAMMC MH psychiatric consultation team is already
     functioning as the entry control point to in-patient level care for SAMMC/Fort Sam Houston
     Army out-patient mental health providers.
     2.4. Provider completes 59 MDW Form 27 annotating there is no "accepting physician" as
     the patient is being moved to the ER for evaluation of recommended in-patient level care.
     2.5. Provider gives completed 59 MDW Form 27 to the MHC technician. MHC technician
     will give copy of 59 MDW Form 27 to ambulance serves as patient record.
     2.6. Provider awaits feedback from SAMMC consultation team and/or proactively follow-up
     to optimize WHASC MHC accountability of patient. Note: Individual provider decision
     making/discretion based on unique clinical circumstances will at times influence adherence
     to this suggested procedure.
3. Transferring Stable and Unstable Patients from the WHASC clinics.
59MDWI41-122 24 DECEMBER 2013                                                                   5


  3.1. Unstable patients will be stabilized prior to transfer if at all possible. Once stabilized,
  patients may be transferred IAW the guidelines for “Stable Patients.” When an unstable
  patient requires transfer to another hospital, the treating team should call 911. The MRC will
  dispatch a base ambulance to take the patient to the nearest emergency room. In addition,
  these guidelines must be followed.
     3.1.1. Stable Patients.
     3.1.2. An individual is considered stable only when there is reasonable medical
     probability no medical deterioration of the medical condition is likely to result from, or
     occur, during transfer. Documentation on the patient’s record should indicate clearly the
     status of the individual’s condition and the treatment provided to stabilize the patient.
     The physician must also document transfer plans discussed with patient and/or
     appropriate family members and the patient’s consent.
     3.1.3. The attending physician will document as much medical information as possible in
     the medical record prior to transfer as much as possible. This documentation will include
     a brief description of the patient’s medical history and physical examination; provisional
     diagnosis and recorded physical assessment at the time of transfer, results of all
     diagnostic tests, pertinent x-ray films and reports, condition on release from the clinics,
     and any other pertinent information.
     3.1.4. Make every possible attempt for the patient’s medical record to arrive with the
     patient. The required documents include: copies of all records and diagnostic studies (lab
     work, Electrocardiogram, x-rays, etc.) related to the patient’s medical condition,
     observations of signs or symptoms, preliminary diagnosis, treatment provided, and results
     of any additional tests.
     3.1.5. When a stable patient is to be transferred to another medical treatment facility, the
     transferring physician will complete the 59 MDW Form 27 and clearly identify why the
     patient must be transported by ambulance.
  3.2. Unstable Patients.
     3.2.1. Unstable patients will be transferred to the nearest emergency department or
     SAMMC, depending on clinical condition. The base ambulance system will be used by
     calling 911 from a JBSA-Lackland AFB telephone. A brief attempt to stabilize patient
     before transport should be made while awaiting arrival of paramedics.
     3.2.2. The transfer of an unstable patient must include documentation of the clinical
     condition in the medical record and 59 MDW Form 27.
     3.2.3. Completion of the 59 MDW Form 27 will be completed following the guidelines
     of this form for stable patients (paragraph 3.2.2.6.). A summary of specific risks and
     benefits associated with transfer must be documented on this form.
     3.2.4. Additional guidelines listed in paragraphs 3.1.2. through 3.1.6. for the transfer of
     stable patients, should be followed.
     3.2.5. An unstable but competent patient may refuse to accept a transfer. Refusal must
     be documented by the physician as “Against Medical Advice” in the patient’s medical
     record prior to the patient being released from treatment.
6                                                         59MDWI41-122 24 DECEMBER 2013


    3.3. Patients Ineligible for Care.
       3.3.1. All ineligible patients seen for care at a MTF or for which the MTF does not have
       the capability to treat at the facility, will be instructed to seek medical care where they are
       eligible for care. Those patients who have an emergency medical condition will be
       transferred IAW this instruction and billed accordingly.
       3.3.2. The decision to transfer will not be made on the basis of ability to pay, amount of
       time required for treatment, prognosis, immigration status, criminal status, sex, race,
       creed, or national origin. The patient will be included in the transfer decision.
       3.3.3. If the patient has private health insurance, the patient or patient’s family will be
       expected to arrange for payment of their transportation. WHASC personnel cannot
       recommend a specific medical transport service to a patient or family based on
       established protocol.




                                              GLENN A. YAP, Colonel, USAF, MSC
                                              Administrator, 59th Medical Wing
59MDWI41-122 24 DECEMBER 2013                                            7


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 41-1, Health Care Programs and Resources, 15 April 1994
AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, 20 January 2012
AETCI 10-202, Contingency Operations and Preparation, 29 October 2003
59MDWI 24-301, Transportation of Patients and Materials, 28 April 2005
Prescribed Form
59 MDW Form 27, Patient Transfer Record
Adopted Forms
DD Form 2161, Referral for Civilian Medical Care
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
BLS—Basic Life Support
DoD—Department of Defense
ER—Emergency Room
IAW—In Accordance With
MDW—Medical Wing
MDWI—Medical Wing Instruction
MH—Mental Health
MHC—Mental Health Clinic
MRC—Medical Response Center
MTF—Medical Treatment Facilities
SAMMC—San Antonio Medical Center
WHASC—Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center
