BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 44-192
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                                7 MARCH 2013

                                                                                        Medical

                                                             URGENT CARE CENTER (UCC)
                                                                          OPERATIONS



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 59 EMS/SG03O                                                    Certified by: 59 EMDS/CC
                                                                   (Lt Col Patrick Muehlberger)
                                                                                       Pages: 12


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 44-1, Medical Operations. This
instruction establishes policies and procedures regarding examination and treatment for medical
conditions within the Urgent Care Center (UCC). This instruction applies to all personnel
assigned, attached, or on contract to the 59th Medical Wing (59 MDW). This instruction does
not apply to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
Information Management System Records Disposition Schedule.

1. Guidelines.
   1.1. The patient population served by the UCC includes basic military trainees, technical
   trainees, active duty, TRICARE Prime and TRICARE Plus enrollees and any person holding
   a valid Armed Forces identification card designating they are eligible for care at any medical
   treatment facility. The ages of the population range from 2 years old and up. Access to care
   is established through verification of Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System
   enrollment at check in. The clinic is open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week on a walk-in basis.
   1.2. Patients presenting to the UCC will be screened in order of acuity and arrival time. The
   UCC will provide health maintenance for acute medical illnesses through individual
   examination, treatment and coordination of outpatient services. The individual’s primary
 2                                                               59MDWI44-192 7 MARCH 2013


     care manager (PCM) is to ensure a high level of continuity of care and follow referrals made
     to civilian facilities on behalf of the individual which originated in the UCC.
     1.3. Treatment at the UCC will be limited to patients screened as non-emergent. Emergent
     patients will be stabilized and transferred as appropriate.
     1.4. Patients presenting to the UCC requesting a blood pressure check will be referred to
     their PCM.
     1.5. Emergent patients are those presenting with symptoms of illness, disease or injury likely
     to result in imminent and lasting harm. In the event an emergent patient presents to the UCC,
     staff members will arrange transport to an Emergency Department utilizing Lackland Air
     Force Base Emergency Medical Service (EMS) for unstable patients IAW 59 MDWI 41-122,
     Patient Transfers. If Lackland EMS is not immediately available, UCC staff will activate
     civilian EMS by dialing 911. Stable patients may be transported by contract ambulance.
     UCC staff will take immediate actions to stabilize the patient while awaiting transport.
     1.6. When the Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center UCC is saturated and unable to care
     for non-active duty patients in a timely fashion, they will be offered referrals for care at
     network civilian urgent care centers.
     1.7. This instruction is not all inclusive. The medical provider or nurse may digress for the
     purpose of appropriate medical treatment of the patient on a case-by-case basis as deemed
     necessary.
     1.8. Attachment 2 is a list of common conditions and complaints that may be seen and
     treated in the UCC, although Providers may deviate from this list at their discretion. This list
     is a guideline and provider evaluation and consultation with specialty services may occur in
     some cases.
2. Shift Duties.
     2.1. The charge nurse (CN), Enlisted Shift Leader (ESL) and UCC staff physician are
     responsible for delivery of patient care on his/her assigned shift.
     2.2. Although registered nurses (RN)s assume ultimate responsibility and accountability for
     the delivery of nursing care, the medical technician or licensed vocational nurse (LVN) may
     assume responsibilities and perform authorized duties and procedures commensurate with
     their educational level, training, experience, and technical skill level under the direction of a
     RN and/or licensed provider.
     2.3. All personnel will report to duty in uniform as per squadron policy, change into clean
     surgical scrubs (if applicable and desired) and will be ready for change-of-shift at the
     appointed time.
     2.4. The on-coming shift will receive patient report from the off-going shift. Also, personnel
     will receive duty/nursing assignments from CN and ESL. The CN and the ESL will write
     assignments on the assignment board. After receiving assignments, the on-coming
     nurse/tech teams will round on assigned areas/patients with the off-going shift.
        2.4.1. All personnel will be responsible for keeping their individual work area and
        counter tops clean IAW Infection Control policy.
59MDWI44-192 7 MARCH 2013                                                                         3


   2.5. Staff will refer all patient advocate concerns IAW Patient Advocacy Program (i.e. upset
   patients/visitors, complaints, questions of policy) to the appointed customer advocate to
   resolve issues. If further intervention is needed, the non-commissioned officer in charge
   (NCOIC)/element leader/flight commander will get involved and, if needed the squadron
   commander.
   2.6. All personnel will be responsible for ensuring patient sensitivity, confidentiality and
   privacy along with patient safety and universal precautions throughout the UCC IAW Health
   Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, 59 MDW and Infection Control regulations.
   2.7. Staff will participate in change of shift reports and communicate patient information
   using the standardized hand-off communication technique IAW situation, background,
   assessment, recommendations (SBAR).
   2.8. The nightshift administrative personnel will print daily culture results. This list will be
   given to the nightshift CN who will review it for abnormal results. Any abnormal results are
   relayed to the dayshift provider on duty. The provider will then follow up with patients no
   longer in the UCC as necessary and document appropriately on the culture results sheet.
       2.8.1. All results will be filed on the wall behind the charge nurse desk for a month.
       2.8.2. Hard copies of abnormal cultures will then be filed for 2 years with the squadron
       commander’s secretary.
3. Responsibilities.
   3.1. Provider.
       3.1.1. The provider is accountable for directing and managing the safe and appropriate
       medical care of patients presenting to the UCC. This is to include, but not limited to:
       directing patient care, diagnosing/treating health conditions, performing and supervising
       appropriate procedures to the extent of individual skills and credentials and UCC
       capabilities, initiating referrals to civilian facilities/San Antonio Military Medical Center
       (SAMMC) and ancillary services for urgent needs and transfers, if deemed medically
       necessary.
       3.1.2. Routine overreads from Radiology needing follow up are placed by staff
       radiologists in the IMPAX “UCC Follow-Up Folder” for the dayshift physician on duty
       to review and follow up with patients as necessary. Providers will document follow up
       actions directly in IMPAX.
       3.1.3. The provider will document all medical care provided in the medical record. All
       documentation will be completed prior to leaving at the end of the shift.
       3.1.4. If care of the patient must be transferred to another provider, then a note will be
       documented in the chart stating the patient’s current status, accepting provider’s name
       and time of turnover. Communication will include a verbal report between providers
       IAW SBAR.
       3.1.5. UCC providers will provide on line medical control to Lackland EMS, as
       credentialed, in conjunction with SAMMC emergency department (ED) physicians to
       help determine patients that are appropriate for transport to the UCC. SAMMC ED
       physicians will serve as the subject matter experts for on line medical control.
4                                                              59MDWI44-192 7 MARCH 2013


    3.2. Clinical Nurse.
       3.2.1. Provides nursing care to assigned patients.
       3.2.2. Supervises all activities of UCC nursing personnel to ensure that patient safety is
       met at all times.
       3.2.3. Reviews shift reports to ensure accuracy and completeness.
       3.2.4. Controls visitor flow in and out of the UCC.
       3.2.5. Assists the provider in coordinating patient transfers.
       3.2.6. Performs and documents an initial and ongoing nursing assessment of the patient’s
       physical and psychosocial status.
       3.2.7. Ensures all provider orders are completed in a timely manner.
       3.2.8. Nurses will perform and assist with procedures IAW scope of practice, [i.e.,
       initiation of intravenous (IV) therapy, splinting, breathing treatments, etc. (Attachment
       2)].
       3.2.9. Documents completion of orders, treatments, and medications to include patient
       response.
       3.2.10. Ensures medical technicians document completion of orders, interventions, and
       patient response.
       3.2.11. Evaluates and modifies nursing care based on observable patient responses.
       3.2.12. Informs staff physician of all patients requiring immediate attention.
       3.2.13. Enters patient referrals into Composite Health Care System (CHCS) for all non-
       active duty beneficiaries who request a referral to a network civilian urgent care clinic.
    3.3. Medical Technician.
       3.3.1. Provides care IAW the Career Field Education and Training Plan to assigned
       patients under the direction of a RN or privileged provider.
       3.3.2. Prepares patients for exams, (i.e. assist with gowning, prepare equipment and
       supplies).
       3.3.3. Assists with planning, coordinating, and supervising the care of assigned patients.
       3.3.4. Inputs data into CHCS for provider ordered lab and radiology requests.
       3.3.5. Assists in completing and documenting orders, treatments, and medications to
       include patient’s response.
       3.3.6. Technicians will perform and assist with procedures in accordance with (IAW)
       scope of practice, [i.e., initiation of IV therapy, splinting, breathing treatments, etc.
       (Attachment 2)].
       3.3.7. Evaluates and modifies nursing care based on observable patient responses
       3.3.8. Informs staff physician of all patients requiring immediate attention.
       3.3.9. Assists the provider/administrative technician in coordinating patient transfers.
59MDWI44-192 7 MARCH 2013                                                                      5


     3.3.10. Checks assigned duty areas for emergency equipment, supply levels, expiration
     dates, and cleanliness. Restocks and cleans IAW established stock levels and
     environmental management procedures.
     3.3.11. Prepares for change of shift by ensuring that all assigned areas are clean, stocked,
     and documentation is completed.
     3.3.12. Provides support and fill in for administrative technicians when necessary.
  3.4. Charge Nurse (CN).
     3.4.1. The CN is the department nurse coordinator who has the overall responsibility and
     accountability for the coordination and provision of nursing care within the UCC during
     their assigned shift.
     3.4.2. Serves as representative for flight commander.
     3.4.3. Delegates nurse assignments and coordinates care provided by medical technicians
     through the ESL.
     3.4.4. Promotes the smooth flow of patients through the UCC.
     3.4.5. Adjusts assignments and redirects resources and personnel in coordination with
     ESL as necessary to meet patient care requirements.
     3.4.6. Coordinates the dispatch of personnel for disaster response/medical contingencies
     in coordination with the ESL and staff physician.
     3.4.7. When a UCC staff physician is not immediately available, receives and documents
     Wilford Hall Ambulance (WAM) telephone reports and notifies staff physician.
     3.4.8. Keeps the UCC personnel informed of any actual or potential WAM arrivals,
     delays in patient care, or situations that will alter patient flow and care priorities.
     3.4.9. Receives change of shift report on all patients in the treatment and exam rooms.
     Assesses patient status, IV lines, current treatments, and pending orders. Ensures patient
     comfort and safety.
     3.4.10. Informs staff physician of all emergent patients.
     3.4.11. Keeps staff physician informed of overall UCC status, excessive patient wait
     times and coordinates with the staff physician on measures to expedite patient care.
     3.4.12. Informs patients and family members in the treatment and exam rooms of
     anticipated and actual treatment delays.
     3.4.13. Ensures the shift report is generated prior to the end of each shift.
     3.4.14. Ensures safety of patients and assigned personnel in instances of accidents,
     disasters, defective equipment or threatening individuals.
     3.4.15. Places patients with suspected contagious rashes/diseases in negative flow
     isolation room (room 16).
     3.4.16. Ensures UCC medication carts and crash carts are stocked and inspected at least
     twice daily at change of shift.
     3.4.17. Ensures daily shift checklists are completed.
6                                                             59MDWI44-192 7 MARCH 2013


       3.4.18. Ensures environment of care and medication discrepancies are resolved before
       releasing their shift from duty.
       3.4.19. Calls back patients who left without being seen no later than the next day.
       3.4.20. Reviews culture results and reports abnormal results to the provider on duty.
    3.5. Enlisted Shift Leader (ESL).
       3.5.1. A senior medical technician, preferably a noncommissioned officer, is assigned as
       the ESL for each shift. The ESL can delegate responsibilities to other trained technicians.
       3.5.2. Maintains control of the ESL keys that accesses vital supply areas.
       3.5.3. Assumes both accountability and responsibility for the conduct/activities of all
       enlisted personnel on duty.
       3.5.4. Informs the CN and staff physician of all requests for manpower, equipment loans,
       and ambulance transportations.
       3.5.5. Serves as a representative for the NCOIC in his/her absence.
       3.5.6. Remains alert for property/facility issues throughout the unit. In the absence of
       NCOIC, reports acute problems to Facilities Management and documents problems on
       the shift report.
       3.5.7. Coordinates and makes nursing assignments for 4NOX1/LVN staff.
       3.5.8. Coordinates with the CN and staff physician for dispatching of personnel for
       disaster responses.
       3.5.9. Reviews all documentation for the previous 24 hour period (i.e. checklists, shift
       summary report, ESL checklist). Makes necessary corrections to ensure completeness of
       documentation and turns into NCOIC.
       3.5.10. Accounts for all UCC property. Completes appropriate hand receipts and other
       documentation for all items leaving the department.
       3.5.11. Ensures all appropriate checklists and documentation are completed as required
       3.5.12. Conducts safety inspections throughout the UCC and documents correction of
       safety violations.
       3.5.13. Performs recall procedures and completes the after action report. This report
       must be completed and placed on the NCOIC’s desk by 0600 the next duty day.
       3.5.14. Conducts hazardous materials response training.
       3.5.15. Conducts mass accident response exercise scenario drills.
       3.5.16. Performs feedback and/or counseling for substandard care or inappropriate
       behavior and notifies the NCOIC.
    3.6. Administrative Personnel.
       3.6.1. The administrative staff is responsible for verifying eligibility, collecting
       insurance data, collecting injury information and recording injury information on AF
       Form 1488, Daily Log of Patients Treated for Injuries. All individuals without an
59MDWI44-192 7 MARCH 2013                                                                        7


       identification card that claim to be a military beneficiary must complete WHMC Form
       5036, Medical Treatment Eligibility Statement. The registration staff is responsible for
       entering patients into both CHCS and Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology
       Application (AHLTA).
       3.6.2. All non-active duty patients treated in the UCC are required to complete a DD
       Form 2569, Third Party Insurance Collection. All completed DD Form 2569 will be
       turned into Third Party Insurance Collections.
       3.6.3. CHCS Process: Each patient must have a CHCS walk-in appointment established.
       After the appointment entry is complete, the registration staff will create labels for the
       patient’s visit. In the event that CHCS is down, the patients chart will be used to create a
       walk-in visit when CHCS is back on line. This can also be accomplished by the
       administrative staff when completing the CHCS End-of-Day Report.
       3.6.4. When a provider in the UCC has completed their evaluation and treatment of a
       patient and is ready for discharge, they will verify with the staff that scanning of
       appropriate documentation into AHLTA is complete. Then the electronic record of the
       visit must be closed out in AHLTA by the provider.
       3.6.5. CHCS End-of-Day Process: Upon discharge from UCC, each chart should be
       compared to the data in CHCS and ALTHA for the UCC. The purpose of this report is to
       ensure that each patient seen in the previous 24 hour period is reflected against the UCC,
       that we have on hand the patient charting and that the appropriate provider is identified as
       well as the patient’s disposition. The administrative technician is responsible for the
       UCC End of Day Report.
   3.7. The nightshift administrative personnel will print daily culture results and give them to
   the CN for review.
4. General Duties.
   4.1. The administrative technician will perform demographic and vital information intake.
   The medical technician will obtain vital signs and final chart printing for each patient.
   4.2. Patients who require immediate care will be taken directly to a room and immediately
   assessed by a physician who will determine if a transfer is needed.
   4.3. All patients or visitors in the waiting room will be notified of actual and expected
   delays.
   4.4. A nurse or provider will screen patients presenting to the UCC and document the
   encounter on the UCC flow sheet. When a patient’s condition is deemed emergent, the UCC
   will stabilize, to their ability, and transfer the patient to the nearest qualified facility. If
   transfer is necessary, UCC personnel will arrange for the ambulance service to transport the
   patient.
5. Patient Transfers.
   5.1. IAW 59 MDWI 41-122, patients who are evaluated and deemed to require transfer to
   another facility will be transferred via ambulance or private or government vehicle as
   appropriate. The provider on duty evaluates the patient to determine the need for Basic Life
   Support or Advanced Cardiac Life Support ambulance transport.
 8                                                              59MDWI44-192 7 MARCH 2013


     5.2. The administrative technician on duty at the time of transfer will ensure that appropriate
     documentation is completed and sent with the transporting ambulance crew.
        5.2.1. The administrative technician will contact a contract ambulance agency for
        transfer to civilian facility for stable patients. If the patient’s condition is deemed
        emergent requiring immediate transfer, the staff will dial 911 or activate WAM for
        transfer to the nearest appropriate facility.
6. Staffing.
     6.1. All nurses and technicians assigned to the UCC must meet the proficiency and skill
     verification required for 59 MDW. All providers will be credentialed by the 59 MDW.
     6.2. The shifts available for staff scheduling will be varied between Air Force Specialty
     Code. There will be at least one physician on duty at all times. Staff schedules will be
     created and modified as needed to best meet patient demands.
     6.3. Staffing will be augmented by a physician assistant as available, during peak patient
     flow hours. Staff will work a combination of 8, 10 and 12 hour shifts.
7. Patient Education.
     7.1. Patients are provided education on their diagnosis.
     7.2. The UCC provider will complete the 59 MDW Form 160, Urgent Care Center
     Discharge Summary. The 59 MDW Form 160 will include, but is not limited to, any
     necessary education, quarters, diagnosis, referrals and follow-up. The patient will receive a
     copy and sign a copy for the UCC records.
8. Impaired Providers.
     8.1. Any UCC staff may intervene when there is a concern for an impaired/incapacitated
     provider on duty. If another provider is available, they will immediately take over care of
     that patient.
        8.1.1. The staff will immediately notify the charge nurse and continue to monitor and
        provide basic life support until another provider is able to take over the patient’s care.
        The charge nurse will immediately notify the element leader/flight commander or the
        squadron commander.
     8.2. If a midlevel provider is on duty, they will continue to evaluate and treat UCC patients,
     and if necessary, transfer to another facility for higher level of care. Clinical supervision
     may be via telephone with the flight or squadron commander, or the emergency physician on
     duty at SAMMC ED.
     8.3. If available, the squadron commander will provide staffing.
        8.3.1. The group commander will be notified to provide further guidance if options in
        paragraphs 8.2 or 8.3 above are not able to implemented. The group commander may
        direct temporary diversion and referral of UCC patients, or to pull a provider from
        another duty section.
59MDWI44-192 7 MARCH 2013                                      9


                            HELEN HOOTSMANS, Colonel, MC, FS
                            Chief of the Medical Staff
 10                                                        59MDWI44-192 7 MARCH 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations, 1 September 1999
59 MDWI 41-122, Patient Transfers, 23 June 2009
Prescribed Form
59MDW Form 160, Urgent Care Center Discharge Summary

Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1488, Daily Log of Patients Treated for Injuries
DD Form 2569, Third Party Insurance Collection
WHMC Form 5036, Medical Treatment Eligibility Statement

Acronyms and Abbreviations
AHLTA—Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application
CN—Charge Nurse
CHCS—Composite Health Care System
ED—Emergency Department
EMS—Emergency Medical Service
ESL—Enlisted Shift Leader
IAW—In Accordance With
IV—Intravenous
LVN—Licensed Vocational Nurse
MDW—Medical Wing
NCOIC—Noncommissioned Office in Charge
PCM—Primary Care Manager
RN—Registered Nurse
SAMMC—San Antonio Military Medical Center
SBAR—Situation, Background, Assessment, Recommendations
WAM—Wilford Hall Ambulance
UCC—Urgent Care Center
59MDWI44-192 7 MARCH 2013                                                                     11


                                         Attachment 2
                                      SCOPE OF CARE

A2.1. The following medical complaints will be within the capability of the UCC as long as the
patient has stable vital signs, an intact airway, no respiratory distress and no uncontrolled
bleeding. This list is not all inclusive and the professional judgment of the UCC staff should be
final determining factor on what can be handled in the UCC. It would be inappropriate to refer
individuals to the UCC who are in danger of losing eyesight, limb or life.

Table A2.1. UCC Scope of Care.
 Wound Care
 Simple laceration repair
 Suture removal
 Simple abscess treatment
 Wound repacking
 Nail repairs/removal
 Puncture wound treatment
 Soft tissue foreign body removal
 Minor animal bites
 Insect envenomation (without allergic reaction)
 Abrasions
 Pulmonary Issues (without distress)
 Bronchitis
 Community-acquired pneumonia
 Mild asthma exacerbations
 Cold and flu symptoms
 Cough evaluation
 Gastrointestinal Complaints
 Nausea, vomiting and diarrhea
 Reflux
 Minor rectal bleeding from hemorrhoids or fissures
 Constipation
 Renal and Genitourinary Complaints
 Urinary tract infections
 Sexually transmitted diseases
 Neurologic Complaints
 Migraines (with established history)
 Vertigo
 Women’s Health Issues
 Pregnancy test
 Minor pelvic discomfort in non-pregnant patient
 Vaginal bleeding in non-pregnant patient
 Vulvovaginitis and vaginal candidiasis
 Sexually transmitted disease
12                                                      59MDWI44-192 7 MARCH 2013


Plan B
Mastitis
Pediatric Complaints
Fever
Ear and throat infection
Rashes
Minor asthma exacerbation
Mild croup
Vomiting and diarrhea
Urinary tract infection
Foreign body in the nose/ear
Infectious Illnesses
Traveler’s diarrhea
Environmental Injuries
Minor burns including sunburns
Insect bites/stings (no allergic reaction)
Poison ivy
Eyes, Ear, Nose and Throat
Eye pain with intact vision
Red eye with intact vision
Minor corneal abrasion
Ear pain
Cerumen removal
Sinusitis
Sore throats
Seasonal allergy exacerbations
Mild epistaxis in otherwise healthy patient
Dental Complaints
After initial evaluation, refer to appropriate Dental
personnel for resolution
Skin Disorders
Minor rash
Shingles
Hives
Parasite infestation
Musculoskeletal Complaints
Joint sprains and strains
Minor fractures
Sports injuries
Back and neck strain
Bursitis and tendonitis
