BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 44-121
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                            2 DECEMBER 2010
                                                            Certified Current, 11 December 2012
                                                                                       Medical

                                                                    TREATMENT OF MINORS



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR:           59 MCCS/SGOBP                                           Certified by: 59 MCCS/CC
Supersedes:    59MDWI44-121,                                            (Lt Col Michael Roberts)
               25 January 2006                                                           Pages: 5


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 44-1, Medical Operations. This
instruction establishes policies for the medical treatment of minors throughout the 59th Medical
Wing. Air Force Instruction (AFI) 44-102, Medical Care Management, paragraph 7, states that
Medical Facility Commanders will comply with state laws governing consent for medical
treatment of minors. This instruction applies to all personnel assigned, attached or on contract to
the 59 Medical Wing (MDW). This instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard or Air
Force Reserve. This instruction requires the collection and maintenance of information protected
by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by Title 10, United States Code, Section 8013. Privacy
Act system of records notices F044 AF SG E, Medical Record System. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using the
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition       Schedule        on      the      Air     Force       Portal     available      at
https://my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm

SUMMARY OR CHANGES

Updated office symbols, revised format, changed instruction number and updated signature
block.

1. Procedures.
   1.1. Only those patients 18 years or older may consent to their own medical treatment.
   Exceptions to this general rule allow a person under 18 to consent if the patient:
 2                                                        59MDWI44-121 2 DECEMBER 2010


        1.1.1. Is in the military.
        1.1.2. Is married.
        1.1.3. Has their disabilities removed by court (i.e., has a court order allowing the minor
        to consent).
        1.1.4. Consents to the diagnosis and treatment of any infections, contagious, or
        communicable disease which is required by law or regulation to be reported by the
        licensed physician or dentist to a local health officer (e.g., venereal disease).
        1.1.5. Consents to examination and treatment for drug addiction, drug dependency, or
        any other condition related to drug use.
        1.1.6. Is unmarried and pregnant and consents to hospital, medical, or surgical treatment,
        other than abortion, related to her pregnancy.
        1.1.7. Is 16 years of age or older and resides separate and apart from the parents,
        managing conservator, or guardian, regardless of the duration of such residence, and are
        managing their own financial affairs, regardless of the source of income.
        1.1.8. Requests contraceptive information, contraceptive devices, or contraceptive
        medications, but only if the provider determines (and documents in the patient’s medical
        record) that the patient is sufficiently mature to understand the nature and significance of
        the treatment involved. If the provider cannot make that determination, but believes there
        are circumstances in the patient’s case which nevertheless warrant contraceptive
        treatment without parental consent, the provider should contact Medical Law (JA) for
        guidance.
Note: The prior exceptions are based on existing law (state statutes and United States Supreme
Court decisions). These exceptions do not change the advisability of encouraging parental
involvement in the health care decisions of the minor whenever possible as a matter of sound
policy and practice.
     1.2. If the person is under 18 and does not meet the criteria above treatment may be rendered
     when:
        1.2.1. Mother, father, or managing conservator or guardian is present and consents.
        1.2.2. Mother, father, or managing conservator or guardian cannot be contacted and have
        not given any actual notice forbidding treatment, and one of the following is present (or
        whose representative is present) and consents:
            1.2.2.1. A grandparent.
            1.2.2.2. An adult brother or sister.
            1.2.2.3. An adult aunt or uncle.
            1.2.2.4. Any adult who has care and control of the minor and has written
            authorization to consent (Power of Attorney) from the person having the power to
            consent as provided by law (these forms are in the Outpatient Records Section and
            may be picked up there).
            1.2.2.5. Any court having jurisdiction over the child.
59MDWI44-121 2 DECEMBER 2010                                                                     3


         1.2.2.6. Any person named above who has initially presented the child and discussed
         a course of treatment which will continue on a regular basis (e.g., treatment of a
         diagnosed allergy regularly over the course of months, dressing changes, etc.).

     1.2.3. A licensed physician or dentist has reasonable grounds to believe that a child’s
     physical or mental condition has been adversely affected by abuse or neglect. In this
     situation the physician or dentist may examine the child without the consent of the child,
     the child’s parents or other person authorized to consent. Exceptions to this policy are if
     the child is 16 years old or over and refuses to consent, or if the treatment is prohibited by
     court order.

  1.3. When the parent is not present to give consent, consent from his substitute should be in
  writing and contain:

     1.3.1. The name of the minor.

     1.3.2. The name of one or both parents, if known, and the name of the managing
     conservator or guardian of the person, if either has been appointed.

     1.3.3. The name of the person giving consent and his relation to the minor child.

     1.3.4. A statement of the nature of the medical treatment to be given.

     1.3.5. The date on which the treatment is to begin.

  1.4. Consent is implied in an EMERGENCY and treatment may be started. The treating
  physician has complete authority to make this decision. While treatment begins, someone
  should attempt to contact a parent to enable the parent to consent.

  1.5. A physician or dentist may, with or without the consent of a minor who is a patient,
  advise the parents or guardian of the minor of the treatment given to or needed by the minor,
  except where the minor is authorized contraceptive treatment under paragraph 1.1.8 of this
  instruction and the minor refuses to allow notification of the parents.

  1.6. Parents should be encouraged to accompany their minor children to the Medical Center
  to give their consent to treatment. At times, this may be impossible or a serious
  inconvenience to the parents. If the proposed medical treatment involves routine clinical
  treatment with no apparent risk, then consent may be obtained by telephone. In such case, a
  third party should monitor the conversation and note to this effect should be entered into the
  patient’s medical record. Note in the medical record must be signed by both parties who
  heard permission given. If the proposed medical treatment involves a non-emergency
  medical procedure with an element of apparent risk, a parent or authorized substitute must be
  present and their consent must be in writing. Notarized permission slips signed by a parent or
  guardian may be used for either routine clinic visits with no apparent risk if the parents are
  away for short absences (i.e. vacations).
 4                                                        59MDWI44-121 2 DECEMBER 2010


     1.7. In cases not clearly covered by the above criteria or when there is doubt for any reason,
     contact JA or the Medical Law Consultant on call after duty hours

2. Form Adopted.
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                              SVEN T. BERG, Colonel, USAF, MC, FS
                                              Chief of the Medical Staff
59MDWI44-121 2 DECEMBER 2010                                 5


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations, 1 September 1999
AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, 1 May 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Privacy Act of 1974

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
JA—Medical Law
MDW—Medical Wing
