BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 33-301
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                                07 APRIL 2011
                                                       Incorporating Change 1, 11 October 2013
                                                            Certified Current on 27 August 2013
                                                                      Information Management

                                                              MAIL DISTRIBUTION CENTER

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 59 MDSS/SGSBIM                                                    Certified by: 59 MDSS/CC
                                                                          (Lt Col William Fecke)
Supersedes:    59MDWI 33-301,                                                            Pages: 4
               9 December 2008


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 33-3, Information Management. This
instruction establishes policies and procedures required for the execution of the Official Mailing
System within the 59th Medical Wing Mail Distribution Center (59 MDSS/SGSBIM). The Mail
Distibution Center is also referred to as an Activity Distribution Office, and it provides
administrative management requirements for all activities to include distribution of all official
first through fourth class mail, distribution, and accountable mail addressed to the 59th Medical
Wing (MDW). This publication applies to all personnel assigned, attached, or under contract to
the 59 MDW, except the 359th Medical Group. This instruction does not apply to the Air
National Guard or Air Force Reserve. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management
System Records Disposition Schedule located on the AF Portal available at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Updated office symbols; incorporated use of the Consolidated Hospital Personnel System for
locating personnel; added the global address listing as an alternate source for locating personnel.
1. Responsibilities. The Mail Distribution Center, 59 MDSS/SGSBIM, serves as an Activity
Distribution Office for the 802d Communications Squadron Official Mail Center (802
CS/SCOKA). Located in room BC35, the Activity Distribution Office serves as the collection
 2                                                             59MDWI33-301 07 APRIL 2011


and delivery point for all official administrative communication generated by and for the 59
MDW. Access to the Activity Distribution Office is restricted to assigned personnel. All
transactions are accomplished via the customer service window.
     1.1. Activity Distribution Clerks will distribute at the squadron level and designated flight
     offices; all incoming mail, distribution, and accountable mail addressed to the 59 MDW.
     1.2. Personnel assigned to the 59 MDW will ensure all outgoing mail is official and
     addressed in accordance with United States Postal Service Domestic Mailing Manual and
     Department of Defense (DoD) Manual 4525.8, DoD Official Mail Manual. Dazzle, a
     postage software tool, should be used to create address lables for all outgoing mail.
     1.3. Assigned personnel will ensure their office symbol and phone number are current by
     updating the Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center (WHASC) Consolidated Hospital
     Personnel System (CHPS) Personnel Locator upon initial assignment and immediately
     following any office move.
2. Procedures.
     2.1. Activity Distribution Clerks will post all incoming mail via distribution boxes assigned
     to each unit. Posting of mail will be accomplished daily by 1200 hours excluding weekends
     and holidays.
     2.2. Every squadron, group office, and the wing office will appoint a point of contact (POC)
     for mail pick-up on AF Form 4332, Accountable Communications Receipt Authorization.
     Appointed individuals must sign the document and have a SECRET or higher security
     clearance. The POC must pick up mail for their assigned section by close of business (COB)
     daily with the exception of weekends and holidays.
     2.3. All incoming packages and accountable mail, to include commercial shipping
     companies, will be logged in daily upon receipt. Activity distribution clerks will generate a
     telephone call and E-mail to the addressee or squadron POC and instruct them to pick up the
     package/accountable mail by COB on the day of delivery. Distribution clerks will notify unit
     superintendents of all registered and express mail that had not been picked up by action
     officers.
        2.3.1. Activity distribution clerks will make all attempts to locate the addressee on the
        package/accountable mail.        If they are unable to locate the addressee, the
        package/accountable mail will be set aside for possible inquiry by the addressee. If no
        inquiry is made and all resources have been exhausted to locate the addressee, the
        package/accountable mail will be returned to sender by the 15th calendar day after initial
        delivery.
        2.3.2. Undeliverable packages/accountable mail that consumes a large amount of space
        may be returned within 5 duty days.
     2.4. Activity distribution clerks will make every attempt to locate addressees for delivery of
     all 1st through 4th class mail. The primary source for locating personnel will be CHPS
     Personnel Locator, available on all WHASC computer desktops, and the alternate source will
     be electronic mail via the global address listing.
        2.4.1. Mail received from outside the Air Force (for example, professional
        journals/newsletters and magazines) addressed to 59 MDW personnel who are no longer
59MDWI33-301 07 APRIL 2011                                                                       3


      assigned and/or cannot be located will be forwarded to the person currently assigned in
      the addressee’s position. If that individual finds the mail delivery of no value, they are to
      notify mailers to remove their office from their mailing list.
      2.4.2. Mail returned to the distribution center from organizations within the 59 MDW
      citing an incorrect address or addressee no longer assigned will be returned to sender
      and/or disposed of appropriately.
   2.5. Distribution Clerks will not open improperly addressed mail delivered by commercial
   shipping companies. Commercial shipping companies do not accept packages being returned
   to sender after they have been opened.
3. Unofficial and Personal Mail.
   3.1. Personnel assigned to the 59 MDW must not use their official activity address to receive
   or send personal mail on a continual basis.
      3.1.1. Personnel who receive unofficial and/or personal mail will be notified in writing
      once to notify their correspondents of their personal mailing address. Continued delivery
      of unofficial mail will be returned to sender thereafter.
      3.1.2. Personnel who send out unofficial and/or personal mail will be notified in writing
      of the infraction. Subsequent offenses will result in a notification being sent to the unit
      commander.
   3.2. Inbound personnel to the 59 MDW must use the General Postal Delivery address on
   Lackland Air Force Base.
4. DELETED




                                            GLENN A. YAP, Colonel, USAF, MSC
                                            Administrator, 59th Medical Wing
 4                                                        59MDWI33-301 07 APRIL 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 33-3, Information Management, 28 March 2006
DoD Manual 4525.8, DoD Official Mail Manual, 26 December 2001
United States Postal Service Domestic Mailing Manual, 9 October 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 4332, Accountable Communications Receipt Authorization
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CHPS—Consolidated Hospital Personnel System
COB—Close of Business
DoD—Department of Defense
MDW—Medical Wing
POC—Point of Contact
WHASC—Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center
WHMC—Wilford Hall Medical Center
