BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 41-134
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                        31 DECEMBER 2008
                                                           Certified Current, 27 January 2011
                                                       Incorporating Change 1, 15 August 2013

                                                                                Health Services

                                                                         MEDICAL LIBRARY

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 59 MDW/SGNEL                                               Certified by: 59 MDW/SGNEL
                                                                            (Col Susan Bassett)
Supersedes:   59MDWI 41-202,                                                          Pages: 3
              5 October 2005


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 41-2, Medical Support. This instruction
establishes policies and procedures for the management of the Medical Library. It applies to all
personnel assigned, attached, or under contract to the 59th Medical Wing. This instruction does
not apply to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the office of primary responsibility using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule          on        the        Air         Force        Portal         available      at
https://my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Changed Instruction number from 41-202 to 41-134, replaced Brooke Army Medical Center with
San Antonio Military Medical Center (SAMMC); replaced funding for the AFMS Virtual
Library with Air Force Medical Support Agency; and deleted reference to the Comprehensive
Accreditation Manual for Hospitals. A margin bar (|) indicates newly revised material.
1. Program Policies.
   1.1. All personnel assigned to the 59th Medical Wing (MDW) or SAMMC are authorized to
   use the Medical Library. A 59 MDW or SAMMC permanent or temporary badge is required
 2                                                        59MDWI41-134 31 DECEMBER 2008


     to check out materials. Patients and visitors may use the library, but do not have borrowing
     privileges.
     1.2. The library is open from 0730 to 1700 Monday through Friday except for federal
     holidays. The Chief, Division of Wing Education and Training approves changes in hours.
     The library is accessible after normal duty hours to permanent 59 MDW staff with a bar-
     coded badge. Customers with a 59 MDW or SAMMC badge may stay in the library after
     closing.
     1.3. Books and cataloged audiovisuals are checked out for two weeks. Bound periodicals
     and uncataloged audiocassettes are checked out for one week. Unbound journals do not
     circulate. Temporary personnel may check items out for one week. Loan periods are
     renewable once, but are subject to recall if needed by others. After one renewal, the item
     must be returned to the library.
     1.4. Overdue notices are sent when library materials are not returned on time. Three notices
     are sent to the borrower. The final notice is sent to the supervisor. Lost or damaged materials
     must be replaced or reimbursed by the borrower.
     1.5. A complete inventory of all books and audiovisuals is accomplished annually. Items
     missing for two inventories are removed from the library catalog.
     1.6. Requests for new materials are evaluated within the scope of the collection and fiscal
     resources. The Medical Library Committee approves requests for new journals. Journal
     subscriptions are ordered once a year; subscriptions begin with the calendar year. The library
     does not buy books or journals for permanent loan.
2. Services.
     2.1. The library provides access to knowledge-based information through user-friendly
     bibliographic databases, online full-text journals and books, and a physical collection of
     books and journals. Literature search requests for patient care, education, and research are
     completed by the library staff. Orientations to library services are provided upon request.
     2.2. The library participates in national interlibrary loan programs for sharing resources.
     Since many libraries charge for this service, the library reserves the right to evaluate requests
     in terms of fiscal resources.
     2.3. The library is the only medical library in the Air Force Medical Service (AFMS) and
     provides journal articles and literature searches to all AFMS providers. The library is also
     responsible for the content of the AFMS Virtual Library funded through the Air Force
     Medical Support Agency.
     2.4. Copiers and computers are available for library customers.
3. DELETED




                                               GLENN A. YAP, Colonel, USAF, MSC
                                               Administrator
59MDWI41-134 31 DECEMBER 2008                                              3


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 41-2, Medical Support, 16 August 1993
Comprehensive Accreditation Manual for Hospitals, current edition.
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMS—Air Force Medical Service
BAMC—Brooke Army Medical Center
MDW—Medical Wing
SAMMC—San Antonio Military Medical Center
