BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 32-1004
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                           19 DECEMBER 2013

                                                                                Civil Engineering

                                                                                WING SIGNAGE



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 59 MLRS/SGSKF                                                     Certified by: 59 MLRS/CC
                                                                             (Lt Col Randall Ivall)
Supersedes:    59MDWI32-1004, 6 April                                                    Pages: 4
               2011


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 32-10, Installations and Facilities. This
Medical Wing Instruction (MDWI) applies to all personnel assigned, attached or under contract
to the 59th Medical Wing (MDW). This instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard or
Air Force Reserve. It defines policies and procedures for requesting and manufacturing medical
center signs within the 59 MDW. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. The authority to waive requirements is the
publication approval authority. Requests for waivers must be submitted to the OPR listed above
for consideration and approval. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
System Records Disposition Schedule.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include modifications of areas where announcement signage is permitted, removal policies, and
approval process.
1. Types of Signage.
   1.1. Standard Signage. Consists of personnel nameplates, medical function/organization
   identification, hours or operation information, patient information, directions or similar
   information designed for longterm display in the medical treatment facilities. This signage is
 2                                                      59MDWI32-1004 19 DECEMBER 2013


     designed for permanent or longterm mounted to doors, walls, directional wayfinding boards,
     ceiling hung, etc., and is primarily geared for patient care activities and is reviewed on a
     case–by–case basis.
     1.2. Announcement Signage. Consists of poster boards, banners, sheets for display of short
     duration information or guidance to patients or staff that is temporarily displayed in
     predesignated/managed locations by local staff or Facilities Management.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. Facilities Management Flight shall operate a sign shop capable of producing Standard
     Signage used in 59 MDW medical and support facilities and is responsible for installing such
     signage on doors, wayfinding boards and ceilings.
     2.2. Facilities Management Flight shall manage the orderly display and use of designated
     public area Announcement Signage required by 59 MDW and 559 MDG staff functions.
     The public areas Facilities Management manage for building 4550 include: Main Entrance,
     Clinic Entrance, Atrium, Heritage Hallway, Physical Therapy Entrance, Urgent Care
     Entrance.
     2.3. Public Affairs shall manage select Announcement Signage located in the elevators and
     elevator lobbies. Announcement signage shall be limited to either elevator lobbies or
     posters, efforts shall not be duplicated and only one option for display shall be approved.
     2.4. Functional end users shall identify Standard Signage requirements in coordination from
     their Section/Flight Chief and submit requests to the 59th Medical Logistics and Readiness
     Squadron, Facility Management Flight, (59 MLRS/SGSKF).
     2.5. Zonemasters are responsible to the functional end users and shall submit, validated
     Standard Signage requests through Defense Medical Logistics Standard Support (DMLSS)
     for production and/or installation.
     2.6. Functional end users are responsible for installing or submitting DMLSS work requests
     to install all wall, ceiling or door mounted Standard Signage.
     2.7. Functional end users requiring display and/or mounting of Announcement Signage
     produced by Medical Illustrations or by outside contracts shall coordinate in advance with
     Facilities Management Interior Designer prior to production. Designated Public Area display
     locations for posters are limited to the Clinic Entrance (between sets of glass doors), the
     Atrium, and the Auditorium Entrance. Specific sizes shall not exceed 22” x 28” and display
     times shall not exceed two weeks unless otherwise approved.
     2.8. Facilities Management will approve requests, standardize wording, and establish final
     sign dimensions. Unauthorized signs that do not conform to established standards will be
     subject to removal. Any non-approved Announcement Signage content or Announcement
     signage displayed in unauthorized locations shall be immediately removed by Facilities
     Management.
3. Signage Production Priorities.
     3.1. In general, sign requests will be filled within thirty calendar days from the change date
     in DMLSS to status SENT TO SIGN TECHNICIAN.
59MDWI32-1004 19 DECEMBER 2013                                                                 3


       3.1.1. First priority is given to signage for fire, safety, and patient care. All fire and
       safety standard signage will be coordinated through the responsible agency prior to
       processing the work request. All other signs will be accomplished in order of the request
       date and time.
   3.2. Requests for a large number of signs will be filled in increments or may be contracted
   out to a commercial firm.
4. Announcement Signage.
   4.1. Announcement signage will be approved in advance by the Facilities Management
   Interior Designer and will meet specific dimension and quality standards.
       4.1.1. Announcement signage placed in designated wall mounted slip cover location or
       tripod mounted shall be a maximum size of 22 inches by 28 inches. Exceptions or unique
       circumstances to signage standards will be approved by Facilities Management.Approval
       of Announcement Signage shall be noted with 59 MDW Interior Designer’s signature
       stamp on the back of each poster.
       4.1.2. Announcement signage shall have clear designation of OPR, contact phone
       number, and end date for display located in the right bottom corner.
   4.2. Designated announcement signage OPR shall be responsible for inserting approved
   signage into scheduled display location and removal when display period is over. Tripods
   shall also be obtained by OPR.
5. Office Designation Shingles.
   5.1. Any office shingles that are lost or damaged will be replaced upon submission of work
   order through DMLSS. Name shingles will be manufactured for providers only, duty titles or
   room names for all others.




                                            GLENN A. YAP, Colonel, USAF, MSC
                                            Administrator
 4                                                  59MDWI32-1004 19 DECEMBER 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities, 4 March 2010
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
DMLSS—Defense Medical Logistics Standard Support
IAW—In Accordance With
MDW—Medical Wing
MDWI—Medical Wing Instruction
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
