BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 44-143
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                          13 OCTOBER 2010
                                                         Incorporating Change 1, 6 JUNE 2013

                                                                                       Medical

                                                 BEHAVIORAL HEALTH CONSULTATION

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 59 MHS/SGOWMP                                                   Certified by: 59 MHS/CC
                                                                 (LtCol Mitzi Thomas-Lawson)
Supersedes:   59MDWI 44-143,                                                          Pages: 12
              10 July 2007


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 44-1, Medical Operations. This
instruction establishes a set of guidelines to be followed by 59th Medical Wing (MDW)
personnel regarding the integration of Behavioral Health Consultants into primary care clinics.
This publication applies to all personnel assigned, attached, or on contract to the 59 MDW. This
instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve. This instruction may
require the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974
authorized by Title 10, United States Code, Section 8013. Privacy Act System of Record F044
AF SG D, Automated Medical/Dental Record System, and F044 AF SG E, Medical Record
System, apply. Collected information is “For Official Use Only.” Request to release Privacy Act
information to persons or agencies outside the DoD must be in accordance with (IAW) AFI 33-
332, Air Force Privacy Act Program, DoD 5400.7, Freedom of Information Act, and DoD
6025.18-R, DoD Health Information Privacy Regulation. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Requests for waivers must be submitted
to the OPR listed above for consideration and approval. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air
Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
Information Management System Records Disposition Schedule.
 2                                                          59MDWI44-143 13 OCTOBER 2010


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision clarifies guidelines on managing suicidal and high-risk behaviors, particularly in
light of the Family Health Clinic having moved from the Kelly Clinic to the main Wilford Hall
Ambulatory Surgical Center (WHASC) building.
1. Purpose and Goals.
     1.1. Reengineer primary care services to recapture care from the private sector.
     1.2. Prevent the development of more serious mental health disorders through early
     recognition of and intervention for primary care patients with behavioral health needs.
     1.3. Provide timely access to behavioral health consultants, with rapid feedback.
     1.4. Improve the collaborative care and management of patients who present with behavioral
     health needs or concerns.
     1.5. Provide an internal resource for primary care providers to help address patient’s
     behavioral health needs, rather than referring them to a specialty mental health clinic.
     1.6. Improve the fit between the care patients seek in primary care and the services offered.
     1.7. Enhance appropriate and effective triage of patients into specialty mental health care by
     the Behavioral Health Consultants (BHCs).
2. Practice Guidelines.
     2.1. Required Resources.
        2.1.1. Privileged behavioral health provider with specialized training to work as a BHC,
        with at least 4-8 hours per week available to work in the primary care clinic. These hours
        may be spread across several days.
        2.1.2. Access to a Composite Health Care System (CHCS) and Armed Forces Health
        Longitudinal Technology Application (AHLTA) workstation.
        2.1.3. BHC Clinic Profile with a Medical Expense and Performance Reporting System
        (MEPRS) code of the clinic in which services are provided, with the exception of Family
        Medicine, with a code of BGAZ.
        2.1.4. Office space within the Primary Care Clinic for BHC appointments.
        2.1.5. Routine administrative support (see paragraph 2.2.5).
     2.2. Responsibilities.
        2.2.1. Chief of Primary Care Clinic shall allocate space and manpower necessary to
        function as an Integrated Primary Care Clinic.
        2.2.2. Primary Care Managers (PCMs) will:
            2.2.2.1. Maintain responsibility for their patients’ overall health care.
            2.2.2.2. Identify the need for BHC appointments and initiate verbal and/or written
            referrals to the BHC. The need for a BHC appointment may be identified by another
            member of the PCM team (e.g., nurse, other health care provider, the patient or
            directly by the BHC in rare instances), and the BHC may provide consultation
59MDWI44-143 13 OCTOBER 2010                                                                3


        without the BHC having face-to-face contact with the patient. However, the BHC
        must remain in the role of a consultant and therefore the PCM will continue to be the
        point of contact for initiating and authorizing requests prior to the BHC’s direct
        involvement with any patient care.
        2.2.2.3. Collaborate with the BHC in implementing behavioral components of
        patient’s health care plans.
        2.2.2.4. Collaborate with the BHC on initiatives within the Integrated Primary Care
        Clinic to improve the recognition of and appropriate interventions for commonly
        presenting complaints in primary care, as indicated.
     2.2.3. BHCs will:
        2.2.3.1. Receive specialized training from a BHC mentor to practice in an Integrated
        Primary Care Clinic.
        2.2.3.2. Practice within the guidelines specified in the Primary Behavioral Health
        Care Services Practice Manual.
        2.2.3.3. Support PCM’s decision-making concerning behavioral needs of patients.
        2.2.3.4. Provide same-day, walk-in appointments, as available.
        2.2.3.5. Assist PCMs in determining appropriate level of behavioral or mental health
        care, and in referral to specialized mental health treatment.
        2.2.3.6. Serve as a liaison between the PCM and specialty mental healthcare
        providers, ensuring patients identified as needing specialty mental healthcare receive
        such services.
        2.2.3.7. Assist PCMs in providing preventive services to meet the needs of the
        Integrated Primary Care Clinic’s identified population.
        2.2.3.8. Work with on-site health educators to develop effective behavioral health
        classroom and group educational or intervention programs, as indicated. These
        interventions can either replace or supplement individual consultative treatment.
        2.2.3.9. Assist PCMs in the management of patients who have higher than expected
        utilization of medical services, and patients with chronic conditions.
        2.2.3.10. Help improve communication between providers and patients, as needed.
        2.2.3.11. Provide individual behavioral health interventions using the consultative
        model described in the Primary Behavioral Health Care Services Practice Manual.
        Such interventions should build on the patient’s treatment plan and include
        evidenced-based interventions. Consultative interventions shall be based on a
        focused diagnostic and functional evaluation for the referral problem, and formation
        of behavior change goals. Consultative interventions shall include measurable and
        functional outcomes.
        2.2.3.12. Routinely provide verbal or written feedback to referring providers,
        preferably the same day as the patient’s appointment and/or consult.
4                                                          59MDWI44-143 13 OCTOBER 2010


           2.2.3.13. Follow-up or monitor patients for PCMs as needed/requested to support a
           behavior change plan or treatment started by a PCM or BHC. Follow up visits can
           focus on improving adherence, relapse prevention, and/or behavioral medicine
           interventions.
           2.2.3.14. Capitalize on opportunities to educate and train PCMs and other primary
           care team members on common physical signs, symptoms, manifestations and
           presentations of behavioral health needs in primary care clinics, the importance of
           lifestyle factors in improving overall health, and basic skills to recognize and provide
           front-line intervention for behavioral health problems.
           2.2.3.15. Collaborate with the PCM and PCM Team on initiatives within the primary
           care clinic to improve the recognition of and appropriate interventions for commonly
           presenting complaints in primary care.
       2.2.4. Medical Clinic Staff and Technicians will:
           2.2.4.1. Provide administrative support to the BHC commensurate with that provided
           other medical providers.
           2.2.4.2. Schedule patients through local administrative booking procedure for
           primary care under clinic MEPRs code of the clinic in which services are provided,
           with the exception of Family Medicine, with a code of BGAZ.
           2.2.4.3. Participate in screening processes developed by the BHC and PCM to
           improve the recognition of and appropriate interventions for commonly presenting
           complaints in primary care.
       2.2.5. The Mental Health Clinic (MHC) shall provide mental health services for eligible
       Primary Care patients needing specialty-level care.
    2.3. Procedures.
       2.3.1. Informed Consent and Ethical Issues.
           2.3.1.1. Appropriate levels of confidentiality shall be maintained within the limits of
           Air Force instructions, law, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
           (HIPAA) guidelines, and commanders’ legitimate need to know.
           2.3.1.2. BHC shall verbally inform and give all patients an information sheet (See
           Attachment 2, Standard BHC Information Sheet, from Primary Behavioral Health
           Care Services Practice Manual, Appendix 7) detailing the consultative role and scope
           of behavioral health services in primary care. Specifically, the BHC shall inform
           patients that the role of the BHC is to help the PCM in making a diagnosis and/or
           developing treatment plans. A separate written informed consent as required in
           specialty mental health care is not to be used in the BHC service.
           2.3.1.3. BHC shall inform patients of the limits of confidentiality as they apply to the
           BHC service, and that these limits are the same that exist with their PCM.
           2.3.1.4. BHC shall inform patients that the record and documentation of their BHC
           care shall be kept in their outpatient medical record, not a separate mental health
           record.
59MDWI44-143 13 OCTOBER 2010                                                                   5


      2.3.2. Appointment Structure.
          2.3.2.1. Following the model of the medical clinic, 15 to 30 minute individual
          appointments will typically be used. Group classes may be of longer duration.
          2.3.2.2. Telephone contact shall also be used for triage or follow up, as needed. All
          direct contacts with patients, even if not face-to-face, shall be documented and
          appropriately coded through Ambulatory Data Module (ADM).
          2.3.2.3. The duration of consultative interventions will usually be between one and
          four appointments. However, a patient may receive more than four BHC
          appointments at the discretion of the PCM and BHC, particularly if progress is being
          made on behavioral health goals. Patients shall be re-assessed at each appointment to
          ensure the level of care offered in the BHC model meets the individual patient’s need
          (i.e., re-assess whether specialty care is indicated).
          2.3.2.4. Time between follow-up consultations will vary, depending on the needs of
          the patient and prescribed BHC interventions, but it will generally be 2 weeks.
          Scheduling follow-ups at weekly intervals is rare; some patients may be seen less
          than one week following their initial appointment whereas others may be scheduled
          one month following their initial appointment.
      2.3.3. Documentation.
          2.3.3.1. All pertinent information shall be documented in AHLTA the same day as
          the appointment and placed in the outpatient medical record. A separate mental
          health record shall not be kept.
          2.3.3.2. BHCs without prescription privileges shall not include recommendations on
          specific types and dosages of psychopharmacology for specific patients in their
          assessment and intervention plans.
          2.3.3.3. An AHLTA encounter for every direct patient contact shall be initiated and
          completed. This coding shall be consistent with the guidance provided in the Primary
          Behavioral Healthcare Services Practice Manual. BHCs should receive the same
          administrative support in completing ADM coding as other providers in the primary
          care clinic.
      2.3.4. Continuity of Care.
          2.3.4.1. BHCs shall inform the referring provider when a patient fails to keep their
          initial appointment.
          2.3.4.2. If there is an indication of risk, the BHC will follow the procedures outlined
          in 3.1.3.6.
          2.3.4.3. The BHC will provide recommendations regarding relapse prevention and
          continuity of care to the patient and the PCM when BHC appointments are
          discontinued.
3. Management of High Interest Patients.
   3.1. BHC Responsibilities:
6                                                     59MDWI44-143 13 OCTOBER 2010


    3.1.1. Screen for suicide risk during initial contact, either through direct questioning or
    the use of a brief standardized measure such as the Behavioral Health Measure (BHM-
    20), or other similar measure.
    3.1.2. Note individuals who screen negative for suicide risk do not require further risk
    assessment during initial contact (see also 3.1.4).
    3.1.3. Provide appropriate assessment and thorough documentation for individuals who
    screen positive for increased risk of suicide and/or high-risk behaviors in accordance with
    the Air Force Guide for Managing Suicidal Behavior, either in clinic or via coordination
    of assessment through MHC triage at WHASC, as per 59MDWI 44-123, Assessment and
    Management of Mental Health High-Interest Patients, paragraph 2.1.3.2.
       3.1.3.1. Formulate a crisis response and recommendation plan based on risk level for
       suicide/violence. Crisis response plan will include phone and in person contact
       information for emergency resources.
       3.1.3.2. Encourage patients at mild risk to consider specialty mental health care,
       although the BHC can provide effective care in collaboration with the patient’s PCM.
       3.1.3.3. Place patients with a risk level of moderate or higher on the MHC High-
       Interest List (HIL), inform MHC providers of addition to the list, and coordinate
       initiation of specialty mental health care with MHC providers for active duty
       members or with civilian mental health care for dependents and retirees (see
       59MDWI 44-123 Section 1 for details on MHC procedures regarding the High-
       Interest List).
       3.1.3.4. BHCs will work with PCMs to facilitate voluntary psychiatric hospitalization
       for any patients whose risk appears imminent. SAMMC Consultation and Liaison
       Psychiatry should be contacted to consider and potentially facilitate involuntary
       hospitalization when voluntary hospitalization is declined by any beneficiary. IAW
       AFI 44-109, paragraph 4.3.1., a non-doctoral-level provider must refer patients they
       assess as imminently dangerous to a doctoral-level provider for definitive assessment.
       3.1.3.5. Inform the patient’s PCM, and for active duty members also inform the
       commander, within one duty day of all clinically relevant new information on MHC
       HIL patients until patient initiates specialty mental health care. Clinically relevant
       information may include, but is not limited to changes in risk status, placement and
       removal from HIL, engagement in suicide-related behaviors, changes in mental
       status, psychiatric hospitalization, or presentation to the Emergency Department for
       mental health reasons.
       3.1.3.6. Utilize office visits and/or telephone contacts for individuals on the HIL,
       either by the BHC or a member of the primary care team, on a weekly basis. BHCs
       shall contact patients who fail to keep their follow-up office visits when any concerns
       about safety to self or others exist. BHCs shall also notify the PCM. Weekly contact
       will occur until patient initiates specialty mental health care, with a goal of
       connecting individual to specialty care within 1 to 2 weeks, or until patient completes
       three weekly BHOP contacts with no suicidal ideation.
59MDWI44-143 13 OCTOBER 2010                                                                     7


          3.1.3.7. Screen for suicide risk and document changes in risk status, risk factors, and
          protective factors for every follow-up visit.
          3.1.3.8. Maintain/update the risk status of individuals placed by the BHC on the
          MHC HIL at WHASC with the HIL coordinator on a minimum of a weekly basis
          until patient initiates specialty mental health care.
          3.1.3.9. Document confirmation of initiation of specialty mental health care to
          include contact with a WHASC MHC provider for active duty patients. Obtain a
          signed authorization for release of information form to discuss patient’s ongoing
          mental health care for dependents and retirees.
          3.1.3.10. If patient is at moderate risk level or higher and declines specialty mental
          health care, the BHC will continue to have weekly contacts with patient and
          recommend specialty care at each contact. The BHC will also recommend the PCM
          place a consult for specialty care. If patient is an active duty member at moderate risk
          level or higher and declines specialty mental health care, the BHC will contact both
          the WHASC MHC and the patient’s commander to recommend consideration of a
          commander-directed evaluation (CDE.) See AFI 44-109 for CDE procedures and
          requirements.
      3.1.4. Assess changes in suicide risk and/or high risk behaviors at follow-up contacts.
      3.1.5. Serve as consultants to unit leadership and other medical staff regarding the
      management of at-risk patients.
      3.1.6. A copy of the HIL will be kept in a centralized location in the BHC office to be
      accessed by behavioral health and medical providers as needed.
      3.1.7. BHC is responsible for notifying the clinic’s front desk personnel by providing
      written documentation regarding any patient placed on the HIL whenever a patient is
      added and removed from the list. Front desk staff will also be notified in writing on a
      minimum of a weekly basis as long as a patient remains on the HIL.
   3.2. Medical Clinic Staff and Behavioral Health Technicians (When Assigned to the Clinic)
   Will:
      3.2.1. Determine whether patients presenting for care are on the HIL and inform both the
      BHC and PCM when patients on the list arrive.
      3.2.2. Notify both the BHC and PCM when patients on the HIL cancel or re-schedule
      appointments.
      3.2.3. Provide eyes-on observation of BHC patients awaiting transport to inpatient care.
   3.3. PCMs shall:
      3.3.1. Notify the BHC when contacted by WHASC Mental Health that a patient has been
      placed on the HIL.
4. Provider Coverage.
   4.1. BHC service coverage will be provided either by an active duty provider or a contract
   provider specifically assigned to BHOP.
8                                                        59MDWI44-143 13 OCTOBER 2010


    4.2. When a provider assigned to BHOP will not be available for an extended period of time
    (e.g. due to deployment, permanent change of station, separation, maternity leave, etc.), BHC
    services will be provided by a backfill provider.
       4.2.1. In the event that no backfill provider is available, PCMs will be provided with
       information to inform patients how to obtain mental health services outside the BHOP
       setting.
5. DELETED.




                                            HELEN M. HOOTSMANS, Colonel, USAF, MC,
                                            FS
                                            Chief of the Medical Staff
59MDWI44-143 13 OCTOBER 2010                                                                9


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD, 44-1, Medical Operations, 1 September 1999
AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, 1 May 2006
AFI 44-109, Mental Health, Confidentiality, and Military Law, 1 March 2000
AFI 44-172, Mental Health, 14 March 2011
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program, 29 January 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DoD 5400.7, Freedom of Information Act, 2 January 2008
DoD 6025.18-R, DoD Health Information Privacy Regulation, 24 January 2003
Privacy Act of 1974
Privacy Act System of Record F044 AF SG D, Automated Medical/Dental Record System, 29
August 2003
F044 AF SG E, Medical Record System, 18 June 2010
59MDWI 44-123 Assessment and Management of Mental Health High-Interest Patients, 7 May
2009
Air Force Medical Operations Agency Commander Memorandum, Behavioral Health
Optimization: Integrating Behavioral Health Consultants into Primary Care Memorandum, 14
February 2002
Primary Behavioral Healthcare Services: Practice Manual, Version 2.0, March 2002
Primary Behavioral Healthcare Services: Appendix 11 Amendment, October 2002
Air Force Guide for Managing Suicidal Behavior: Strategies, Resources, and Tools, 5 March
2007
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADM—Ambulatory Data Module
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMS—Air Force Medical Service
AHLTA—Armed Forced Health Longitudinal Technology Application
BDI—Beck Depression Inventory
BHC—Behavioral Health Consultant
 10                                                       59MDWI44-143 13 OCTOBER 2010


BHM—Behavioral Health Measure
BHOP—Behavioral Health Optimization Project
CDE—Commander-Directed Evaluation
CHCS—Composite Health Care System
HIL—High-Interest List
HIPAA—Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
IAW—In Accordance With
MDW—Medical Wing
MHC—Mental Health Clinic
MEPRS—Medical Expense and Performance Reporting System
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PCM—Primary Care Manager
PCO—Primary Care Optimization
WHASC—Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center
WHMC—Wilford Hall Medical Center

Terms
Behavioral Health Consultant (BHC)—Privileged providers (psychologists, social workers or
psychiatrists) with specialized training who work in the role of a consultant to members of the
primary care team. BHCs are trained to identify, assess, and intervene with many behavioral
health needs in the primary care setting. There is no special credential needed to function as a
BHC and no action is required by the credentialing committee.
Integrated Primary Care Clinic—Refers to clinics in which collaborative health is available.
Collaborative health care involves BHCs serving as consultants to PCMs in order to better align
the types of services and providers with the overall health needs of the patients.
Mental Health Clinic (MHC) High Interest List—An electronic listing of all patients deemed
to be high interest by credentialed mental health providers. This list is in a database which is
primarily maintained by the MHC and updated weekly. Other mental health clinics may also add
and remove patients, but only the MHC may modify the MHC High-Interest List. Non-mental
health clinic staff with a need to know (such as PCMs, Emergency Department Personnel or
SGHs) can be given access to the list by notifying the MHC of their need for access. When
granted access, they can read but not edit the list. Non-mental health clinic staff should contact
the MHC if the MHC High-Interest List needs to be modified. Primary Care Managers or OICs
of Primary Care Teams are briefed via e-mail or by phone on the patient’s particular case, and
Chiefs of Medical Staff are briefed once a month by MHC personnel.
Primary Care Clinic—Any medical clinic to which beneficiaries can be enrolled as a means for
access to primary medical care, including Flight Medicine, Primary Care, Internal Medicine, and
Women’s Health/OB-GYN.
59MDWI44-143 13 OCTOBER 2010                                                    11


Primary Care Manager (PCM)—Medical providers in the primary care environment who
maintain responsibility for the overall health care of a given patient.
SOAP Format—Medical record documentation in SOAP format includes information in the
following domains: Subjective, Objective, Assessment, and Plan.
 12                                                       59MDWI44-143 13 OCTOBER 2010


                                         Attachment 2
                        STANDARD BHC INFORMATION SHEET

A2.1. WHAT Is The Behavioral Health Consultation Service?
   A2.1.1. We’re making the Behavioral Health Consultation Service available to you in our
   primary care and family practice clinics, as a part of your comprehensive health care. The
   service offers help when stress, worry, or emotional concerns about physical or other life
   problems interfere with your daily life.
A2.2. WHO is the Behavioral Health Consultant? WHAT problems can they help me
with?
   A2.2.1. The BHC is a psychologist or a social worker specially trained to work as a member
   of your primary care team. This team approach allows us to consider physical, behavioral,
   and emotional aspects of health. For example, the BHC can help you develop plans for
   smoking cessation or other lifestyle changes. They can also help you with emotional or
   behavioral problems such as difficulties with your family or relationship, grief, excess stress,
   depression, anxiety, or anger.
A2.3. HOW is this service different from mental health?
   A2.3.1. The BHC simply adds another facet to your complete health care. You are seen
   directly in the Primary Care or Family Practice Clinic, and the BHC will not provide
   traditional psychotherapy. If you request it, or the BHC thinks you would benefit from it, he
   or she will refer you to specialty mental health services. Another difference from specialty
   mental health care is that your BHC will document the assessment and recommendations in
   your outpatient medical record. He or she will not keep a separate mental health record (i.e.,
   the records and communications they contain are not confidential/privileged as mental health
   records under AFI 44-109 Mental Health, Confidentiality, and Military Law).
A2.4. WHAT should I expect when I see the BHC?
   A2.4.1. Your BHC will ask you specific questions about your physical symptoms, the
   emotional concerns you are experiencing, your behaviors, and how all of these might be
   related. Communications with your BHC may not be entirely confidential. Your BHC will
   make every effort to protect your privacy. But, like all providers, they must report
   information from any active duty patient that could have a negative impact on our mission.
   Your appointments should last no longer than about 30 minutes. Your BHC will provide
   brief, solution-focused skills and techniques. You can also expect to be seen in this clinic
   and for the BHC to have a close working relationship with your primary medical provider.
   Remember: Your primary provider is in charge of your health care. The BHC’s main job is
   to help develop and implement the best-integrated healthcare plan for YOU!
