BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      59TH MEDICAL WING INSTRUCTION 44-138
59TH MEDICAL WING
                                                                           30 NOVEMBER 2010
                                                             Certified Current, 5 November 2012
                                                                                        Medical

                                                          MANAGEMENT OF HUMAN
                                                IMMUNODEFICIENCY VIRUS (HIV) CASES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR:           59 MDOG/SGOMI                                          Certified by: 59 MDOS/CC
Supersedes:    59MDWI 44-138,                                                     (Col Roy Dileo)
               20 March 2008                                                             Pages: 8


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 44-1, Medical Operations. This
medical wing instruction (MDWI) establishes policy governing non-clinical management of
Human Immunodeficiency Virus positive (HIV+) patients including health care workers, as well
as indications for HIV testing within the facility. It integrates and implements existing Air Force
Instructions (AFI) to establish local policy. This publication applies to all personnel assigned,
attached, or under contract to the 59th Medical Wing (MDW). This instruction does not apply to
the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve. This publication requires the collection and
maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 and the Health Insurance
Portability & Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA). Protected Health Information must be
protected, and may only be disclosed, in accordance with (IAW) DoD 6025.18-R, Health
Information Privacy Regulation, AFI 41-210, Patient Administration Functions, AFI 33-332, Air
Force Privacy Act Program and DoD 5400.7-R/AF Supplement, Freedom of Information Act.
Privacy Act System Notice F044 AF SG D Automated Medical/Dental Health Records, F044 AF
SG E, Medical Records System, F044 AF SG Q, Family Advocacy Program, and F044 AF SG R,
Reporting of Medical Conditions of Public Health and Military Significance, apply. Collected
information is “For Official Use Only.” Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule on the Air Force
Portal available at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims.
 2                                                       59MDWI44-138 30 NOVEMBER 2010


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Weekly patient status reports are no longer generated.
1. Screening Process. All active duty (AD) Air Force (AF) personnel have initial HIV antibody
screening performed and, thereafter, are tested periodically as required by AFI 48-135, Human
Immunodeficiency Virus Program. All AD HIV+ individuals are evaluated at the United States
Air Force (USAF) HIV Medical Evaluation Unit (MEU) 59 MDOS/SGOMI, hereafter referred
to as the HIV MEU.
2. HIV-Infected AD Patient Referral Management.
     2.1. Medical personnel must refer AF active-duty members with suspected or newly
     diagnosed HIV infections to the HIV MEU for definitive diagnosis, treatment, and referral to
     the Medical Evaluation Board (MEB) and/or appropriate disposition. Note: Suspicion means
     that initial testing (Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay and Western Blot) is positive.
     Refer to AFI 48-135, Human Immunodeficiency Virus Program for additional details.
        2.1.1. Those confirmed to be infected with HIV are referred to the HIV MEU for clinical
        evaluation, disease staging and referral to the Medical Evaluation Board (MEB).
            2.1.1.1. After completing this initial staging evaluation, the member is returned to
            duty if medically able to fulfill their original assignment or a temporary reassignment
            while awaiting review by the Physical Evaluation Board (PEB) and decision by the
            Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC). Depending on that decision and outcome of any
            subsequent appeals, they are returned to duty with a C code assignment restriction,
            separated, permanently retired or placed on the Temporary Disability Retired List
            (TDRL).
                2.1.1.1.1. Individuals retained on AD must be reevaluated by the HIV MEU
                every six months with visit dates coordinated by HIV MEU staff, with yearly
                review in lieu of (RILO) forwarded by the MEB to AFPC. If they develop
                symptomatic or progressive disease interfering with duty performance at any
                time, they are referred to the HIV MEU for clinical reassessment and MEB and
                PEB reevaluation Re-evaluation for TDRL persons will be on an every 15-18
                month basis as coordinated by AFPC.
3. Medical Evaluation.
     3.1. HIV+ individuals needing initial or follow-up evaluation will receive an appointment to
     report to the HIV MEU. Note: This is an outpatient unit physically located in the
     Division of Infectious Disease at Brooke Army Medical Center (BAMC), Fort Sam
     Houston, Texas. All Department of Defense (DoD) directed evaluations will be completed
     as an outpatient and coordinated by the HIV MEU staff. All AD HIV+ patients undertaking
     their initial evaluation will undergo mental health status screening by a qualified 59 MDW
     mental health practitioner with mental health profile generated and reported to the MEB, and
     subsequent mental health referrals made as needed to address clinical issues.
     3.2. Unstable HIV patients or those patients exhibiting an active process requiring physician
     attention during non-duty hours will be admitted to the appropriate inpatient service. The
     staging evaluation and MEB referral will be completed following their hospitalization, unless
     expedited referral is needed for a terminal diagnosis.
59MDWI44-138 30 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                    3


  3.3. All HIV+ AD and TDRL personnel arriving at the HIV MEU will receive medical
  evaluation and staging of their HIV disease by an HIV MEU physician with expertise in HIV
  management. The MEU physician will also provide disease specific patient education and
  appropriate treatment recommendations, serve as an expert liaison with consulting or
  inpatient services on HIV management and provide staff and trainee education on HIV to 59
  MDW staff and other providers by request with appropriate approvals. The HIV MEU
  physician will provide clinical supervision and education to trainees providing care of HIV
  affected patients and coordinate with the patient’s primary provider for ongoing management
  of HIV and co-morbidities as well as issues concerning scheduled staging reevaluations.
  3.4. HIV MEU Community Health Nurse Responsibilities. The Community Health Nurse
  59 MDOS/SGOMI conducts confidential patient epidemiologic interviews, initiates contact
  notification process, and initiates the blood donation “look-back” process. Disease education
  and risk reduction counseling is conducted during the patient interview, and in
  supplementary classes on risk reduction topics. The standardized medical counseling form,
  AF Form 3845, Preventive Medicine Counseling Record is completed as a record of this
  activity and maintained in the nurse counselor’s confidential patient files and a note entered
  into the Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application (AHLTA) noting the
  counseling session. If the patient refuses to sign the 59 MDW Directorate of Medical Law
  will be notified. The “Order to Follow Preventive Medicine Requirements”, an appendix
  contained in AFI 48-135, Human Immunodeficiency Virus Program, is issued by the unit
  commander of an HIV+ person prior to the patient’s initial evaluation by the HIV MEU.
  Other patient focused duties of the HIV MEU Community Health Nurse include general and
  health specific disease education, assessment of individual coping skills and support systems
  for emotional stressors of HIV and any sexually transmitted disease (STD) diagnoses,
  identification of need for crisis intervention referral and provision of career counseling. HIV
  and STD disease specific lab results are reviewed, abnormal results forwarded to HIV MEU
  physicians for treatment as indicated by established protocols, and communicable disease
  forms forwarded to appropriate public health reporting agencies. Clinic attendance and
  pharmacy refill databases are reviewed regularly to target patients needing adherence
  interventions (i.e., use of pill boxes and lifestyle changes counseling). Patients identified for
  medicine non-adherence are contacted for a follow-up appointment.
  3.5. Infectious Disease Service Responsibilities. The HIV MEU is part of the Infectious
  Disease Service (59 MDOS/SGOMI) which is physically located in the Division of
  Infectious Disease at Brooke Army Medical Center (BAMC), Fort Sam Houston, Texas and
  oversees the medical evaluation and care of HIV+ patients unless their physical status makes
  it prudent to be cared for by a team from Medicine, Surgery, Pediatrics, Obstetrics
  (OB/GYN), Psychiatry, or another clinical service. In such cases, consult liaison with
  Infectious Disease is recommended to avoid adverse outcomes due to interruption of
  antiretroviral therapy or from adverse drug-drug interactions.
  3.6. Standard Precautions. The application of blood and body fluid precautions while caring
  for all patients reduces the risk of HIV disease transmission in the hospital setting. Refer to
  MDWI 44-157, Infection Prevention and Control Program, Section 2.5 regarding the use of
  standard precautions.
 4                                                       59MDWI44-138 30 NOVEMBER 2010


     3.7. Exposure to HIV parenterally (i.e., needlestick or cut) or by mucous membrane
     exposure to a body fluid results in the risk for disease transmission. The policy for managing
     these exposures is delineated in MDWI 44-157, Section 5.5-5.9.
4. News Media Coverage. 59 MDW Public Affairs coordinates news media coverage on HIV
related topics. Community relations projects such as speaking engagements must be approved in
advance.
5. Medical Records Coding of              HIV      Infections. Refer   to   AFI   48-135,   Human
Immunodeficiency Virus Program.
6. Reports.
     6.1. The HIV MEU Community Health Nurse completes the Preventive Medicine
     Counseling Record, as described in paragraph 2.3, and provides information on HIV disease
     status and other communicable diseases in HIV infected patients interviewed to the Texas
     Department of Health, Texas law. The Department of Health in turn provides this
     information to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
     6.2. HIV MEU administrative personnel coordinate scheduled reevaluation visits for AD and
     TDRL personnel, and assure that narrative summaries of reevaluations are entered into the
     patient’s electronic medical record for review by the patient’s primary physician and/or Unit
     Deployment Manager via AHLTA and to the Medical Board for RILO transmittal for AD
     personnel, and TDRL patients. The MEB forwards AD RILOs to the Air Force Standards
     Section of AFPC. Notification of delinquent appointment status is sent to the patient’s unit
     commander if efforts to contact and reschedule the patients fail. All mail outs are labeled
     “eyes only” for sensitive material.
     6.3. The HIV MEU Physician provides narrative summaries in MEB format of all patients
     seen for initial staging and reevaluations, and forwards a completed WHMC Form 3520,
     Provider Reportable Condition, to Public Health 37 AMDS for any HIV+ patients with
     STDs or other reportable infectious diseases.
7. HIV+ Health Care Workers.
     7.1. Privileged and non-privileged health care workers infected with HIV will have their
     scope of practice, duties and privileges evaluated IAW AFI 44-102, Medical Care
     Management, Chapter 5, paragraph 5.2.
8. Testing for HIV.
     8.1. Currently, periodic testing is performed IAW AFI 48-135, Human Immunodeficiency
     Virus Program.
     8.2. HIV testing is performed routinely on:
        8.2.1. Blood donors.
        8.2.2. Military personnel diagnosed with a STD or tuberculosis regardless of previous
        testing and in follow-up to STD diagnosis as recommended in CDC and military STD
        treatment guidelines.
        8.2.3. AF personnel entering a formal drug rehabilitation program regardless of previous
        testing.
59MDWI44-138 30 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                    5


     8.2.4. Incarcerated military personnel.
     8.2.5. Active duty women presenting for obstetric care at the OB/GYN clinic.
     8.2.6. Surveillance testing for military personnel exposed to blood or body fluids.
     8.2.7. Special testing of other AD personnel may be accomplished when ordered by the
     attending physician as part of a clinical evaluation where indicated by medical history
     and other findings, such as behavioral risk factor, unexplained prolonged fever, and
     weight loss with generalized lymphadenopathy. The clinical indication should be clearly
     documented in the medical record and patient history and behavioral risk assessment
     documentation done IAW current medical and privacy standards and DoD policy. These
     clinical tests should be accomplished locally and without regard to previous and
     subsequent testing. The patient should be counseled as follows with the counseling noted
     in the medical record:
        8.2.7.1. Patient informed that the HIV test is being performed. Documentation of
        informed consent is highly suggested out of respect for the individual, but is not
        required for AD personnel.
        8.2.7.2. Counseled before testing as to the potential meaning of the HIV test results.
        8.2.7.3. Counseled after testing regarding its results.
        8.2.7.4. Referred to the HIV MEU for disease staging evaluation and MEB for
        confirmed positive test results.
     8.2.8. HIV testing is being offered to all beneficiaries of the military health care system
     or civilian emergencies as indicated by standard medical practice. Testing of
     beneficiaries or civilian emergencies is performed IAW DoD directives applying CDC
     guidance and Texas statutes governing the counseling and testing process and entered
     into the medical record. The patient’s medical record must also reflect that pretest
     counseling was performed as noted above in 8.2.7.1 and 8.2.7.2 and that written informed
     consent was obtained.
     8.2.9. Testing on Foreign Military Trainees (FMTs). HIV testing may be performed:
        8.2.9.1. If the trainee requests the test and has his/her government’s approval. The
        trainee signs a request that explicitly grants permission for the test and acknowledges
        his/her government’s approval and willingness to pay for test.
        8.2.9.2. If the test is clinically indicated.
        8.2.9.3. If the individual requires the test to satisfy entry requirements into a training
        program (for example, flight training).
        8.2.9.4. Notification of positive results includes the training organization’s
        commander and Headquarters Air Force Educational Training Command/Hospital
        Personnel (HQ AETC/SGPA) (Aerospace Medicine Branch), who initiate
        administrative disposition.
     8.2.10. All positive HIV test results on locally assigned patients, except those from the
     Blood Donor Center and on basic trainees, are routed to the physician who ordered the
     test, the HIV MEU, and Public Health. It is the responsibility of the attending physician
 6                                                     59MDWI44-138 30 NOVEMBER 2010


       to notify the patient and provide post-test counseling after consultation with the
       Infectious Disease Service. The HIV MEU will coordinate reporting of these new cases
       of HIV infection with Public Health. Positive HIV test results on basic trainees and those
       from the Blood Donor Center are routed through Public Health who will refer them to the
       Infectious Disease Service for disease staging and education after coordination with
       designated Installation Support Flight Surgeon (ISAF) or their designee.
          8.2.10.1. Notification of the patient will be done by the designated IS HIV
          Consultant Flight Surgeon or designee. Indeterminate HIV test results on trainees,
          and other HIV test results from the Blood Donor Center requiring trainee notification,
          will be routed through Public Health to the designated ISAF who will notify the
          individual of the results and provide post-test counseling. The HIV MEU must be
          notified of indeterminate test results to coordinate management decisions and follow
          up with the designated ISAF. All HIV infected patients will be counseled and
          evaluated by an Infectious Disease specialist or designee for extent of HIV related
          disease, and for patient education and resource information regarding establishing
          ongoing medical care related to HIV infection.
9. Privacy. Current AF policy states that information reflecting an individual has serologic or
other evidence of infection with HIV is not an unfavorable entry in the personnel record.

10. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 3845, Preventive Medicine Counseling Record
WHMC Form 3520, Provider Reportable Condition




                                            SVEN T. BERG, Colonel, USAF, MC, FS
                                            Chief of the Medical Staff
59MDWI44-138 30 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                  7


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations, 1 September 1999
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program, 29 January 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 41-210, Patient Administration Functions, 22 March 2006
AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, 1 May 2006
AFI 44-119, Medical Quality Operations, 24 September 2007
AFI 48-135, Human Immunodeficiency Virus Program, 12 May 2004
DoD 5400.7, Freedom of Information Act, 2 January 2008
DoD 6025.18-R, DoD Health Information Privacy Regulation, 24 January 2003
Privacy Act System Notice F044 AF SG E, Medical Records System, 18 June 2010
Privacy Act System Notice F044 AF SG Q, Family Advocacy Program, 18 November 2003
Privacy Act System Notice F044 AF SG R, Reporting of Medical Conditions of Public Health
and Military Significance, 16 June 2003
MDWI 44-157, Infection Prevention and Control Program, 14 January 2010
Privacy Act of 1974
Privacy Act System Notice F044 AF SG D, Automated Medical/Dental Record System, 29
August 2003
Privacy Act System Notice F044 AF SG E, Medical Record System, 18 June 2010
Health Insurance Portability & Accountability Act of 1996
Centers for Disease Control (CDC), Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, Vol. 50 / No. RR-
11, 29 June 2001
Centers for Disease Control (CDC), Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report Vol. 54 / RR-9, 30
September 2005
Department of Defense (DoD) Regulation 5400.7/Air Force Supplement, DoD Freedom of
Information Act Program, 24 June 2002
Infection Control and Hospital Epidemiology, 1996, Vol 17, p 54-80
Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of America Position Paper Infection Control and Hospital
Epidemiology, 1997, Vol 18, p 349-363
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Final Rule, 6 December 1991

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AD—Active Duty
 8                                                59MDWI44-138 30 NOVEMBER 2010


AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AHLTA—Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application
BAMC—Brooke Army Medical Center
CDC—Centers for Disease Control
DoD—Department of Defense
FMT—Foreign Military Trainees
HIPAA—Health Insurance Portability & Accountability Act
HIV—Human Immunodeficiency Virus
HIV+—Human Immunodeficiency Virus Positive
IAW—In Accordance With
ISAF—Installation Support Flight Surgeon
MDW—Medical Wing
MDWI—Medical Wing Instruction
MEB—Medical Evaluation Board
MEU—Medical Evaluation Unit
MTF—Military Treatment Facility
OB/GYN—Obstetrics
OCONUS—Outside Continental United States
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
PEB—Physical Evaluation Board
RILO—Review In Lieu Of
STD—Sexually Transmitted Disease
TDRL—Temporary Disability Retired List
USAF—United States Air Force
