Administrative Changes to 5 AFI 65-201, Solatium Payments
OPR: DFAS-JRLE/JA
Reference in paragraph 1.4. “USFJPL 30-2, Condolence Procedures,” is hereby changed to
“USFJI 36-2612, Condolence Procedures.”
References throughout the publication to “DFAS-J/FPF” are hereby changed to “DFAS-
JRLE/JA.”
References throughout the publication to “DFAS-J/F” are hereby changed to “DFAS-JRL/JA.”
References throughout the publication to “MSgt G. K. Summers” are hereby changed to “Mr. N.
Shimada.”
References throughout the publication to “Mr. D. Southerd” are hereby changed to “Mr. S.
Muzzy.”


21 July 2010
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                                                5 AF INSTRUCTION 65-201
FIFTH AIR FORCE                                                                  24 DECEMBER 1997
                                                                      Certified Current 9 January 2012
                                                                                Financial Management

                                                                              SOLATIUM PAYMENTS




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: DFAS-J/FPF (MSgt G. K. Summers)                         Certified by: DFAS-J/F (Mr. D. Southerd)
Supersedes 5 AFI 65-201, 15 October 1996                                                     Pages: 5
                                                                                      Distribution: F

This instruction explains solatium payments, requires appointment of a solatium payment officer, and sets
up paying procedures. It applies to Fifth Air Force (5 AF) installations.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
Updates office symbols throughout this publication. Updates reference regulation (paragraph 1.2.). A bar
( | ) indicates revision from the previous edition.


1. "Solatium Payments" Explained:
   1.1. Solatium payments are payments made to seriously injured local nationals or the families of
   deceased local nationals of Japan when the injury or death was:
       1.1.1. Suffered in connection with the local national’s United States Air Force (USAF) employ-
       ment (official duty).
       1.1.2. Caused by a USAF military or civilian member in the performance of official Air Force
       business.
       1.1.3. The result of an accident involving an official Air Force vehicle or other Air Force equip-
       ment, driven by an authorized driver (military, civilian, or local national employee).
       1.1.4. Caused by a USAF military or civilian member, other than in the performance of official
       Air Force business, who is unable to make the solatium payment from his or her personal funds
       and the local commander considers it to be in the best interest of the Air Force to make payment
       from appropriated funds.
   1.2. Solatium payments constitute valid expenditures and are chargeable against base operations and
   maintenance (O&M) funds. The applicable base O&M funds will be cited on Standard Form 1034,
2                                                                   5AFI65-201 24 DECEMBER 1997


    Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other Than Personal, and processed per this instruc-
    tion, DFAS-DE 7010.2-R, Commercial Transactions at Base Level.
    1.3. The maximum amount payable in Japan is 100,000 yen for death and 50,000 yen for each serious
    injury per AFI 51-501, Tort Claims, and AFI 51-502, Personnel and Government Recovery Claims.
    The amount should reflect circumstances involved, with the maximum amount paid only in rare and
    unique circumstances.
    1.4. The minimum procedures for solatium payments are outlined in USFJPL 30-2, Condolence Pro-
    cedures, and must be reviewed and followed prior to making any solatium payment.

2. Appointment of Solatium Payment Officer. The installation commander will appoint on a perma-
nent basis, by memorandum, a senior officer to act as a solatium payment officer (see Figure 1.). In Japan,
when possible, assign this duty to the officer acting as the command representative.

3. Paying Procedures:
    3.1. The installation commander will:
       3.1.1. Review each incident or accident report involving the injury or death of a local national,
       under the preview of paragraph 1.1., to determine whether a solatium payment is appropriate.
       Whenever possible, make the determination sufficiently early to permit the payment to be made
       within 24 hours of the incident or accident.
       3.1.2. When the payment is determined appropriate, either issue a memorandum of instruction to
       the solatium payment officer to make payment or issue verbal instructions, to be followed by the
       memorandum, if necessary, to comply with the time frame set up in paragraph 3.1.1. (see Figure
       2.).

Figure 1. Format for Memorandum of Appointment.



     MEMORANDUM FOR (Grade, Name, and Organization)                                          (Date)

     FROM: CC

     SUBJECT: Appointment of Solatium Payment Officer

     1. You are hereby appointed as solatium payment officer, on a permanent basis, in accordance with
     5 AFI 65-201.

     2. In performing your responsibilities as solatium payment officer, you will follow the provisions
     of 5 AFI 65-201.


                                                               (Commander’s Signature Element)
5AFI65-201 24 DECEMBER 1997                                                                                 3


Figure 2. Format for Memorandum of Instruction.



MEMORANDUM FOR (Grade, Name, and Organization of Solatium Payment Officer)                      (Date)

FROM: CC

SUBJECT: Solatium Payment

 1. (Identify the incident or accident report) (copy attached) has been revised and the payment of
solatium as defined in 5 AFI 65-201, paragraphs 1.1.1., 1.1.2., 1.1.3., or 1.1.4. are deemed appropriate.

 2. (Grade, name, and organization) will act as my designated representative in witnessing the actual
payment.


                                                              (Commander’s Signature Element)

Attachment
Report of Incident or Accident

cc:
(Witnessing Officer)
   3.2. Upon receipt of the memorandum of instruction, the solatium payment officer will contact the
   Staff Judge Advocate (JA) and the Accounting and Finance Office (AFO).
   3.3. The JA will review the circumstances, determine the amount to be paid, and provide the solatium
   payment officer with a memorandum of determination (see Figure 3.).

Figure 3. Format for Memorandum of Determination.



MEMORANDUM FOR (Grade, Name, and Organization of Solatium Payment Officer)                      (Date)

FROM: JA (Name, Phone Number)

SUBJECT: Solatium Payment

(Identify the incident or accident report) has been reviewed and it is my determination that
(amount of local currency) should be an appropriate payment.


                                                                   (JA's Signature Element)
4                                                                    5AFI65-201 24 DECEMBER 1997


    3.4. The AFO will advance to the solatium payment officer, fund in new bills and in the largest
    denomination possible, per DoDFMR, Vol V, paragraph 030402, Disbursing Policy and Procedure. A
    copy of the memorandum of instruction, along with the JA’s memorandum of determination of
    amount to be paid, will be attached to the AFO's copy of DD Form 1081, Statement of Agent
    Officer's Account.
    3.5. The solatium payment officer, accompanied by the witnessing officer, will present the solatium
    payment in accordance with local customs and procedures of that country. Do not delay the payment
    beyond 24 hours after the incident or accident.
    3.6. Since it is not proper decorum to ask the recipient of a solatium payment for a receipt, the instal-
    lation commander or designated representative will witness the actual payment. The witnessing
    officer, upon completion of the payment, will prepare a certificate and give three copies through the
    solatium payment officer to the AFO (see Figure 4.). The solatium payment officer will also provide
    the AFO with a written statement paragraph 3.7.4.

Figure 4. Format for Certificate.



                                        CERTIFICATE


I, (name), certify that I have witnessed presentation of solatium on (date of payment) in the amount
of (local currency and US dollar equivalent) to (name and address of the payee). Solatium was
presented to the payee by (grade and name of the solatium payment officer) of (organization).
Local custom precludes obtaining signature of the payee for receipt of solatium.




(Witnessing Officer’s Signature)
(Name, Grade, Title, and Organization)


    3.7. The AFO will prepare and process Standard Form 1034. Attach to the form the following mini-
    mum documentation:
       3.7.1. Memorandum of instruction from the installation commander.
       3.7.2. Memorandum appointing the solatium payment officer.
       3.7.3. Memorandum of determination from the JA.
       3.7.4. Statement from the solatium payment officer that he or she, in fact, made a solatium pay-
       ment, amount paid (expressed in local currency and US dollar equivalent), and the date of pay-
       ment.
5AFI65-201 24 DECEMBER 1997                                                                       5


     3.7.5. The certificate of the witnessing officer.



                                                    JOHN B. HALL, JR., Lieutenant General, USAF
                                                    Commander
