BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              60 AIR MOBILITY WING INSTRUCTION 36-1
TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE                                                              30 NOVEMBER 1994

                                                                                                Personnel

                                                                                 CASUALTY SERVICES




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.

OPR: 60 MSS/DPMPS (Mrs. Soileau)                                              Certified by: 60 MSS/DPM
                                                                                (Capt Kathryn A. Russel)
Supersedes TAFB Regulation 30-1, 10 June 1988                                                     Pages: 8
                                                                                           Distribution: F

This Instruction implements AFPD 36-30, Casualty Services. It establishes certain general responsibili-
ties of base personnel and agencies concerning casualty reporting, notification and assistance of Air Force
personnel. It applies to all Travis AFB personnel, including tenant and geographically separated units.
Governing directive for the Air Force Casualty Services Program is AFI 36-3002, Casualty Services.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
Updates unit designations; deletes 60 MSS/DPMPS responsibility to notify NOK of Very Seriously Ill,
Seriously Ill and Incapacitated personnel; adds responsibility for 60th Medical Group (60 MDG/SGRA)
to contact 60 MSS/DPMPS on all casualty related matters (paragraph 1.4.1.1.).

1. RESPONSIBILITIES:
   1.1. The Casualty Assistance Representative (CAR) (60 MSS/DPMPS) is responsible for casualty
   reporting, notification, and assistance as outlined in AFI 36-3002. All reports of casualties or queries
   for assistance occurring during duty hours will be referred to the CAR. After duty hours, calls or que-
   ries will be referred to the Travis Command Post (60 AMW/CP). A current roster of casualty standby
   personnel, including home telephone numbers, will be provided to the Command Post by the CAR.
   The CAR will notify the on-call Mortuary Officer when Next Of Kin (NOK) have been notified and
   coordinate to verify correct names and telephone numbers of NOK.
   1.2. The Command Post (60 AMW/CP) will immediately contact the CAR during normal duty hours
   and casualty standby personnel after duty hours when advised of an Air Force casualty, regardless of
   status (such as active duty, retired, ANG/Reserve, dependents, civilian employees, foreign exchange
   officers, etc.) or a newsworthy incident.
   1.3. All Air Force tenant and Geographically Separated Units (GSUs) will appoint a Casualty Repre-
   sentative. Units whose Field Personnel Records (FPRs) are not maintained by 60 MSS/DPMPS will
2                                                                  60AMWI36-1 30 NOVEMBER 1994


    immediately furnish copies of the DD Form 93, Record of Emergency Data, and VA Form
    SGLV-8286, Servicemen's Group Life Insurance Election, to the CAR in the event of a casualty in
    their unit. All active duty casualties assigned to GSUs will be reported directly to the CAR during nor-
    mal duty hours and to 60 AMW Command Post after duty hours.
    1.4. 60 MDG WILL:
       1.4.1. In Very Seriously Ill or Injured (VSI) or Seriously Ill or Injured (SI):
           1.4.1.1. Notify CAR of VSI or SI active duty personnel during normal duty hours. After duty
           hours contact 60 AMW Command Post.
           1.4.1.2. Upon request provide CAR the prognosis of the patient and any other information that
           may be pertinent to the accomplishment of Invitational Travel Orders (ITOs) for the transpor-
           tation of the next-of-kin of the patient.
       1.4.2. IN DEATH CASES:
           1.4.2.1. Notify the CAR and Security Police (as necessary) during normal duty hours and the
           60 AMW Command Post after duty hours of all active duty or retired deaths, regardless of
           their service components.
           1.4.2.2. Provide a medical person to augment the Notification Team, provided such support
           does not hinder the mission or duty requirements of the 60 MDG.
           1.4.2.3. Support the Casualty Augmentation Support Team (CAST) by designating, in writ-
           ing, a point of contact who will provide casualty information to the team.
    1.5. Base Telephone Operations (60 CG/SCSV) will refer all casualty related calls to the CAR or 60
    AMW Command Post after duty hours.
    1.6. Security Police Desk Sergeant (60 SPS/SPOL) will notify the CAR during normal duty hours and
    the 60 AMW Command Post after duty hours upon learning of a casualty.
    1.7. Base Public Affairs Office (60 AMW/PA) is the only base agency authorized to release informa-
    tion concerning casualties to the public or news media. All calls or requests for such information will
    be referred to that office. Public Affairs will coordinate with the CAR to ensure that NOK notification
    is made prior to release to news media. Public Affairs and the CAR will insure coordination on all
    newsworthy event reports.
    1.8. Travis AFB Mortuary Office (60 SVS/MWD) will ensure that the CAR receives an up-to-date
    roster with names and telephone numbers of on-call mortuary officers.
    1.9. Accounting and Finance Officer (60 AMW/FM) will ensure the CAR receives a current roster
    with names and telephone numbers of Accounting and Finance representatives authorized to make
    death gratuity payments during non-duty hours.
    1.10. Senior Chaplain (60 AMW/HC) will support the notification team by providing a chaplain to
    augment the team. During normal duty hours, the services of the chaplain may be obtained by calling
    the chaplain’s office, after duty hours contact the Security Police Law Enforcement Desk.
    1.11. Transportation (60 TRANS/LGTO) will provide a sedan or station wagon to be used for casu-
    alty notifications and assistance. Transportation will be provided regardless of the day or hour, and
    operating distance limitations are waived (reference: AFI 36-3002, (paragraph 3.5.).
60AMWI36-1 30 NOVEMBER 1994                                                                                3


   1.12. Unit Commanders will be familiar with the inherent responsibilities outlined in AFI 36-3002
   and will coordinate all casualty matters with the CAR.
   1.13. Chief of Civilian Personnel (60 MSS/DPC) will be responsible for effecting casualty notifica-
   tion and assistance to NOK of Air Force civilian employees.

2. NOTIFICATION:
   2.1. Travis AFB assigned or attached casualties Notification to NOK in the immediate area will be
   made by squadron commanders provided they are a field grade officer and are of equal or higher grade
   than the casualty.
   2.2. The CAR (60 MSS/DPMPS) will maintain a duty roster of eligible field grade officers within the
   60 AMW resources to accomplish required notification. The casualty standby personnel will arrange
   transportation, brief the notification officers on their responsibilities, and furnish them with a copy of
   the original notification letter to be delivered to the NOK.

3. ASSISTANCE. All calls referred to or received by Travis Command Post will be annotated with name,
grade, or title, address, and telephone number of the caller and referred to the casualty standby personnel.
The Command Post will not discuss details of the incident with the NOK, but will obtain the name and
telephone number of the caller and advise him or her that a representative from the Casualty Assistance
office will be immediately contacted to return his or her call.

4. AIRCRAFT MISHAPS:
   4.1. During duty hours, the CAR will be notified immediately by the Travis Command Post of all air-
   craft mishaps concerning 60 AMW aircraft, either military or civilian contract, which had Travis AFB
   as its originating or last departure point. After duty hours, Command Post personnel will notify the
   casualty standby personnel. The CAR will be immediately notified of the death of any 60 AMW per-
   sonnel resulting from a 60 AMW aircraft accident, regardless of its departure point or location. The
   Command Post will furnish the CAR a list of crew members, including their organization of assign-
   ment, as well as a copy of the passenger manifest (if applicable).
   4.2. Upon receipt of notification of an aircraft mishap concerning aeromedical evacuation aircraft, the
   Aeromedical Evacuation Control Center, Detachment 4, 57th Aeromedical Evacuation Squadron (Det
   4, 57 AES), will deliver to the CAR, within 15 minutes of such notification, a copy of the patient man-
   ifest and any other data available which will assist in preparation of required casualty reports.

5. MULTIPLE CASUALTY REPORTING. In the event of a mass disaster, procedures outlined in the
current Disaster Preparedness Plan (Annex K) will apply.

6. INVITATIONAL TRAVEL ORDERS (ITOs) The responsibilities of base agencies as related to ITOs
are outlined in Attachment 1, Background Paper on ITOs.
4                                                         60AMWI36-1 30 NOVEMBER 1994


7. Prescribed Forms: DD Form 93, and VA Form SGLV-8286.



                                             TRENT K. FRY, Major, USAF
                                             Chief, Office of Base Information Management
60AMWI36-1 30 NOVEMBER 1994                                      5


                                 Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 30-30, Casualty Services
AFI 36-3002, Casualty Services
6                                                               60AMWI36-1 30 NOVEMBER 1994


                                             Attachment 2

                BACKGROUND PAPER ON INVITATIONAL TRAVEL ORDERS
1. The Air Force is obligated to provide round-trip transportation to Next of Kin (NOK) to the bedside of
Seriously Ill (SI) and Very Seriously Ill (VSI) members hospitalized in the CONUS. The following proce-
dures are outlined for your information. It takes the coordinated effort of medical personnel, unit com-
manders and the Casualty Assistance Representative (CAR) to ensure an effective Invitational Travel
Order (ITO) Program. The program applies to the NOK of active duty Air Force members and ANG/
USAFR members in a duty status. No more than two NOK may be provided round-trip transportation.
2. Medical personnel responsibilities:
2.1. Attending physician initiates the request for ITOs. NOK's presence must be considered necessary to
aid in the physical recovery of the patient.
3. Military Medical Treatment Facility (MTF) commander's responsibilities:
3.1. TF commander must concur with the ITO request. Must ensure that the CAR is immediately notified
of the request and is provided the required information to effect ITO approval and arrangement of trans-
portation by HQAFMPC/DPMAC.
4. Unit commander's responsibilities:
4.1. When advised by the CAR of the NOKs approved itinerary, assigns the NOK an escort to arrange for
the reception, quarters, and whatever assistance is needed. Ensures the escort stays in contact with NOK
during the stay, and informs CAR when return transportation is required.
5. CAR responsibilities:
5.1. Overall focal point for the ITO Program. Coordinates all actions with Air Force Military Personnel
Center (AFMPC) M. Soileau/DPMPS/4-2106/mhs/23 Jul 93
60AMWI36-1 30 NOVEMBER 1994                                                                                7


                                              Attachment 3

                                     (CAST) RESPONSIBILITIES
1. Casualty Augmentation Support Team (CAST) Responsibilities.
1.1. Ensure casualties are reported to HQ AFMPC (Casualty Operations enter) in the shortest possible
time to ensure prompt, accurate, and humane notification of the Next Of Kin (NOK). The CAST is imple-
mented when the number of casualties exceeds the reporting units' normal operating capability. The
CAST is composed of personnel assigned within the Military Personnel Flight (MPF). When augmented,
the CAST will ensure data and information are collected and reported to HQ AFMPC in a timely manner.
2. Upon knowledge of a situation resulting in multiple casualties the MPF Chief will.
2.1. Authorize recall of the CAST to augment the CAR as necessary. They will also determine if TDY
manning assistance from other Casualty Assistance Representatives is required to provide additional sup-
port for casualty reporting, assistance, etc. They may also determine if abbreviated casualty reports are
required whenever telephone contact cannot be established with HQ AFMPC/DPMCAC, Casualty Oper-
ations Center, Randolph AFB TX.
3. The Casualty Assistance Representative (CAR) or their designated representative will.
3.1. Ensure all facets of the Casualty Services Program are carried out as directed by AFI 36-3002. They
will also ensure all base activities have the instructions to promptly and effectively report casualties,
notify the NOK, and provide casualty assistance through the Casualty Office. This includes outlining the
responsibilities of the security police, base telephone operators, hospital personnel, base command post,
base chaplain, telecommunications center, mortuary affairs office and unit commanders.
4. The Chief, Personnel Support for Contingency Operations (PERSCO) will.
4.1. Ensure that PERSCO team members are trained on all aspects of casualty reporting and establish pro-
cedures for reporting casualties to include communications to and from the field, transmission of casualty
reports from the field, and establishing liaison with medical facilities handling casualties within the area.
5. CAST members will.
5.1. Receive and participate in training conducted by the CAR on a quarterly basis or as needed. Familiar-
ize themselves as much as possible with AFI 36-3002, Casualty Services Program, especially chapter 2,
Casualty Reporting. Report any information on any casualty that is known to the CAR or Chief, Military
Personnel Flight, Chief, PERSCO or Travis AFB Command Post at 4-5517, 24 hours a day.
6. CAST Reporting Procedures.
6.1. When a mass casualty accident or disaster is reported to the Chief Military Personnel Flight, they will
contact the CAR or casualty standby, who will contact all members of the CAST. The members of the
CAST will form in the briefing room on the breezeway or any other location identified to them at the time.
A team chief, will be appointed to take command of the team, while the CAR or a designated representa-
tive will act as liaison to the CAST.
7. The CAR or the designated representative will.
7.1. Be the focal point for coordination with base and local agencies to obtain information relative to the
incident and relay this information to the team chief for reporting and notification purposes.
8. The Team Chief will.
8                                                                   60AMWI36-1 30 NOVEMBER 1994


8.1. Research records. The DD Form 93 in the member's records should be the first document that is
reviewed. It will show the person's dependent and beneficiary information. If the member is not stationed
at Travis AFB, his/her station of assignment should be quickly determined and that information should be
forwarded to the AFMPC Casualty Operations Center as quickly as possible. The Servicemen's Group
Life Insurance form also lists beneficiary addresses and may also provide valuable dependent informa-
tion.
8.2. Be responsible for reporting, and message preparation to HQ AFMPC, Casualty Operations Center at
DSN 487-3505.
8.3. Identify CAST members responsible for assembling notification teams, briefing the teams and
arrange transportation for them. The team chief will appoint a qualified individual to take command of the
notification team.
9. The notification chief will be responsible to:
9.1. Assemble notification teams as soon as possible and have them respond to the Casualty Assistance
Office in service dress uniform for a briefing. A notification team consists of 1 field grade officer, a major
or above unless otherwise directed by HQ AFMPC, a chaplain and a medical officer. Utilize the active
duty casualty folder and the casualty training package (both located in the CAR's office) to contact,
assemble and brief these teams.
