BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                               61ST AIR BASE WING INSTRUCTION 31-204
61ST AIR BASE WING                                                                           29 APRIL 2008

                                                                                                     Security

                                                            INSTALLATION MOTOR VEHICLE CODE
                                                                          RULES OF THE ROAD



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                        www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 61 SFS/SFOP                                        Certified by: 61 SFS/CC (Maj Allan C. Sacdalan)
Supersedes SMCI31-109, 27 July 98                                                            Pages: 27

This instruction establishes policy, procedures and responsibilities that will govern the use and operation
of motor vehicles and bicycles on Los Angeles Air Force Base (LAAFB). The Motor Vehicle Code
(MVC) for operations of motor vehicles including motorcycles and mopeds (hereinafter referred to as
motor vehicles) on LAAFB and the outlying areas known as Fort MacArthur, Pacific Heights, and Pacific
Crest. It outlines policies and procedures on vehicle registration, denial of operation and registration priv-
ileges, operation of emergency vehicles, reporting traffic accidents, speed limits, parking, pedestrian and
bicyclist responsibilities. This instruction implements AFI 31-204, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic
Supervision and AFI 91-207, The US Air Force Traffic Program. This instruction applies to all persons
assigned, employed, residing or visiting LAAFB. Anyone operating vehicles on LAAFB will also comply
with the California Vehicle Code (CVC). Failure to observe the prohibitions and mandatory provisions of
this instruction could subject military personnel to action under the Uniform Code of Military Justice and
civilian personnel to disciplinary action, barment and/or a point assessment system by the base com-
mander or designate. Security Forces Police Officers have federal jurisdiction and the authority to issue
State Citations both on and off the LAAFB installation. Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR), using AF IMT 847, Recommendation for
Change Publication; route AF IMT 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of com-
mand. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained
in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFM 33-363), Management of Records, and dis-
posed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://
afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. It has been reorganized
IAW with the basic instruction for easier readability. This document has been renamed from SMC Instruc-
tion 31-109 to 61ST Air Base Wing Instruction 31-204. The Random Vehicle Inspection (RVI) program
was explained. It allows for the 61 ABW/CC to bar non-DoD affiliated and contracted personnel for
refusing a RVI check. Added, non-DoD affiliated personnel receive State Citations in lieu of driving sus-
2                                                                                                  61ABWI31-204 29 APRIL 2008


pension letters unless it includes a criminal act. Civilians must undergo a training program comparable to
Alcohol Drug Awareness Program Treatment (ADAPT) at their own expense and provide proof prior to
granting removal or revocation of driving privileges. An expiration grace period of five days for the DD
Form 2220, DoD Registered Vehicle has been added. Added para., 6.3. Race cars, go-carts, mini-bikes,
minimotos and pocket bikes: No racing cars, go-carts, mini-bikes, minimotos or pocket bikes of any size,
will be driven on LAAFB or on military family housing areas unless the 61 MSG/CD designated an area
for these types of vehicles. Added, papa., 6.4. Bicycles, battery operated and electric scooters: Parents or
guardians will not permit their children to violate the following rules pertaining to riding bicycles and
scooters. Added, para., 6.5. Skateboarding, roller blading and roller skating. The formatting changed;
headings revised; grammatical changes made to content; revised addresses; deleted redundant wording;
deleted RV parking; deleted California Financial Law; added member will provide proof of a valid
driver’s license; added insurance to paragraph 2.1. Replaced DD Form 1569 with DD Form 3545; deleted
traffic signals paragraph; added cul-de-sac; deleted auto hobby shop; updated section 8.1. through 8.3.10.
towing procedures to reflect current procedures.
      1.      General Provisions: ....................................................................................................           3
      2.      Driving Privileges: .....................................................................................................          3
      3.      Emergency Vehicles: .................................................................................................              9
      4.      Traffic Accidents. ......................................................................................................         10
      5.      Rules of the Road. ......................................................................................................         11
      6.      Motorcycles, Scooters, and Mopeds: .........................................................................                      13
      7.      Parking .......................................................................................................................   16
      8.      Miscellaneous Rules: .................................................................................................            21
      9.      Required Vehicle Equipment: ....................................................................................                  22

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS,
           AND TERMS                                                                                                                            24

Attachment 2— LAAFB PARKING DESIGNATIONS PLAN                                                                                                   27
61ABWI31-204 29 APRIL 2008                                                                                 3


1. General Provisions:
   1.1. General. Rules of the road are designed to encourage voluntary compliance with traffic laws and
   regulations by all operators of motor vehicles, bicycles and pedestrians. Forward all recommended
   changes concerning this instruction to 61st Security Forces Plans and Programs Section (61 SFS/
   SFOP). Security Forces will enforce AFI 31-204 and other directives of higher headquarters, the
   MVC and those federal and state traffic laws which apply to LAAFB. In cases of conflict, California
   Vehicle Code takes precedence.
   1.2. Authority. The entry and operation of vehicles on LAAFB is permitted by the base commander,
   61 ABW/CC, under the provisions contained within this code and other pertinent directives. Com-
   manders are also delegated the authority to suspend or revoke government owned vehicle (GOV) and
   privately owned vehicle (POV) driving privileges of personnel assigned to their respective unit or
   organization.
   1.3. Responsibilities. Commanders, 2 letter directors and supervisors will ensure their personnel
   adhere to the provisions of this instruction. Sponsors will ensure their guests comply with this instruc-
   tion. All persons operating a vehicle on base will be familiar with and comply with this instruction.

2. Driving Privileges:
   2.1. Requirements for Driving Privileges. Driving a GOV or POV is a privilege on LAAFB. POV
   operators must show proof of valid insurance, display current vehicle registration and drivers must
   have a valid driver’s license from an authorized state issuing authority and/or an international driver’s
   license.
       2.1.1. All personnel operating vehicles entering the installation must ensure the vehicle registra-
       tion and insurance are current.
       2.1.2. Personnel may be issued a citation for operating a vehicle with expired registration or for
       failure to provide proof of insurance. Access to the installation will be denied to the operator of
       any vehicle failing to maintain proof of valid insurance when requested at the entry control point
       or Visitor Control Center (VCC).
   2.2. Stopping and Inspecting Personnel or Vehicles:
       2.2.1. A Random Vehicle Inspection (RVI) program is established on LAAFB and
       Fort MacArthur in support of the Installation Security Plan. The purpose of the program is to pre-
       vent unauthorized removal or theft of classified material and government resources and to prevent
       the import of drugs and/or unauthorized dangerous materials onto the installation. The 61 SFS/CC
       or designated representative determines where and when the inspections occur and prescribe a for-
       mula for inspecting vehicles. Random vehicle inspections are not searches, but inspections.
       2.2.2. A blotter entry will be accomplished in the event of a finding or refusal of an inspection.
       Additionally, if the inspection results in identifying evidence of a crime, an AF Form 3545, Inci-
       dent Report or Security Forces Management Information System (SFMIS) report will be accom-
       plished. In the latter case, the inspection terminates and a lawful search is initiated. Refusals will
       result in a driving suspension letter issued to Department of Defense (DoD) affiliated personnel
       and/or LAAFB affiliated personnel. A barment letter IAW 61 ABW/CC order which will bar the
       individual from entering LAAFB may be issued to non-DoD personnel and contracted personnel.
4                                                                          61ABWI31-204 29 APRIL 2008


       2.2.3. Operators in control of a vehicle who refuse to consent to an inspection of the vehicle they
       are driving will lose their installation driving privileges, be issued a state citation, have their instal-
       lation registration revoked and/or be barred from the installation; or other actions determined by
       61 ABW/CC or designee.
       2.2.4. RVI’s will follow a prescribed formula as directed by 61 SFS/CC or designee. When a vehi-
       cle is initially stopped for an inspection, the 61st Security Forces Squadron (61 SFS) member will
       determine if seat belts were worn prior to the stop. The 61 SFS member will ensure the operator
       has in possession; a valid driver’s license, display or posses current registration and proof of valid
       insurance. If warranted, a citation will be issued for any violations to the above.
    2.3. Implied Consent to Blood, Breath or Urine Tests: A person who operates or drives a motor
    vehicle on the installation will be considered to have given consent to a chemical test of his/her blood
    or breath to determine the presence of drugs and/or alcohol content. Chemical tests for all personnel
    will be by blood or breath or urine for military personnel only to determine the presence of drugs. The
    primary test used on LAAFB will be a breath test. Breath will be validated on a state certified intoxi-
    lyzer machine. A one year driving suspension will be issued to military and civilian personnel who
    operate a motor vehicle with a blood alcohol content (BAC) or breath alcohol content (BrAC) of
    0.08% or above.
    2.4. Implied Consent to Vehicle Impoundment: All POVs on LAAFB and Military Family Hous-
    ing areas (Fort MacArthur, Pacific Heights and Pacific Crest) are subject to removal and temporary
    impoundment if parked illegally, disabled by accident, interfere with traffic operations or left unat-
    tended for more than 72 hours (considered abandoned). POVs left parked and unattended in an unau-
    thorized/posted spot which poses a safety hazard will be immediately towed. The registrant agrees to
    reimburse the US Government for the cost of towing and storage should the vehicle(s), because of
    such circumstances, be removed or impounded. Paragraph 8. of this instruction outlines impoundment
    procedures.
    2.5. Denial of Operating and Registration Privileges. Base driving privileges can be suspended for
    up to 12 months for the following violations:
       2.5.1. Altered registration or base decals.
       2.5.2. Driving without a valid driver’s license.
       2.5.3. Driving or allowing a vehicle to be operated by an intoxicated, suspended, revoked or unli-
       censed individual.
       2.5.4. Displaying fictitious license plates on vehicle.
       2.5.5. Continuously or habitually violating parking or other non-moving standards (i.e. excessive
       noise, performing maintenance, failure to register, failure to maintain safety standards etc.).
       2.5.6. Individuals who receive three or more citations for parking violations or excessive noise
       emanating from a vehicle within a six-month period are subject to having their POV base driving
       privileges suspended for 30 days; 30 days will be added for each subsequent violation committed
       within six months of the last citation issued. Excessive noise emanating from a vehicle is defined
       as noise other than exhaust heard from a distance beyond 50 feet.
       2.5.7. Immediate installation driving suspensions will occur after a review of available evidence
       for the circumstances below:
61ABWI31-204 29 APRIL 2008                                                                                 5


     2.5.8. Refusal to take or complete a lawfully requested chemical test to determine BAC or BrAC
     for alcohol or other drugs.
     2.5.9. Operating a motor vehicle with a BAC or BrAC of 0.08 percent by volume or higher.
     2.5.10. On an arrest report or other official document reasonably indicating an intoxicated driving
     incident occurred.
     2.5.11. 61 ABW/CC will immediately suspend installation GOV or POV driving privileges pend-
     ing resolution of an intoxicated driving incident which involves active duty military personnel,
     their family members, retired members of the military service and DoD civilian personnel. This
     applies regardless of the geographic location of an intoxicated driving incident. 61 ABW/CC or
     designee can only suspend privileges of non-DoD affiliated civilians for incidents occurring on the
     installation or in the areas subject to their military traffic jurisdiction.
  2.6. Revocation and Suspension of Operating Privileges.
     2.6.1. For administrative purposes: Revocation or suspension will be based upon a conviction of
     Driving Under the Influence of alcohol, with blood/alcohol content of .08% or above. Any refusal
     to submit to testing will result in automatic suspension/revocation of base driving privileges for at
     least one year. This includes pleas of nolo contendre (no contest), in which charges are reduced
     from drunk driving to reckless driving, driving while impaired or other traffic offenses. A two year
     revocation period is mandatory for a second or subsequent alcohol related driving offense, within
     a five year period.
     2.6.2. When base driving privileges have been temporarily suspended or permanently revoked,
     report to Pass and Registration for termination of DD Form 2220. If other family members are
     licensed to drive, an AF Form 75 will be signed over, stamped by Pass and Registration, indicating
     some family members have driving privileges and may be issued.
     2.6.3. Wing Commanders desiring to suspend driving privileges of a unit member for 30 days or
     more will send a memorandum with justification to the 61 ABW/CC through Security Forces
     Reports and Analysis (61 SFS/SFORA) located at 483 N. Aviation Blvd., (Bldg 272),
     Los Angeles AFB, El Segundo, Ca. 90245.
     2.6.4. Wing commanders may grant restricted government owned vehicle (GOV) driving privi-
     leges for military and DoD civilians, provided the individual has a valid state driver’s license.
     Wing commanders will have members provide proof of valid driver’s license through 61 SFS/
     SFORA before granting GOV driving privileges. The base commander or designee will remain
     the approval authority for contractor personnel in granting restricted GOV driving privileges (see
     Attachment 1).
     2.6.5. Individuals found to be operating a vehicle while their driver’s license or installation driv-
     ing privileges are under suspension or revocation will receive an additional 24 months revocation
     of all installation driving privileges to include any violations of their restricted driving privileges.
     2.6.6. Installation driving privileges are not automatically reinstated at the end of the specified
     period. Alcohol involved driving offenders (e.g., drunk driving, driving while impaired, etc.) must
     complete Traffic Safety Course V and the appropriate Alcohol Drug Awareness Program Treat-
     ment (ADAPT) program, before requesting reinstatement of their installation driving privileges.
     Requests for reinstatement must be endorsed by the individual’s commander or section com-
6                                                                        61ABWI31-204 29 APRIL 2008


       mander and routed to the 61 ABW/CC through 61 SFS/SFORA. Proof of completion of these pre-
       scribed courses must be included in the request for alcohol related (e.g. drunk driving, driving
       while impaired, etc.) incidents.
       2.6.7. The base commander or designee will remain the approval authority for POV driving priv-
       ileges. Requests for POV restricted driving privileges for military personnel will be endorsed by
       their wing commander or 2 letter director. Civil Service personnel will obtain an endorsement
       from their wing commander or 2 letter director. Contractors will require an endorsement from
       their company’s chief official on LAAFB.
       2.6.8. If restricted driving privileges are granted by the base commander or designate, an
       AF Form 75 over-stamped “RESTRICTED” will be issued to the operator. A copy of the authori-
       zation to drive, signed by the base commander or designate, will be kept in the operator’s posses-
       sion and presented upon request.
    2.7. Reciprocal Procedures: All revocations and/or suspensions issued on other installations regard-
    less of affiliation (Army, Navy, US Coast Guard, US Marinces and their reserve components) will be
    honored on LAAFB.
    2.8. Administration Due Process for Suspension and Revocations.
       2.8.1. Non-DoD affiliated personnel are subject to suspension or revocation of driving privileges
       letter and/or a state citation (if warranted). If the traffic offense includes a criminal act, they will
       be issued an installation barment letter.
       2.8.2. 61 ABW/CC will issue the suspension of driving privileges letter to the violator and make
       a copy upon acknowledgment of receipt with the appropriate case report. 61 SFS/SFORA will for-
       ward a copy to the appropriate commander. Offenses individual commanders are aware of and do
       not require immediate SFS response will be routed through that unit commander or designee.
       2.8.3. 61 SFS/SFORA will, upon receipt of the appropriate case report, create an evidentiary
       review package and submit it for legal review. SMC/Judge Advocate (JA) will review the pack-
       age, recommend action and return the package to 61 SFS/SFORA. 61 SFS/SFORA will in-turn
       incorporate JA recommendations with the appropriate action letter and submit the package to the
       appropriate commander for action.
       2.8.4. For offenses other than intoxicated driving, suspension or revocation of installation driving
       privileges will not become effective until the subject is notified or 10 days after the date of the
       notification letter. A written request for an administrative hearing must be received within 10 duty
       days after the written notice of suspension/revocation is received. Address hearing requests in
       writing, to the appropriate commander through 61 SFS/SFORA. Failure to submit the written
       request for a hearing within the prescribed 10 days waives the right for a hearing. An appeal or
       request for reconsideration may be made within 10 duty days after the results of the initial hearing
       are given to the individual concerned.
       2.8.5. Requests for restoration of full driving privileges are not authorized. Limited or restricted
       driving privilege requests can be granted via mailing channels. These requests should be pro-
       cessed within 10 duty days from the loss of driving privileges date. Refer to paragraph 2.15
       2.8.6. Upon final determination, 61 SFS/SFORA will notify the individual’s first sergeant or com-
       mander of the action. A member of the individual’s chain of command will accompany the indi-
61ABWI31-204 29 APRIL 2008                                                                               7


     vidual to 61 SFS/SFORA to acknowledge receipt of the action within 1 duty day after the
     notification.
     2.8.7. Debarment action may be taken against non-base affiliated personnel by the 61 ABW/CC
     in lieu of suspensions and revocations.
     2.8.8. All notices of suspension/revocation/barment will be sent “restricted delivery” via certified
     mail except those suspension notices for intoxicated driving offenses.
     2.8.9. Individuals with revoked or suspended privileges must ensure all prerequisites for driving
     on LAAFB have been met prior to reinstatement of driving privileges. These prerequisites may
     include but are not limited to:
     2.8.10. Valid driver’s license, proof of current insurance and/or proof of financial responsibility as
     required by the state of California.
     2.8.11. Completion of a driver’s improvement program and/or alcohol/drug counseling program.
     2.8.12. 61 SFS/SFORA will act on written reports of suspensions or revocations imposed by the
     state. Suspensions or revocations should be the same effective date as the off-base offense. If indi-
     viduals are cited for driving on a suspended or revoked license, suspension or revocation will run
     consecutively.
  2.9. Alcohol and Drug Abuse Programs.
     2.9.1. DoD affiliated Civilian, Active Duty Military, Reserve, or National Guard personnel must
     contact the Alcohol/Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment Program (ADAPT) as outlined IAW
     DODR 1010.7 and AFI 44-121, Alcohol And Drug Abuse Prevention And Treatment (ADAPT)
     Program, paragraph 3.6.3.2, or AFI 36-810, Substance Abuse Prevention And Control, paragraph
     5.4, prior to driving privileges being restored for DUI or DWI offenses. A failure to comply with
     this provision will result in an automatic 6-month extension to the current revocation.
  2.10. Restoration of Driving Privileges on Acquittal.
     2.10.1. When an official report or finding determines lack of guilt (not guilty) or when charges are
     dismissed or reduced to an offense not amounting to intoxicated driving, the suspension of driving
     privileges will be lifted with the exception of the following:
     2.10.2. The preliminary suspension was based on refusal to take a BAC/BrAC test.
     2.10.3. Operating a motor vehicle with a BAC/BrAC of 0.08 percent or higher by volume.
     2.10.4. The person was driving or in physical control of a motor vehicle while under another pre-
     liminary suspension or revocation.
     2.10.5. The individual failed to complete a formally directed substance abuse or driver’s training
     program.
  2.11. Restricted Driving Privileges or Probation: The 61 ABW/CC or designee will consider
  requests for restricted driving privileges under paragraph 2.10. AFI 31-204, Air Force Motor Vehicle
  Traffic Supervision. The individual’s wing commander will approve all requests for restricted POV
  driving privileges, if applicable, before forwarding request to 61 SFS/SFORA. SMC/JA will provide
  a recommendation to the appropriate commander for modifications on a suspension or revocation of
  driving privileges. Requests for restricted driving privileges may be made at any time and will be sub-
8                                                                     61ABWI31-204 29 APRIL 2008


    mitted in writing to the appropriate commander. The request must include justification for restricted
    privileges. SMC/JA will review requests and provide guidance to the appropriate commander.
    2.12. Extensions of Suspensions and Revocations.
       2.12.1. . Commanders will notify 61 SFS/SFORA when an individual is discovered driving while
       suspended or revoked. 61 SFS/SFORA will add two years to an existing suspension or revocation.
       Modification to the length of suspension or revocation is not authorized. Rebuttals to the action
       may be submitted to the appropriate commander through 61 SFS/SFORA.
       2.12.2. All military, DoD, family members, and civilians working/living on base will be required
       to complete an Alcohol/Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment Program (ADAPT) prior to the
       reinstatement of driving privileges. Persons failing to complete the ADAPT without an authorized
       excuse will have their on-base driving privileges suspended until they successfully complete the
       course. Normally, the 61 MDOS/SGOKW acts on requests for excusal; however, wing command-
       ers may excuse personnel for a short time in cases of emergency leave or documented illness.
       2.12.3. Individuals who have their driving privileges revoked for intoxicated driving, refusal to
       submit to a test to measure blood/breath-alcohol content or to determine the presence of drugs,
       must undergo the training prescribed in paragraph 2.14. Civilians must complete comparable
       training provided by off-base organizations. The driving privileges for civilian personnel will
       remain revoked until the offender provides proof of completion to 61 SFS/SFORA. Once all the
       training has been completed, the individual will be notified the revocation has been removed.
       2.12.4. Revocation or expiration of a state operator’s permit, or when an individual is appre-
       hended while operating a motor vehicle after his/her vehicle operating privileges has been
       revoked.
       2.12.5. Use of the vehicle concerned for purposes prohibited by law or instructions (Ref: AFI
       31-204, Table 5.1.).
       2.12.6. Failure to maintain the vehicle in a state of repair which meets the minimum mechanical
       safety standards as outlined in Chapter 12 of the Uniform Vehicle Code (UVC).
       2.12.7. Transfer of registration decal for use with a vehicle other than the one for which it was
       originally issued.
       2.12.8. Failure to comply with the California Financial Responsibility Law, as required. Insurance
       (or other guarantee) which amounts to the minimum requirements for California is required in
       those cases in which the California Financial Responsibility Law applies.
       2.12.9. Permitting an unlicensed or unfit driver to operate a registered vehicle on LAAFB.
       2.12.10. Any hit and run convictions.
       2.12.11. A determination by the base commander that an individual is unfit or an unsafe driver.
       2.12.12. Accumulating traffic points within a specified period under the traffic point system as
       established in AFI 31-204 and/or in this instruction.
       2.12.13. Operating or controlling the operation of any vehicle while under the influence of intox-
       icating agents including, but not limited to: alcoholic beverages, marijuana, hallucinogens, barbi-
       turates, amphetamines and opiates.
61ABWI31-204 29 APRIL 2008                                                                               9


      2.12.14. For on-base intoxicated driving incidents, a preliminary suspension or revocation notice
      will be served to the violator by on-duty Security Forces personnel before they are released from
      the custody of Security Forces.
      2.12.15. For off-base intoxicated driver incidents, the wing commander, 2 letter director, first ser-
      geant or supervisor will ensure the subject reports to Security Forces to receive the preliminary
      suspension or revocation notice within 12 hours of the individual’s return to military control.
      2.12.16. Other valid reasons as defined by the base commander. The base commander or designee
      may make an administrative determination that an individual committed an offense for which sus-
      pension or revocation of installation driving privileges is appropriate. The base commander’s
      decision will be based on the facts of each case, without regard to the individual having been pre-
      viously convicted or punished by military or civilian authorities.
   2.13. Restraint Systems:
      2.13.1. Every passenger car manufactured or assembled after 1 Jan 68 shall be equipped with a
      lap-type safety belt assembly for each permanent passenger seating position and with at least two
      shoulder harness-type safety belt assemblies to use in the front seating positions. Operators and
      passengers who ride in vehicles equipped with shoulder harness/restraints, in addition to lap
      restraint belts, must utilize both systems while on the installation. The shoulder harness must be
      worn across the chest and the lap belt must be fastened across the lap. Personnel who fail to prop-
      erly wear seat belts will receive a citation. Proper use of safety belts on the installation will be
      enforced.
      2.13.2. Security Forces personnel enforce the wear of safety restraint devices and child restraints
      in motor vehicles through periodic observations while entering on and off LAAFB.
      2.13.3. Wearing seat belts by operators and passengers of privately owned or a government vehi-
      cle, except motorcycles, is mandatory whenever the vehicle is in motion.
      2.13.4. Any person operating a motor vehicle on LAAFB must make sure all children four years
      old or under, not exceeding 40 pounds in weight are properly secured in an infant or child restraint
      device (car seat) meeting applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards.

3. Emergency Vehicles:
   3.1. All vehicle operators must yield to emergency vehicles (e.g., fire, Security Forces, all local and
   state emergency vehicles, disaster preparedness vehicles or ambulances) when emergency lights are
   flashing and/or the siren is sounding. When yielding to emergency vehicles, operators will drive to the
   right-hand side of the road as quickly and safely as possible (clearing any intersection), stop and
   remain there until the emergency vehicle(s) pass. When nearing stopped emergency vehicles with
   lights activated, drivers will either slow down or change lanes on multiple roads. Drivers will slow to
   20 miles per hour below the posted speed limit. (Ex: If the speed limit is below 25 mph, the driver will
   slow down to 5 mph). Following emergency vehicles to the scene of an emergency is prohibited
   unless required in the performance of official duties.
   3.2. Operator Rules.
      3.2.1. When responding to an emergency call or when pursuing an actual or suspected violator of
      the law or responding to a fire alarm, the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may exercise
      the privileges set forth in this section of the instruction.
10                                                                       61ABWI31-204 29 APRIL 2008


        3.2.2. Drivers of emergency vehicles will obey all traffic laws, except in an emergency they may:
        3.2.3. Park in any location if it is not a hazard to others.
        3.2.4. Proceed past a red stop signal or sign but only after slowing as necessary to ensure it is safe
        to proceed.
        3.2.5. Exceed the maximum posted speed limits by not more than 10 miles per hour (mph) so long
        as the driver does not endanger life or property. NOTE: Security Forces units pursuing known
        felony violators or “pacing” speeding violators are not restricted to this paragraph as long as the
        Security Forces driver does not endanger life or property. In addition, Security Forces units will
        make every effort to stop the violator by using other methods (vectoring other units or closing base
        gates).
        3.2.6. Make unauthorized turns or change direction of movement provided the vehicle is under
        control and does not endanger life or property.
        3.2.7. The exemptions granted to an authorized emergency vehicle apply only when the driver of
        the vehicle sounds an audible signal by bell, siren or exhaust whistle as reasonably necessary and
        displays emergency lights.
        3.2.8. This instruction will not protect the driver of an emergency vehicle from consequences of
        reckless or wanton disregard for the safety of others.
        3.2.9. Owners or drivers of POVs are prohibited from using a light or siren on a POV which cre-
        ates the appearance of an emergency vehicle.

4. Traffic Accidents.
     4.1. Property damage up to $9,999 will be classified as a “minor” vehicle accident. Property damage
     of $10,000 or more or any claimed injury or death will be classified as a “major” vehicle accident.
     Additionally, a major accident investigation will be conducted at the direction of the on-duty Security
     Forces watch commander, if circumstances of the accident are unusual or difficult to explain. Major
     accidents also include, but are not limited to accidents involving disabling damage.
     4.2. Duty to Stop and Report On-Base Accidents: The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident will
     stop the vehicle immediately. If the vehicle constitutes a serious traffic hazard and can be relocated,
     move the vehicle off the street as close to the accident scene as possible. The driver will:
        4.2.1. Give or get necessary first-aid for anyone injured.
        4.2.2. . Report the accident to Security Forces and provide name, rank, social security number,
        organization, duty phone number and the exact location of the accident. Civilian personnel not
        assigned to the base will comply with the above except home address and phone number will be
        given in place of organization and duty phone number.
        4.2.3. Remain at the scene until released by Security Forces.
        4.2.4. Operators of vehicles involved in an accident will provide name, address, vehicle license
        number, insurance and will show their driver’s license upon request to any person injured, to any
        occupant of another involved vehicle, to any person acting for such person and to Security Forces.
61ABWI31-204 29 APRIL 2008                                                                                11


      4.2.5. Any vehicle operator striking an unattended vehicle, sign or fixture on any street or any
      structure on LAAFB will immediately stop as close to the scene as possible without causing a traf-
      fic hazard and report the accident to Security Forces.
      4.2.6. Persons witnessing an accident will remain at the scene, parking their vehicles, if applica-
      ble, so as not to obstruct traffic and notify Security Forces (at the scene) that they are witnesses to
      the accident. If it is impossible for a witness to remain at the scene, they will notify the Law
      Enforcement Desk of their involvement as soon as possible by telephone when arriving at their
      destination.
      4.2.7. Government vehicle operators will:
          4.2.7.1. Refrain from making oral or written statements to claimants or their agents regarding
          liability, cause of accident or the possibility of claims approval.
          4.2.7.2. Complete Standard Form 91, Operator’s Report of Motor Vehicle Accident, as soon
          as possible at the scene of the accident and deliver it to their Unit Vehicle Control Officer
          (VCO) within 24 hours after the accident. When a vehicle operator is physically unable to
          report an accident as required in paragraph 4.2.5.2, a passenger, if present, assumes the duty to
          make this report.
   4.3. Government Vehicles Involved In Off-Base Accidents:
      4.3.1. The driver will stop the vehicle immediately and give or secure the necessary first-aid for
      any injured person(s).
          4.3.1.1. Report the accident to an appropriate civilian police agency and to Security Forces at
          the earliest opportunity.
          4.3.1.2. Properly identify themselves to responsible authorities and persons directly involved
          in the accident investigation.
      4.3.2. When a report of action is required, a copy of the accident report will be sent to the unit or
      agency concerned as an attachment to the DD Form 3545 or Incident/Complaint Report. Dollar
      cost estimates of damage to government vehicles will be provided to the unit by the base vehicle
      operations officer.

5. Rules of the Road.
   5.1. Speed Limits: The speed limit on LAAFB is 25 miles per hour, unless otherwise posted or as
   stated herein.
      5.1.1. In times of limited visibility, the speed limit shall not exceed 15 miles per hour.
      5.1.2. Vehicle operators entering or exiting installation entry gates must reduce the speed of their
      vehicle to 5 miles per hour and stop if directed by Security Forces.
      5.1.3. The speed limit at Fort MacArthur, Pacific Heights and Pacific Crest is 15 miles per hour
      unless otherwise posted.
      5.1.4. The speed limit in parking lots is 10 miles per hour, unless otherwise posted.
      5.1.5. Regardless of the posted speed limits, do not operate vehicles at speeds greater than reason-
      able or prudent for existing road and weather conditions or hazards, or in construction areas unless
12                                                                        61ABWI31-204 29 APRIL 2008


        a traffic flag person directs faster traffic movement. Vehicle drivers will exercise caution and use
        reduced speeds when:
            5.1.5.1. Approaching or crossing an intersection, on a curve or on a hill.
            5.1.5.2. Traveling on any narrow or winding roadway.
            5.1.5.3. Any special hazard exists with respect to children, pedestrians and other traffic or
            street conditions.
            5.1.5.4. The vehicle is moved in reverse. The use of a “spotter” is encouraged.
NOTE: The use of a spotter, when available is mandatory when operating a government owned vehicle
(GOV).
            5.1.5.5. No person will operate a vehicle, except specially equipped slow moving vehicles, on
            LAAFB at such slow speeds they impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of
            traffic, except when reduced speed is necessary for safe operation.
            5.1.5.6. Security Forces may make speed checks of any moving vehicle by any approved
            speed measuring device or by pacing the suspected speeding vehicle.
     5.2. Traffic Signs, Signals and Road Markings.
        5.2.1. Unless operating an emergency vehicle on an authorized emergency response, vehicle oper-
        ators will obey the following: Traffic lights, stop signs, other regulatory signs, road markings, sig-
        nals, other civilian authorities on traffic duty and other traffic control personnel as well as signals
        from any official traffic control instrument, unless directed otherwise by traffic control forces.
        5.2.2. Three of the most important regulatory traffic control signs and the actions vehicle opera-
        tors must take are explained below:
            5.2.2.1. Stop: Except when directed to proceed by Security Forces, every driver of a vehicle
            approaching a stop sign must stop at the clearly marked stop line. If there is no stop line, stop
            at the point nearest the intersecting roadway before entering the intersection.
            5.2.2.2. Yield: Vehicles approaching traffic signage must not impede traffic which has the
            right-of-way and will make a complete stop if necessary before proceeding.
            5.2.2.3. Pedestrian Crossing: All vehicles when approaching a marked crosswalk or intersec-
            tion where pedestrians are walking or have started to cross must stop and remain stopped until
            the pedestrian has cleared the crosswalk.
        5.2.3. No person will display any sign, signal or marking device which appears to be, or is an imi-
        tation of an official traffic control device which is visible from the roadway. Tampering with offi-
        cial traffic control devices is not authorized.
     5.3. Vehicle Operation on Streets.
        5.3.1. Operate vehicles on the extreme right side of the road.
        5.3.2. No vehicle may pass a Security Forces escorted convoy or other authorized procession trav-
        eling in the same direction, unless directed to do so by a member of the Security Forces escort.
        This restriction does not apply to emergency vehicles on an authorized emergency mission.
61ABWI31-204 29 APRIL 2008                                                                            13


      5.3.3. During darkness, when approaching base entry gates, switch your vehicle headlights from
      low beam to parking lights. Be sure to switch the parking lights back to low beam once you have
      driven through the gate.
      5.3.4. During daylight hours, leave your headlights on during periods of reduced visibility.
      5.3.5. Drivers who discard litter from a stopped or moving vehicle may have their base driving
      privileges revoked for six months and may have to appear in state court. Drivers are also responsi-
      ble for the actions of vehicle occupants.
   5.4. Motor Vehicle Operation Off-Streets.
      5.4.1. Vehicles may be operated off paved roadways only when directed by official traffic control-
      lers, when necessary to perform mission specific tasks, or when necessary to permit loading or
      unloading of heavy cargo or equipment, provided these operations can be performed safely with-
      out damage to seeded areas or other property.
      5.4.2. Do not operate vehicles on any side walk area except when entering or exiting either a tem-
      porary or permanent driveway.
   5.5. Traffic Points.
      5.5.1. The point system applies to moving violations committed by military and civilian personnel
      operating U.S. Government vehicles on or off the installation and to military personnel, family
      members, civilian employees and all other persons subject to this instruction operating POVs on
      the installation. Citations will be processed per AFI 31-201, Security Forces Standards and Proce-
      dures and AFI 31-204. Traffic points will be assessed per AFI 31-204 or this instruction.
      5.5.2. Military members and Department of Defense personnel who accumulate six or more mov-
      ing violation points within 12 months or who are identified by their wing commander or
      2 letter director, will be scheduled to attend Traffic Safety Course V or AAA Driver Improvement
      Course. If one or more of these offenses was committed on a motorcycle, they must also attend a
      base-sponsored motorcycle safety program.
      5.5.3. When a wing commander or 2 letter director decides an alleged violator is not guilty, the
      commander must prepare a memorandum explaining the rationale for their decision. This memo-
      randum, along with the citation, will be sent to the 61 ABW/CC through 61 SFS/SFORA. If the 61
      ABW/CC approves the wing commander’s action, points will not be assessed.
      5.5.4. Traffic points assessed for operating in an undesignated off-road area, where no resultant
      environmental damage occurred, will be three points. However, if operating a vehicle in an undes-
      ignated off-road area results in environmental damage (e.g., damage to plants, wildlife, surround-
      ing habitat, contamination of area by vehicle fluids (oil, anti-freeze, etc.), six points will be
      assessed.

6. Motorcycles, Scooters, and Mopeds:
   6.1. Military, Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF) civilian personnel, Department of the Defense (DoD)
   personnel, contractors, military dependents, operating motorcycle, scooters and mopeds on Air Force
   Installations must complete a safety course. See AFI 91-207 for a list of air Force approved safety
   courses.
14                                                                         61ABWI31-204 29 APRIL 2008


        6.1.1. Personal Safety Equipment. In all cases, operators of motor driven cycles will only ride
        upon the permanent seat attached to the vehicle, place their feet on the foot rest of the machine and
        will not carry any passengers unless the machine is designed for a passenger. The operator and any
        passengers must wear the following protective equipment whenever they use the vehicle: See AFI
        91-207, The U.S. Air Force Traffic Safety Program. NOTE: Only operators may ride mopeds; no
        passengers.
        6.1.2. A properly secured (under the chin) Department of Transportation (DOT) Snell Memorial
        Foundation or American National Standard Institute (ANSI) approved helmet must be worn at all
        times, British equivalent is allowed (on-base or off-base, on-duty and off-duty).
        6.1.3. Eye protection (goggles, full-face shield or shatter proof glasses) must be worn by the oper-
        ator and passenger at all times. EXCEPTION: Goggles or full-face shield are not required for the
        operator if the motorcycle is equipped with a windshield equal in height or above the top of the
        helmet of a properly upright-seated operator unless the windshield covers the driver’s eyes.
        6.1.4. All operators and passengers are required to wear long sleeved shirts or jackets, full-fin-
        gered motorcycle gloves, long trousers and a brightly colored or contrasting vest or jacket as an
        outer upper garment. Outer upper garments will be clearly visible and not covered. These outer
        garments must have reflective properties that increase their visibility when met by approaching
        vehicle lights at night.
        6.1.5. All operators and passengers are required to wear sturdy footwear and encouraged to wear
        leather boots or over-the-ankle shoes.
        6.1.6. Headlights and taillights must be turned on at all times.
        6.1.7. Vehicle must be equipped with a mirror located as to reflect to the driver a view of the high-
        way for a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear.
        6.1.8. Maintain the mufflers and do not remove or modify them so they emit excessive noise.
        Refer to the (CVC) for specific dbA noise limits as applicable to motorcycles.
     6.2. Road Rules:
        6.2.1. Motorcycle and moped operators will comply with all directives governing vehicle use in
        addition to the following:
        6.2.2. All motorcycle operators will comply with the AFI 91-207 testing and training program.
        6.2.3. Motorcycle or moped operators will not operate their vehicles side by side while driving on
        the road.
        6.2.4. Items may be carried on motorcycles or mopeds only when secured to the vehicle.
     6.3. Racing Cars, Go-Carts, Mini-bikes, Minimotos and Pocket Bikes: No racing cars, go-carts,
     mini-bikes, minimotos or pocket bikes no matter what size, will be driven on LAAFB or on Military
     Family Housing areas unless the 61 MSG/CD has designated an area for these types of vehicles.
     6.4. Bicycles, Battery operated and Electric Scooters: Parents or guardians will not knowingly
     permit their children to violate the following rules pertaining to riding bicycles and scooters:
        6.4.1. Bicycles and scooters will be ridden as near to the side of the roadway as possible. They
        will not be ridden against the flow of traffic or the wrong way on a one-way street.
61ABWI31-204 29 APRIL 2008                                                                                   15


      6.4.2. Bicycles and scooters will not be ridden more than two (side-by-side) on a roadway.
      6.4.3. Bicycles and scooters will not be used to carry more persons than the number for which
      they are designated. All riders must sit with one leg on each side of a permanently attached seat.
      6.4.4. Bicycles and scooters will be equipped with brakes capable of making the braked wheel
      skid on dry pavement. Bicycles operated in traffic during hours of darkness will be equipped with
      a lamp which emits a white light visible from a distance of 500 feet and a red reflector on the rear,
      visible from a distance of 50 to 300 feet. A red light on the rear visible from a distance of 500 feet
      in addition to the red reflector may also be used. Reflectors will be uncovered at all times.
      6.4.5. Bicycle and scooter riders will obey all traffic control devices.
      6.4.6. On street parking of bicycles and scooters will be along curbs and roadways as not to block
      traffic.
      6.4.7. Bicyclists and scooter operators will not carry packages, bundles or articles which prevent
      them from keeping at least one hand on the handlebars.
      6.4.8. Bicycle and scooter riders will always yield the right-of-way to pedestrians.
      6.4.9. Individuals riding will not grab onto or tie their bicycles or scooters to other moving vehi-
      cles.
      6.4.10. Reckless riding is not allowed.
      6.4.11. Bicyclist and scooter operators must ride with traffic flow, not opposed and wear reflective
      or high visibility outer garments when riding during periods of reduced visibility.
      6.4.12. All personnel (including dependents, contractors, retirees, etc.) who ride bicycles or scoot-
      ers on the installation must wear an approved (i.e. American National Standards Institute (ANSI)
      or Snell Memorial Foundation) bicycle helmet. Workers operating bicycles in areas that require
      the use of ANSI-approved helmets (hard hats) for protection from falling and flying objects are
      allowed to use those helmets instead of approved bicycle helmets. Failure to comply with these
      rules will result in the following action:
          6.4.12.1. First Offense: 2 points assessed against violator or letter of warning to the sponsor if
          the violator is a child.
          6.4.12.2. Second and subsequent offenses: 61 MSG/CD or his designee will determine action
          taken.
  6.5. Skateboarding, Roller-blading and Roller-skating: P e r s o n n e l r i d i n g a s k a t e b o a r d ,
  roller-blade or roller-skate:
      6.5.1. Will not ride in vehicular traffic areas (i.e., streets, service drives, parking lots, etc.).
      6.5.2. Will not ride in high pedestrian traffic areas (i.e., base clubs, Base Exchange, Commissary
      or dormitory areas).
      6.5.3. Will yield to all pedestrian traffic.
      6.5.4. Must wear or display reflective devices, which can be seen by traffic flowing in either
      direction.
16                                                                        61ABWI31-204 29 APRIL 2008


        6.5.5. Personnel will wear protective clothing (helmet, elbow and kneepads and wrist guards)
        while on LAAFB and/or Military Family Housing areas.
        6.5.6. Skateboards will not be ridden down hills or slopes.

7. Parking
     7.1. Motorcycle parking is authorized in designated motorcycle parking areas only. The tire or fender
     must touch the curb or be in hashed areas. Where no curbs or barriers bound any roadway, right-hand
     parallel parking is required unless otherwise indicated. Parking in areas such as handicap and cross-
     walks is not authorized.
        7.1.1. Prohibition on Parking: On, in front of, or blocking public driveways, sidewalks, pedestrian
        crosswalks or entrance/exit ways.
        7.1.2. In any way that obstructs visibility of a traffic control sign or device.
        7.1.3. In fire lanes (open areas between buildings that allow adequate space for mobile fire equip-
        ment).
        7.1.4. Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant.
        7.1.5. Within 20 feet of or within an intersection.
        7.1.6. Within 75 feet of a building, except in areas designated for authorized parking.
        7.1.7. Within 20 feet of, or on, an active railroad track or crossing.
        7.1.8. Or any length of time exceeding the authorized time limit marked in some parking areas.
        7.1.9. In individually reserved spaces or parking slots.
        7.1.10. Alongside or opposite any street or roadway excavation or obstruction when such stop-
        ping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
        7.1.11. On the roadway side of another vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked at the curb or
        edge of a roadway (double-parking).
        7.1.12. On the side of the street facing on-coming traffic, except on Officer’s Road at
        Fort MacArthur housing area.
        7.1.13. Parked out of the painted lined area of a marked parking slot.
        7.1.14. Parked attended or unattended on the main traveled surface of the roadway.
        7.1.15. At any place where official signs or markings prohibit parking.
        7.1.16. When parking on a street where parallel parking is authorized, park vehicles parallel to the
        roadway, within 18 inches of the right curb (where there is a curb), or as far to the right as the sur-
        face (or shoulder) permits. NOTE: This also applies to the left curb or shoulder of the roadway on
        one-way streets where parallel parking is authorized on the left side of the roadway.
        7.1.17. Do not leave vehicles unattended until you stop the engine, place the transmission in park
        (if equipped), set the brake, lock the ignition (on vehicles so equipped) and remove the key from
        the ignition.
61ABWI31-204 29 APRIL 2008                                                                            17


     7.1.18. Never leave a vehicle unattended for any reason if minor children (ten years of age or
     under) or animals are in the vehicle. Only children 12 years (or older) may be left in a vehicle
     attending other younger children or animals.
     7.1.19. POV overnight parking is not allowed at LAAFB except for on duty personnel or person-
     nel approved by the Base Commander and Security Forces is notified of the approval.
     7.1.20. Except for marked vehicles in designated parking areas, do not park vehicles alongside the
     roadway unless require for emergency repairs.
     7.1.21. While parking in diagonal slots (ex: Douglas St.) park front-end headed in only; no back-
     ing into parking slots. Rationale: Prevents exiting from parking slot into opposing flow of traffic.
     7.1.22. Only vehicles carrying disabled individuals with approved handicapped license plates,
     state approved placards or base issued handicapped decals may park in handicapped parking slots.
  7.2. Barred Vehicles:
     7.2.1. Persons barred from operating their vehicle on base will be allowed to park their POVs in
     the areas outside the base, provided they have a valid state driving permit (license):
     7.2.2. Military Family Housing Area. Adjacent to 30th Street Gate in unnumbered slots only.
     7.2.3. LAAFB: Raytheon parking lot. No overnight parking allowed.
  7.3. Parking and Storing Trailers, Boats and Recreational Vehicles (RV) at Fort MacArthur.
     7.3.1. An RV is defined as that which could reasonably be judged to be one or more of the follow-
     ing: boat, camper, cargo truck, motor home or pickup camper if the camper or camper shell is
     wider or longer than the pickup bed or trailer.
     7.3.2. Store RVs and pickup trucks with campers not used as daily transportation only in approved
     RV storage areas.
        7.3.2.1. Obtain parking permits from the base services, recreational supply and equipment
        center (61 MSG/SVRE) during normal duty hours.
        7.3.2.2. Parking permits will be prominently displayed.
     7.3.3. These vehicles may park temporarily in authorized parking areas on base and are authorize
     use of two or more adjacent parking slots for this purpose.
     7.3.4. Overnight parking is not authorized except in parking areas specifically designated for this
     purpose (i.e., RV storage areas).
  7.4. Reserved Parking on LAAFB:
     7.4.1. All parking on LAAFB is reserved from 0600-1600 weekdays. Employees of LAAFB and
     Aerospace must meet the criteria in paragraph 1.2. to park on LAAFB during normal duty hours.
     7.4.2. With the exception of car and vanpool parking spaces, all marked parking spaces (i.e., num-
     bered, handicapped, SFS, Command Post, government vehicle) are reserved 24 hours a day, 7
     days a week.
     7.4.3. If you are an employee of LAAFB, to include FFRDC, SETA and contractors, whose pri-
     mary office is on LAAFB, and you desire to park on LAAFB,you must meet one of the following
     criteria:
18                                                                   61ABWI31-204 29 APRIL 2008


        7.4.3.1. Possess a current SMC parking placard which you must hang from your rearview mir-
        ror and must be visible from the exterior of your vehicle.
        7.4.3.2. Possess a current LAAFB carpool placard which you must hang from your rearview
        mirror and must be visible from the exterior of your vehicle. NOTE: All van/carpools must be
        registered with 61 CELS or Aerospace Rideshare Coordinators.
        7.4.3.3. Be authorized to park in handicapped.
        7.4.3.4. Be authorized to park in a designated parking space (i.e, command post, phone oper-
        ator and etc)
        7.4.3.5. Be an annual award winner. NOTE: Must have annual award parking placard which
        you must hang from your rearview mirror and must be visible from the exterior of your vehi-
        cle. See paragraph 7.4.12.8.
        7.4.3.6. Be a volunteer. NOTE: You must have volunteer parking placard which you must
        hang from your rearview mirror and must be visible from the exterior of your vehicle. See
        paragraph 7.4.12.9.
        7.4.3.7. Drive a motorcycle: Note: Motorcycle parking is authorized in designated motorcycle
        parking areas only. Parking in areas such as handicap and crosswalks is not authorized.
     7.4.4. If you do not posses the credentials referenced in paragraph 7.2. above, you must park in
     the designated off-base parking lot.
     7.4.5. If you do not possess the credentials referenced in paragraph 7.2. above, yet have a child or
     children at the CDC, you may drive on base to pick-up and drop off your children.
     7.4.6. If your primary office is located off-base (i.e, Aerospace Corp, D-9, etc.), you may not park
     on LAAFB.
     7.4.7. Do not park in adjacent neighborhoods.
     7.4.8. Overnight parking on LAAFB is authorized only in reserved numbered spaces and with
     prior notification to the 61 SFS. There is no overnight parking at the off-base parking location.
     7.4.9. Car and vanpools may only park in designated van and carpool spaces. Do not park in
     unmarked spaces. All car and vanpools must be registered with 61 CELS or Aerospace Rideshare
     Coordinators.
     7.4.10. Anyone may park on LAAFB weekdays after 1600 and before 0600 as well as all day on
     weekends and holidays (not overnight). However, you may only park in unmarked and van/car-
     pool space during these time periods.
     7.4.11. Parking in the Commissary and AAFES parking lot is restricted to shopping customers
     ONLY.
     7.4.12. SMC Parking Passes.
        7.4.12.1. LAAFB and Aerospace employees must posses a valid SMC parking placard to park
        on LAAFB. SMC parking placards must hang from the rearview mirror and must be visible
        from the exterior of the vehicle. All SMC parking placards are broken out as follows:
        7.4.12.2. Key Personnel (KP). The base can designate a fair share across all organizations
        based on their current manpower to include FFRDC, SETA and other contractors. Manpower
61ABWI31-204 29 APRIL 2008                                                                             19


        numbers are validated by 61 MSG/CD, through each unit and SMC/A1, annually. Those des-
        ignated as KP will be assigned a numbered parking spot by 61 MSG/CD and issued a corre-
        sponding SMC parking placard through their designated parking manager.
        7.4.12.3. KP reserved parking spaces will not be reassigned by mutual agreement between
        occupants. A person may allow another person to use their reserved parking space during a
        temporary absence. Report unauthorized used of parking spaces to the Law Enforcement
        Desk, 653-5664.
        7.4.12.4. . Before final out-processing, those designated as KP will notify their unit parking
        manager of their impending move. The unit parking manager will update the parking database
        with the new KP holder’s information and will ensure the SMC parking placard is redistrib-
        uted.
        7.4.12.5. Mission Essential (ME). The base can designate a fair share across all organizations
        based on their current manpower to include FFRDC, SETA and other contractors. Manpower
        numbers are validated by 61 MSG/CD, through each unit and SMC/A1, annually.
        7.4.12.6. Those designated as ME will be given an SMC ME parking placard by 61 MSG/CD
        through their designated parking manager.
        7.4.12.7. Before final out-processing, those designated as ME will notify their unit parking
        manager of their impending move. The unit parking manager will update the parking database
        with the new KP holder’s information and will ensure the SMC parking placard is redistrib-
        uted.
        7.4.12.8. Annual Award Winners. The SMC annual award winners will be presented with an
        SMC parking placard designating them as annual award winners. In addition, they will receive
        a stanchion designating them as an annual award winner. They may place this stanchion in any
        unmarked parking space on LAAFB.
        7.4.12.9. Volunteers. Those officially identified as volunteers through the Airmen and Family
        Readiness Center qualify for a SMC volunteer parking pass. Employees of LAAFB or Aero-
        space do not qualify. Volunteers possessing an SMC volunteer parking pass are entitled to park
        on LAAFB in any unmarked parking space while conducting volunteer service.
        7.4.12.10. Temporary parking placards. Offices located off-base may be entitled to a tempo-
        rary parking placard to facilitate distribution runs. Contact 61 MSG/CD. Temporary parking
        placards will be positively controlled by the unit parking manager.
        7.4.12.11. Lottery Passes. Every six months, 61 MSG/CD will conduct a lottery. All personnel
        working on LAAFB may register for the lottery depending on published lottery rules. The
        number of lottery SMC parking passes issued may vary depending on the number of available
        parking spaces.
        7.4.12.12. . No one may transfer their SMC parking placard to another individual. If an indi-
        vidual transfers their SMC parking pass to another individual they are subject to disciplinary
        action, will lose their placard for the remainder of the current period and will be ineligible for
        future lotteries.
        7.4.12.13. KP and ME parking passes will be validated annually in the month of March.
20                                                                      61ABWI31-204 29 APRIL 2008


        7.4.13. Temporary reserved parking spaces must be coordinated through SMC Protocol and
        approved by 61 CELS.
           7.4.13.1. Requests will include justification and a diagram of the parking area in question.
           7.4.13.2. Ordering reserved parking signs is the responsibility of the requester. They may be
           obtained through a work order to 61 CELS. They must conform to specific dimensions, color
           and other requirements set forth in the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets
           and Highways.
        7.4.14. 61 MSG/CD will designate authorized handicapped spaces IAW the uniform federal
        accessibility standards. Handicapped parking spaces are reserved 24 hours daily, 7 days a week.
        7.4.15. 61 MSG/CD will designate authorized vanpool and carpool parking spaces on base. The
        Ride Share Coordinator, 61 CELS, (310) 653-5510, is the authorized manager for vanpool and
        carpool parking spaces. Vanpool and carpool parking spaces are reserved from 0600-1630, Mon-
        day - Friday.
        7.4.16. Reserved parking is provided for service trucks, special service vehicles, delivery vehicles
        and other similar purpose vehicles used for official business. A privately owned vehicle being
        used for EMERGENCY OFFICIAL duties for which such reserved parking is provided may uti-
        lize that space, provided the vehicle has on display an Emergency Service placard approved by 61
        ABW/CC.
        7.4.17. Housing occupants at Fort MacArthur are assigned reserved parking spaces. Violators will
        be cited upon request of the assigned resident.
        7.4.18. “NO PARKING” zones are required for safety and traffic control and will be defined by
        standard markings.
        7.4.19. Loading zones are provided as required and will be designated by standard markings.
        7.4.20. Visitors and customers reserved spaces will not be used by personnel employed or
        assigned at LAAFB unless they are bonafide customers to the facility or agency to which the
        spaces are assigned. The visitor parking area at the main gate visitor control area is for visitors
        only. Permanent party members, assigned personnel, family members or base employees may only
        park there briefly to conduct business at the gate.
        7.4.21. Oversized vehicles must be parked only in designated areas (oversize denotes vehicles
        which, when parked in a normal parking space would extend into the roadway and impede normal
        traffic flow).
        7.4.22. Posted signs stating “Reserved for Protocol, IG, etc.” will be honored by all vehicle oper-
        ators.
        7.4.23. Emergency vehicles are exempt from the provisions of this section while performing offi-
        cial duties.
     7.5. Parking Violations:
        7.5.1. Military members and DoD personnel who accumulate 3 or more parking or standing vio-
        lations within 12 months, may lose their base driving privileges as determined by the base com-
        mander. Furthermore, personnel that hold a current parking placard and accumulate 2 or more
61ABWI31-204 29 APRIL 2008                                                                             21


      parking violations may lose their parking placard/privilege. The base commander may revoke
      base driving privileges for a single standing or parking violations depending on the circumstances.
      7.5.2. Base driving privileges will be suspended using the following paragraphs when an individ-
      ual has committed on-base parking violations. Right of appeal procedures are the same as those
      outlined in AFI 31-204. Violations will result in administrative actions taken by 61 SFS/SFORA.
      7.5.3. The first offense for violating a van or carpool parking space will result in a five duty day
      suspension of base driving privileges. The second offense within a 12 month period will result in
      30-day suspension of base driving privileges.
      7.5.4. The first offense for handicapped parking violation will result in an immediate 30-day sus-
      pension of base driving privileges. Not displaying the appropriate placard will be considered an
      offense.
      7.5.5. The accumulation of three parking or standing violations within a 12-month period will
      result in suspension of base driving privileges for 30 days. The fourth and fifth offense within the
      same 12-month period will result in suspension of base driving privileges for 90 days and 180
      days respectively.
      7.5.6. Personnel caught driving or parking on the installation (except as permitted in paragraphs
      7.4.2., 7.4.3.) after their driving privileges have been suspended will have them revoked for an
      additional two years. Additional periods of suspension will be consecutive, not concurrent.
      7.5.7. Right of appeal procedures are outlined in AFI 31-204. The base commander or his/her des-
      ignee may adjust a revocation or suspension in any way they deem fit based upon good cause
      shown during an appeal, unless prohibited by instruction
   7.6. Pedestrians:
      7.6.1. Pedestrian Responsibilities: Use sidewalks, if provided and walk off the roadway facing
      traffic if there is no sidewalk.
      7.6.2. Obey all traffic control devices and use designated crosswalks. Pedestrians only have the
      right-of-way in marked pedestrian crossings. Take all safety precautions.
      7.6.3. Do not enter a street, crosswalk or other area in a manner which prevent a vehicle operator
      from stopping safely and properly yielding.
      7.6.4. Jogging/fitness walking on LAAFB roadways/parking lots is prohibited. Joggers/fitness
      walkers at LAAFB must use the designated running track.
      7.6.5. . Jogging/fitness walking on roadways on Ft McArthur, Pacific Heights or Pacific Crest is
      authorized. Joggers/fitness walkers at Ft McArthur, Pacific Heights and Pacific Crest must wear a
      reflective vest. They may not wear headphones. They must run/walk against traffic. Jogging/fit-
      ness walking in parking lots is prohibited.

8. Miscellaneous Rules:
   8.1. Towing: Vehicle(s) on base will be towed if they are in violation of the CVC or this instruction
   and towing is authorized for that violation.
      8.1.1. Blocking entrances/exits: Any vehicle blocking the entrances/exits to the installation,
      buildings and vehicle gates.
22                                                                      61ABWI31-204 29 APRIL 2008


        8.1.2. Vehicles parked within 25 meters of buildings during increased real world Force Protec-
        tion Conditions.
        8.1.3. Any vehicle parked in an area interfering with or hampering real world military operations.
        8.1.4. Reserved parking: Vehicles will not be towed for reserve parking violations unless Watch
        Commander or higher authorization is received.
        8.1.5. Upon impoundment, the installation law enforcement officer, normally Security Forces
        investigations personnel will complete all required forms and documents associated with the
        removal, towing/storage, inventory and final disposition of impounded vehicles. The Security
        Forces investigations section will maintain a case logbook concerning all force inquires concern-
        ing impounded vehicles.
        8.1.6. The towing fee and storage fee are set by the contracted towing service impounding the
        vehicle. All fees must be paid to the contracted towing service before the vehicle is released.
     8.2. Abandoned Vehicles:
        8.2.1. Security Forces will make every effort to identify vehicles constituting a public nuisance on
        LAAFB. When a vehicle is identified as a possible abandoned vehicle (over 72 hours), the on-duty
        shift will issue a DD Form 2504, Abandoned Vehicle Notice. Vehicle owners are responsible for
        paying all towing and storage fees incurred on an abandoned vehicle. The owner will have 30-45
        days to claim the vehicle before it is auctioned by the towing company.
        8.2.2. Officers aware of a vehicle(s) which falls into the abandoned category may cite the vehicle.
        A DD Form 2504, Abandoned Vehicle Notice, will be placed on any vehicle identified as aban-
        doned even if a citation has not been issued.
        8.2.3. Abandoned vehicle with other violations: Vehicles identified as abandoned and which fall
        into other authorized tow categories may be towed for the violation(s).
        8.2.4. The owner of any cited vehicle must remove the vehicle from the installation or contact the
        Security Forces investigations section (61 SFS/SFOI), to certify the vehicle is operational and not
        abandoned. Any vehicle not certified as operational by the Security Forces investigations section
        may be impounded 24 hours after the citation was issued.
        8.2.5. All requests to move stalled POVs will only be accepted from the following:
           8.2.5.1. Air Force law enforcement personnel.
           8.2.5.2. Officers or senior enlisted personnel acting in an official duty capacity.
           8.2.5.3. Vehicle recovery should not be made unless one of the following conditions exists:
           8.2.5.4. Movement of the vehicle is needed for rescue operations.
           8.2.5.5. The vehicle is blocking traffic and cannot be moved from the roadway.
           8.2.5.6. The vehicle is located in an otherwise hazardous area.
        8.2.6. Base police can enforce off-base parking violations during increased real world FPCONS
        or during emergency situations.

9. Required Vehicle Equipment:
61ABWI31-204 29 APRIL 2008                                                                                 23


  9.1. Cars and truck type vehicles must have fenders and bumpers, when required, which are not torn
  or ripped, extend beyond the normal contour of the vehicle, and do not create hazard. Any street vehi-
  cle operated on-base will be equipped with the following operable equipment:
     9.1.1. Two headlamps
     9.1.2. Two tail lamps
     9.1.3. Brakes
     9.1.4. Horn
     9.1.5. Muffler
     9.1.6. Mirror
     9.1.7. Windshield: No part of the windshield may be cracked, pitted or blocked as to create any
     disruption of the operator’s visibility.
     9.1.8. Tires. Tread depth must be a minimum of 1/16 inch uniform tread across the surface of the
     tire with no bald areas.
  9.2. Vehicle Maintenance.
     9.2.1. Emergency repairs may be made as needed; other maintenance may be conducted if a haz-
     ard is not created; such as: unattended vehicles may not be left elevated on jacks or similar equip-
     ment. Personnel making temporary repairs on their POV at their residence must not leave the
     vehicle unattended while it is elevated. Dispose of oil and similar fluids properly and do not drain
     them on the roadway or the ground. Do not use trash cans to dispose of these fluids. Oil changes
     are only authorized at the exchange service station.
     9.2.2. Emergency Road Repairs : Vehicle operators will place warning signals or signs on the
     roadway warning other motorists of the vehicle in the roadway. Immediately move the disabled
     vehicle from the roadway or stay with it until it is removed from the roadway and is no longer a
     hazard to other traffic.
  9.3. Occupants: No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such a position as to interfere with the
  driver’s view ahead or to the side, or to interfere with controlling the vehicle, such as a child sitting in
  the driver’s lap or standing in the front seat. No standing is allowed in any moving vehicle, except
  where support bars are provided.
  9.4. Portable Headphones and Earphones. Wearing portable headphones, earphones or other lis-
  tening devices while operating a motorized vehicle and while jogging, walking, bicycling, or skating
  on roads and streets on LAAFB and Military Family Housing is prohibited. This does not negate the
  requirement for wearing hearing protection when conditions or good judgment dictates its use.



                                               JOSEPH H. SCHWARZ, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander
24                                                                   61ABWI31-204 29 APRIL 2008


                                            Attachment 1

       GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS, AND TERMS

References
Title 10, USC 2575, Disposition of Unclaimed Property
DoDD 5525.4, Enforcement of State Traffic Laws on DoD Installations
AFPD 31-2, Law Enforcement
AFI 91-207, USAF Traffic Safety Program
AFI 31-201, Security Forces Standards and Procedures
AFI 31-204, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision
AFI 31-209, USAF Resource Protection Program
AFH 31-227, USAF Motor Vehicle and Traffic Control
AFI 36-2701, Social Actions Program
AFI 37-132, Air Force Privacy Act Program
AFI 37-138, Records Disposition -- Procedures and Responsibilities
AFI 37-144, Privacy Act System Records
California Vehicle Code
Uniform Vehicle Code

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAA—American Automobile Association
AFB—Air Force Base
BAC—Blood Alcohol Content
CSF—Chief, Security Forces
CVC—California Vehicle Code
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DOT—Department of Transportation
DUI—Driving Under the Influence
GOV—Government Owned Vehicle
MVA—Motor Vehicle Accident
MVC—Motor Vehicle Code
NAF—Non-appropriated Fund
61ABWI31-204 29 APRIL 2008                                                                              25


NCO—Noncommissioned Officer
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORV—Off Road Vehicle
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
POV—Privately Owned Vehicle
RV—Recreational Vehicle
TDY—Temporary Duty
UVC—Uniform Vehicle Code
VCO—Vehicle Control Officer

Terms
Crosswalk—The part of the roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly indicated for pedestrian
crossing by lines or other markings on the road surface.
Driver—Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a motor vehicle, including
motorcycles, on a street or is exercising control over, or steering, a vehicle being towed by another motor
vehicle.
Emergency Vehicles—Motor vehicles authorized to have identifying marking, equipped with flashing
(warning) lights and a siren in compliance with state vehicle code requirements (CVC 25252).
Moped—Any state registered or licensed street operated motor driven vehicle with pedals used to get the
vehicle rolling, a seat for the operator, and an engine limited to no more than 50cc displacement, and is
designed to operate with no more than three wheels on the road surface. Usually this vehicle operator’s
permit is required to operate this vehicle; however, no motorcycle endorsement is required.
Motor Vehicle—A motor vehicle is defined in AFI 31-204.
Motorcycle—Any state registered or licensed, street operated and street legal motor driven vehicle with
a seat for the operator which is designed to operate with not more than three wheels on the road surface.
A state vehicle operator’s permit is required to operate a motorcycle. In most cases a state vehicle
operator’s permit will have the motorcycle endorsement displayed on it.
On-Base—All land areas, streets (highway), buildings, housing and dormitory areas controlled by the
Base Commander.
Parking—To stop a vehicle, with the motor running or shut off, whether occupied or not, other than
temporarily for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in, loading or unloading, unless complying
with a traffic order, signal, or device.
Recreation Vehicle (RV)—That which could reasonably be judged to be one or more of the following:
boat, camper, cargo truck, motor home, or pickup camper if the camper or camper shell is wider or longer
than the pickup bed or trailer.
26                                                                     61ABWI31-204 29 APRIL 2008


Sample Memorandum

RESTRICTED DRIVING PRIVILEGES FOR GOVERNMENT OWNED VEHICLES (GOV)

(Letterhead)

MEMORANDUM FOR SRA JOHN DOE

FROM: Wing Commander

SUBJECT: Restricted Driving Privileges for Government Owned Vehicles (GOV)

1. I considered your request for restricted driving privileges and contacted 61 ABW/SFORA to confirm
you have a valid state driver’s license. Pursuant to AFI 31-204, I am granting you restricted driving priv-
ileges for the purpose of driving a GOV at work, with prior approval of your supervisor.

2. These restricted driving privileges will remain in effect for the duration of the revocation period
imposed on you in your “Revocation of LAAFB Driving Privileges” memorandum dated
_______________. You are cautioned I may withdraw these privileges if you become involved in a
chargeable accident, commit any moving violation or are found driving under the influence, on or off
base, during this period. Restricted driving privileges will be withdrawn if you violate the terms of this
memorandum. Additionally, you must carry a copy of this memorandum on your person at all times when
driving on LAAFB.

3. You will acknowledge receipt of this memorandum immediately by endorsement and return the original
to me within 24 hours of your receipt.




                                                     JACK B. QUICK, Lt Col, USAF
                                                     Commander
cc: 61 ABW/SFORA
    61 ABW/LGTO

1st Ind, SrA John Doe

TO: Lt Col Jack B. Quick

Receipt acknowledged this _______day of ______________199_ at __________hours.


                                                     JOHN DOE, SrA, USAF
                                                     SSN: 123-45-6789
61ABWI31-204 29 APRIL 2008                             27


                               Attachment 2

                     LAAFB PARKING DESIGNATIONS PLAN
