BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 62D AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 90-901
                                                                                      27 OCTOBER 2004

                                                                                        Command Policy

                                                               OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 62 AW/SEO (TSgt Wesley R. Colberg)                                          Certified by: 62 AW/SE
                                                                              (Lt. Col Thomas A. Griffin)
                                                                                                Pages: 14
                                                                                           Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 90-9, Operational Risk Management, and AFI 90-901, Operational
Risk Management. It establishes requirements to integrate and sustain the Operational Risk Management
(ORM) program, assigns program element responsibilities and contains program management informa-
tion. This instruction applies to all 62 AW units, staff agencies, GSUs, and personnel. Groups and squad-
rons may publish additional ORM guidance to support their ORM programs. Copies of group and
unit-level ORM Guidance should be forwarded to 62 AW/SE to facilitate cross tell.


1. Definition. Operational Risk Management is a logic-based approach to making calculated decisions
on human, materiel, and environmental factors before, during, and after Air Force mission activities and
operations.

2. Purpose. The goal of ORM and this OI is to enhance mission effectiveness at all levels while minimiz-
ing risks. This provides personnel a process to implement ORM into everyday training, to accurately iden-
tify and assess risks.

3. Scope. Effective risk management starts at the top and is the responsibility of all in the chain of com-
mand. Commanders and leaders at all levels are encouraged to intervene and set the tone for safety.
Front-line supervisors have the best opportunity to personally interact with people and save lives. To
reduce the odds of a tragedy or mishap, keep it simple, but think in terms of risk management.
   3.1. Downward program channeling is a must for effective ORM. The ORM process will be used in
   conjunction with AFI 90-901 and AFPAM 90-902, ORM Guidelines and Tools, and the Risk Man-
   agement Information System (RMIS) at https://rmis.kirtland.af.mil/default.asp. These tools will
   provide personnel process information, integration tools, and the ability to implement ORM principles
   into the work centers.
2                                                                  62AWI90-901 27 OCTOBER 2004


4. Responsibilities. The following include and are in addition to those defined by AFI 90-901.
    4.1. 62d Airlift Wing Commander will:
       4.1.1. Task Group/Squadron commanders to implement the program within their units.
       4.1.2. Appoint a strong, highly motivated noncommissioned officer or above to act as the ORM
       functional manager and to oversee ORM integration and sustainment wing-wide. The ORM man-
       ager will be assigned to the wing safety office for a period of 12 to 24 months.
    4.2. Chief of Safety (62 AW/SE) will:
       4.2.1. Act as the point of contact (POC) for integration and sustainment wing-wide and oversee
       ORM functional manager appointment.
       4.2.2. Ensure that each unit’s ORM program in evaluated during their normally scheduled Annual
       Safety and Program Management Inspection utilizing Attachment 2 of this instruction. 62 AW/IG
       Self-Inspection Team members should also utilize this checklist during wing-level unit compli-
       ance inspections.
       4.2.3. Work directly with Air Mobility Command (AMC) to obtain and schedule all 62 AW slots
       in the three (3) day “Applications and Integration Course” at Kirtland AFB. All per diem, lodging,
       and transportation costs associated with this course are unit funded.
       4.2.4. Chair the wing Risk Management Steering Group at least quarterly.
       4.2.5. Perform and/or assist risk assessments of wing mission, contingency exercises, and opera-
       tions.
       4.2.6. Ensure key ORM concepts are the briefed at the Newcomer’s Safety briefing, First Term
       Airman’s Center (FTAC) briefing, Unit Safety Representative and the Supervisors Safety courses.
       This training is not a substitute for the online Web Based Training (WBT) requirement.
    4.3. Wing ORM Program Manager will ensure each unit within their responsibility establishes an
    ORM program and provides oversight and feedback as required. Additionally, the ORM Program
    Manager will:
       4.3.1. Develop specific ORM program implementation guidance and establish policy and require-
       ments to sustain ORM programs within the wing. Disseminate AMC-developed ORM Hand-
       books, pamphlets, guides and templates, and reference materials when AMC makes them
       available.
       4.3.2. Facilitate ORM Essentials for Leaders course to all unit ORM advisors and supervisors.
       4.3.3. Develop training programs, procedures, and appropriate program training guides.
       4.3.4. Review all squadron, section, and Geographically Separated Unit (GSU) ORM training
       documentation in conjunction with Wing Safety Inspections (at a minimum annually).
       4.3.5. Facilitate ORM assessments as necessary.
       4.3.6. Maintain a list of all unit ORM Advisors and all other wing personnel who completed the
       ORM Application and Integration Course via the safety center, VTC or WBT. When available
       these individuals may be utilized to serve on cross functional ORM applications across the wing,
       as the need arises.
62AWI90-901 27 OCTOBER 2004                                                                           3


     4.3.7. Facilitate quarterly ORM advisor meetings. All unit-appointed ORM advisors are expected
     to attend. The main purpose of these meetings will be to assess the status of the wing’s ORM Pro-
     gram and provide an opportunity for all unit advisors to crosstell on current ORM successes and
     challenges. Meeting agenda items should include a review of current higher headquarters ORM
     guidance, group/squadron ORM integration, ORM training opportunities and successful ORM
     applications.
  4.4. Group/Squadron Commanders will:
     4.4.1. Assign in writing an ORM advisor for program implementation and assessments, and pro-
     vide copy to 62 AW/SEO. Advisors should be in the rank of SSgt or above with a minimum of 24
     months Time on Station (TOS) remaining.
     4.4.2. MOS and OSS will provide advisors for their associated group-level command sections and
     MSS will provide advisors for wing staff agencies ORM requirements.
     4.4.3. Establish an ORM policy letter as a guideline for each unit.
     4.4.4. Ensure all ORM advisors, within 90 days of assignment, complete the ORM Essentials for
     Leader’s course and Applications and Integration Course.
     4.4.5. Use the “High Risk” activities list in attachment three when considering the need to counsel
     individuals about appropriate risk mitigation methods.
  4.5. Unit ORM Advisors will :
     4.5.1. Provide unit-level training consisting of refreshers, Essentials for Leaders Course, and
     ORM Fundamentals Introductory Training.
     4.5.2. Run the unit advisor checklist (Attachment 2) at least annually to review the state of the
     unit program.
     4.5.3. Schedule, monitor, and track all ORM exercises during wing/unit safety days.
     4.5.4. Perform and/or facilitate risk assessments of unit/section contingency, exercises, and daily
     operations.
     4.5.5. Monitor use of ORM process throughout the unit to ensure sustainment of active programs.
     Promote the use of ORM in conjunction with unit safety or training days.
     4.5.6. As appropriate, provide the McChord ORM Program Manager with successful ORM appli-
     cation stories for crosstell purposes.
  4.6. Unit/Section/Flight will:
     4.6.1. Apply ORM to all unique or one-time tasks (e.g. moving into a new building). Involve as
     many appropriate personnel as possible to participate in the task and add to the section hazard
     table.
     4.6.2. Ensure all newly assigned personnel receive ORM Fundamentals training within 60 days of
     assignment and included as part of in-processing. The web-based training course available on the
     RMIS web page is specifically designed to meet this requirement.
     4.6.3. Complete the Essentials for Leaders course within six months of assignment.
4                                                                      62AWI90-901 27 OCTOBER 2004


       4.6.4. Conduct and document an ORM exercise semi-annually. This can be done in conjunction
       with unit or wing safety days. Forward to squadron advisor for tracking.
       4.6.5. Apply ORM to:
           4.6.5.1. Daily operations, maintenance, and general tasks within work centers.
           4.6.5.2. All unique or one-time tasks (e.g. moving, construction, fireworks, and exercises).
           4.6.5.3. All operations presenting probable hazards not previously identified by technical data
           or other safety sources.
           4.6.5.4. Reassessments on any ORM items requiring changes to previous plans.
           4.6.5.5. Any modification proposals, acquisitions and/or development efforts.
           4.6.5.6. Any required waivers for safety reasons.

5. Training. The following defines wing and unit training plan requirements. No other locally developed
training is authorized unless approved by 62 AW/SE.
    5.1. The ORM Executive Overview Course is provided for all commanders and functional managers;
    this training provides an understanding of the processes in use within their organizations, the benefits
    and limitations of current processes, and the opportunities afforded by enhanced risk management
    processes. Senior leaders are not expected to train others in the ORM processes; however, showing
    support for and encouraging ORM efforts is expected. This training is available and downloadable at
    RMIS https://rmis.kirtland.af.mil/default.asp.
    5.2. All supervisors and section chiefs will attend the Essentials for Leaders VTC course within six
    months of inprocessing into their unit.
    5.3. All newly assigned personnel require ORM Fundamentals Introductory Training available on the
    RMIS web site, https://rmis.kirtland.af.mil/default.asp, within 60 days of arrival as part of inproc-
    essing unless accomplished and documented within the last calendar year at a previous base/unit.
    5.4. All advisors will complete the Essentials for Leaders course and the three day Integration and
    Sustainment Course within 90 days of appointment either in residence or by CBT. (Note) In residence
    is the preferred for training. All per diem, lodging, transportation and associated costs for the three (3)
    day “Applications and Integration Course” are unit funded.
    5.5. Accomplished training will be documented using AF Form 623, G081 or other locally developed
    suitable products (to reduce training duplication upon PCS/PCA). Courses requiring documentation
    include ORM Fundamentals Introductory Training, ORM Essentials for Leaders Course, and the
    Applications and Integrations



                                                 ROWAYNE A. SCHATZ, JR. Colonel, USAF
                                                 Commander, 62d Airlift Wing
62AWI90-901 27 OCTOBER 2004                                                                       5


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 90-9, Operational Risk Management
AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management
AFPAM 90-902, Operational Risk Management (ORM) Guidelines and Tools

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPAM—Air Force Pamphlet
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSC—Air Force Safety Center
AMC—Air Mobility Command
DoD—Department of Defense
GSU— Geographically Separated Unit
HQ— Headquarters
MAJCOM—Major Command
NAF—Numbered Air Force
ORM—Operational Risk Management
PCA—Permanent Change of Assignment
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
RMIS—Risk Management Information System
TOS— Time on Station
TSI— Transportation Safety Institute
USAF—United States Air Force
VTC—Video Tele-conference
WBT— Web Based Training
WWW—Worldwide Web

Terms
Hazard— A condition with the potential to cause negative impact in any situation. This impact may be
financial, public perception, personal injury or death, property damage, or mission degradation.
High-Risk Activities— Activities that include one or more of the following:
6                                                                    62AWI90-901 27 OCTOBER 2004


- Poses a great threat to life or serious illness/injury.
- Poses a high degree of exposure to a significant number of personnel.
- Significantly increased mishap potential due to nature of activity, physical conditions, or type of equip-
ment used.
- A significant negative trend in loss of life or resources.
Mishap—An unplanned event or events resulting in death, injury, occupational illness, damage, loss of
equipment or property.
Operational Risk Management (ORM)—The systematic process of identifying hazards, assessing risk,
analyzing risk control options and measures making control decisions, implementing control decisions,
accepting residual risks, and supervising/ reviewing activities for effectiveness.
ORM Advisor—Organization level ORM focal point that serves as advisor to commanders, manager’s
supervisors, and other personnel on ORM policy, application and training.
Risk—An expression of consequences in terms of the probability of an event occurring, the severity of
the event and the exposure of personnel or resources to potential loss or harm.
Risk Assessment—Process of detecting hazards and their causes, and systematically assessing the
associated risks.
62AWI90-901 27 OCTOBER 2004                                                                           7


                                            Attachment 2

                                  UNIT ADVISOR CHECKLIST

A2.1. Print the following information on AF Form 2519, All Purpose Checklist, to create the “Unit
Advisor Checklist.” A completed form is available on the McChord ORM Web Site.
   1. AFI 90-901, Para 3.4. Is there evidence the unit commander is an advocate for the unit
      ORM program? Look for minutes of meetings, policy letters, and evidence of unit ORM activi-
      ties not possible without unit commander support.
   2. AFI 90-901, Para 3.4. Is integration of ORM into planning at all levels supported by the
      Commander? Is ORM briefed and/or mandated for all plans, exercises, deployments, etc? As a
      minimum, these should be documented. Copies of briefings containing ORM material should be
      available for review. Operational and support plans should identify maximum-performance with
      minimum risk options. Also, task planning within functional areas should be accomplished using
      ORM principles.
   3. AFI 90-901, Para 4.1. Is implementation of ORM evident in all unit functional areas? Look
      for evidence, such as risk control charts showing risk trends for work center tasks.
      a. Can the ORM advisor show ORM implementation for the organization in all functional
         areas down to shop level? Look for real-world applications data, risk control charts showing
         risk trends for mission-essential processes, and training data.
      b. If there are implementation shortfalls, is there evidence the commander has been
         informed of these shortfalls? Look for items such as meeting minutes, policy letters, data-
         bases, and other records of activities.
   4. AFI 90-901, Para 3.2. Risk Decision Making.
      a. Are risk decisions made at the appropriate level? Look for trends of unreasonably elevated
         or delegated decision making.
      b. Is there a published unit policy letter for elevating risk decisions? Look in the com-
         mander’s ORM policy letter. Is the unit policy readily available to all assigned personnel?
         Look for ORM policy in operating instructions, local supplements, etc.
   5. 62 AWI 90-901 Para 2.4.1. Has an ORM advisor been appointed? As a minimum, documenta-
      tion should include a letter of appointment signed by the commander. Has a copy been forwarded
      to 62 AW/SEO? The advisor should be at least a SSgt with 24 months TOS retainability at time of
      appointment.
   6. 62 AWI 90-901, Para 2.4.2. Has the ORM Advisor attended the ORM Applications and Inte-
      gration Course? A copy of the training certificate from the Transportation Safety Institute (TSI)
      or a locally developed course certificate is acceptable. A memorandum for record (MFR) or an
      e-mail identifying a request for training or a confirmed class date for an advisor who has not yet
      completed training also meets this requirement.
   7. AFI 90-901, Para 5.10.5/ 62 AWI 90-901, Para 3.3. Is ORM Fundamentals Training being
      provided to personnel? Training may have been provided as an approved briefing, classroom
      instruction, or WBT.
8                                                                   62AWI90-901 27 OCTOBER 2004


       a. Does the organization have a process for training new personnel within 60 days of
          assignment? Review the in-processing checklist to verify ORM Fundamentals Training is
          included as part of in-processing.
    8. AFI 90-901, Para 2.3.5.10.5. Have supervisory personnel participated in the Essentials
       Course? Training may have been provided as a briefing, classroom instruction, or CBT.
       a. Are unit worker-level personnel trained? Plans should include ensuring all receive the
          training eventually.
       b. Does the organization have a process for training new personnel within six (6) months of
          assignment? Review the in-processing checklist to verify Essentials Course Training is
          included as part of in-processing.
    9. AFI 90-901, Para 2.3. Is involvement of all personnel in ORM activities evident? Look for
       personnel participation from all areas. ORM should not be centrally executed; rather decentraliza-
       tion is important to allow unique work centers the flexibility to meet their mission needs. Informal
       interviews with unit personnel should provide enough data to indicate involvement. Review any
       documented ORM applications.
    10. AFPD 90-9, Para 5.7. Is there evidence all personnel are applying ORM principles, con-
        cepts, and techniques to assess the risks associated with their daily activities, both on and off
        duty? A majority of personnel asked should be able to provide anecdotal information regarding
        personal application of ORM principles.
    11. AFI 90-901, Para 3.4. Do supervisors ensure individuals apply ORM in day-to-day opera-
        tions or tasks? Meeting minutes, checklists, job aids, training outlines or plans, visual aids, or
        any other evidence supporting ORM activities.
    12. AFI 90-901, Para 2.3. Do personnel assigned know the ORM 6-step process? Interview a ran-
        dom sampling to identify their ORM familiarization. Wallet-cards, posters, pocket guides or any
        other aid is acceptable. Conceptually accurate responses are preferred over word for word recita-
        tions of text lacking in understanding of the process.
62AWI90-901 27 OCTOBER 2004                                                9


                                              Attachment 3

                                   HIGH-RISK ACTIVITIES LIST

A3.1. Examples of High-Risk Activities (this list is not all inclusive):


       All Terrain Vehicles (ATV) riding
       Auto/Motorcycle racing
       Bungee Jumping
       Civil Helicopter Flying
       Civil Light Aircraft Flying
       Dirt Bike/Motorcycle riding
       Hang Gliding
       Hunting
       Kayaking
       Kite Jumping
       Kite Surfing
       Mountain Climbing/Rappelling
       Para-Sailing
       Rodeo/Bull-riding
       Scuba Diving
       Snow Skiing & Boarding
       Snowmobile riding
       Soaring
       Surfing
       White Water Rafting/Activities
10                          62AWI90-901 27 OCTOBER 2004


             Attachment 4

     SAMPLE APPOINTMENT LETTER
62AWI90-901 27 OCTOBER 2004                                                                                   11


                                                Attachment 5

                                   HUMAN PROFILE FOCUS GUIDE

A5.1. This matrix can be used in most every scenario. Analyze past individual traits and factors to
develop a starting point. The result will be an effective tool in controlling that element called “Human
Error.”

A5.2. The goal of the following risk assessment checklist is to assess the potential risk an individual may
incur to safely function in job-related tasks and off-duty activities. Add all the sub-totals to get a final risk
assessment. Check the risk gauge at the end to determine how much risk is involved. Take action to elim-
inate or reduce risks whenever possible. Remember that this is only a tool to assist in controlling or miti-
gating human error. Commanders or First Sergeants may add additional questions as appropriate.
Enrollment is at the unit commander’s discretion – values given are only guidelines.
12                                                              62AWI90-901 27 OCTOBER 2004



A. Consider individual’s present and past actions related
to work standards and job practices.                       INCIDENTS
NOTE: Look for underlying causes related to duty per-
formance (i.e. alcohol, stress, etc.)
              CONSISTENCY OF ACTION                       HIGH    MEDIUM             LOW
Job performance problems                                  3       2                  1
Ignores tech data or OIs to save time                     3       2                  1
Problems managing time (late for work, etc)               3       2                  1


                                                                                         TOTALS
Personality problems (Personality changes, withdrawal, 7              5              3
mention of suicide, etc.)


B: Psychological Factors                                    MONTHS
                 TIME OF OCCURANCE                          PA S T 4      PA S T 8   PA S T 1 2
                                                            MONTHS        MONTHS     MONTHS
Financial difficulties (bad checks, failure to pay, etc.)   5             3          2
Family abuse problems                                       15            12         8
Alcohol-related incident (non-traffic) or enrolled in
                                                            12            8          4
substance abuse program
Serious family illness or death                             8             6          4
Break-ups/problems with important personal relationships
                                                            5             3          2
(include marital not abuse related)
Judicial or Non-Judicial Punishment (recent or pending)     3             2          1
UIF or Control Roster                                       3             2          1


                                                                                         TOTALS
62AWI90-901 27 OCTOBER 2004                                                      13



C: Traffic-related incidents                        POINTS ASSESSED BY ITEM
   Violation in conjunction with DUI                18
   Moving or non-moving violations on or off base   Points Assessed on Ticket
   Major vehicle mishap (operator cited)            4 (per incident)
   Minor vehicle mishap (operator cited)            3 (per incident)
   Suspension of driving privileges                 3
   Failure to pass vehicle inspection               1 (per occasion)


                                                                        TOTALS


D: Factors enhancing risk based on demography?      POINTS ASSESED BY ITEM
  DEMOGRAPHICS
  Age 26 and under                                  3
  Age 27-35                                         1
  Rank – TSgt and Below                             2
  Single                                            1
  Traffic Complaints                                3 (per incident)


                                                                       TOTALS


                           A. JOB PERFORMANCE
                           B. PSYCHOLOGICAL FACTORS
                           C. VEHICLE RELATED
                           D. DEMOGRAPHICS
                           TOTALS




 Yellow assess: Annually
 Orange assess: Quarterly
 Red assess: Monthly
 NOTE: For high personality problems
14                                         62AWI90-901 27 OCTOBER 2004



          RISK GAUGE
7-11  12-17        18-24       25+
GREEN YELLOW       ORANGE      RED
LOW   LOW CAUTION HIGH CAUTION HIGH RISK
