BY THE ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    62D AIR WING INSTRUCTION 31-4
HQ 62D AIRLIFT WING                                                                    22 MARCH 2007

                                                                                                Security

                                                      REGIONAL CORRECTIONS FACILITY (RCF)




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 62 SFS/SFOI                                    Certified by: 62 SFS/CC (Maj Eric R. Waterworth)
Supersedes 62AWI31-4, 28 July 1995                                                        Pages: 18

This instruction establishes guidelines for the 62d Security Forces Confinement Liaison to provide infor-
mation to squadron commanders and first sergeants. These guidelines will be used for processing, trans-
porting, confining and releasing personnel confined at the Regional Corrections Facility (RCF); Fort
Lewis, Washington; RCF, Naval Brig Puget Sound, Silverdale, Washington; Buckley Jail, City of Buck-
ley, Washington; Corrections Facility Fairchild AFB, Washington; and Corrections Facility (CF) Malm-
strom AFB, Montana. Bangor Naval Submarine Base is now named Naval Base Kitsap and Bangor Naval
Brig is referred to as Naval Brig or Correctional Custody Unit Puget Sound. DD Form 470 has been
replaced by DD Form 2707, Confinement Order. This instruction encompasses all correctional custody
facilities that McChord AFB can use per existing Memorandums of Agreement. In-processing checklists
are removed and will be provided by the 62 SFS Confinement Liaison. Ensure that all records created as
a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123
(will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes include:
Chapter 1, Administrative Description has been revised to reflect updated required documentation.
Chapter 2 was renamed from Processing Individuals Into Facility to Confinee Processing and updated.
Chapter 3, Command Visits outlines policies unique to the respective branch of service and/or civilian
facilities. Chapter 4, Interviews, Visits and Telephone Calls for Prisoners details specific requirements
for military and civilian facilities. Chapter 5, Temporary Release of Confinees is revised incorporating
unique military and civilian requirements. Chapter 6 was renamed from Transfer to Another RCF to
Transfer to Another Corrections Facility and includes requirements of military and civilian facilities.
Chapter 7, Expiration of Sentence has not changed. Chapter 8, Utilizing Prisoner Work Force has been
2                                                                      62AWI31-4 22 MARCH 2007


simplified. Attachment 1, Glossary of Reference and Supporting Information has been revised. Attach-
ment 2, Temporary Release Letter has been updated to reflect use for multiple facilities. Attachment 3,
Checklist for Puget Sound Naval Brig at Bangor has been deleted. The 62 AW Confinement Liaison will
assist unit’s with meeting requirements. Attachment 4, Puget Sound Naval Brig at Bangor (Pre-trial) has
been deleted. The 62 AW Confinement Liaison will assist unit’s with meeting requirements. Attachment
5, Prisoner Transfer Checklist, Puget Sound Naval Brig at Bangor has been deleted. The 62 AW Confine-
ment Liaison will assist unit’s with meeting requirements. Attachment 6, Map to Puget Sound Naval Brig
has been deleted. The 62 AW Confinement Liaison will assist unit’s with meeting requirements.
62AWI31-4 22 MARCH 2007                                                                                    3


                                                Chapter 1

                                 ADMINISTRATIVE DESCRIPTION

1.1. 62 AW Confinement Liaison. 62d Security Forces will establish a primary and an alternate Con-
finement Liaison with the available corrections facilities and coordinate applicable Support Agreements
and/or Memorandums of Understanding. The Confinement Liaison or alternate will ensure any changes in
policy between corrections facilities and 62 AW are reflected in this instruction and/or applicable Memo-
randums of Agreement. The Confinement Liaison or alternate will also provide guidance to unit first ser-
geants and commanders on their respective unit responsibilities.

1.2. Initial Confinement Actions. Members placed into pre-trial confinement are held at the RCF or CF
closest to McChord AFB pending available space and suitability. The Security Forces Confinement Liai-
son will contact the corrections facility point of contact to inform him or her they have an individual to be
placed into confinement. Five documents must be prepared:
   1.2.1. DD Form 2707 Confinement Order. All members placed into confinement, either pre-trial or
   post trial will have a confinement order. The 62d Airlift Wing Staff Judge Advocate (62 AW/JA) will
   prepare the order.
   1.2.2. AF Form 444, Advisement of Rights upon Pre-trial Confinement. 62 AW/JA will prepare and
   provide the form to the unit representative who will, in turn provide it to the member immediately
   upon taking the member into custody. This is in addition to right’s advisement when a military mem-
   ber is taken into custody (apprehended).
   1.2.3. Victim Witness Form 2704. 62 AW/JA will prepare a copy of this form after the individual has
   been adjudged. The form will accompany the detainee to the designated confinement facility.
   1.2.4. 48 Hour Probable Cause Memorandum. In the case of pretrial confinement, the SJA will pro-
   vide the 48-Hour Probable Cause Memorandum to the Confinement Liaison. This is to be done within
   two duty days after pretrial confinement is ordered. The Confinement Liaison will fax a copy to the
   designated corrections’ facility.
   1.2.5. AF Form 2098, Duty Status Change. The next duty day following confinement the parent unit
   will complete this form to update the prisoner's duty status code and processes the form through the
   local Military Personnel Flight (MPF) and Accounting and Finance Office (AFO). The parent unit
   will also change the duty status code to 17 for post-trial confinement and 16 for pretrial confinement.
4                                                                          62AWI31-4 22 MARCH 2007


                                                Chapter 2

                                      CONFINEE PROCESSING

2.1. Notifications. No confinee will be processed into the RCF or other corrections facility without first
coordinating with 62d Security Forces Confinement Liaison and 62 AW/JA.
    2.1.1. The Security Forces Confinement Liaison will notify the designated corrections facility to let
    them know name, rank, social security number and charges of the individual to be confined.

2.2. Processing Documents. The following documents will be provided to the Military Confinement
Duty Officer upon arrival to process the detainee.
    2.2.1. DD Form 2707, AF Form 444, Victim Witness Form 2704 (adjudged prisoners only), AF Form
    1359, Report of Result of Trial (adjudged prisoners only) DD Form 2, Military Identification Card (or
    Common Access Card), dental records, and SF 600, Medical Exam.

2.3. Pre-Confinement Physical. All individuals confined at a corrections facility will have a pre-con-
finement physical. During duty hours, the parent unit will contact the physical exams clinic and be pro-
vided the next available appointment. The confinement physical will be annotated in Block 9 of the
Confinement Order annotating fit/unfit for confinement, any irregularities, date a HIV test was adminis-
tered and for females the results of a pregnancy test. In addition, a SF 600 will be prepared by the medical
examiner. The examiner will note any medical problems, special medical care, physical limitations, and
presence of existing cuts, bruises or unusual marks on the SF 600. During non-duty hours, the detainee
may be taken to the Madigan Army Medical Center or Bremerton Naval Hospital Emergency Room for
completion of the confinement physical.

2.4. Clothing. Individuals confined in an RCF will wear the Battle Dress Uniform (BDU) with grade
insignia, badges, or devices.
    2.4.1. The parent unit commander will ensure that a prisoner has all required clothing upon entry into
    confinement. Unless otherwise approved by HQ AFSFC/SFC, prisoners will have as a minimum: one
    complete service dress uniform, four complete sets of BDU’s, one field jacket, one short sleeve light
    blue shirt, one pair boots, one pair of low quarter shoes, appropriate belts, headgear, 6 white undergar-
    ments, 6 pair socks and one set of athletic attire. The parent unit will provide missing or unserviceable
    items prior to confinement or transfer. The battle dress uniforms and battle dress jacket will have U.S.
    Air Force and nametags attached or otherwise meet AFI 36-2903 requirements.
    2.4.2. The only exception to the uniform policy will be granted for personnel who are confined during
    non-duty hours, weekends, holidays or when the seriousness of the offense merits immediate confine-
    ment. Commanders will ensure that personnel confined during non-duty hours receive the required
    issue of clothing during the next duty day after confinement.

2.5. Personal Property. Prior to placing personnel in confinement, the unit commander is responsible
for ensuring an inventory of all excess clothing and other personal property, using AF Form 195, Individ-
ual Mandatory Clothing Check (Male/Female) is accomplished. The unit will prepare the inventory in
triplicate and retain one copy. The second copy will be given to the prisoner, and the original given to the
CF/RCF for inclusion in the prisoner’s Correctional Treatment File (CTF). The requirement to inventory
62AWI31-4 22 MARCH 2007                                                                                  5


the member’s personal clothing and belongings only applies to dormitory residents and members whose
property is being stored or shipped at the direction of the unit.

2.6. Health and Comfort Items. Incoming prisoners should not bring items such as razors, toothpaste,
soap, shampoo, and shaving lotion to the CF/RCF. All health and comfort items will be issued from stock
retained at the RCF, to include tobacco products. This action is necessary to preclude the introduction of
contraband into the facility.

2.7. Decision to confine. Pre-trial prisoners and prisoners adjudged sentences of 12 months or less of
confinement are normally confined at the RCF. If space or other factors preclude the use of the RCF, the
62 SFS Confinement Liaison will coordinate arrangements for use of another CF/RCF. The confinement
of prisoners with sentences greater than 12 months or more will be coordinated with HQ AFSFA/SFC,
Lackland AFB, TX. Temporary confinement of those prisoners adjudged sentences of 12 months or more
will be at the RCF until they can be transferred to another confinement facility.

2.8. Definitions.
   2.8.1. Detainee. An individual subject to the Uniformed Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) who has
   been lawfully entered into confinement awaiting trial for an alleged violation of the UCMJ.
   2.8.2. Confinee. A general term used for both prisoners and detainees.
   2.8.3. Inmate. A person sentenced by a court-martial to confinement or death and ordered into con-
   finement by competent authority whether or not the sentence has been approved by convening author-
   ity.
   2.8.4. Prisoner. An individual tried by court-martial, sentenced to confinement or death, ordered into
   confinement by competent authority, and whose sentence has been approved by convening authority.
   2.8.5. Custody Classifications. AFI 31-205, Attachment 3, identifies inmate classification and guide-
   lines for custody levels. Typically, detainees will be classified in either the Maximum or Medium-In
   custody classifications however, during incarceration, detainees may have custody levels increased or
   decreased based on behavior.
       2.8.5.1. Maximum Custody. Poses a serious threat to themselves or others, are an extreme escape
       risk, or whose behavior is seriously disruptive to the operation of the facility. Do not remove from
       the facility except in emergencies.
       2.8.5.2. Medium-In Custody. Requires continual supervision. The prisoner poses an escape risk,
       but does not present a significant threat to others or property.
       2.8.5.3. Medium-Out Custody. Prisoners who are at a low risk to escape. They are not considered
       violent, nor do they pose a threat to the public.
       2.8.5.4. Minimum Custody. Prisoners who present a minimum risk to escape. They are not dan-
       gerous or violent, and present little or no threat to the public.
   2.8.6. Confinement Facility Classifications.
       2.8.6.1. Level 1 confinement facility (CF)—Facilities housing pre-trial detainees or post-trial
       inmates, normally 180 days or less (can house up to 1 year with HQ AFSFC/SFC approval) and
       those awaiting transfer to Regional Correctional Facilities, or as directed by HQ AFSFC/SFC.
6                                                                          62AWI31-4 22 MARCH 2007


       Treatment programs will be offered consistent with security requirements and available resources.
       Inmates with sentences less than 1 year confinement and no adjudged discharge will remain
       assigned to parent unit.
       2.8.6.2. Level 2 facility —Facilities housing all female inmates (except Charleston NAVCON
       Brig), male inmates with sentences up to 7 years and may house some male inmates with longer
       than a 7-year sentence, requiring specialized treatment only available at the Level 2 facility (e.g.,
       Charleston and Miramar NAVCON Brigs), or at the direction of the Level 3 executive agency.
       These facilities provide the following treatment programs: Crisis Intervention, Corrections/
       Offense related counseling, Sex Offender Treatment Program, Drug and Alcohol Education
       including NA and AA, Stress Management, Pre-Release, Vocational Training, Functional Skills
       Testing and Remedial Education.
       2.8.6.3. Level 3 facility—Facilities housing post-trial inmates with sentences exceeding that of
       Level 2 facilities up to confinement for life and death sentences. Level 3 facilities provide all the
       programs and services available in Level 2 facilities based upon assessed inmate needs. AFCS
       uses the USDB, Ft. Leavenworth, KS. Refer to Level 2 Facility for housing Level 3 female
       inmates. The Air Force may also transfer inmates to the Federal BOP when approved by the
       AFC& PB. The US Army is the executive agency for Level 3 corrections.

2.9. Puget Sound Naval Brig Prisoner Identification Badges. Upon in-processing into the Bangor Naval
Brig, the detainee will be issued a NAVPERS 1640/16, Prisoner Identification Badge. This will be the
detainees’ primary identification (ID).
    2.9.1. Legal status is indicated on the badge as clear for detainees and blue for prisoners.
    2.9.2. Custody classification is indicated on the badge as red for maximum, orange for medium-in,
    yellow for medium-out and green for minimum.

2.10. CF/RCF and Detention Facility in-processing actions. Contact the 62d SFS Confinement Liaison to
obtain in-processing checklists/procedures. Confinement procedures differ for Adjudged Prisoners, Pre-
trial Prisoners, and Prisoner Transfer actions and are also varied among facilities.

2.11. Directions to RCF and other detention/confinement facilities. Contact the 62d SFS Confinement
Liaison for directions to facilities used by McChord AFB.
62AWI31-4 22 MARCH 2007                                                                                      7


                                                 Chapter 3

                                          COMMAND VISITS

3.1. General. Command visits are designed so the individual confined to a CF/RCF retains identification
with the parent unit and to reinforce to the individual that their parent unit remains their primary
chain-of-command. The visitation program also helps to ensure detainees are receiving proper care and
administrative support from the CF/RCF and assists in the quick resolution of detainee personal problems.
   3.1.1. Confinee’s who have been adjudged and identified for discharge upon completion of their sen-
   tence will no longer be the responsibility of parent units when the confinee’s status is changed to that
   of prisoner.

3.2. Procedures. Parent units will establish procedures for visiting individuals at designated corrections
facility and coordinate visits with the 62d Security Forces Confinement Liaison of scheduled visits. Visits
should be made by a representative from the prisoner’s unit (senior noncommissioned officer or commis-
sioned officer), who have the authority to act in the commanding officer’s behalf. Chaplains will not serve
as the commanding officer’s representative to visit prisoners. The chaplain’s role in the rehabilitative pro-
cess, including the visiting of prisoners, has a value distinct from that of being command representative.
   3.2.1. Command Visits.
       3.2.1.1. Puget Sound Naval Brig. IAW Commander Navy Region North West 1640.2, confinees
       will be visited at least weekly. If a unit fails to make a weekly visit and has not made alternate
       arrangements, the parent unit shall be notified in writing and will be required to conduct all future
       visits as scheduled. Any further failures to make weekly visits will be reported to Navy Region
       Northwest and the Installation Commander.
           3.2.1.1.1. Command visitation days are every Friday from 1230-1500. Confinees will be
           available and kept in the facility for this purpose. If scheduling conflicts prohibit a visit during
           the times indicated, arrangements must be made with the confinement facility to conduct the
           command visit for another date and/or time.
           3.2.1.1.2. To schedule a visit other than during the times indicated, call the Brig Administra-
           tion Officer. Also notify the 62d SFS Confinement Liaison Section.
       3.2.1.2. US Army/Fort Lewis. Confinees will be visited at least monthly. Visit should be con-
       ducted during normal duty hours (unless otherwise notified by the CF) and coordinated with the
       facility Staff NCO and/or 62 SFS Confinement Liaison Section.
       3.2.1.3. Air Force (Fairchild/Malmstrom)/Civilian Facilities. Confinees will be visited at least
       monthly. Because McChord AFB is outside a 50 mile radius (driving distance), may satisfy visita-
       tion requirements by telephone if unable to visit in person. Every effort should be made, however,
       to physically conduct a visit whenever possible. Pre-coordination is necessary particularly in view
       of the geographic location of these facilities.
       3.2.1.4. Civilian Facilities/Buckley Jail. Confinees will be visited at least monthly. Visit should be
       conducted during normal duty/business hours and coordinated with the facility Supervisor and/or
       62 SFS Confinement Section Liaison.
8                                                                         62AWI31-4 22 MARCH 2007


                                                Chapter 4

               INTERVIEWS, VISITS AND TELEPHONE CALLS FOR PRISONERS

4.1. Personnel authorized to interview prisoners. Members of the prisoner’s parent unit who hold the
duty position of supervisor or higher, members of the prisoner’s parent unit who have been given authori-
zation by the unit commander to conduct official military business with the prisoner, the prisoner’s legal
counsel and mental health personnel are authorized to interview prisoners. Other personnel may be autho-
rized to conduct interviews with the approval of the corrections facility commander/supervisor if they are
conducted at the CF.

4.2. Visits.
    4.2.1. Puget Sound Naval Brig/All Military CFs. Confinees will be allowed to receive civilian visitors
    on Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. Visiting privileges may be granted to members of the pris-
    oner’s immediate family, legal guardians, and any other person upon approval of the confinement
    facility commander. However, the number of visitors per prisoner may be limited due to the availabil-
    ity of space. Contact the 62 SFS Confinement Section for visiting hours of detention facility when
    scheduling visits.
    4.2.2. Buckley Jail. Confinees will be allowed to receive civilian visitors on Sundays, between 1000
    – 2200 hours for 30 minutes. Contact the CF Staff and/or 62 SFS Confinement Liaison for visiting
    hours during legal holidays. Visiting privileges may be granted to members of the prisoner’s immedi-
    ate family, legal guardians, and any other person upon approval of the confinement facility supervisor.
    However, the number of visitors per prisoner may be limited due to the availability of space. Contact
    the 62 SFS Confinement Section for visiting hours of detention facility when scheduling visits to con-
    firm visiting hours.

4.3. Authorization to receive phone calls. Prisoners are not authorized to receive incoming telephone
calls unless specifically approved by the RCF commander or his or her authorized representative. Only
calls of an emergency nature that cannot be handled satisfactorily by mail or any other means available to
prisoners will be considered. All emergencies must be verified through the American Red Cross. Prison-
ers will be authorized to make collect calls after initial processing (72 hours) and (or) upon approval by
the confinement facility commander or his/her designated representative.
62AWI31-4 22 MARCH 2007                                                                                 9


                                               Chapter 5

                            TEMPORARY RELEASE OF CONFINEES

5.1. Temporary Release. Personnel in confinement may be temporarily released from the confinement
facility by proper authority for appropriate reasons, such as appearance at legal proceedings, medical or
dental appointments, and when requested by the Inspector General.
   5.1.1. Temporary release must be approved by the confinement facility commander or his or her des-
   ignated representative.
   5.1.2. Puget Sound Naval Brig. A temporary release letter must arrive at the RCF no later than 1 duty
   day prior to the release. This letter (see Attachment 2), addressed to RCF, Officer in Charge, Naval
   BRIG/CCU Puget Sound. Subject: Authorization for a Prisoner. Ref: (a) Confinement Order of pris-
   oners full name and SSN. Paragraph 1: Per reference (a) include (requested date/time of release, rea-
   son for temporary release, and locations to be visited) Paragraph 2: The escort’s rank, full name, and
   SSN and the time the prisoner is expected to be returned. Paragraph 3: Number of meals needed if the
   prisoner is going to miss established brig meal times. The unit commander must sign the letter.
       5.1.2.1. In the event the prisoner is absent from the RCF during regularly scheduled meals
       (1130-1200) and (1630-1700), it is the responsibility of the unit to advise RCF personnel. A bag
       lunch will be provided by the RCF dining facility. Bag lunch requests are required the day prior to
       the temporary release. Food and water not provided by the RCF is prohibited.
   5.1.3. USAF Confinement Facilities. Follow procedures identified in paragraph 5.1.2., however, the
   letter will be addressed to the USAF Confinement Facility (refer to Attachment 2). Coordinate
   requests for box-meal(s) if the confinee will not be available for established meal times.
   5.1.4. US Army/Fort Lewis Confinement Facilities. Follow procedures identified in paragraph 5.1.2.,
   however, the letter will be addressed to the US Army Confinement Facility (refer to Attachment 2).
   Coordinate requests for box-meal(s) if the detainee will not be available for established meal times.
   5.1.5. Civilian Facilities/Buckley Jail. Follow procedures identified in paragraph 5.1.2., however, the
   letter will be addressed to the USAF Confinement Facility (refer to Attachment 2). Coordinate
   requests for box-meal(s) if the detainee will not be available for established meal times.

5.2. Hospitalized detainees. Detainees require continuous guarding. Guards will be provided by the
prisoner’s parent unit. Units will be notified by the CF/RCF of the requirement for guards.
   5.2.1. Puget Sound Naval Brig. All personnel detailed to guard hospitalized prisoners will be in the
   pay grade of E-5/GS-5 or above without exception. Hospital guards will be provided a copy of the
   RCF Hospital Guards Standard Operating Procedure. They will read it, have it in their possession, and
   comply with it at all times.
   5.2.2. USAF Confinement Facilities. Follow procedures identified in paragraph 5.1.2. and those of
   the confining corrections facility.
   5.2.3. US Army/Fort Lewis Confinement Facilities. Follow procedures identified in paragraph 5.1.2.
   and those of the confining corrections facility.
   5.2.4. Civilian Confinement Facilities/Buckley Jail. Follow procedures identified in paragraph 5.1.2.
   and those of the confining corrections facility.
10                                                                           62AWI31-4 22 MARCH 2007


5.3. Escorts. Local Area Escorts. Unless directed otherwise from the designated CF/RCF or the 62 SFS
Confinement Liaison, escort requirements are applicable for all military and civilian facilities. Confinees
will be under escort during the entire release.
     5.3.1. Escorts will be in the grade of E-5/GS-5 or above. Escorts will be provided by the commander
     requesting removal of the prisoners, and will transport prisoners in military vehicles only. The vehicle
     driver will not have the primary duty of escorting the prisoner. The escort and the prisoner will be
     seated in the back seat of the vehicle.

5.4. Escort Training Requirements.
     5.4.1. Puget Sound Naval Brig. Escorts must be certified by receiving escort training from the Naval
     Brig, Training Section. Upon completion of training, escorts will be issued NAVBRIGCCUPUGET
     FORM 1640-34/Escort Identification card and must have this on their person whenever conducting an
     escort.
     5.4.2. USA/USAF/Civilian Corrections Facilities. Training will be conducted by the 62 SFS Confine-
     ment Liaison IAW AFI 31-205, para 2.3., and documented IAW AFI 31-205, para 2.3.

5.5. Duties and Responsibilities of Escorts
     5.5.1. Escorts must officially receipt for confinees using the DD Form 2708/Receipt for Prisoner or
     Detained Person.
     5.5.2. Sub-custody. If medical, dental, legal, or an individual conducting official business asks to see
     a confinee in private, the escort will transfer custody of the confinee to that individual using the DD
     Form 2708. While the confinee is in private with the authorized person, the escort will remain outside
     the door or in close proximity.
     5.5.3. If custody is transferred, the escort will ensure the escort-to-confinee ratio is met. Upon return
     to the corrections facility, the escort is to notify the Confinement Duty Officer/Supervisor that the
     detainee was signed over to another individual and out of eyesight.
     5.5.4. Escorts will be vigilant in their duties by keeping confinees within sight at all times. Escorts are
     responsible for the custody, conduct, appearance, and treatment of detainees until they are returned to
     the corrections facility.
        5.5.4.1. Escorts will ensure confinees are treated humanely. Escorts will maintain a fair, firm, and
        impartial attitude toward confinees at all times. Profane, demeaning, indecent, or insulting lan-
        guage towards or in the presence of confinees is prohibited.
        5.5.4.2. When moving detainees on foot, escorts will march confinees in a military manner.
        5.5.4.3. Contact with confinees is restricted to those individuals who require such contact to per-
        form their official duties.
        5.5.4.4. Confinees will remain in complete and proper uniform at all times. When issued, the
        removal of any Prisoner Identification media (i.e. badge, armband, etc.) is prohibited.
        5.5.4.5. Frisk searches will be conducted on all confinees before entering a vehicle, upon exiting
        a vehicle, when leaving, and upon returning to any corrections facility. Only personnel of the same
        gender will conduct frisk searches. The SF Confinement Liaison can provide information on
        proper search techniques.
62AWI31-4 22 MARCH 2007                                                                                11


       5.5.4.6. In the event of escape or attempted escape, the escort will retain positive control of the
       remaining confinees if escorting more than one. If escorting one-on-one, the escort will pursue the
       escapee. As soon as the situation is stable, the escort will contact the Confinement Duty Officer/
       Supervisor

5.6. Minimum Confinees Ratios.
   5.6.1. Maximum Custody. Requires two escorts for each confinees who must be handcuffed when
   outside the corrections facility
   5.6.2. Medium-In Custody. Requires two escorts for each confinees who must be handcuffed when
   outside the corrections facility.
   5.6.3. Medium-Out Custody. Requires one escort for every five confinees . Handcuffs are not
   required.
   5.6.4. Minimum Custody. Requires one escort for every five confinees. Handcuffs are not required.
   5.6.5. Escorting personnel of the opposite sex. Personnel of the opposite sex will never be escorted
   one to one. One male may not escort one female, but may escort two or more females. Two males may
   escort one female. The same applies for females escorting males.
       5.6.5.1. For trips expected to last longer than one hour, at least one escort must be of the same
       gender as the detainee.

5.7. Use of Restraint Devices.
   5.7.1. Restraint devices are not used for punishment. Approved instruments of restraint are handcuffs,
   transport belt, leg irons and flex-cuffs.
   5.7.2. Maximum custody and Medium-In custody confinees will always be handcuffed when outside
   the security perimeter. Violent/dangerous confinees may be handcuffed with a transport belt.
   High-escape risk detainees may be handcuffed with a transport belt and leg irons.
   5.7.3. Handcuffs will be issued to authorized escorts at the Security Forces Supply Section on an AF
   Form 1297/Temporary Issue Receipt. Handcuffs will be returned no later than two duty days after
   issued. Exceptions will be granted on a case-by-case basis.
12                                                                            62AWI31-4 22 MARCH 2007


                                                   Chapter 6

                       TRANSFER TO ANOTHER CORRECTIONS FACILITY

6.1. Prior to Transfer. Prisoners who have been sentenced by a court martial of more than 6 months con-
finement and a bad conduct discharge will automatically result in a request for a transfer from corrections
facilities supporting the 62 AW at McChord as identified in memorandums of agreement and otherwise
directed by DoD and USAF instructions and the Air Force Security Forces Center. Prisoners with confine-
ment of less than 12 months or prisoners without a bad conduct discharge will be transferred on a
case-by-case basis from the designated corrections facility.
     6.1.1. The Security Forces Confinement Liaison will send a transfer request message to HQ AFSFC/
     SFC and info copy the prisoner's unit, SJA, Convening Authority, Area Defense Council and MPF.
     Obtain minimum and maximum release dates, clemency and parole by contacting the appropriate cor-
     rections facility. No transfer arrangements will be made until the Security Forces Confinement Liai-
     son receives an approval message and/or other electronic/telephonic notification.
     6.1.2. Once an approval message is received, the prisoner’s parent unit is responsible for the pris-
     oner's orders, transportation arrangements and providing necessary escorts. The approval message or
     (other notification) will ask the parent unit for the date it wants to transfer, no sooner than 3 days after
     approval message is received.
        6.1.2.1. The parent unit will send a copy of the Escort letter to the Confinement Liaison, with
        authorized certified escorts, names, ranks and SSAN’s. Once travel arrangements have been made,
        the 62d Security Forces Confinement Liaison will send a copy of the itinerary and Escort letter to
        the gaining facility.
        6.1.2.2. The parent unit will ensure adequate time is provided for the prisoner to accomplish any
        personal actions prior to the transfer. The prisoner will not be notified of the exact date or time for
        transfer.
     6.1.3. The 62d Security Forces Confinement Liaison will contact the gaining confinement facility and
     fax a copy of the prisoner’s Confinement Order, Report of Results of Trial, and Victim/Witness Form.
     6.1.4. Prior to transfer, the losing commander provides documents relating to security clearance sus-
     pension or withdrawal for inclusion in the Correctional Treatment File (CTF).
     6.1.5. Prior to transfer, the parent unit commander determines whether or not to retain or administra-
     tively separate prisoners who do not have dismissal or punitive discharge adjudged.
     6.1.6. Advise prisoner of dependent travel and shipping entitlements.
        6.1.6.1. There is no entitlement for single and divorced members without dependents to ship or
        store household goods and property at government expense.
        6.1.6.2. Prisoners with authorized dependents transferring within the United States may ship
        household goods according to JFTR U5370-J1 .
        6.1.6.3. Personal property or household goods will not accompany the prisoner to the gaining
        facility.
     6.1.7. The prisoner and dependent armed forces identification cards must be confiscated and placed
     in the CTF prior to transfer. The prisoner’s parent unit will be responsible for issuing dependents new
62AWI31-4 22 MARCH 2007                                                                                    13


   cards according to AFI 36-3026, Identification Cards For Members Of The Uniformed Services, Their
   Eligible Family Members, And Other Eligible Personnel.

6.2. Transfer of Prisoner.
   6.2.1. Escorts will not hand carry the UPRG to the gaining facility. Within 15 days after transfer, the
   prisoner’s MPF forwards the UPRG and a current records review Report on Individual Person to HQ
   AFSFC/SFC, 1517 Billy Mitchell Blvd., Lackland AFB TX 78236-0119 on all prisoners transferred
   by the Director, Air Force Corrections into the Air Force Corrections System. Medical records will be
   hand carried by the escort and dental records mailed to the designated facility.

6.3. Movement Aboard Commercial Aircraft. When making initial travel arrangements, the escort
must find out if the airline has requirements for escorting prisoners that are additional to those listed
below. The Federal Aviation Administration allows escorted prisoners on commercial aircraft only under
the following conditions:
   6.3.1. The escort notifies the appropriate airline representative and identifies the prisoner and their
   escort(s) at least 1 hour prior to departure. The notice includes whether or not the prisoner is danger-
   ous (maximum custody). Generally, airlines permit only one dangerous prisoner per flight.
   6.3.2. The escort must certify the prisoner underwent a complete search.
   6.3.3. Escorts must have one set of restraining devices per prisoner. Movement about the aircraft will
   be kept to a minimum and closely supervised.
   6.3.4. Escorts and prisoners board prior to other passengers and deplane after all other passengers.
   6.3.5. Escorts and prisoners will sit together, preferably in the rear of the aircraft, and not sit next to
   or directly across from any exits. Escorts will sit between the prisoner and the aisle.
   6.3.6. Escorts will allow prisoner to eat any meals provided by the airline but must account for all
   utensils.

6.4. Movement Aboard Ground Transportation.
   6.4.1. Escort requirements are the same as those for movement aboard military aircraft. In addition,
   escorts:
       6.4.1.1. Will use government or government rented vehicles only.
       6.4.1.2. Will not operate the vehicle. (third party driver).
       6.4.1.3. Will never restrain the prisoner to the vehicle.
       6.4.1.4. Will limit stops to those needed for rest, fuel and emergencies.
14                                                                     62AWI31-4 22 MARCH 2007


                                              Chapter 7

                                   EXPIRATION OF SENTENCE

7.1. Release. When the sentence to confinement has been served, the prisoner’s release will be executed
by the RCF commander or his or her designated representative. The gaining unit has the responsibility of
providing transportation upon release. The RCF will notify the unit commander or first sergeant at least
24 hours before a prisoner is scheduled to be released.

7.2. Suspended or Remitted Sentence. Whenever a commander has suspended or remitted a sentence
to confinement, the CF/RCF commander will execute the release order upon receipt of two copies of DD
Form 2718, Prisoner’s Release Order. Release of the prisoner from RCF must be accomplished the same
day as the effective date of the commander’s action.

7.3. Pre-trial not adjudged. For pre-trial prisoners within the CF/RCF, when no confinement is
adjudged by the courts-martial, trial counsel will immediately notify the CF/RCF Administrative Section
for release processing. When no confinement is adjudged, the prisoner must be released on the day of the
courts-martial.

7.4. Unit commanders will call the RCF Adjutant directly at least 1 day in advance to notify of antici-
pated releases (suspension or remission of sentence).

7.5. Prior to release, the parent unit will accomplish an AF Form 2098 (this form changes the status of
pay, allowances, and duty) and process the form through the local MPF and AFO.
62AWI31-4 22 MARCH 2007                                                                                   15


                                                Chapter 8

                               UTILIZING PRISONER WORK FORCE

8.1. Unauthorized Uses. Only prisoners may be assigned work. Prisoners have many varied skills that
could be useful for a number of special projects on McChord AFB or on the military installation where the
confinement facility is located (not applicable to civilian facilities). These personnel will be used in com-
mon use areas only and will not be used for menial details (which are not routinely performed by
active-duty personnel or civilian employees) or used to perform any of the following duties:
   8.1.1. Handling of funds, classified materials or medications.
   8.1.2. Any duties involving weapons or munitions.
   8.1.3. Supervisory positions.

8.2. Requests for Utilization of Prisoners. Requests will be submitted by letter to Security Forces Con-
finement Liaison Section (62 SFS/SFOI) for submission to the Employment Section, of the designated
corrections facility. The letter must be signed by the appropriate group commander, chief of staff agency,
first sergeant or squadron/section commander. The specific project to be accomplished normally must be
planned a minimum of 10 days in advance of the required date for prisoner utilization. Materials and
equipment must be made available for immediate use.
   8.2.1. The letter will include, but will not be limited to: Complete description and justification of
   work to be accomplished; why the work cannot be completed from within requester’s resources; the
   number of prisoners desired; and specific skills desired. The letter must also reflect the name, rank,
   and duty phone of escorts. (Escorts must be in pay grade of E-5/GS-5 or above).
   8.2.2. Desired pickup and return time.

8.3. Escort and Prisoner Ratio. Ratio between escorts and prisoners will be one escort to five prisoners,
and the vehicle used to transport prisoners to and from the corrections facility will maintain the same
ratio.

8.4. Escort and Prisoner Gender Mix. Personnel of the opposite sex will never be escorted one to one.
One male may not escort one female, but may escort two or more females. Two males may escort one
female. The same applies for females escorting males. For trips expected to last longer than one hour, at
least one escort must be of the same gender as the detainee. Only personnel of the same gender will con-
duct frisk searches.

8.5. Work Force Requesters Procedures.
   8.5.1. Assume complete responsibility for control of prisoners.
   8.5.2. Ensure escorts and detail supervisors have received the appropriate training.
   8.5.3. Arrange for government transportation or prisoners to and from the corrections facility. USE
   OF PRIVATE AUTOMOBILE IS PROHIBITED.
   8.5.4. Meet and brief the prisoners upon arrival and explain the work to be accomplished, who will be
   in charge, and the security procedures.
16                                                                     62AWI31-4 22 MARCH 2007


     8.5.5. Be present for head count when the vehicle departs McChord AFB.
     8.5.6. Assume responsibility for the security of the prisoners and immediately notify 62d Security
     Forces Confinement Liaison Section, and Brig Duty Officer/Staff Duty NCO/Corrections Supervisor
     of any security issues.



                                              JERRY P. MARTINEZ, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander, 62d Airlift Wing
62AWI31-4 22 MARCH 2007                                                                             17


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 1325.7, Administration of Military Correctional Facilities and Clemency and Parole Authority
AFI 31-205, Air Force Corrections System
NBI 1640.3, NAVREG Northwest Instruction 1640.2
Naval Brig/Correctional Custody Unit (CCU) Puget Sound Special Orders for Escorts Naval Correc-
tional Facilities Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA) Instruction
Manual for Courts-Martial.
18                                                                  62AWI31-4 22 MARCH 2007


                                          Attachment 2

                                TEMPORARY RELEASE LETTER


                                                                                                Date:
MEMORANDUM FOR OFFICER IN CHARGE, NAME OF CORRECTIONS FACILITY
FROM: UNIT REQUESTING TEMPORARY RELEASE
SUBJECT: Authorization for Temporary Release of ____________________
Ref: (a) Confinement Order of
1. Per reference (a), request above-named member be temporarily released from confinement for
__________________________ appointment scheduled for time/date, at __________________.
Request prisoner be ready for pickup at ___________________.
2. Amn _____________________ will be returned to (Name of Corrections Facility) at approximately
________, upon completion of above.
3. SSgt _________________ will be the escort.


                                            Unit Commander’s Signature
