BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           62 AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 48-105
HQ 62D AIRLIFT WING (AMC)
                                                                               15 AUGUST 2011

                                                                             Aerospace Medicine

                                                             RADIATION SAFETY PROGRAM




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 62 MDS/SGPB                                                        Certified by: 62 MDS/CC
                                                                         (Col Catherine S. Bard)
Supersedes:    62AWI48-5, 17 September                                                   Pages: 12
               2002


This instruction implements AFI 48-148, Ionizing Radiation Protection. It establishes the 62d
Airlift Wing (AW) radiation safety program, including specific requirements for protection of
personnel and their dependents from ionizing and non-ionizing radiation. It applies to all units
and personnel working or living on, or attached to the 62 AW, including military, civilian, and
contractor personnel. This instruction implements the ―As Low As Reasonably Achievable‖
(ALARA) concept for control of ionizing radiation. It specifies local management procedures
that are required in order for radiation exposures to be kept at a minimum, and to prevent loss of
control of radioactive material. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through Major
Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AF Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records      Disposition     Schedule     (RDS)      located    at   https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially rewritten and must be reviewed in its entirety. Major changes
include the transfer of installation Radiation Safety Officer duties to the Army Safety Office, the
creation of 62 AW Radiation Safety Officer, and the inclusion of Intrinsic Radiation.
 2                                                             62AWI48-105 15 AUGUST 2011


1. Responsibilities:
     1.1. 62nd Airlift Wing Commander:
        1.1.1. Appoints the 62 AW Radiation Safety Officer (RSO). This individual is usually
        the base Bioenvironmental Engineer, but may be a senior Bioenvironmental Engineering
        technician, or another qualified individual as appropriate.
        1.1.2. Ensures that personnel in his or her command comply with applicable protection
        standards for all ionizing and non-ionizing radiation sources used. This includes intrinsic
        radiation (INRAD).
     1.2. Unit Commanders:
        1.2.1. Appoint a unit RSO in writing, with a copy of the appointment letter provided to
        the 62 AW RSO (62 MDS/SGPB).
        1.2.2. Ensure personnel in his or her command who receive, distribute, use or dispose of
        radioactive material or work with radiation producing devices or material (ionizing and
        non-ionizing) comply with applicable protection standards and the ALARA concept.
        1.2.3. Request a radioactive material permit and appoint a permit RSO as required by
        AFI 40-201, Managing Radioactive Material in the US Air Force when the use of
        radioactive material is necessary.
     1.3. Installation RSO:
        1.3.1. The Installation RSO is appointed by the JBLM Commander and is located with
        the Joint Base Lewis-McChord (JBLM) Safety Office, DSN 357-4011.
        1.3.2. Administers the Installation Radiation Safety Program by compiling annual
        inventories, assisting unit RSO’s with training and technical questions, overseeing
        acquisition and use of sources of ionizing and non-ionizing radiation, and investigating
        abnormal incidents or exposures involving radioactive materials, x-ray, radiofrequency,
        or laser emitters.
        1.3.3. Reviews construction projects and facility designs to ensure radiation safety, and
        establishes procedures to review and approve contractor use of radioactive material (such
        as permitted density instruments) prior to use on JBLM.
        1.3.4. Serves as the JBLM point of contact for all issues related to the proper receipt and
        disposal of radioactive materials.
     1.4. 62 AW RSO
        1.4.1. Coordinates the 62 AW radiation safety program with the Installation RSO.
        Informs the Installation RSO of any 62 AW radiation safety issues and coordinates visits
        to 62 AW units.
     1.4.2. Monitors exposures to ionizing radiation with the Thermoluminescent Dosimeter
     (TLD) Program for 62 AW units.
        1.4.3. Conducts routine surveillance in all areas where radioactive materials or radiation
        producing devices are stored or used (exception: sources with a low hazard potential,
62AWI48-105 15 AUGUST 2011                                                                   3


     such as individual electron tubes). Surveillance will be conducted according to AF
     Radioisotope Committee (RIC) permits and will follow all AF and federal guidelines.
     1.4.4. Ensures leak tests of permitted radioactive material and generally licensed devices
     are conducted according to the permit and manufacturer requirements and that results
     being filed in the Bioenvironmental Engineering Office.
     1.4.5. Ensures ALARA training is being conducted annually by unit RSOs and that
     copies of training records are returned to Bioenvironmental Engineering.
     1.4.6. Maintains unit RSO appointment letters and provides information to unit RSOs
     concerning radiation safety surveys.
     1.4.7. Reviews results of personnel dosimetry monitoring, interprets results, and
     conducts investigations into abnormal exposures when the action level has been
     exceeded. The investigation action level for 62 AW is 50 mrem for quarterly dosimetry
     results. Distributes results of monitoring to each monitored area for supervisor and
     individual review.
     1.4.8. Serves as the point of contact for 62 AW with the AF Radioisotope Committee.
     1.4.9. Provides consultation and advice on the personnel hazards associated with
     radiation and the effectiveness of control measures.
     1.4.10. Periodically briefs the Air Force Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health
     Council on radiation protection topics, including receipt of new material and status of
     base permits and inspections.
     1.4.11. Briefs commanders of units with radioactive material permits on the status of the
     unit radiation protection program annually.
     1.4.12. Ensures a replacement RSO is identified and designated in writing by the
     installation commander, before departing for PCS, extended TDY, or separation.
  1.5. Unit RSOs:
     1.5.1. Provide initial and annual unit radiation safety training to all affected personnel
     describing hazards and precautions applicable to radiation utilizing training packages
     developed by Bioenvironmental Engineering and unit specific training packages. Train
     users on the radioactive hazards associated with these materials and precautions in place
     to keep exposure ALARA. Maintain records in the unit documenting all radiation safety
     training received and forward copies of training records to Bioenvironmental
     Engineering.
     1.5.2. Ensure all personnel in their unit on the Air Force personnel dosimetry program
     receive and follow written guidelines on wear and storage of radiation dosimeters.
     1.5.3. Assist the 62 AW RSO by gathering information for routine inventories of
     ionizing radiation sources (such as radioactive materials and x-ray units) and non-
     ionizing sources (lasers and radiofrequency emitters), and notify the 62 AW RSO
     whenever new emitters are expected/received.
     1.5.4. Contact the 62 AW RSO immediately for any radioactive item that is lost,
     damaged, or leaking.
 4                                                            62AWI48-105 15 AUGUST 2011


        1.5.5. Notify the 62 AW RSO immediately of any unusual radiation exposure incident,
        and assist in the investigation of the alleged incident.
        1.5.6. Coordinate radiation surveys or hazard evaluations with the installation and/or
        permit RSO, assist in investigations of suspected overexposure, and perform radiation
        protection duties at the unit level commensurate with their training and experience.
        1.5.7. Ensure unit operating instructions and other regulations/instructions on radiation
        safety are current. Each RSO should have the applicable references readily available –
        AFI 48-148, Ionizing Radiation Protection, AFI 91-108, Air Force Nuclear Weapons
        Intrinsic Radiation Safety Program, AFOSH Standard 48-9, Radio Frequency Radiation
        (RFR) Safety Program, AFOSH Standard 48-139, Laser Radiation Protection Program,
        and 62 AWI 48-105, Radiation Protection Program.
        1.5.8. Ensure compliance with applicable posting and notification requirements of AFI
        40-201. AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, and 10 CFR 19 Notice,
        Instructions and Reports to Workers: Inspection and Investigations, and 20, Standards
        For Protection Against Radiation, or sources of ionizing radiation or x-rays, and AFOSH
        Standards 48-9 and 48-139 for non-ionizing radiation.
        1.5.9. Ensure radiation workers (except contractor personnel) who believe they may be
        pregnant report as soon as possible to the McChord Clinic. If an off base health care
        provider is used, have the worker report to the Public Health Element.
        1.5.10. Ensure a replacement RSO is identified and designated in writing by the unit
        commander, before departing for PCS, extended TDY, or separation.
     1.6. Permit RSO:
        1.6.1. With the assistance of the 62 AW RSO, prepares applications for new or renewed
        radioactive permits and ensures generally licensed devices are registered with the AF
        Radioisotope Committee IAW AFI 40-201.
        1.6.2. Enforces compliance with permit requirements for storage and use of radioactive
        materials, ensures compliance issues are addressed with the responsible commander, and
        unsafe operations are ceased until corrected.
        1.6.3. Ensures physical inventories and leak tests are conducted upon receipt and at
        intervals specified in permit.
        1.6.4. Notifies the 62 AW RSO of any new sources or configurations.
        1.6.5. Ensures a replacement permit RSO is identified and permit amendments are
        requested in writing by the responsible commander, before departing for PCS, extended
        TDY, or separation.
2. Procedures for Radioactive Materials:
     2.1. Requisition of Radioisotopes.
        2.1.1. An AF Radioactive Material (RAM) Permit may be required for the possession
        and use of special purpose, non-stock-listed and/or high intensity radioactive items.
        Delivery of such items cannot be accepted until a permit is issued by the AF
        Radioisotope Committee. The proposed using organization will contact the 62 AW RSO
62AWI48-105 15 AUGUST 2011                                                                     5


     who will assist in preparation of the permit application IAW AFI 40-201. The 62 AW
     RSO will act as the liaison between the proposed user and the RIC.
     2.1.2. Other items containing radioactive material sources may be covered under a
     general license from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC). These items must be
     registered with the 62 AW RSO upon receipt for entry into the AF Radioisotope
     Committee inventory tracking system.
  2.2. Reporting/Certification:
     2.2.1. A condition for continuance or issuance of an AF RAM permit is that the
     permittee comply with all requirements contained in the RAM permit.
     2.2.2. Any incident involving radioactive materials other than those in nuclear weapons
     or nuclear weapons components will immediately be reported to the Wing Command
     Post, Bioenvironmental Engineer, and the AF Radioisotope Committee. If there is any
     uncertainty about reporting the incident, it will be reported. Failure or delay in reporting
     can result in unfavorable publicity and may imperil the continuance of the Air Force
     Single Broadscope Radioactive Materials License issued by the NRC. The emergency
     phone number for the Radioisotope Committee is DSN 297-4011. Preferably, the 62 AW
     RSO should contact the Radioisotope Committee.
  2.3. Receiving:
     2.3.1. Upon receipt of any package labeled with a radioactive White I, Yellow II, or
     Yellow III label or any damaged package containing radioactive material, the receiver
     will notify Installation RSO, DSN 357-4011, within 3 hours of receipt so that a package
     survey may be performed.
     2.3.2. Upon receipt of radioactive material packages other than those in 2.3.1, the
     receiver will notify Installation RSO within 1 duty day so that a package survey may be
     performed.
     2.3.3. Properly packaged and labeled radioactive material, once surveyed, will be
     forwarded immediately to the using organization or storage area.
  2.4. Shipping
     2.4.1. All item records for radioactive materials will be coded with a shipment exception
     code that will prevent automatic shipments.
     2.4.2. Shipping organizations will contact the Installation RSO within 1 duty day to
     coordinate package surveys to monitor for radiation and to validate proper shipping
     classification and labeling requirements. Shippers will ensure the outside container has
     the appropriate labels affixed to indicate radioactive material.
     2.4.3. Unauthorized shipment of radioactive material, by or to, base organizations is
     prohibited.
  2.5. Storage:
     2.5.1. Radioactive materials will be stored in identified areas and those areas will be
     posted with the appropriate hazard signs as determined by the 62 AW and/or permit RSO.
     Steps must be taken to secure and prevent unauthorized removal of radioactive material.
 6                                                             62AWI48-105 15 AUGUST 2011


        2.5.2. The 62 AW and/or permit RSO will coordinate annual surveillance of radioactive
        material storage areas, where required, to ensure that occupational and public dose rates
        are below applicable limits.
     2.6. Contractor Use of Radioactive Materials on JBLM - McChord Field:
        2.6.1. Non-Air Force organizations that bring radioactive materials or conduct operations
        involving radioactive material on JBLM - McChord Field require approval of the
        installation commander or designee. The installation RSO is the commander’s designee
        at JBLM - McChord Field.
        2.6.2. The Directorate of Contracting and contract monitor will inform contractors of the
        requirement for local approval for use of radioactive materials on JBLM - McChord
        Field. The contracting officer will also ensure notification requirements are included in
        local contracts awarded/issued after receipt of notification from the requiring activity.
        The contracting officer will notify the installation RSO when a contractor wishes to bring
        radioactive materials on base.
     2.7. Radioactive Material Disposition Procedures.
        2.7.1. Any organization requiring disposal of any item containing a radioactive material
        source will contact Bioenvironmental Engineering for instruction. Bioenvironmental
        Engineering will then determine the most feasible method of disposal including:
            2.7.1.1. Consult with the manufacturer of the item to see if it can be returned to them
            for disposition.
            2.7.1.2. Consult AF Radioactive Recycling and Disposal (AFRAD), Wright-
            Patterson AFB, Ohio to determine if the item can be recycled or to get disposal
            instructions.  Inform the AFRAD the Installation RSO has Army disposal
            mechanisms available also.
     2.7.2. In all cases, the 62 AW and/or permit RSO will ensure that the disposal of any
     permitted materials or generally licensed devices are coordinated through the AF
     Radioisotope Committee, appropriate procedures are followed, and documentation is
     maintained.
        2.7.3. Transfer or disposal of radioactive items through the Defense Reutilization and
        Marketing Office (DRMO) is prohibited.
3. Procedures for X-Ray Producing Equipment:
     3.1. Sections using x-ray equipment will notify Bioenvironmental Engineering when new
     equipment is acquired or installed, when current equipment operating parameters are
     changed, or when facility modifications are to be accomplished.
     3.2. Bioenvironmental Engineering will conduct routine radiation safety surveys of
     workplaces where x-ray equipment is used.
     3.3. The unit RSO, with the assistance of the 62 AW RSO, will conduct annual radiation
     safety training for all personnel who routinely work with x-ray producing equipment.
62AWI48-105 15 AUGUST 2011                                                                      7


   3.4. Unit RSO’s and radiation workers will immediately report all suspected overexposures
   to the 62 AW RSO. Unit RSO’s and radiation workers will assist 62 AW RSO with
   investigations of abnormal exposures and incidents.
4. Procedures for Sources of Non-Ionizing Radiation:
   4.1. Organizations acquiring new radiofrequency emitters or equipment containing a laser
   will contact Bioenvironmental Engineering for an initial hazard evaluation.
   Bioenvironmental Engineering will also be notified when emitter operating parameters are
   changed. During routine industrial hygiene surveys and administrative walk-through,
   Bioenvironmental Engineering will provide hazard information to workplaces using non-
   ionizing radiation sources.
   4.2. If an overexposure to non-ionizing radiation is suspected, the individual and/or unit
   RSO will immediately contact the 62 AW RSO and assist in the accident investigation IAW
   AFOSH Standards 48-9 and 48-139.
   4.3. Sections maintaining, or testing hazardous radiofrequency emitters will be visited at
   least annually by Bioenvironmental Engineering to assess radiofrequency radiation
   protection procedures.
   4.4. Inventories of all radiofrequency emitters and lasers will be compiled by
   Bioenvironmental Engineering with inputs from unit RSOs and at a minimum will be filed in
   the respective shop casefile.
5. Radiation Safety Training:
   5.1. Training Guidelines: Radiation safety training will be given to workers prior to initial
   work with radioactive materials, x-rays, or non-ionizing radiation sources with refresher
   training given annually. The extent of training will be commensurate with potential
   radiological health hazards in the workplace. Radiation safety training is to be conducted by
   the unit RSO with assistance from 62 AW RSO.
   5.2. Ionizing radiation safety training will include:
      5.2.1. Risk from radiation exposure.
      5.2.2. Health risks to children of women who are occupationally exposed to radiation
      during pregnancy.
      5.2.3. Maximum permissible dose limits.
      5.2.4. Required protective measures.
      5.2.5. ALARA philosophy and practice.
      5.2.6. A list of attendees will be maintained on AF Form 2767, Occupational Health
      Training and Protective Equipment Fit Testing, (or equivalent form) with copies
      provided to Bioenvironmental Engineering.
   5.3. RF and laser safety training will include:
      5.3.1. A description of all emitters, potential hazards, and required controls, if any.
      5.3.2. Signs and symptoms of over exposures.
      5.3.3. Who to contact in case of known or suspected overexposures.
 8                                                              62AWI48-105 15 AUGUST 2011


        5.3.4. Document RF or Laser safety training on both the AF Form 55, Employee Safety
        and Health Record and AF Form 2767 or equivalent forms.
6. Thermoluminescent Dosimeter (TLD) Program:
     6.1. All personnel who are routinely exposed to ionizing radiation (x-rays and certain
     radioactive sources), and whose exposures are potentially 10 percent or greater of the annual
     occupational dose limit will be issued a TLD before they can be permitted to work.
     6.2. Workers requiring TLDs will report to Bioenvironmental Engineering for enrollment in
     the TLD program and issuance of a TLD.
     6.3. TLDs, when not in use, will be stored with a control TLD in a non-radiation area which
     is cool, dry and out of direct sunlight.
     6.4. TLDs will have the name of the individual attached and will be worn only by that
     individual. TLDs will be worn only during Air Force operations that involve potential
     exposure to ionizing radiation. Wear of the TLD outside the Air Force facility where
     potential exposure to ionizing radiation could occur is prohibited.
     6.5. At the end of each monitoring period, Bioenvironmental Engineering personnel will
     exchange each TLD. Supervisors will notify Bioenvironmental Engineering of all new
     arrivals requiring a TLD and any personnel who are departing PCS, separating, or retiring.
     6.6. The 62 AW RSO will review quarterly and annual dosimetry results and forward results
     to the individual being monitored. An investigation will be conducted for any exposures
     exceeding 50 mrem (locally established investigation action level) in any quarter.
     6.7. It is the responsibility of workers and supervisors to report any previous or current off-
     duty employment involving ionizing radiation (also known as ―moonlighting‖) to
     Bioenvironmental Engineering so that off-duty exposures can be accounted for. Workers are
     briefed on this requirement and sign an acknowledgement upon initial entry to the TLD
     program. The requirement will also be included as a part of the annual radiation safety
     training.
7. Quality Assurance Program The 62 AW RSO will conduct a quality assurance review of
the radiation protection program to include:
     7.1. Quarterly review of personnel dosimetry results to insure overexposure, abnormal
     exposure, investigation, and pregnant female action levels have not been exceeded.
     Personnel dosimetry results above specific action levels will be investigated and the results
     of the investigation reported to the Aerospace Medicine Council.
     7.2. Annual radiation protection program reviews will be accomplished and presented to the
     Aerospace Medicine Council. The reviews will include:
        7.2.1. All personnel dosimetry results for the previous year to ensure adverse trends are
        noted and that all personnel dosimetry results that exceed action levels are acted upon.
        7.2.2. Any ionizing radiation inspection and survey results for the previous year to
        ensure all required surveys have been performed and documented properly and that
        corrective action, if necessary, has been accomplished.
62AWI48-105 15 AUGUST 2011                                                               9


     7.2.3. Currency of all Federal, Air Force, and local implementing directives including
     this instruction.
     7.2.4. Currency of radiation source and radioactive material inventory.
     7.2.5. All USAF Radioactive Material Permits checked for currency and compliance
     with requirements.




                                          KEVIN J. KILB, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander, 62d Airlift Wing
 10                                                          62AWI48-105 15 AUGUST 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 40-201, Managing Radioactive Material in the US Air Force, 13 April 2007
AFI 48-148, Ionizing Radiation Protection, 12 October 2001
AFI 91-108, Air Force Nuclear Weapons Intrinsic Radiation Safety Program, 29 November
1993
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 September 2008
AFMAN 48-125, Personnel Ionizing Radiation Dosimetry, 07 August 2006
AFOSH STD 48-9, Radio Frequency Radiation (RFR) Safety Program, 01 August 1997
AFOSH STD 48-139, Laser Radiation Protection Program, 10 December 1999
Adopted Forms
AF Form 55, Employee Safety Health Records, 30 March 2007
AF Form 2767, Occupational Health Training and Protective Equipment Fit Testing, 1 January
1982
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
ALARA—As Low As Reasonably Achievable
BE—Bioenvironmental Engineering
BEE—Bioenvironmental Engineer
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
DRMO—Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office
JBLM—Joint Base Lewis-McChord
NRC—Nuclear Regulatory Commission
OI—Operating Instruction
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
RAM—Radioactive Material
REM—Roentgen Equivalent Man
RFR—Radiofrequency Radiation
RIC—Radioisotope Committee
RSO—Radiation Safety Officer
62AWI48-105 15 AUGUST 2011                                                                     11


TLD—Thermoluminescent Dosimeter
TO—Technical Order

Terms
As Low As Reasonably Achievable (ALARA)— The ALARA concept is defined as that set of
management and administrative actions taken to reduce personnel radiation doses to as low a
level as possible consistent with existing technology, costs, and operational requirements. The
ALARA concept was developed in response to scientific evidence that no level of radiation
exposure is totally risk free (a risk free threshold cannot be established). While the established
maximum permissible doses are conservative and offer a low risk of adverse health effects
compared with other hazards of life and occupation. It is prudent that every effort be made to
reduce exposures to the lowest level that is reasonably achievable and thereby lower the health
risk associated with that exposure.
Employer— A commander, director, or functional manager.
62nd Airlift Wing Radiation Safety Officer (62 AW RSO)— An individual designated by the
62 AW Commander to manage the 62 AW radiation safety program. This individual will be the
most technically qualified person available at the 62 AW, usually the senior Base
Bioenvironmental Engineer. This individual conducts the overall 62 AW radiation safety
program which includes surveillance of all radioactive materials and radiation producing devices.
The 62 AW RSO coordinates with and assists the unit and permit RSOs as necessary to ensure a
fully comprehensive radiation safety program. They also
Ionizing Radiation— Energy form, which is powerful enough to cause tissue damage and other
reversible or irreversible damage to humans. Tissue damage comes from a breakdown of the
atomic structure. The radiation can come from radioactive material or from special radiation
producing devices using electronic circuits, including x-ray machines. This form of the energy
can be described as particles (alpha, beta, neutrons), or as pure energy (gamma, x-rays).
Must— Indicates a mandatory requirement
Non—Ionizing Radiation - An energy form, which is not powerful enough to affect the atomic
structure of materials, it interacts with, including human tissue. Typical examples include
radiation from radars, microwave ovens, lasers, and radio transmitters. Non-ionizing radiation is
not specifically addressed in the ALARA concept.
Permit RSO— An individual designated by the unit commander and approved by the USAF
Radioisotope Committee to manage the radiation protection aspects of the use of radioactive
materials for which a specific USAF Radioactive Material Permit has been issued.
Responsibilities for Permit RSOs are described in AFI 40-201, NOTE: The unit RSO and permit
RSO may be the same person for units that have permitted radioactive material.
Radioactive Material— Material whose nuclei, because of their unstable nature, spontaneously
emit alpha or beta particles, gamma rays or neutrons. Radioactive materials at JBLM – McChord
Field may include radioactivity detection, identification and computation (radiac) check-sources,
calibration sources, detector cells in chemical agent detectors, lensatic compasses, watches,
ignition exciters, spark gaps and electron tubes.
Shall— Indicates a mandatory requirement
 12                                                            62AWI48-105 15 AUGUST 2011


Should— Indicates a preferred method of accomplishment
Supervisor— The supervisor(s), or individual(s) appointed by the supervisor(s), that oversee(s)
individuals wearing respiratory protection.
Will— Indicates a mandatory requirement, which expresses a declaration of intent, probability or
determination
Unit RSO— An individual designated by the unit commander as the single point of contact for
the unit on radiation protection matters. Each operational unit with radiation sources will appoint
a unit RSO. Units with both ionizing and non-ionizing radiation sources may appoint separate
RSOs for these areas.
US Air Force Radioactive Material Permit— Written authorization from the US Air Force
Radioisotope Committee for Air Force organizations to receive, possess, distribute, use, transfer,
or dispose of radioactive materials.
US Air Force Radioisotope Committee— A committee established to coordinate the
administrative and regulatory aspects of licensing, possession, distribution, use, transfer, and
disposal of all radioactive materials in the Air Force except those transferred from the
Department of Energy to the Department of Defense in nuclear weapon systems. The committee
acts as the single point of Air Force contact with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission or
Agreement States on all aspects of Licensing.
