BY THE ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 62 AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 34-03
HQ 62D AIRLIFT WING                                                                       13 MARCH 2003

                                                                                                    Services

                                                                     BASE HONOR GUARD PROGRAM




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 62 SVS/SVMHG (SSgt Webster)                                   Certified by: 62 SVS/CC (Maj Brown)
Supersedes 62 AWI 34-3, 16 February 2001                                                        Pages: 6
                                                                                         Distribution: F

This instruction establishes policy, lists responsibilities, and states the framework for planning, training,
and use of the McChord AFB Honor Guard, in accordance with AFI 34-242. This instruction applies to all
units assigned to the 62d Airlift Wing (62 AW). Tenant units are highly encouraged to participate in the
Base Honor Guard Program.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.




1. General: The Honor Guard will consist normally of 72 personnel (four flights of 18) forming a cohe-
sive team under the 62 AW that will represent the United States Air Force and McChord AFB. This addi-
tional-duty contingent will provide military funeral honors and a wide variety of ceremonies for military
and civilian events. Administration of the 62 AW Honor Guard rests with the 62d Services Squadron (62
SVS). The Honor Guard Team will also act as the Base Search and Recovery Team, which will also be
administered by the 62 SVS.

2. Manning: The 62d Airlift Wing Command Section (62 AW/CCA) will be responsible for providing
quotas to each Group and Comptroller Squadron. Unit quotas will be derived from the formula used to
support the base detail program. Detail quotas will be analyzed and reviewed annually to ensure an accu-
rate distribution of Honor Guard taskings are maintained. Quotas will be sent to each group superinten-
dent who will forward their fair share to their Honor Guard POC.
   2.1. During their three-month active tours, Honor Guard members will be exempt from all base and
   squadron details. They will not serve as Security Forces augmentees or be called upon to fulfill mobil-
   ity processing requirements. They will not work 12-hour shifts or weekends, and will only work day
   shifts in their assigned units. Instances where there is an absolute need for an Honor Guard member to
2                                                                        62AWI34-03 13 MARCH 2003


    augment an additional duty will be coordinated through and evaluated on a case-by-case basis by the
    Honor Guard NCOIC and 62 SVS/CC. No action will be taken unless a request has been approved.
    2.2. Units are encouraged to provide highly professional volunteers for all positions. When quotas
    cannot be filled with volunteers, appointment to the Honor Guard will be mandatory.
    2.3. The minimum tour of duty for all members will be 12 months unless waived by agreement, based
    upon sufficient justification and cause, by the appropriate unit commander/first sergeant and the 62
    SVS/CC. When appropriate, Honor Guard members may continue beyond their one-year commitment
    with prior unit and Honor Guard approval.
    2.4. Honor Guard activities will take precedence over all other activities. Appointments, unit training,
    leave, and other activities will be coordinated through the Honor Guard NCOIC.
    2.5. Members selected will meet all Air Force body fat standards. Additionally, Honor Guard mem-
    bers will be required to present a professional military image at all times when fulfilling Honor Guard
    duties (includes while in travel status and in uniform).
    2.6. Personnel who have had their driving privileges suspended or are on a physical profile, shaving
    waiver, weight management program, control roster, or with a history of administrative/disciplinary
    action, etc., will not be considered for Honor Guard duties.

3. Organization: The Honor Guard will consist of four flights of 18 members of any grade, two of which
must be NCOs. The flights will be designated Alpha, Bravo, Charlie, and Delta.
    3.1. The Honor Guard will have an NCOIC (E-6 minimum) permanently assigned to direct and over-
    see all operations. This person will be selected from among the wing’s resources. Para 4.2. goes into
    further detail on the Honor Guard NCOIC nomination and selection process. This person will work
    directly for the Honor Guard OIC and the 62 SVS/CC.
    3.2. Each flight will be in active status for two, three-month periods and inactive status for two,
    three-month periods. The active dates are roughly as follows: Alpha (Sep-Nov; Mar-May), Bravo
    (Oct-Dec; Apr-Jun), Charlie (Dec-Feb; Jun-Aug), and Delta (Jan-Mar; Jul-Sep). Specific dates will be
    published annually by the Honor Guard NCOIC. The first active period for each flight is two weeks
    longer than the second in order to satisfy initial training requirements.
    3.3. At the beginning of a flight’s one-year term, the first two weeks of duty will be reserved strictly
    for Honor Guard training. Details will not be performed by new or returning flights until all members
    are evaluated and certified proficient for Honor Guard duties.
    3.4. During times of high operations tempo, inactive flights will be called upon to assist with the com-
    pletion of Air Force Honor Guard details.

4. Responsibilities: The 62 SVS/CC is responsible for the overall management of this program. Duties
will include projecting Honor Guard budget requirements, overseeing recognition and training programs,
and enforcing the requirements of this instruction.
    4.1. Unit Points of Contact (POC): Each unit and the 62 AW staff will identify an Honor Guard POC
    and notify the Honor Guard NCOIC of this appointment by memo or e-mail. If a POC is not
    appointed, the unit's Superintendent or assigned First Sergeant will act as the POC. Additionally,
    POCs will:
62AWI34-03 13 MARCH 2003                                                                              3


     4.1.1. Serve as the primary point of contact to discuss manpower issues and operational require-
     ments with the Honor Guard staff.
     4.1.2. Notify the Honor Guard NCOIC if team members are unable to fulfill commitments for any
     reason including leaves and TDYs.
     4.1.3. Ensure quotas are filled at all times.
     4.1.4. Screen all candidates prior to appointment to ensure they meet the highest standards of con-
     duct and appearance.
     4.1.5. Be responsible for promoting the 62 AW Honor Guard within the unit and explaining the
     importance of this duty to supervisors and prospective members.
  4.2. The Honor Guard NCOIC: The SVS/CC will select the NCOIC using the following process. In
  the event the NCOIC position opens, the 62 SVS/CC will advertise the open position to entire wing.
  Nominees will submit application packages to the 62 SVS/CC. The 62 SVS/CC will select one from
  among the candidates. This individual will serve a minimum one-year term, and is responsible to the
  62 SVS/CC for administering and executing the Base Honor Guard Program.
     4.2.1. Report to the Honor Guard OIC or 62 SVS/CC.
     4.2.2. Determine and submit annual budget requirements to the 62 SVS/CC and schedule govern-
     ment operator qualification and familiarization training, M-9 training, and Search and Recovery
     training for new Honor Guard members as applicable.
     4.2.3. Become knowledgeable of all aspects of protocol, honors, and ceremonies.
     4.2.4. Ensure members are briefed regarding their responsibilities and understand the purpose,
     importance, and duties of the Honor Guard.
     4.2.5. Ensure equipment and munitions accounts are accurately maintained and current at all
     times.
     4.2.6. Select and appoint personnel to flight management positions and ensure they are trained
     and qualified to fulfill the responsibilities with those positions.
     4.2.7. Ensure training levels are maintained to continuously display a professional, high standard
     of proficiency in drill and ceremony.
     4.2.8. Act as approval authority for all detail requests, and ensure each detail is properly sched-
     uled, conducted, and annotated in the proper records.
     4.2.9. Ensure manpower, equipment, and transportation is available to fulfill detail requirements.
     4.2.10. Maintain an accurate list of all Unit Honor Guard POCs and First Sergeants.
     4.2.11. Ensure an accurate list of all members authorized to draw weapons and ammunition is on
     file at the Security Forces Armory, and updated upon each member’s departure from Honor
     Guard.
     4.2.12. Provide Honor Guard information to supervisors, upon request, for each member’s perfor-
     mance report, below-the-zone packages, and monthly and quarterly awards nomination packages.
     4.2.13. Recommend to 62 SVS/CC the removal of any member who does not maintain the highest
     of military standards.
4                                                                        62AWI34-03 13 MARCH 2003


       4.2.14. Ensure all members are briefed regarding acceptance of gratuities and probable disciplin-
       ary action.
       4.2.15. Ensure all Honor Guard members receive Search and Recovery training. Leads the Search
       and Recovery team during exercises and major accidents.
    4.3. Flight Commanders: The Honor Guard NCOIC will appoint a Flight Commander from each
    flight. These individuals will take on additional responsibilities for training and managing their
    flights. Flight Commanders will:
       4.3.1. Ensure ceremonial procedures are accurate and comply with all applicable instructions.
       4.3.2. Maintain, update, and distribute all training manuals, continuity books, ceremonial guides,
       and handbooks.
       4.3.3. Serves as the Honor Guard NCOIC in their absence.
       4.3.4. Submit nomination packages for Air Force Achievement Medals when Honor Guard mem-
       bers in their flights successfully complete their tours. Only those who qualify based upon duty per-
       formance, leadership, teamwork, etc., will be eligible.
       4.3.5. The Flight Commander’s staff will perform all administrative tasks required to support
       flight operations.
    4.4. Honor Guard members: They will be appointed by the appropriate unit POCs, with the approval
    of the Honor Guard management staff, and serve a minimum of 12 months. Additionally, they will:
       4.4.1. Keep the Honor Guard NCOIC apprised of any situation that will prohibit them from per-
       forming Honor Guard duties.
       4.4.2. Report for training and/or functions on time and in the proper uniform as prescribed by
       their Flight Commander.
       4.4.3. Maintain uniforms to the highest standards of appearance, as set forth in AFI 36-2903,
       Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, at all times.
       4.4.4. Display the highest degree of professionalism, military bearing, and behavior.
       4.4.5. Comply with Air Force standards and Honor Guard operating procedures. Failure to do so
       is grounds for immediate dismissal.
       4.4.6. Retain their Honor Guard uniforms. Members are encouraged, but not obligated, to con-
       tinue their support after their year requirement. (The member must do all coordination with duty
       section to ensure availability).
       4.4.7. Not accept any form of gratuity from any organization or person while performing Honor
       Guard details. Accepting gratuities is grounds for immediate removal from the Honor Guard and
       military disciplinary action.
    4.5. The Flag Presenting Officer (FPO) is responsible for presenting the flag to the next of kin at
    funerals where the decedent is an officer. Officers chosen for this duty should display the highest lev-
    els of professionalism and customs and courtesy.
       4.5.1. The responsibility for providing FPOs will rotate each quarter. The 62 AW/CCA will pro-
       duce a schedule, with responsibility rotating between MSG, OG, MDG, and MXG.
62AWI34-03 13 MARCH 2003                                                                              5


       4.5.2. Each group's Executive Officer will act as the POC for FPOs. When a FPO is needed to
       support a funeral detail, the Honor Guard NCOIC will contact the responsible group's Executive
       Officer, who will provide an officer from the group.
       4.5.3. When an FPO is tasked for a funeral detail, he or she will contact the Honor Guard NCOIC
       for instructions. Training is provided on a “just-in-time” basis, and takes approximately 20 min-
       utes to accomplish. FPOs will travel with the rest of the Honor Guard detail to and from funeral
       details.

5. Uniforms: The Honor Guard will issue all uniforms and accessories required to perform duties. Upon
completion of the Honor Guard member’s tour, they will be responsible for turning in the issued equip-
ment. The equipment includes aiguillette, Honor Guard badge, garment bag, and ceremonial hat with Hap
Arnold pin.
   5.1. Members will be responsible for keeping their uniforms clean, serviceable and maintained at a
   level that exceeds the minimum standards set forth in AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of
   Air Force Personnel.
   5.2. Members may take their Honor Guard uniforms to approved cleaners for cleaning at government
   expense.
   5.3. Units may replace their detailed member prior to the end of the one-year tour with any other
   member that meets appropriate criteria for membership on the McChord Honor Guard. These replace-
   ments should be considered only when members must PCS, deploy, or are disqualified for any other
   reasons. Frequent replacements hinder the Honor Guard’s ability to maintain a fully trained and pre-
   pared force to meet mandated Honor Guard functions.
       5.3.1. When members are replaced prior to the end of their tour, the replacement member’s unit
       must immediately provide the funding for all of the replacement member’s Honor Guard uniform
       items as directed by the Honor Guard NCOIC. When all uniform items are replaced at unit cost,
       the replacement member is obligated only to finish the original member’s tour of Honor Guard
       duty. For example, if the original member’s tour was Feb 02 to Jan 03, but was replaced due to
       medical long-term profile and the unit provided new uniform funding, the replacement member is
       obligated to serve on the Honor Guard only until Jan 03 (the original member’s end-of-tour date).
       5.3.2. If units do not or cannot provide funding for the uniform items, the replacement member
       must then not only finish the original member’s tour of Honor Guard Duty, but also complete an
       additional year as an Honor Guard member. For example, if the original member’s tour of duty
       was Jul 02 to Jun 03, but was replaced due to PCS in Nov 02 and the unit did not provide uniform
       funding, the replacement member must serve in the Honor Guard Nov 02 to Jun 04 (original tour
       ending Jun 03, plus one year).

6. Transportation: The Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS) will provide two 12-passenger vans for use
by Honor Guard personnel as necessary for travel to and return from assigned taskings. This will enhance
vehicle familiarity for all GOV users.
   6.1. LRS will conduct government-operator qualifications and familiarization training on an
   as-needed basis during the two-week period of initial Honor Guard training for all members assigned.
   Proof of qualification will be annotated on member’s GOV license. LRS training personnel brief time/
   distance and road/weather conditions during the initial government-operator qualifications training.
6                                                                        62AWI34-03 13 MARCH 2003


    6.2. LRS provides a driver, as necessary, when requested to assist the Honor Guard when mission
    requirements permit.
    6.3. LRS procedures of issue and turn-in of vehicles will apply.
    6.4. The Honor Guard provides requests as soon as possible after notification of a detail requiring
    transportation to/from an off-base location. This is normally two to three days prior to the date of the
    detail, but can be as little as 24 hours.
    6.5. Duty days will normally be less than ten hours total. If travel and Honor Guard duties extend
    beyond ten hours, the Team Chief/NCO/OIC will use prudent ORM prior to the detail to determine if
    TDY status is necessary to preclude exceeding this limit.
    6.6. All Honor Guard members are briefed on travel requirements, duties, and responsibilities. The
    Team Chief/NCO/OIC is given guidance pertaining to travel safety and rest/meal breaks. Minimum
    personnel required to travel any distance in a GOV to perform Honor Guard duties is two licensed
    drivers per detail.
    6.7. All Honor Guard members are afforded a minimum of eight hours rest from the end of one duty
    day to the beginning of the next duty day’s functions.

7. Security Forces: The 62d Security Forces Squadron will provide storage for weapons and munitions
used to perform gun salutes at military funerals.

8. Records Management: All Honor Guard personnel will maintain and dispose of records according to
Air Force Manual 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule.



                                                      JAMES A. FELLOWS, Colonel, USAF
                                                      Commander, 62d Airlift Wing
