BY THE ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 62D AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 34-5
HQ 62D AIRLIFT WING                                                                  19 DECEMBER 2006

                                                                                                    Services

                                                       HOLIDAY PARK, PAVILION, AND FAMCAMP




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                        www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 62 SVS/SVRO                                                                Certified by: 62 SVS/CC
                                                                              (Major Shawn W. Campbell)
Supersedes 62AWPAM34-5, 12 December 2002                                                        Pages: 6

This instruction defines the McChord AFB Holiday Park Pavilion, and FAMCAMP procedures. It estab-
lishes general responsibilities of the individuals authorize to utilize the Holiday Park and FAMCAMP ser-
vices. This instruction applies to all DOD ID Card holders. The governing directives for the Holiday Park
and FAMCAMP is AFI 34-110 Air Force Outdoor Recreation Program and AFI 34-262 Services Pro-
grams and Use Eligibility. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publi-
cation are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363),
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this pub-
lication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
Liability Statement has been added in full to this document. Definition of permanent occupancy has been
redefined. Updates made to RV cleaning policy in paragraph 5.15.
FOREWORD
We are pleased to have you as our guest at the McChord Air Force Base Holiday Park. This facility
includes our FAMCAMP (family camping area), the Holiday Park Pavilion, picnic/grill areas, horseshoe
pits, volleyball court and play areas. These facilities and the programs associated with them are under the
supervision of the 62d Services Squadron Community Support Flight (62 SVS/SVRO).
Holiday Park is conveniently located on McChord Air Force Base, approximately ten miles south of
Tacoma, Washington, immediately off Interstate 5. The FAMCAMP is available for your use on a
year-round, first-come, first-serve, no reservation basis. Please call the Outdoor Recreation office at (253)
2                                                                       62AWI34-5 19 DECEMBER 2006


982-2206 or the Park office at (253) 982-5488, if you have any questions. The DSN prefix for McChord
AFB is 382 in place of the area code and commercial prefixes above.
We believe that our FAMCAMP area offers the famous natural beauty of the Pacific Northwest, with
close proximity to a wide variety of activities in the Tacoma/Seattle area. This pamphlet should help you
to better enjoy our FAMCAMP facilities, as well as the many natural, cultural, and physical advantages of
the area.


1. General.
    1.1. Holiday Park is located in a natural setting of Douglas fir timber with a wide variety of vegetation
    and wildlife unique to the Pacific Northwest. It provides family camping, with a variety of camper and
    tent spaces. Eighteen of the 64 camping sites have water, sewer, and electric (W/S/E). Another 18 sites
    have water and electric (W/E) hookups. The remainder consists of 17 dry sites and 11 tent sites. Sup-
    port facilities provide rest rooms, showers, laundry w/soap or bleach machine, pay phone, soda
    machine, sewage dump station, jogging track, hiking trails, grills, as well as a full range of nearby
    base services. In the Holiday Park Club House there is free email modem service.
    1.2. The Pavilion is rented on a first-come, first-serve reservation basis. This enclosed structure is a
    double hexagon with high ceilings of natural wood. It can accommodate one large party with seating
    for 200, with two fireplaces. The Pavilion contains a kitchen with service windows into each area and
    a telephone for on-base use only (982-2387). There is also an outdoor barbecue grill that can be uti-
    lized.
    1.3. The recreation facilities (play areas, an open field, outside shelters, grills, horseshoe pits, volley-
    ball courts, etc.) are on a first-come, first-serve basis.
    1.4. Season of Operation is year-round. Telephone: (253) 982-5488. Park office hours vary according
    to peak and non-peak season; operational hours are posted on the office door.
    1.5. The special events area is not available to the general public. It is reserved for private organiza-
    tions or groups at the discretion of the Outdoor Recreation Director.

2. Eligible users. In accordance with AFI 34-262, Services Program and Use Eligibility, Chapter 3,
Attachment 2, Tables A2.1. and A2.2. All guests must be accompanied by their sponsors as stated in 62
AWI 31-10, Normal Security Operations, Chapter 15.

3. Park Rules/Policies. The primary consideration of the following guidelines is to enable the users to
obtain maximum enjoyment from the use of land and facilities, while at the same time considering the
health, safety, and general welfare of the families.
    3.1. Organizations and individuals using any part of Holiday Park are responsible for implementation
    of base safety directives, fire standards, and Dram Shop liability. Under NO circumstances will
    minors be served or allowed to consume alcoholic beverages.
    3.2. All facilities/areas in Holiday Park are used by authorized patrons and their guests at their own
    risk. The 62 SVS Community Support Flight is not responsible for the theft, loss or damage to persons
    or property.
62AWI34-5 19 DECEMBER 2006                                                                               3


  3.3. Authorized users can rent equipment (trailers, tents, sleeping bags, gas grills, picnic kits, etc.)
  from Outdoor Recreation in Adventures Unlimited, Building 739.
  3.4. Park users shall conduct themselves with decorum while on the premises. They shall not indulge
  in loud or boisterous conduct, activities, games or sports, which interrupt the harmony of the commu-
  nity. Persons guilty of disorderly conduct will be asked to leave the park.
  3.5. Holiday Park quiet hours are from 2300 - 0700. No generators will be operated during these
  hours.
  3.6. Parents/Legal guardians are responsible for the safety and behavior of their dependents under 18
  years old. They will be held financially responsible for any damages brought about by their children.
  All persons under 18 are to be under the direct supervision of their sponsor at all times.
  3.7. Authorized users are responsible for the safety and conduct of guests. Sponsors of guests will be
  held financially responsible for any unpaid fees and/or damages brought about by their guests.
  3.8. Fires are permitted only in charcoal grills or camp stoves and are not to be left unattended. The
  cooking surfaces of barbecue grills are to be cleaned prior to leaving. Do not remove hot coals from
  grills. NO WOOD FIRES ARE PERMITTED IN THE PARK.
  3.9. Pets will be kept on a leash at all times. Patrons will clean up after their pets everywhere on
  McChord AFB, per existing Base requirements, and this includes Holiday Park FAMCAMP. Patrons
  who are renting a space in our FAMCAMP are limited to three pets and must register their pet's cur-
  rent rabies inoculation at the Park office at time of initial check-in. Pets are not allowed in restrooms
  or on playgrounds. At night, or whenever the owners are not in the Park, their pets must be inside their
  RV or tent, ensuring adequate ventilation in warm weather and warmth in cold weather. If an owner is
  suspected of pet abuse or neglect, the Veterinarian Clinic and Security Forces will be notified. If a pet
  annoys or constitutes a danger to other guests, or if it is found running loose, the Park Manager has
  authority to ask owners to leave the Park with the animal.
  3.10. Feeding the Wildlife is PROHIBITTED in accordance with 62 AWI 32-10, Fish and Wildlife,
  Chapter 5.
  3.11. Speed Limit is 10 mph for the safety of all park users. Vehicular traffic is allowed on designated
  roadways and parking areas.
  3.12. Mailing Address: Please contact the McChord Post Office, Zip Code 98438, at 982-2093 if in
  need of general delivery.


        The Park Office mailing address:        General Delivery is as follows:
        Holiday Park FAMCAMP                    Your Name Here
        c/o Outdoor Recreation                  PSC Box 5000
        62 SVS/SVRO, Bldg 739                   735 5th St.
        1305 D. Street N.E.                     McChord AFB, WA
        McChord AFB WA 98438-1009               98438-1134

  3.13. Motorcycles: Ride only when entering or leaving the park area.
4                                                                      62AWI34-5 19 DECEMBER 2006


4. Pavilion.
    4.1. See paragraph 1.2. for a physical description of this facility. Authorized Pavilion users are
    responsible for the safety and conduct of guests and can be held financially responsible for any dam-
    ages caused by them. Parents are responsible for the safety and behavior of their dependents in and
    around the Pavilion, including the playground. The Pavilion is rated at a maximum capacity of 200
    people.
    4.2. Staples and nails will not be used in the Pavilion for hanging decorations. The ceiling pipes are
    for fire sprinkler systems only. Lights or decorations will NOT be hung from pipes.
    4.3. Pavilion rental begins at 1000 and ends at 2300 hours. Parties renting Pavilion will respect the
    Holiday Park quiet hours beginning at 2300. Cleaning inspection will be conducted at 0830. A repre-
    sentative is to be present for inspection or charges/refund of deposit cannot be challenged. A printed
    checklist for Pavilion clean up is posted in the facility. Entire Pavilion, and the grounds thereof, to
    include the playground must be cleaned. All cigarette butts will be properly extinguished and included
    in trash disposal.
    4.4. Excessive messes generated by renting parties in the restrooms adjacent to the Pavilion (i.e., spit
    wads thrown against ceiling or walls, organic matter not located in toilets, needlessly strewn toilet
    paper) are the responsibility of that rental party to clean up.
    4.5. All debris and garbage shall be placed in appropriate containers, bagged and placed in the dump-
    ster prior to departure. Hot cooking grease is not to be thrown in any park dumpster, but to be removed
    from park upon departure.

5. FAMCAMP:
    5.1. The FAMCAMP involves the campsites located in the Park. See paragraph 1.1. for a description
    of available campsites and support facilities. Patrons will register and make payments at the Holiday
    Park Office located across the road from the Pavilion.
    5.2. Discounts for senior citizens and Disabled American Veterans (DAV) offered by the Department
    of Interior for National Parks and Forest Service facilities are not applicable. Holiday Park falls under
    the Department of Defense and fees are approved by the McChord Non-Appropriated Fund (NAF)
    Council.
    5.3. If a patron arrives before or after the posted office hours, they are to complete and enclose (in the
    registration envelope provided) the following forms located at the Park Bulletin Board area:
       5.3.1. Registration slip.
       5.3.2. Liability statement: In consideration for the authorization to park my recreational vehicle at
       the McChord AFB Holiday Park, I hereby forever discharge the United States Government, the
       United States Air Force, its principals, agents, or representatives from any and all claims, demands
       or damages of any kind, known or unknown, existing or arising in the future, resulting from or
       related tot the damage, loss or destruction of my recreational vehicle while parked at Holiday
       Park. This includes damage caused by falling limbs, branches or trees. It is the responsibility of
       the RV user to leave the area should high winds occur. I have been informed that by direction of
       the 62d Air Wing Installation Commander, in order to park my vehicle at this location, I should
       carry full (no deductible) comprehensive insurance for my recreational vehicle and its contents.
62AWI34-5 19 DECEMBER 2006                                                                                  5


     5.3.3. Check for the amount of their stay per the posted fees. Patrons should tear off the perforated
     receipt to use as their registration and display it inside their windshield. The sealed envelope then
     goes into the drop box.
  5.4. It is the responsibility of those who paid for a campsite to ensure it is well marked as "Occupied"
  if their RV or tent is absent; otherwise, newcomers will understandably consider it vacant and pull in
  to camp there.
  5.5. Camping sites are available on a first-come, first-serve basis. A copy of the registration will be
  displayed on the windshield of patron's RV or vehicle at all times. Patrons who occupy a campsite
  without payment will be asked to leave by the Park Manager.
  5.6. FAMCAMP guests must check out by 1100 or re-register by 1045.
  5.7. Occupancy is limited to a 14-day maximum in the developed sites (W/S/E and W/E) if there are
  people on a waiting list. A current developed site occupant may re-register for no more than seven
  days at a time during their stay. If there is a waiting list, the current developed site occupants, on their
  15th day, must move into a dry site in the park or vacate the park, but they may put their name on the
  waiting list after 1100 hours on the following day. Between 1 Oct and 30 April, there is no limit to the
  consecutive number of days an occupant may remain in a site if there is not a waiting list. Active duty
  military, within 30 days of being assigned to the installation, will receive first priority on the waiting
  list and are permitted to remain in their site for a period of 4 weeks. Aside from the occupant in site #1
  and the inbound active duty personnel, all occupants must comply with the 14 day rotation policy
  when there is a waiting list.
  5.8. No permanent occupancy shall be permitted. Permanent occupancy is defined as any vehicle, tent
  or other encampment that remains on any site or other area set aside for FAMCAMP use for duration
  of 240 days within a 12 month period (this includes dry spots).
  5.9. All structures other than those which are a standard part of the recreational vehicle (i.e., storage
  sheds, screen rooms, partitions) must meet Outdoor Recreation Director’s approval prior to installa-
  tion.
  5.10. Messages received at the Park office will be brought to individual campsites on an emergency
  basis only. All other messages will be posted on Park Bulletin Board.
  5.11. During periods of extreme wind, heavy snow or fire hazards, special precautions or measures
  may be ordered by the Park Manager. In the event of hazardous conditions, all guests will comply with
  orders to take special precautions and/or evacuate the Park.
  5.12. The Pavilion has been designated as the “Shelter-In-Place” location for Holiday Park FAM-
  CAMP, in the event of a natural disaster (ie, earthquake, flooding) or civil emergency. All people
  within Holiday Park shall seek shelter in the Pavilion. There are emergency supplies locked in cup-
  boards in Pavilion kitchen specifically for such situations.
  5.13. Limit is one camping unit and one towing vehicle or car, and one picnic table (as available) per
  campsite.
  5.14. Customer assistance is a must in maintaining a hygienic and tidy campground. Bathrooms,
  showers and other common camp areas (to include barbecue grills) will be cleaned after each use.
6                                                                  62AWI34-5 19 DECEMBER 2006


    5.15. RV cleaning with biodegradable soap at sites is authorized with Park Manager's permission.
    Draining grey water is strictly prohibited. A dump station is located adjacent to the Park office for
    both grey and black water disposal.
    5.16. Pets in FAMCAMP – refer to paragraph 3.9. above.
    5.17. FAMCAMP will have limited access during all McChord Air Shows. Signs will be posted in
    advance for camper’s information.
    5.18. Further information on Holiday Park, FAMCAMP, and Pavilion can be found at
    www.62Services.com, click on Adventures Unlimited to find Holiday Park subheading.



                                               M. SHANE HERSHMAN, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander, 62d Airlift Wing
