BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                              62 AIR WING INSTRUCTION 33-07
62D AIRLIFT WING                                                                                                 15 OCTOBER 1998

                                                                                            Communications and Information

                                                                             MCCHORD AFB METROPOLITAN AREA
                                                                                  NETWORK SYSTEMS SECURITY



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.

OPR: 62 CS/SCBS (Mr. Baluyot)                                                    Certified by: 62 CS/CC (Lt Col Ursheler)
                                                                                                               Pages: 26
                                                                                                          Distribution: F

This instruction applies to all users of the Metropolitan Area Network (MAN) on McChord AFB. This
instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 33-2, Information Protection; Air Force Systems Secu-
rity Instruction (AFSSI) 5102, The Computer Security (COMPUSEC) Program; and AFSSI 5024, Vol-
ume 1, The Certification and Accreditation (C&A) Process.
       1.    General Information. ..................................................................................................    2
       2.    Operational Security Directives. ................................................................................         3

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMAION                                                                         16

Attachment 2— PERSONAL USER ID (PUID)/GROUP USER ID (GUID) RECEIPT                                                                     19

Attachment 3— LOGIN BANNER                                                                                                             21

Attachment 4— VIRUS INCIDENT REPORT                                                                                                    22

Attachment 5— INITIAL INTRUDER REPORT                                                                                                  23

Attachment 6— VULNERABILITY REPORT                                                                                                     25
2                                                                     62AWI33-07 15 OCTOBER 1998


1. General Information.
    1.1. Introduction. Computer Security (COMPUSEC) protects your computer and everything associ-
    ated with it. Most importantly, COMPUSEC protects the information you’ve stored in your system.
    All users of the systems and information contained therein must share the responsibility for the secu-
    rity, integrity, and confidentiality of the systems and the information. COMPUSEC is achieved by
    complying with this instruction.
    1.2. Purpose. This document establishes system security for the base MAN, defines network security
    directives, and specifies required security countermeasures. This instruction also addresses the mini-
    mum security measures for systems interfacing with the MAN. Specifically, this document defines the
    network security measures to ensure security, confidentiality, and integrity of information obtained,
    created, or maintained by the MAN, and assures its service availability. Information includes all elec-
    tronically stored and printed files contained on servers, micro- and minicomputers, and mainframes.
    Failure to observe the prohibitions and mandatory provisions in this publication, whether they apply
    to McChord AFB specifically or are dictated by higher directives, is a violation of Article 92, UCMJ,
    and noncompliance may result in punishment under Article 92, UCMJ.
    1.3. Mission. The mission of the MAN is to support the electronic creation, transfer, sharing, and pre-
    sentation of information by using networked personal computers and commercial off-the-shelf soft-
    ware. The MAN is a general purpose, multi-user system used by the 62d Airlift Wing (62 AW), its
    groups and squadrons, all wing agencies, and tenant units. It provides access to a myriad of electronic
    services (such as electronic mail [e-mail], word processing, spreadsheets, electronic forms, and data-
    bases) and a gateway to the Internet. As a result, the MAN provides users with the tools to improve
    business processes, resulting in increased efficiency and effectiveness. Therefore, this document was
    developed to provide MAN users and administrators with a pragmatic security directive, realistic
    guidelines, and the tools necessary to accomplish their mission.
    1.4. Applicability and Scope. This security directive provides the minimum MAN computer security
    requirements and establishes the set of rules and practices to regulate management, protection, and
    distribution of data entrusted to the network. The policies stated in this instruction apply to everyone
    administering and using the MAN.
    1.5. Relationship to Other Publications. The National Computer Security Center (NCSC) Standards
    and Guides (Rainbow-series), Department of Defense (DoD) Directives, Air Force Systems Security
    Instructions (AFSSIs), and Air Force Systems Security Memorandums (AFSSMs) govern the opera-
    tion and management of information systems. Other documents that relate specifically to the MAN
    are as follows:
       1.5.1. User Security Operating Instructions (OIs). Security OIs are written for everyday users of
       the MAN. They use generic terminology that users, unfamiliar with the MAN operating system,
       can understand. The unit computer systems security officer (CSSO) develops this document (see
       AFSSI 5102 para 2.8.3.3.). If a unit has no formal CSSO, then the computer systems manager
       (CSM) or the unit COMPUSEC manager (UCM) will develop the OI. Each organization on
       McChord AFB may use this instruction as a foundation to create their own unit OI specific to their
       mission and environment. If an organization decides not to use 62 AWI 33-7 as a basis for a unit
       OI, then AFSSI 5001, Security Policy Development Guide, must be followed to establish the
       required system security instruction.
62AWI33-07 15 OCTOBER 1998                                                                                 3


       1.5.2. Conflicting Guidance. The provisions of this security instruction and the user OIs do not
       replace the requirements contained in Air Force and DoD-level documents. If there is a conflict,
       the requirements in higher-level regulations govern. Report the conflict to your UCM or Terminal
       Area Security Officer (TASO).
   1.6. Basic System Facts. The following basic system information describes the MAN.
       1.6.1. Authorized Data on the MAN. The MAN will not be used to process classified informa-
       tion. Sensitive information is the highest level of data authorized on the MAN. In essence, sensi-
       tive information is that information which does not rise to the level for which it requires protection
       as classified information. However, it generally is that type of information that can impact the
       national interest, conduct of Federal programs, or individual privacy entitlements. Typically, sen-
       sitive information includes, but is not limited to, that protected by the Privacy Act of 1974, privi-
       leged data, proprietary data, and For Official Use Only (FOUO) data. See AFM 33-270,
       Command, Control, Communications, and Computers (C4) Systems Security Glossary, for a
       detailed definition of sensitive information.
       1.6.2. Minimum User Clearances. Access to the MAN does not require a security clearance.
       MAN access is based on the key concepts of “authorization” and “need-to-know.” Authorization
       is validated when a unit security manager notifies the Network Control Center (NCC) that an indi-
       vidual requires MAN access to perform official duties and that a personal user ID (PUID) should
       be issued. Notification must be in person or by telephone and information about the user will be
       taken at that time. Need-to-know access to unclassified or sensitive information must be based on
       either an explicit written authorization or implicit authorization derived from the individual’s offi-
       cial duty assignment. Additionally, government contractors will not be given access to any infor-
       mation accessible on the MAN unless first approved through proper channels. Approval for
       contractor access will be worked through the appropriate contracting officer and approved only
       when required to satisfy the terms of the contract. The contracting office is responsible for obtain-
       ing appropriate nondisclosure agreements and for ensuring the requirements of the Privacy Act of
       1974 and other laws protecting various information are enforced when it is necessary for contrac-
       tors to have access to sensitive information on the MAN. All system administrators (SAs) working
       with contractors should maximize use of discretionary access controls described in para 2.3.4.

2. Operational Security Directives.
   2.1. Assurance. Assurance is the measure of confidence that the security features and architecture of
   the MAN accurately mediate and enforce the security directives. Assurance is established by the cer-
   tification and accreditation (C&A) of the MAN and is maintained through compliance with this docu-
   ment; AFSSI 5102, The Computer Security (COMPUSEC) Program; AFSSI 5024, Volume I, The
   Certification and Accreditation Process; and AFSSI 5024, Volume II, The Certifying Official's Hand-
   book.
   2.2. Accountability. IAW AFSSI 5027, Network Security Policy, the MAN operating system software
   will maintain an automated audit trail that can be used to report COMPUSEC-related activities. This
   will ensure people with access to the MAN can be held accountable for their actions. Only a subset of
   all available MAN auditable events will be activated for full-time auditing. The focus used to select
   the auditable events is based on providing the ability to monitor specific security features and is pri-
   marily directed at auditing the granting and modification of user security rights and security attributes.
   Although UCMs and SAs will be audited in greater detail due to their supervisory privileges, all MAN
4                                                                      62AWI33-07 15 OCTOBER 1998


    users will be audited to some degree to include events such as logging in and out of the MAN. Addi-
    tionally, the SA will terminate access when unauthorized user activity is detected. The audit trail will
    be of sufficient detail to reconstruct events to determine the cause or magnitude of compromise should
    a security violation or malfunction occur. The Wing Information Assurance (IA) office will review the
    audit trail data. Retention of audit records that cover periods involving a security incident will be in
    accordance with appropriate disposition record requirements.
       2.2.1. Auditable Events. The following comprise auditable events:
           2.2.1.1. Use of account login and logout.
           2.2.1.2. Actions to create, modify, copy, execute, or delete programs, directories, or files.
           2.2.1.3. Actions taken by SAs, UCMs, and work group managers (WGMs). Examples include
           adding a user, changing user rights, or performing file server restarts.
           2.2.1.4. Any event that attempts to change the security profile of the system. Examples
           include changing access controls (rights or attributes) to files, directories, and user discretion-
           ary access, or changing a user password.
           2.2.1.5. Any event that attempts to violate the security directives of the system. Examples
           include too many attempts to login or attempts to violate the access control limits of a device.
           2.2.1.6. Passwords, or character strings incorrectly given as passwords that might possibly
           expose the password, shall not be recorded in the audit trail.
       2.2.2. Specific Audit Information. The audit trail will record the following minimum information
       for each auditable event. Only the Wing IA office can grant authorization for SAs to disable audit-
       ing or change their configured audit mechanisms.
           2.2.2.1. Date and time of the event.
           2.2.2.2. Unique identifier of the user or device generating the event.
           2.2.2.3. Type of event.
           2.2.2.4. Success or failure of the event.
           2.2.2.5. Origin (terminal ID) of the request for identification and authentication events.
           2.2.2.6. Name of the program or file introduced, addressed, or deleted.
           2.2.2.7. Description of actions taken by the SAs and computer system security officers.
       2.2.3. Audit Review. The Wing IA office will randomly review audit data. They will review the
       following: patterns of access to individual objects, access histories of specific processes and users,
       use of various protection mechanisms and effectiveness, repeated attempts to bypass protection
       mechanisms, and monitor use of privileges. Upon request, each SA will temporarily configure
       their audit files to be viewed remotely by the Wing IA office.
       2.2.4. Protection of Audit Files. Audit data files and products will be protected as sensitive infor-
       mation.
       2.2.5. Events Selected for Audit. A subset of all available MAN events subject to auditing will be
       selected for auditing. These events are primarily directed at the assignment and modification of a
       user's rights and attributes.
62AWI33-07 15 OCTOBER 1998                                                                            5


  2.3. Access Control.
     2.3.1. Method of Access Control. A combination of physical security, personnel security, and sys-
     tem security mechanisms will be used to control access to the MAN. Users must properly identify
     and authenticate before accessing the MAN. The method of access control for the MAN is a com-
     bination of a personal user login ID (identification) and a unique password (authentication).
     2.3.2. Identification.
         2.3.2.1. Personal Accounts. MAN users must complete a Personal User ID (PUID)/Group
         User ID (GUID) Receipt when they receive their personal user ID and initial account pass-
         word. By completing the PUID/GUID Receipt, the user agrees to comply with all MAN secu-
         rity requirements. See the NCC for additional guidance on establishing a personal account.
         Use the approved McChord AFB PUID/GUID Receipt in Attachment 2.
         2.3.2.2. Group Accounts. The use of group user ID (GUID) does not meet the security
         requirement for positive identification of a single MAN user. Therefore, GUIDs will be autho-
         rized only on a case-by-case basis to meet unique necessary requirements. Fully justified
         requests for a GUID must be submitted in writing by the wing, group, or staff agency chief to
         the 62d Communications Squadron (62 CS) commander. On those rare occasions when a
         GUID is authorized, manual or automated procedures must be implemented to identify which
         member of the group actually performed the login function. Each member of a GUID account
         must sign a PUID/GUID Receipt prior to initially logging into the account. The following
         minimum security requirements apply to all group login accounts.
            2.3.2.2.1. All members of a GUID account will track each “login” and “logout” as fol-
            lows:
            2.3.2.2.2. The member who performs the login function will make a log book entry iden-
            tifying, as a minimum, his or her name, date, and time the GUID account is opened. The
            member who performs the logout function will perform, as a minimum, the same functions
            as login.
            2.3.2.2.3. If the local GUID account policy allows an individual to use a workstation that
            has already been logged on by another group member, a separate log book entry is required
            by that individual. As a minimum, the name, date, and time this individual used the GUID
            account is required information.
            2.3.2.2.4. End of shift procedures must include the logging out of the GUID account and
            the logging in by the next shift personnel.
            2.3.2.2.5. Members of the group will not reveal the GUID account password to anyone
            except other authorized members of the GUID account or other authorized personnel such
            as their DAA, unit commander, or staff agency chief.
            2.3.2.2.6. The GUID account password will be changed whenever any member of the
            group no longer requires access to the GUID account.
     2.3.3. Authentication. All user login attempts must be authenticated by use of a password.
         2.3.3.1. Password Length. Passwords must be at least eight alphanumeric characters (upper
         and lower case) with at least one special character (@, &, +, #, etc.) in length. Password com-
         position is described in AFMAN 33-223, Identification and Authentication, paragraph 2.4.
6                                                               62AWI33-07 15 OCTOBER 1998


    2.3.3.2. Password Generation. A SA generates the initial password for a new user. Users will
    generate their own passwords after the initial password assignment.
    2.3.3.3. Changing Passwords. The life cycle of passwords will be limited to a maximum of 90
    days for users and 60 days for SAs. Passwords will be immediately changed upon the depar-
    ture of a member of a group ID or if compromised.
    2.3.3.4. Limiting Grace Logins. The unlimited use of an expired password is not authorized.
    Users will be restricted to three grace logins following the expiration of their password. Dur-
    ing the grace login, users will be prompted to select a new password.
    2.3.3.5. Unique Passwords. Passwords will not be reused on the same user ID account. All
    MAN file servers automatically store the last eight passwords used for authentication. This
    security feature delays reusing a password on the same account.
    2.3.3.6. Password Lock-Outs. Users will be allowed three attempts to properly enter their
    password. A user ID will be locked-out after three unsuccessful password authentication
    attempts. All MAN users, to include personnel who are on TDY status, will contact their UCM
    or WGM when they are locked-out from their account. The UCM or WGM will in turn contact
    the 62 CS Help Desk (4-2563) to unlock the user account. UCM and WGM involvement is
    necessary to verify the request is coming from an authorized MAN account user.
    2.3.3.7. Password Protection. MAN passwords are considered sensitive information. As such,
    it is each user's responsibility to protect his or her password. This protects the user from having
    another person assume his or her identity on the MAN without proper authorization or permis-
    sion. Paragraphs 2.3.3.7.1 through 2.3.3.7.4 stipulate mandatory password protection require-
    ments.
       2.3.3.7.1. Passwords should not be written down. However, if it becomes necessary to
       write down a password, the password should be stored in a manner that minimizes disclo-
       sure. If a password is disclosed to an unauthorized person, the disclosure should be
       reported to the TASO or UCM, and the password should be changed immediately.
       2.3.3.7.2. Password entry will not be automated. For example, do not place your password
       in a login script or batch file. If you use a program that caches or automatically stores pass-
       words, such as Microsoft Windows 95, the Password Caching feature must be disabled.
       2.3.3.7.3. Passwords should not be disclosed or shared with other personnel unless they
       have proper authorization or permission.
       2.3.3.7.4. Current MAN account passwords, to include dial-up modem account pass-
       words, will not be used as a password to access unofficial or commercial systems or net-
       works (e.g., commercial internet access providers or bulletin board systems).
    2.3.3.8. Login Banner. The network or information system must display, to each user attempt-
    ing use or access, a warning about unauthorized use of DoD computer systems and a consent
    to monitoring statement. See Attachment 3 for the mandatory banner statement. The banner’s
    language should not be expected to change often, but only when deemed necessary by DoD or
    the Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA). Wing IA will notify the appropriate person-
    nel (i.e., NCC, SAs and UCMs) when login banner changes are made.
62AWI33-07 15 OCTOBER 1998                                                                             7


     2.3.4. Discretionary Access Control (DAC). DAC is the capability to restrict MAN user access to
     specific directories and files. This implements the principle that a user should be given only those
     privileges or accesses that enable the user to do his or her job. DAC guards against need-to-know
     violations. Base MAN SAs and UCMs will implement DAC by using the “rights and attributes”
     features of the operating system.
     2.3.5. Closing User ID Accounts. MAN user ID accounts and passwords will be deleted within
     one duty day of the user's departure from an organization, or when a user no longer requires access
     to perform official duties. The TASO will notify the UCM when an account requires deletion.
     Make notifications in writing or by e-mail. This will ensure appropriate documentation for all user
     ID files.
     2.3.6. Inactive User Accounts. Unit SAs, in coordination with the UCM, will validate user
     accounts under their control with the appropriate TASO and will remove any accounts that are no
     longer valid. The SA or UCM will contact the NCC to remove these accounts.
     2.3.7. Simultaneous User ID Logins. MAN users will limit logging in to only one workstation at
     a time. There are very few instances where simultaneous logins are necessary. Individuals who
     have a valid duty requirement (e.g., SA, NCC personnel, UCM, TASO, Wing IA personnel) will
     be authorized to simultaneously login from multiple workstations. Fully justified requests for a
     single MAN user to simultaneously login from multiple workstations must be in writing and
     approved by the unit DAA. Contact Wing IA office for guidance on the appropriate procedures to
     be followed.
     2.3.8. Network Connections.
        2.3.8.1. Modem Connections. Use of modems is not allowed to connect to the base MAN.
        Users will access the MAN primarily through on-base terminals or through the NCC Remote
        Access Server. Users wishing to access the MAN through the use of modems must meet spe-
        cific mission requirements. Mission needs will be dictated by the unit DAA and ultimately
        approved by the 62 CS. Users must submit such requests in writing through their flight chief,
        branch chief, or higher level authority and then coordinate the request through their SA, com-
        mander or staff agency chief, and finally to 62 CS/SCBN. If approved, 62 CS/SCBN will issue
        a separate login ID and password for modem users, distinct from their on-base MAN account.
        All such connections must comply with all MAN user identification and authentication
        requirements and AFMAN 33-223. Annually, UCMs will reevaluate the need for modem
        access that is granted.
        2.3.8.2. New Network Connections. The Wing IA office must confirm, prior to connecting a
        new network to the MAN, that the new network satisfies the security requirements established
        by this instruction. The confirmation process will include obtaining 62 CS Designated
        Approving Authority (DAA) approval to connect to the new network. A Memorandum of
        Agreement (MOA) will be developed between the UCM of the requesting organization and 62
        CS NCC. The MOA will include the following minimum information: C&A of the new server,
        data description and classification, user clearance levels, name of the DAA, group or unit com-
        mander, or staff agency chief who shall resolve conflicts, and intended recipients of transmit-
        ted data.
        2.3.8.3. Internet Protocol (IP) Addresses. Each authorized user will have an established IP
        address. The unauthorized use or change of an IP address is prohibited without prior coordina-
8                                                                     62AWI33-07 15 OCTOBER 1998


           tion with the NCC (4-2563). Violations will result in termination of the offending user’s access
           to the MAN with reinstatement only by written request of the user’s unit commander or staff
           agency chief.
    2.4. Personnel Security.
       2.4.1. Security Clearances. As stated in para 1.7.3, access to the MAN does not require a security
       clearance. However, personnel who have their security clearance suspended or revoked for cause,
       or receive administrative punishment (e.g., Article 15) will have their access eligibility to the
       MAN reviewed by the unit security manager and commander or staff agency chief. Once a deter-
       mination has been made to deny access to the MAN, the UCM will be notified and, in turn, he or
       she will notify the NCC, ensuring MAN access is revoked.
       2.4.2. Need-To-Know. Authorized access to the MAN occurs when a TASO notifies a UCM that
       an individual requires MAN access to perform official duties and that a PUID should be estab-
       lished. Each user is responsible for determining a person's need-to-know before disclosing infor-
       mation under their control.
    2.5. Hardware.
       2.5.1. File Server Access. Physical access to MAN file servers will be restricted by locating them
       in a climate-controlled, lockable enclosure such as a room, closet or cabinet. Access will be lim-
       ited to authorized personnel only, such as SAs and authorized maintenance personnel.
       2.5.2. Resource Protection. The first line of defense for protecting valuable assets is resource pro-
       tection. To prevent misuse, abuse, or theft, system hardware will be located in facilities which can
       be physically secured or locked.
       2.5.3. Major Additions/Modifications to Network Hardware. The NCC will assess all additions
       and modifications to major MAN hardware components. After the assessment is complete, the
       NCC will either recertify or not certify the recommended addition or modification when the pack-
       age is submitted to the DAA for approval. This requirement does not apply to the connection of
       user terminals or peripheral devices.
       2.5.4. Hardware Inventory. Organizational equipment control officers (ECOs) will ensure that all
       MAN hardware assets (e.g., workstations and printers) under their control are listed in the auto-
       mated data processing equipment Information Processing Management System (IPMS). The NCC
       will accomplish this task for MAN-wide assets. Organizational ECOs and NCC personnel will
       ensure the MAN accreditation control number is associated with each IPMS MAN equipment
       record.
       2.5.5. Hardware Maintenance. Only authorized maintenance personnel (e.g., NCC personnel,
       WGMs, and government-approved vendors) who are dispatched by the NCC will perform hard-
       ware maintenance on MAN equipment and workstations. Individual MAN users will not perform
       hardware maintenance or modifications without the express approval of the NCC. Additionally,
       vendor maintenance personnel will not be given unescorted access to sensitive information stor-
       age media or products during the repair or testing of system components.
       2.5.6. Hardware Configuration Control. The MAN Computer System Manager (CSM) is respon-
       sible for ensuring network hardware configuration control is in place and maintained.
    2.6. Software.
62AWI33-07 15 OCTOBER 1998                                                                              9


     2.6.1. Making Backup Copies of Original Network Software. SAs will make backup copies of all
     original network software that is installed as “standard” on all MAN file servers. WGMs will
     make backup copies of all original network software that is installed as a “unique” requirement on
     the file servers they maintain. Backup copies will be stored separately (preferably off-site) from
     the master copies whenever possible. They should be stored under lock and key due to the high
     pilferability of the software. Any duplication of commercially licensed software, except for
     backup purposes, is a violation of Federal copyright laws.
     2.6.2. Archiving (Backup) of MAN File Server Files. At a minimum, a daily incremental backup
     will be made for data files on each MAN file server or LAN file server connected to the MAN.
     2.6.3. Archiving (Backup) of User Files. Users are encouraged to periodically backup their per-
     sonal files. This is especially true for data files which are located on their workstation hard drive
     (i.e., C drive), since workstation files are not backed up in any way by the MAN file server backup
     process.
     2.6.4. Software Certification. All network operating system and application software that specifi-
     cally interacts with the MAN, but is not provided to units by official Air Force channels, must be
     tested Air Force level prior to its implementation. Network and application software testing will
     be accomplished to ensure the new software does not circumvent existing MAN security features.
     2.6.5. Software Configuration Control. The MAN CSM is responsible for ensuring network soft-
     ware configuration control is in place and maintained. At a minimum, the SA will maintain for
     each file server a current inventory of all software loaded and their approved implementation con-
     figuration.
     2.6.6. Security Software. When possible, security software products evaluated by the Air Force
     Information Warfare Center’s Product Assessment and Certification Center should be used to
     implement security safeguards. The Air Force Assessed Product List (APL) lists the available
     products.
     2.6.7. Malicious Software. Malicious software will not be installed on any MAN file server or
     workstation. Except for written approval from 62 CS/CC, this prohibition includes software that is
     specifically designed as packet analyzers with the purpose of capturing system passwords.
     2.6.8. Unauthorized Software. Only government approved software is authorized on the MAN.
     Games and pornographic software is unauthorized and will not be installed on any computer or
     file server. Unless approved by the DAA, group or unit commander or staff agency chief, freeware
     or shareware will not be authorized on the MAN file servers or workstations. Before installing any
     privately owned commercial software, freeware, or shareware, the DAA, group or unit com-
     mander or staff agency chief will verify a true need to do so and to ensure compliance with all
     applicable regulations.
     2.6.9. Using Government Owned Software for Personal Projects. DAAs, group or unit command-
     ers, or staff agency chiefs must approve any use of government computer equipment for personal
     educational projects, job hunting, or similar uses. All such approvals must set out the limitations
     found in DoD Directive 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation.
     2.6.10. Virus-Scanning.
        2.6.10.1. Scanning of Workstations and Servers. IAW with AFSSI 5102, the use of antiviral
        software is mandatory. Units will ensure that each server and workstation will have antiviral
10                                                                    62AWI33-07 15 OCTOBER 1998


            software to provide virus protection for MAN users. The UCM will ensure the antiviral soft-
            ware is kept up to date. At a minimum, the UCM or TASO will configure the program to auto-
            matically run when each machine initially boots up. SAs are responsible for loading antiviral
            software on each server on the MAN.
            2.6.10.2. Scanning Individual Workstation Storage Media. MAN users will perform a virus
            scan of floppy diskettes prior to any follow-on use of the diskettes on a MAN workstation.
            This includes workstations remotely connected to the MAN via a modem. The Wing IA office
            will provide the virus-scanning program to support this function. The unit OI will include
            guidance on how to use the virus scanning capability.
        2.6.11. File Encryption. Individuals are encouraged to encrypt their files for an added degree of
        security protection. The unit OI will include how to use file encryption, if applicable.
     2.7. Marking/Labeling.
        2.7.1. Labeling Removable Storage Media. Labels will be applied to all removable storage media
        (floppy diskettes, tapes, and hard drives) IAW AFSSI 5027, paragraph 5.6. Standard Form 711,
        Data Descriptor, will be used whenever possible. If SF 711 is not available for use, the original
        labels that came with the media may be used. Either label will indicate the storage media’s owner
        (by name or office symbol), use, and description of contents. Additionally, appropriate markings
        must be indicated on the label of all removable magnetic storage media that contains sensitive
        information. Air Force Visual Aid 205-15, Privacy Act Label, may be used to indicate the storage
        media containing personal data. All removable media will have one of the following classification
        labels: SF 706-TOP SECRET, SF 707-SECRET, SF 708-CONFIDENTIAL, or SF 710-UNCLAS-
        SIFIED.
        2.7.2. Marking/Labeling Controlled Unclassified Information. “FOUO,” “Sensitive But Unclassi-
        fied” information, and “Sensitive Information,” as defined by the Computer Security Act of 1987,
        fall into the category of “unclassified controlled information.” These types of information will be
        marked/labeled IAW DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, Appendix C, paragraphs
        2-201.b.(3), 3-301, and 6-601.
     2.8. Processing Classified Information. Currently, the MAN is not authorized to process classified
     information.
     2.9. Inadvertent Entry of Classified Information in the MAN. Classified information accidentally
     introduced into the MAN requires immediate reporting and intervention by key personnel. Procedures
     set forth in DoD 5200.1-R will be strictly adhered to. As a minimum, the following personnel will be
     notified: the SA, UCM, unit security manager, unit DAA, base NCC, Wing Information Assurance
     office, 62 CS/CC, and higher headquarters. NCC personnel will follow locally established procedures
     for purging classified information from the MAN.
     2.10. Computers Used to Process Classified Information. Systems accredited to process classified
     information in a stand-alone configuration must be physically disconnected from the MAN or unit
     local area network (LAN) when processing classified information. The specific security measures
     used must be included in the unit security OI, as required by paragraph 1.6.1.
     2.11. Sensitive Information.
        2.11.1. User Responsibility. It is the responsibility of each user to properly protect and safeguard
        all sensitive information under his or her control. Sensitive information is discussed in paragraph
62AWI33-07 15 OCTOBER 1998                                                                             11


     1.7.1, and defined in AFM 33-270. Please note that the aggregation of information can result in the
     creation of sensitive data. For those occasions when guidance is needed to determine if specific
     information is sensitive or not, contact 62 CS/SCBR (Records Management, 4-2888).
     2.11.2. Storage. The preferred method of storing sensitive information is to use removable storage
     media, such as floppy diskettes. However, sensitive information may be stored on the “C” drive. If
     you choose to store sensitive information on the “C” drive, the user must take the appropriate
     security measure to protect that information. See AFSSI 5102 for further guidance.
     2.11.3. Aggregating Data. When storing data on the MAN, each user must be careful to avoid col-
     lecting or grouping independent information where the sensitivity of the whole is greater than the
     sensitivity of the parts, potentially creating data not authorized for use on the MAN. In no case
     will users aggregate data for placement on the MAN when any portion of the data taken individu-
     ally, or taken as a whole, would be considered “classified.” Users should also limit use of sensitive
     information on e-mail systems accessed through the MAN. Individual users should consult with
     their functional managers to determine when issues regarding aggregated data arise.
     2.11.4. Transmitting Over E-Mail. When transmitting sensitive information over e-mail, the
     sender must ensure that the receiver is authorized to receive the data and has an official need to
     know. The e-mail message must conspicuously state that sensitive information is being transmit-
     ted. Further, if the message is transmitted to an off-site location, users are strongly encouraged to
     encrypt the message and all attachments. Use appropriate levels of protection to prevent unautho-
     rized disclosure of sensitive information. See AFI 33-119, Electronic Mail (E-Mail) Management
     and Use, for further information on this subject.
     2.11.5. Disposition. Computer products that contain sensitive information will be disposed of
     IAW AFI 37-138, Records Disposition-Procedures and Responsibilities, paragraph 3.10.
     2.11.6. Categories of Sensitive Information.
        2.11.6.1. Privacy Act Data. Privacy is a personal and fundamental right protected by the Con-
        stitution of the United States. Protecting individuals from unwarranted invasion of their per-
        sonal privacy is the overriding purpose of Privacy Act of 1974. Some common examples of
        non-releasable data to a third party (without the concerned individual’s consent) are medical
        records, recall rosters, manpower and personnel records, training records, individual financial
        information, information regarding marital status and dependents, ethnic background, reli-
        gious preference, and information of a personal nature. See AFI 33-132, Air Force Privacy Act
        Program, for detailed information.
        2.11.6.2. Privileged Data. This category is defined as data that is not subject to usual rules
        because of confidentiality imposed by law, such as certain chaplain, legal, and medical, safety,
        and internal organizational management records (i.e., quality assurance data or credentials
        committee records).
        2.11.6.3. Proprietary Data. Proprietary information is material and information relating to or
        associated with a company’s products, business, or activities. Examples of proprietary data are
        copyrighted material and patented material/information.
        2.11.6.4. Other Types of Sensitive Information. Other types of sensitive information are logis-
        tics records, procurement data, financial data, source selection sensitive data, investigative
        data, automated decision-making aids, maintenance records, auditor records, critical informa-
12                                                                    62AWI33-07 15 OCTOBER 1998


            tion, For Official Use Only (FOUO) data, critical technology data, scientific and technical data
            (which has national security-related implications), unit mobility or deployment information,
            and war reserve materiel data.
     2.12. Remanence Security. Remanence security is the control of residual information that remains on
     magnetic computer storage media after erasure by standard program utilities such as the DOS delete
     operation.
        2.12.1. Remanence Security Philosophy. Sensitive information must be protected from unautho-
        rized recovery of previously deleted data. This is accomplished by using either the remanence
        security process of clearing or purging. By definition, clearing removes sensitive information
        from computer storage devices (hard disks and floppy disks) in a manner that renders the data
        unrecoverable by normal system utilities or non-technical means. Clearing will not purge informa-
        tion from storage. Additionally, routines that only remove pointers and leave data intact are not
        acceptable methods of either clearing or purging storage devices. There are three authorized meth-
        ods of clearing magnetic computer storage media: (1) Overwrite all locations with any single char-
        acter. The Air Force APL identifies several commercial products that are available to overwrite all
        locations on MS-DOS formatted magnetic storage media (e.g., local hard drives and floppy dis-
        kettes). (2) Use a Type I degausser. (3) Destroy the magnetic storage media. Either method two or
        three must be used whenever the use of method one is not possible, such as when a hard drive is
        not operational. In contrast to clearing, purging is defined as the removal of sensitive information
        from computer storage devices in a manner that gives assurance, proportional to the sensitivity of
        the data, that the information is unrecoverable by technical means. Purging is associated with clas-
        sified data and will only be required when classified data is inadvertently entered into the MAN.
        See AFSSI 5020, Remanence Security, for additional information on clearing and purging mag-
        netic storage media.
        2.12.2. When to Clear Computer Magnetic Storage Media. Users and UCMs will clear magnetic
        storage media under their control that contain unclassified or sensitive information before reuti-
        lization or release from user control. Information owners will review files for record management
        disposition requirements prior to clearing the files from the magnetic storage media.
            2.12.2.1. Users and UCMs will clear magnetic storage media (hard disks and floppy diskettes)
            whenever the media is reallocated to another work center or is no longer needed in the perfor-
            mance of official duties. Clearing is not required when an employee leaves an office and the
            workstation remains under the control of the functional organization.
            2.12.2.2. User workstations and MAN file servers do not require clearing of sensitive infor-
            mation when NCC personnel perform equipment maintenance. If NCC personnel cannot
            repair the equipment, the NCC will notify the equipment user that vendor maintenance is
            required. Prior to sending a workstation to vendor maintenance, the hard drive files will be
            reviewed by the user to determine if sensitive information has been stored on the hard drive. If
            sensitive information is found, either the hard drive must be removed or those files containing
            sensitive information must be cleared. Prior to sending file servers to vendor maintenance, the
            file server hard drive will either be removed or all data files must be cleared to prevent the
            inadvertent release of sensitive information.
            2.12.2.3. UCMs or SAs will clear file server directories and the associated files assigned to
            individual users when the user departs the organization, or when the user no longer requires
62AWI33-07 15 OCTOBER 1998                                                                             13


         access to the file server to perform official duties. UCMs or SAs will use the NetWare purge
         utility to remove any residual data stored on the MAN file servers.
  2.13. Security Training.
     2.13.1. Initial and Follow-Up User Security Training. All new users will receive initial training on
     the MAN security features prior to being authorized access to the MAN. The TASO and UCM will
     provide the training prior to establishing a new account. At a minimum, it will cover the require-
     ments addressed in this instruction and the organizational OI. Follow-up security training using
     the SAFEWARE computer program will be conducted annually by the TASO and UCM. TASOs
     and UCMs will document each user’s name and date trained.
     2.13.2. Specialized Security Training. UCM and TASO responsibilities are outlined in AFSSI
     5102. Wing IA will conduct some training during the required annual UCM meeting. Additionally,
     training aids received from HQ AMC will be provided to all base UCMs by the Wing IA office.
     The SAs should request training from the vendor of the specific operating system they are using.
  2.14. Reporting Vulnerabilities or Incidents. MAN users will immediately report vulnerabilities,
  security incidents, or unauthorized entry into the computer system to their UCM. UCMs will perform
  an initial evaluation of each security problem or incident, document the circumstances, begin correc-
  tive or protective measures, and accomplish follow-on reporting as required. In the case of an
  in-progress intrusion or suspicious activity, the UCM will immediately contact the Air Force Com-
  puter Emergency Response Team (AFCERT) at DSN 969-3157, toll free 1-800-854-0187, or commer-
  cial (210) 977-3157, and the Wing IA office. Suspicious activities include: browsing; disruption or
  denial of service; altered or destroyed input, processing, storage, or output of information; or changes
  to system hardware, firmware or software characteristics without the owner's knowledge. Formal
  reporting of COMPUSEC incidents is accomplished IAW AFSSI 5021, Vulnerability and Incident
  Reporting. See Attachments 5 and 6 for reporting formats.
  2.15. Malicious Logic Incidents. AFSSI 5021 provides instructions for reporting viruses detected in a
  government-owned information system. The user, upon detecting a suspected or actual malicious
  logic infection, must notify the UCM. If able, the user will remove the virus using approved antiviral
  software. The UCM will remove the virus if the user is incapable of doing so. Wing IA personnel can
  also assist the UCM or TASO in removing the virus. Upon discovery of a virus, a formal virus incident
  report (see Attachment 4) will be sent immediately to the Wing IA office. Therefore, pertinent viral
  information should be recorded at the time the virus is detected and removed. The Wing IA office will
  forward the report to HQ AMC and AFCERT along with the action taken by the user, UCM or Wing
  IA personnel.
  2.16. Internet Fraud, Waste, and Abuse (FWA) Reporting Procedures. All users must report potential
  security violations or other incidents directly to their TASO and UCM. UCMs will determine the
  appropriate level of notification IAW AFSSI 5021, Table 1, for individual incidents. Non-COM-
  PUSEC incidents may fall under the jurisdiction of other programs for investigation and reporting
  purposes. Examples include inadvertent disclosure of classified information (may or may not involve
  compromise); theft of information or information systems resources; Internet fraud, waste, and abuse
  (FWA), and copyright violations. You may use AF Form 102, Inspector General Complaint Data
  Collection, for reporting to the IG, or you may call the hotline at DSN 223-5030, toll free
  1-800-424-9098. You may also use AF Form 635, USAF Fraud, Waste, and Abuse Disclosure, for
14                                                                      62AWI33-07 15 OCTOBER 1998


     reporting FWA incidents to the AFOSI. Unit commanders will be notified of any FWA incidents.
     Keep in mind the UCM may play an active role in the investigation and correction after the fact.
     2.17. Unattended Terminals. A terminal in a public access, unsecured location that is logged onto the
     MAN will not be left unattended unless the user either logouts of the MAN (the preferred method),
     uses a password-protected screen saver, and/or employs physical measures (i.e., keyboard locks). A
     terminal will be logged out of the MAN prior to the user leaving at the end of their work shift.
     2.18. Personally Owned Computers. Personal computers owned by Air Force members, government
     employees, or contractor personnel will not be used to process classified information. Personally
     owned computers will not be connected to the MAN. The use of personally owned computers at work
     is strongly discouraged, however, it may be used for processing unclassified and SBU information
     with DAA approval. IAW AFSSI 5102, para 3.9.4, written DAA approval will specify the conditions
     under which the computer will operate and the duration of the approval. If the personally owned com-
     puter is used outside of the work area, government-owned SBU information must remain on remov-
     able media and be marked and protected accordingly. Using personally owned computer hardware and
     software for official business should be a last resort and actions should be taken to preclude their use.
     2.19. Review of MAN Communications-Computer Systems Requirement Document (CSRD) for
     Security Impact. The Wing IA office will review the technical solution for each major MAN CSRD
     submission for possible impact on the MAN security capabilities. The review is required prior to sub-
     mission of the CSRD for final approval.
     2.20. Configuring a Workstation as a Web Server. Some programs (i.e., Super TCP/IP and Windows
     95) delivered as part of a standard workstation software package have the ability to convert a worksta-
     tion into a Web Server. Workstations configured as Web Servers may create additional vulnerabilities
     to a user's personal data and the MAN system. MAN workstations will not be converted into a Web
     Server unless it meets the requirement in AFI 33-129, Transmission of Information via the Internet,
     and be approved by the DAA in writing.
     2.21. Two Accounts for Persons with MAN Supervisor Privileges. Personnel who have a MAN
     account with supervisor privileges (including SAs, UCMs, and Wing IA personnel) will have a second
     account with user-only privileges established. Personnel will login with supervisor privileges only
     when performing supervisor tasks. At all other times, they will login via the second account as a reg-
     ular MAN user.
     2.22. Air Force Computer Emergency Response Team (AFCERT) Advisories. These advisories iden-
     tify specific software and operating system vulnerabilities. By naming affected platforms and making
     recommendations for corrections, patches, or workarounds, the vulnerability of applicable named sys-
     tems is minimized to an acceptable level. SAs and UCMs will receipt for each advisory and ensure the
     corrective actions to each vulnerability, as recommended in the AFCERT advisory, is immediately
     implemented. Furthermore, the SA and UCM will receipt for every AFCERT advisory within 24
     hours of receipt, by e-mail, to the Wing IA office. Upon implementation of the recommended solution,
     the SA and/or the UCM will immediately inform the IA office of what action was taken. If immediate
     implementation of the corrective action is not possible, provide Wing IA with a weekly status report
     on what action is being taken to comply with the advisory. SAs and UCMs will send a courtesy copy
     of all outgoing reports to their unit commander. The Wing IA office will consolidate all unit responses
     and forward a summary report to HQ AMC IPC. The IA office will also file unit responses and update
62AWI33-07 15 OCTOBER 1998                                                                    15


  its AFCERT database with actions taken. See AMCI 33-202, Volume 1, Information Assurance, para-
  graph 6.2, for information on security advisory registration, implementation, and tracking.



                                               RAYMOND E. JOHNS, JR., Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander, 62d Airlift Wing
16                                                                  62AWI33-07 15 OCTOBER 1998


                                            Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMAION

References
AFI 90-301, Inspector General Complaints
AFI 33-119, Electronic Mail (E-Mail) Management and Use
AFI 33-129, Transmission of Information via the Internet
AFI 33-132, Air Force Privacy Act Program
AFI 33-219, Telecommunications Monitoring and Assessment Program (TMAP)
AFM 33-270, Command, Control, Communications, and Computers (C4) Systems Security Glossary
AFMAN 33-223, Identification and Authentication
AFSSI 5001, Security Policy Development Guide
AFSSI 5020, Remanence Security
AFSSI 5021, Vulnerability and Incident Reporting
AFSSI 5024, Volume I, The Certification and Accreditation Process
AFSSI 5024, Volume II, The Certifying Official's Instruction
AFSSI 5027, Network Security Policy
AFSSI 5102, The Computer Security (COMPUSEC) Program
AFSSM 5023, Viruses and Other Form of Malicious Logic
AMCI 33-202, Volume 1, Information Assurance
DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program
DoDD 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation
HQ AMC Wing LAN Security Directive

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADPE—Automated Data Processing Equipment
AFCERT—Air Force Computer Emergency Response Team
AFI—Air Force Instructions
AFSSI—Air Force Systems Security Instructions
AFSSM—Air Force Systems Security Memorandum
APL—Assessed Product Listing
C&A—Certification and Accreditation
COMPUSEC—Computer Security
62AWI33-07 15 OCTOBER 1998                                                                          17


CSM—Computer Security Manager
CSRD—Communications-Computer Requirements Document
CSSO—Computer Systems Security Officer
DAA—Designated Approving Authority
DAC—Discretionary Access Control
ECO—Equipment Control Officer
E-MAIL—Electronic Mail
FWA—Fraud, Waste, and Abuse
GUID—Group User Identification
IA—Information Assurance
IPMS—Information Processing Management System
MAN—Metropolitan Area Network
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
NCC—Network Control Center
NCSC—National Computer Security Center
PUID—Personal User Identification
SA—System Administrator
TASO—Terminal Area Security Officer
UCM—Unit COMPUSEC Manager
WGM—Work Group Manager

Terms
Accreditation —Formal declaration by the DAA that an information system is approved to operate in a
particular security mode using a prescribed set of safeguards and controls.
Information System—Any equipment or interconnected system or subsystems of equipment that is used
in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching,
interchange, transmission, or reception of data and includes software, hardware and firmware.
Certification—Comprehensive evaluation of the technical and non-technical security features and
countermeasures of an information system to establish the extent to which a particular design and
implementation meet a set of specific security requirements.
Computer Security Manager (CSM)—Official with supervisory or management responsibility for an
organization, activity, or functional area that owns or operates an information system.
Countermeasure—The sum of a safeguard and its associated controls.
Designated Approving Authority (DAA)—Official with the authority to formally assume responsibility
for operating an information system or network within specified environment.
18                                                               62AWI33-07 15 OCTOBER 1998


Information—Data derived from observing phenomena and the instructions required to convert that data
into meaningful information. NOTE: Includes operating system information such as system parameter
settings, password files, audit data, etc.
Safeguards—Protective measures and control prescribed to meet the security requirements of an
information system.
62AWI33-07 15 OCTOBER 1998                                                                                 19


                                              Attachment 2

               PERSONAL USER ID (PUID)/GROUP USER ID (GUID) RECEIPT


The following is the Personal User ID (PUID)/Group User ID (GUID) Receipt worksheet. This receipt
will be used to formally acknowledge proper password accountability and network use.
Personal User ID (PUID)/Group User ID (GUID) Receipt
I declare an official duty requirement for an account on the McChord Metropolitan Area Network
(MAN). I understand I am responsible for the protection of the password for my account. I will comply
with these instructions. I will not divulge the password to any other individual. I will report to the Unit
COMPUSEC Manager (UCM) or Wing Information Assurance (4-2945/5726) any problem(s) I
encounter in the use of the password or any misuse of passwords by other personnel which may occur in
my presence. I will abide by these rules for all government systems to which I have access.


______________________________                             ____________________
LOGON (User ID)                                            Office Symbol


______________________________                             ____________________
Last, First, Middle Initial                                Rank/Grade


______________________________                             ____________________
Organization                                               Phone


Unclassified User Agreement
CONSENT TO MONITORING: Official U.S. Government Systems are for authorized use only. Do
not discuss, enter, transfer, process, or transmit classified/sensitive national security information of
greater sensitivity than that for which this system is authorized. Use of this official U.S. Government
System constitutes consent to security testing and monitoring.


1. I am responsible for all activity that occurs under my PUID. (This does not include those actions
resulting from unauthorized intrusions that are beyond the user's control.) I will protect the password
that authenticates the identifier, using the security classification of For Official Use Only (FOUO).
2. I will not permit anyone else to use the PUID given to me, and I will change my password at least
every 90 days.
3. I will not automate the entry of my password, and I will store it in a manner that minimizes its
exposure to disclosure.
20                                                                      62AWI33-07 15 OCTOBER 1998


4. I will comply with AFI 33-119, Electronic Mail (E-Mail) Management and Use; AFI 33-129,
Transmission of Information via the Internet; and any other related Air Force Instructions. I will also
comply with any Air Mobility Command and 62d Air Wing Instructions and policy on Internet use,
e-mail use, and other related topics. Some of the following specific prohibitions are identified in these
AFI’s:
a. I will not add any software or hardware to the system without authorization from my Designated
Approving Authority (DAA) who is _______________________.
b. I understand that I am not allowed to view/place computer games or pornography on official
government systems, or to use official government systems for personal financial gain.
c. I will not install any freeware or shareware on my computer without the written permission of the
DAA and the Wing Information Assurance office.
d. If I have an Internet Protocol (IP) address, which allows access to the Internet, I will not change it, nor
will I attempt to enter any sites using any form of Web Protocol that are in violation of AFI 33-129.
e. I know it is a security violation for any user to mask their identity or use the identity of another user.
f. I know this system is for unclassified and sensitive unclassified information (Privacy Act and FOUO).
(1) I will not enter data into the system if the data is of a higher classification level than the system. I
will not enter data that is proprietary, contractor excluded, or otherwise needs special protection, unless
approved by the host UCM.
(2) Only authorized personnel are authorized access to my microcomputer.
(3) I will not release government information to the public unless authorized.
(4) I will transfer sensitive information on the base MAN only to those authorized to receive such
information and will store it only on a server, workstation, or stand-alone computer that utilizes the
proper access/security controls (passwords and authorized login ID) IAW current directives.
5. If I observe anything that indicates inadequate security for this system, I will immediately notify the
local TASO and UCM.
6. I will report any suspected instances of fraudulent or unauthorized practices or use immediately to my
immediate supervisor or through the procedures stated in AFI 90-301, Inspector General Complaints.
7. I agree to follow my office security procedures, official regulations, and policies applicable to
information system operations. This certificate is only a short summary to stress these key points.
I understand this agreement, acknowledge receipt of the unclassified PUID, and will keep the system
secure. I also understand that use of this system constitutes consent to security testing and monitoring.
Unauthorized use could result in disciplinary action or criminal prosecution.



__________________                       _________________________________
Date                                     Signature


__________________                       _________________________________
Date                                     UCM Verification of Training
62AWI33-07 15 OCTOBER 1998                                                                     21


                                         Attachment 3

                                       LOGIN BANNER


“This is a Department of Defense computer system for authorized use only. DoD computer systems
  may be monitored for all lawful purposes, including to ensure that their use is authorized, for
   management of the system, to facilitate against unauthorized access, and to verify security
   procedures, survivability, and operational security. Using this system constitutes consent to
 monitoring. All information, including personal information, placed on or sent over this system
  may be obtained during monitoring. Unauthorized use could result in criminal prosecution.”

The McChord AFB MAN and each information system will display the following login banner. [Source:
AFI 33-219, Telecommunications Monitoring and Assessment Program (TMAP), para A2.3.5, dated 1
June 1998.]
22                                                                   62AWI33-07 15 OCTOBER 1998


                                              Attachment 4

                                      VIRUS INCIDENT REPORT


      The following is the format to be used when reporting malicious logic incidents. Requests for
     assistance in filling out this form should be directed to the unit UCM. If necessary, contact the
            Wing Information Assurance Office (DSN 984-5726/3809) for further assistance.


1. Date Reported:___________________________
2. Report Individual Information:                         8. Impact (Choose all that apply):
   a. Rank/Name___________________________                   a. Data Alteration
   b. Organization__________________________                 b. Denial of Service
   c. DSN Phone___________________________                   c. Data Integrity
   d. E-mail Address________________________                 d. None
3. Date of Incident:_________________________             9. Number of Systems Infected:___________
                                                             Number of Floppies Infected:___________
4. Virus Name:____________________________                   Network/IP:_________________________
5. Operating System:_______________________               10. Work-Hours Lost:___________________
   Version #:______________________________
                                                          11. Fix Action:
6. Antiviral Tool/Software Used:______________               a. Rebuilt System
                                                             b. Eradicated Virus
7. Is the Information System Mission Critical?               c. Destroyed Floppy
   Yes No
12. Mission of Computer/Impact of Virus on Mission:___________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
13. Damage Observation:__________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
14. Source of Infection:____________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
62AWI33-07 15 OCTOBER 1998                                                                      23


                                          Attachment 5

                                INITIAL INTRUDER REPORT


The following is the format to be used when reporting intrusion incidents. Requests for assistance
 in filling out this form should be directed to the unit UCM or SA. If necessary, contact the Wing
              Information Assurance Office (DSN 984-5726/3809) for further assistance.


1. Report Date:_____________________________
2. Report Originator Information:
   a. Rank/Name__________________________                f. E-mail Address____________________
   b. Unit/Base____________________________              g. Message Address__________________
   c. DSN Phone__________________________                   h. Mailing Address___________________
   d. Position_____________________________                     ________________________________
   e. MAJCOM___________________________                         ________________________________
3. Target Information (Additional targets need separate sheet):
   a. Network Domain Name________________________________________________
   b. IP Address__________________________________________________________
   c. Computer Model (i.e., Sparc 5)__________________________________________
   d. Operating System/Version______________________________________________
   e. Security Mode of Operation_____________________________________________
   f. Network/System Mission_______________________________________________
   g. Security Classification_________________________________________________
   h. Network Structure/Type________________________________________________
   i. How Detected________________________________________________________
   j. Impact on Mission_____________________________________________________
   k. Information System Auditing____________________________________________
4. Attack Session Information (Correlates with the target information):
   a. Date(s) of Session_____________________________________________________
   b. Time_______________________________________________________________
   c. Attack Method_______________________________________________________
   d. Success_____________________________________________________________
   e. Account (Include host name if available___________________________________
   f. First Layer Point of Origin______________________________________________
5. Brief Scenario (Description of incident):_____________________________________
________________________________________________________________________
24                                                        62AWI33-07 15 OCTOBER 1998


________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________
6. Countermeasure(s) Installed:_______________________________________________
   Name and Date Installed:__________________________________________________
7. Notifications (Indicate name, date, and time notified):
   a. UCM_______________________________________________________________
   b. Wing Information Assurance Office______________________________________
   c. MAJCOM Information Assurance Office__________________________________
   d. AFCERT___________________________________________________________
62AWI33-07 15 OCTOBER 1998                                                                              25


                                             Attachment 6

                                    VULNERABILITY REPORT


 The following is the format to be used when reporting vulnerabilities. Requests for assistance in
  filling out this form should be directed to the unit UCM or SA. If necessary, contact the Wing
             Information Assurance Office (DSN 984-5726/3809) for further assistance.


1. Report Date:________________________
2. Report Originator Information:
   a. Rank/Name_______________________ f. E-mail Address_______________________
   b. Unit/Base ________________________ g. Message Address_____________________
    c. DSN Phone _______________________ h. Mailing Address______________________
    d. Position___________________________
    e. MAJCOM_________________________
3. Description of Technical/Administrative Vulnerability:
(Describe the nature and effect of the vulnerability. The description should sufficiently reconstruct the
computing environment so you can repeat the flaw without further information. Describe codes or
procedures discovered that might reduce the impact of the vulnerability.)
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
4. Impact (Choose one):
    a. Denial of Service    b. Integrity c. Compromise
    d. Others (Fully explain)______________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________
5. Hardware and Software Information:
 a. CPU Model______________________________________________________________
 b. Configuration (Indicate if the Information System is a workstation or stand alone)______
 c. Name and Version Number of Affected Software________________________________
 d. Security Classification_____________________________________________________
6. Connectivity:
26                                                     62AWI33-07 15 OCTOBER 1998


a. LAN Name, MAJCOM, Unit_________________________________________________
b. WAN Name, MAJCOM, Unit________________________________________________
c. Attack Method____________________________________________________________
7. Work-Hours Lost:_________________________________________________________
8. Notifications (Identify vendors, developers, and COMPUSEC
Individuals_________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________
