BY THE ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 62 AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 34-04
HQ 62D AIRLIFT WING                                                                        28 APRIL 2003

                                                                                                   Services

                                                         RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) STORAGE
                                                                                COMPOUND



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 62 SVS/SVRO (Ms. Rector)                                     Certified by: 62 SVS/CC (Maj Brown)
Supersedes 62 AWI 34-4, 5 July 2001                                                            Pages: 4
                                                                                        Distribution: F




SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

This instruction establishes procedures for the use of the Recreation Vehicle (RV) storage compound. The
compound is the fenced and graveled area (on South Gate Road). This instruction applies to active-duty
Air Force, retired military, National Guard, Active Reserves, and other branches of DoD Service that wish
to use the compound for storage of their property. This instruction is affected by the Privacy Act of 1974.
The form that is prescribed by this instruction is subject to the provisions of AFI 37-132 and contains a
Privacy Act Statement incorporated into the body of the form.


1. Responsibility. The 62d Services Squadron Community Support Flight (62 SVS/SVR) and Outdoor
Recreation Program (SVRO) and the RV Storage Manager, are responsible for the operation of the Recre-
ation Vehicle (RV) Storage Compound. The RV Storage Manager is responsible for the general mainte-
nance of the facility to ensure it is relatively free of weeds and trash before assignment of parking spaces
to customers. The RV Storage Manager will identify space numbers, repair fence and gates as necessary,
assign and terminate electronic codes, keep accurate patron records and ensure a reasonable access sys-
tem. Improvements are subject to approval of the 62d Airlift Wing Commander (62 AW/CC).

2. Personal Liability. RV Lot Patrons understand and agree that RVs stored or parked at the RV Storage
Compound are susceptible to vandalism and other damage. They understand and accept that the storage of
their units in the RV Storage Compound is at their own risk. Insurance is highly recommended to provide
financial protection in the event of damage, whatever the cause (i.e., theft, falling branches, vandalism,
fire, Acts of God, etc.) occurring while in this compound.
2                                                                           62AWI34-04 28 APRIL 2003


3. Definition. Recreational Vehicle (RV): A RV is defined as a boat, trailer, boat/trailer combination,
camper (vehicle mounted or body on chassis type), bus, motor home, snowmobile, and miscellaneous
items (canoe, kayak, 4-wheeler, etc.).

4. Authorized Customers. Authorized patrons, by priority, are as follows:
    4.1. Priority One: Active-duty Air Force personnel assigned to and residing on McChord AFB.
    On-base residents are ensured the first available opening.
    4.2. Priority Two: Active-duty Air Force personnel assigned or attached (copy of orders may be
    requested) to McChord AFB and residing off base (placed on a waiting list).
    4.3. Priority Three: Retired military, Active Reservists, and National Guard. Use is determined on a
    month-by-month basis depending on active-duty requirements.
NOTE: Lower priority groups may be bumped if all spaces are full; however, lower priority personnel
will be given seven days’ notice to remove their property and they will obtain a pro-rated refund and
placed back at the top of the waiting list.

5. User Fees. A minimum two-month fee will be charged for each storage space. Fees and late fees are
approved by the 62 AW Commander following review by the NAF Council. Fees are assessed and col-
lected upon registration, in advance. Advance fees paid semi-annually or annually are granted a dis-
counted rate. Payment is required regardless of how often or how long the RV is removed from the
compound in order to ensure a patron’s parking space. Users who are delinquent in payments will be
charged late fees as determined by the Nonappropriated Fund Council (NAF). Fees are subject to change.
Any refunds requested are based on the date customer notifies the RV Lot Manager/Adventures Unlimited
staff. If the compound is used beyond the seventh of the month, there will be NO REFUND for that
month.

6. Application Procedures and Assignment of Parking Spaces. Applications for assignment of a RV
space are made in person to the Adventures Unlimited Center, Building 739, McChord AFB. The RV
Storage Registration/Receipt will be used to assign and monitor parking spaces in the storage compound.
Applicants must produce a valid identification card. Applicants must complete the RV Storage Registra-
tion/Receipt in the presence of a witness to relieve the United States Air Force of unwarranted liability.
The original will be furnished to the patron (white copy), the yellow copy will be forwarded to the NAF
Resource Management Office, and the pink copy will be maintained at Adventures Unlimited. At the time
of registration, an individual four-digit access code will be assigned to the patron for input into the elec-
tronic gate keyboard located at the entrance gate of the compound. This code affords 24-hour accessibil-
ity. Specific written directions will be provided on correct use of the electronic gate system at time of
registration.

7. Customer Responsibilities:
    7.1. Customers will park RVs in the designated spaces and secure all windows, vents, doors, and exte-
    rior attachments. Chocks are highly recommended to secure vehicles from movement during high
    winds. Repair of property or the washing of said property is not authorized in the compound.
    7.2. Customers are responsible for the safekeeping of their property.
62AWI34-04 28 APRIL 2003                                                                                  3


   7.3. Individuals are responsible for the maintenance of the respective spaces once assigned (includes
   trash removal, clutter control etc.).
   7.4. Customers wishing to terminate storage must coordinate with the RV Storage Manager or Adven-
   tures Unlimited staff for refund eligibility, and clear their spaces for other personnel, and schedule a
   final inspection of their spaces.
   7.5. If theft or damage occurs within the RV storage compound, the customer should contact the RV
   Lot Manager or the Adventures Unlimited staff and the Law Enforcement Desk immediately.
   7.6. Patrons are not allowed to let others enter the RV compound on their access code, nor shall they
   allow other vehicles or persons access to the lot while entering or leaving the compound. Security of
   the area is greatly dependent on customer adherence to these principles. Violators may lose their RV
   storage privileges.
   7.7. Customers storing motorized units; i.e., motor homes, outboard boats, four wheelers, etc., will be
   required to provide and maintain drip pans(s) for their units. Anyone who cannot readily provide and
   maintain drip pans will pay a yearly fee to have the RV Storage Lot Manager perform this service for
   them.

8. Delinquent Accounts:
   8.1. If payment is not made in person at Adventures Unlimited or postmarked by the seventh of the
   month due, late fees will be charged.
   8.2. If payment is not received by the 16th day of the month due, the RV’s wheels will be locked up
   and patron’s access code will be removed until payment and late fees are made.
   8.3. If payment is not received within 60 days of the first day of the month due, action to impound and
   dispose of patron’s property will begin. A military payment order (MPO) will also be initiated through
   NAF Resource Management procedures.
   8.4. The customer remains responsible for late penalties and all past-due payments, regardless of
   whether they were notified by the RV Lot Manager.
   8.5. If the account is over 60 days delinquent, the RV Storage Manager reserves the right to move
   such property whether or not the owners can be readily contacted.

9. Storage Policy:
   9.1. Vehicles must be personal property of the person authorized storage privileges and must be
   parked and stored only in the spaces or area assigned by the RV Storage Manager or Adventures
   Unlimited staff.
   9.2. No automobiles or trucks will be stored, whether they are on or in storage-type trailers. Also, per-
   sonnel are not authorized to leave their automobiles (or friends vehicles) in the RV Storage Lot while
   their RV is out, except as follows:
       9.2.1. Customers of the RV lot will be allowed to park their non-RV in their assigned space(s) for
       up to 14 days under the following conditions: (1) Notify the RV Manager or the Adventures
       Unlimited Staff with dates the patron will have their non-RV stored in the lot; (2) Provide an emer-
       gency contact number that the RV Lot Manager/Adventures Unlimited Staff can contact if any-
4                                                                          62AWI34-04 28 APRIL 2003


       thing happens to the vehicle; and, (3) Provide the license plate number of the non-RV to the RV
       Manager or staff.
       9.2.2. If the patron will be out longer than two weeks, other arrangements need to be made with
       the RV Lot Manager.
    9.3. Oversized RV s that are 20 feet or more in length will only be parked in space numbers 195
    through 229.
    9.4. No RV or equipment will be allowed to extend beyond the length of the parking space, or other-
    wise impede the traffic flow or access to and from another RV parking space. This includes units that
    are encroaching on another customer’s space. If an assigned space is blocked for any reason, the space
    holder will contact the RV Storage Manager or Adventures Unlimited Staff so corrective action can be
    taken.
    9.5. If the RV equipment is improperly placed/parked, the RV Storage Manager reserves the right to
    move such property if the owners cannot be readily contacted.
    9.6. Personnel are not authorized to stay overnight in the compound.

10. General. For fee schedule and other information regarding this RV storage compound, contact
Adventures Unlimited at 982-2206/2303/2880.



                                                     ROBERT R. ALLARDICE, Colonel, USAF
                                                     Commander, 62d Airlift Wing
