BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                  62 AW INSTRUCTION 48-2
HQ 62D AIRLIFT WING (AMC)                                                                 15 April 2000

                                                                                    Aerospace Medicine

                                                             OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH PROGRAM




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO/PP WWW site at:
              http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.

OPR: 62 MDOS/SGOAM                                                            Certified by: 62 MDG/CC
       (Lt Col Donna M. Johnson-Bacon)                                         (Col Suzanne R. Hansen)
Supersedes 62 AWI 48-2, 30 October 1995                                                          Pages: 8
                                                                                          Distribution: F

This instruction establishes responsibilities and procedures for conducting occupational health programs
at McChord AFB. It summarizes occupational health requirements found in AFI 44-102, Community
Health Management and is consistent with the Air Force Safety and Health Standards (AFOSH STD)
48-19, Hazardous Noise Program; 161-8, Controlling Exposures to Hazardous Materials and 161-20,
Hearing Conservation Program. This instruction applies to all agencies or attached to McChord AFB.



1. References :
   1.1. AFI 44-102, Community Health Management
   1.2. AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational Environmental Safety, Fire Protection and Health (AFOSH
   Program
   1.3. AFOSH Standard 48-19, Hazardous Noise Program
   1.4. AFOSH Standard 161-20, Hearing Conservation Program

2. GENERAL: Occupational health examinations are provided to military and civilian personnel work-
ing in areas designated by the Aeromedical Council as being potentially hazardous to health. Tests needed
to detect harmful effects from a known or potential hazard in the work environment are accomplished.

3. Definition of Terms:
   3.1. Pre-placement Examinations. These examinations are designed to assess the physical capabilities
   and limitations in relation to job requirements. Pre-placement examinations are given before employ-
   ment to document baseline data for use in future medical evaluations.
2                                                                            62AWI48-2 15 April 2000

    3.2. Audiometric Examinations. A hearing test given to personnel performing duties in designated
    noise hazard areas. These audiograms are: pre-placement (reference), annual and on termination of
    service/employment. When necessary, additional follow-up audiograms and (or) medical examina-
    tions may be required.
    3.3. Pre-placement (reference) Audiograms. These must be done on all employees in hazardous noise
    jobs within 30 days of assignment. Individuals scheduled for reference hearing tests must be kept out
    of loud noise for at least 15 hours before the test. Individuals scheduled for follow-up tests may do
    their normal job with proper hearing protection, unless otherwise notified.
    3.4. H-1 Profile Hearing Standards. All individuals must have an H-1 profile for employment in a
    potentially hazardous noise workplace. Civilian and military applicants for these occupational catego-
    ries who do not meet the H-1 profile will be considered for waiver following a detailed evaluation by
    an Air Force or civilian audiologist. H-1 profile is defined as follows: the audiometric threshold for
    each of the frequencies of 500, 1000 and 2000 Hz must not exceed 25dB. In addition, the total or sum
    of the audiometric threshold at the frequencies of 3000, 4000 and 6000 Hz for both ears must not
    exceed a total of 270dB.
    3.5. Special Purpose Occupational Health Examinations. These are done at specified times
    (pre-placement, periodic and termination) to evaluate the health effects of work exposures. The scope
    and frequency are determined by the Aeromedical Council with consideration of exposure factors,
    regulatory guidance and professional review. Test requirements are based on industrial hygiene sur-
    veillance evaluations and (or) the findings of previous medical examinations.
    3.6. Termination Occupational Health Examinations. Examinations done upon separation of that
    employee from that workplace which is identified as a shop receiving occupational examinations. The
    Public Health Master Occupational Health Exam Coding List identifies workplaces, which receive
    occupational health exams. Termination occupational health examinations are offered to all civilian
    employees who are assigned to workplaces, which receive occupation health exams. The termination
    exams will be performed by the 62d Medical Group, and are to be completed within 90 days of date of
    separation; i.e., retirement, separation, permanent change of assignment (PCA). Active duty military,
    assigned to a workplace which receive occupation health exams, will be required to receive termina-
    tion exams upon retirement, separation, PCS, or PCA.
    3.7. Occupational Health Monitors. These are individuals designed by the unit commander to monitor
    the Occupational Health Program for their shop. They monitor and coordinate procedures necessary to
    implement the Occupational Health Program and ensure all members in their area receive occupa-
    tional health examinations. (Attachment 1)
    3.8. Pregnancy Interviews. Interviews are accomplished for both military and civilian personnel to
    help determine the possible effects of workplace exposure on the fetus or the mother. Recommenda-
    tions for duty restrictions are based on information provided by the employee, her supervisor, review
    of the Supplemental Industrial Case File (if applicable) and consultation with Bioenvironmental Engi-
    neering.
    3.9. Occupational Exposure Limit (OEL). Airborne concentrations of substances that represent con-
    ditions under which it is believed that nearly all workers may be repeatedly exposed day after day
    without adverse effect.
    3.10. Action Level. A time weighted average concentration of which occupationally exposed individ-
    uals will start receiving occupational health exams, unless otherwise specified.
62AWI48-2 15 April 2000                                                                               3

   3.11. Hazardous Noise Area. A work area where the weighted sound level (continuous or intermit-
   tent) is greater than 85dB; a work area where the peak sound pressure level (impulse or impact noise)
   exceeds 140dB.

4. Procedures and Responsibilities:
   4.1. Public Health will:
      4.1.1. Provide technical assistance and consultation to shops in the development of occupational
      health training programs.
      4.1.2. Visit areas, at least annually, where employees are required to receive occupational health
      examinations.
      4.1.3. Interview pregnant workers to identify whether a potential workplace hazard exists.
      4.1.4. Be the point of contact for individuals/organizations who experience problems or have
      questions concerning occupational health programs.
   4.2. Bioenvironmental Engineering Services will:
      4.2.1. Perform baseline, annual and special workplace surveys, and report their findings to the
      workplace supervisor and Public Health. The reports will identify both measures exposure con-
      centration and personal protective equipment requirements.
      4.2.2. Perform annual industrial workplace evaluations to validate and update data collected dur-
      ing the baseline study and send a written report back to the workplace shop supervisor outlining
      their findings.
      4.2.3. Identify all tasks where chemical/physical exposures are above the action level and (or)
      OEL, and report their findings to the workplace shop supervisor and to the Aeromedical Council.
      4.2.4. Conduct special evaluations to investigate health hazards associated with identified occu-
      pational illness when requested (in writing) by an organization commander, a supervisor, an
      employee representative, or employee; or as a result of findings during an annual workplace eval-
      uation.
   4.3. Physical Exams will:
      4.3.1. Schedule occupational exams using Periodic Health Assessment (PHA) standards. Individ-
      uals will be notified when to schedule their exams through TRICARE 2-3 month prior to their
      birth month.
      4.3.2. Provide unit commanders with names of individuals who fail to show for scheduled
      appointment.
      4.3.3. Provide pregnant active duty Air Force members and their supervisors with an AF Form
      422, Physical Profile Serial Report, detailing duty restrictions. (Attachment 2)
   4.4. Unit Commanders will:
      4.4.1. Designate, by letter of appointment, a primary and alternate Shop Occupational Health
      Monitor (see Attachment 3). Information required in the letter: Name, rank, duty phone, duty
      location and office symbol. Address letter to 62 MDOS/SGOAM. Update these letters as changes
4                                                                             62AWI48-2 15 April 2000

       occur. Send newly assigned monitors to Public Health (Building 160, Room 105) for an orienta-
       tion briefing.
       4.4.2. Ensure all assigned personnel are scheduled for and attend occupational health examina-
       tions (pre-placement, periodic and termination) before, during and at the end of performing duties
       in hazardous areas.
       4.4.3. Ensure all individuals requiring termination/separation or retirement occupational health
       examinations are identified and scheduled to determine any physical changes from previous
       exams.
           4.4.3.1. Military. Notification for termination occupational health examinations are generated
           by the Military Personnel Flight/Personal Data System.
           4.4.3.2. Civilian. Notification for termination occupational health examinations for required
           workplaces for civilian employees must be accomplished by the individual’s supervisor. The
           supervisor must make arrangements for the physical as soon As notification of termination is
           given by the employee.
       4.4.4. Ensure that all noise-free duty or other medical instructions are strictly followed.
    4.5. Supervisor will:
       4.5.1. Inform workers of potential hazards in the work environment as required by AFI 91-301,
       Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection and Health (AFOSH) Program.
       It is particularly important that female employees in designated potentially hazardous workplaces
       understand the necessity of confirming suspected pregnancies before the second missed menstrual
       cycle.
       4.5.2. Provide work statement information to Public Health personnel via telephonic interview
       when a member of that workplace becomes pregnant. This information describing the patient’s
       work environment will include specific duties and physical requirements of the individual’s posi-
       tion.
       4.5.3. Ensure training is given in the use of personal protective equipment (ear plugs, muffs, res-
       pirators, gloves, aprons, etc) and avoidance of handling of job-related health hazards and docu-
       mented as outlined in AFI 91-301.
       4.5.4. Provide the employees with required protective equipment (ear plugs are issued by Public
       Health) and ensure they use and wear protective equipment as required.
       4.5.5. Inform Bioenvironmental Engineering (in writing) of any operation suspected of being
       potentially hazardous and when existing potentially hazardous operations are moved or apprecia-
       bly changed.
       4.5.6. Ensure protection of monitoring equipment used to collect environmental data in work-
       places.
    4.6. Personnel Systems Management (PSM) will:
       4.6.1. Ensure the medical interface from Table 7 is running monthly.
       4.6.2. Provide Public Health with a hard copy of an organizational structure code master listing.
       The listing will include all personnel assigned to McChord AFB.
62AWI48-2 15 April 2000                                                                              5

   4.7. Civilian Personnel Flight (CPF) will:
      4.7.1. Ensure employees working in potentially hazardous workplaces receive pre-placement
      occupational health examination before beginning work. The individual’s Standard Form 78, Cer-
      tificate of Medical Examination, will be annotated with:
          4.7.1.1. The names of the gaining organization and workcenter. The requirement for occupa-
          tional health examinations, as shown on the sample SF 78 (see Attachment 3), for any indi-
          vidual being assigned to duty in a workplace on the Occupational Health Program. NOTE: It
          is extremely important to add additional requirements for pre-placement exams in Part B, Sec-
          tion 4 of the SF 78.
      4.7.2. At the beginning of each month, provide Public Health with a monthly roster via e-mail of
      personnel assigned to McChord AFB. This roster will identify all employees (old and new)
      assigned to workplaces for the current month.



                                        SUZANNE R. HANSEN, Col, USAF, NC
                                        Commander, 62d Medical Group
6                                               62AWI48-2 15 April 2000

                            Attachment 1

    SAMPLE LETTER DESIGNATING SHOP OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH MONITORS
62AWI48-2 15 April 2000                                        7

                                 Attachment 2

                 AF FORM 422, PHYSICAL PROFILE SERIAL REPORT
8                                           62AWI48-2 15 April 2000

                       Attachment 3

    SAMPLE SF 78, CERTIFICATE OF MEDICAL EXAMINATION
