BY ORDER OF THE                                                               62 AW INSTRUCTION 35-1
HQ 62D AIRLIFT WING (AMC)                                                                    10 APRIL 1995

                                                                                              Public Affairs

                                                       CIVILIAN ORIENTATION TOURS AND VISITS




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO/PP WWW site at:
               http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.

OPR: 62 AW/PA (Mrs E. Scott)                                      Certified by: 62 AW/PA (Capt T. Stead)
Supersedes 62 AWR 190-1, 28 March 1993                                                          Pages: 2
                                                                                         Distribution: F

This instruction provides policy for conducting civilian tours and visits of McChord AFB WA and out-
lines responsibilities and procedures. This instruction applies to all personnel and activities assigned or
attached to McChord AFB.



1. General. As outlined in AFI 35-201, Community Relations, a basic function of the 62d Airlift Wing
(62 AW) Public Affairs Office is the maintenance of good community relations with the local public. An
important facet of this function is conducting base tours for interested civilian groups. To service all valid
requests, a consistent program must be established whereby requests can be approved, scheduled and
coordinated with appropriate agencies.
   1.1. Visitors must be physically capable of climbing aboard aircraft and up stairs (no wheelchairs,
   crutches, and so forth). The minimum age group is fifth grade or 10 years of age. Large groups such
   as schools, churches, organizations, etc., must provide one adult escort for every 20 children. No chil-
   dren under 18 years of age may tour without an adult. Group size will be 20-40 people. Groups with
   fewer than 20 people or greater than 40 people will be given tours only under special circumstances as
   determined by the 62 AW Public Affairs Office.
   1.2. The 62 AW Public Affairs Office will schedule and tailor tours to those areas/functions that best
   appeal to the particular group and for most efficient use of available time. In the event of a base-wide
   exercise or mission requirement, the tour will be canceled and efforts will be made to reschedule the
   tour for a later date. Special groups such as ROTC, Civil Air Patrol (CAP) and Canadian cadets are
   encouraged to visit the base on weekdays. However, special consideration will be given to these
   groups.
   1.3. For special occasions having distinguished visitors, the 62 AW Public Affairs Office will coordi-
   nate tours of the C-141 and C-130 simulators with the respective simulator facility manager. Tours
   will be scheduled so as not to interfere with mission requirements. Tour groups, not to exceed 10 peo-
2                                                                          62AWI35-1 10 APRIL 1995

    ple, will be limited to Air Force ROTC seniors and other persons the 62d Airlift Wing Commander
    may authorize on a case-by-case basis. Airlift Training Division approved training time.
    1.4. The 62 AW Public Affairs office will coordinate tours and notify the commander and staff agen-
    cies to be visited or tasked to provide support. The Public Affairs Office will submit to the 62d Secu-
    rity Police Squadron a base entry request letter containing the names of visitors for authentication.
    1.5. Static displays and briefers will be scheduled through 62 OSS Airlift Operations (62 OSS/OSO)
    and will be tasked in the monthly Wing Operations Plan. Airlift Operations remains the point of con-
    tact for scheduling aircrew briefers. The tour director should confirm assignment of briefers two
    working days prior to the scheduled tour. Add-on static displays require 48 hours notice to Airlift
    Operations.
    1.6. Tour groups will normally provide their own transportation, however, on a case-by-case basis to
    be determined by the Public Affairs Officer, the 62d Transportation Squadron (62 TRNS) will provide
    bus transportation for scheduled tours. The 62 AW Public Affairs Office will coordinate will 62 TRNS
    Vehicle Operations Office (LGTO) prior to scheduling tours to ensure availability of transportation,
    and will send a request for transportation to 62 TRNS/LGTO for on-base tours requiring support.
    1.7. Only ROTC, Civil Air Patrol, Canadian cadets, delayed enlistees or scouting groups may be
    authorized government messing if the dining facility can handle the additional personnel. Requests for
    government messing will be submitted to the 62d Services Squadron. The 62d Support Group Com-
    mander will have the final authority to approve the use of the dining facility. Appropriate rates will
    apply.

2. Policy. The 62 AW Public Affairs Office and the Public Affairs Officer are responsible for all base
tours and have approval authority for tour groups visiting McChord AFB. Scout tours require prior coor-
dination with the Base Scout Liaison Officer. Tours without prior coordination and approval by the Public
Affairs Office, are not authorized.
    2.1. The 446th Airlift Wing Public Affairs Officer is responsible for all tours of 446 AW facilities.
    Tours of 446 AW facilities will be coordinated with the 446 AW Public Affairs Office in advance.
    2.2. Civil Air Patrol tours must be coordinated through the USAF CAP Liaison Officer prior to con-
    firmation with the 62 AW Public Affairs Office.
    2.3. A 62 AW Public Affairs representative or a person designated by the 62 AW Public Affairs
    Officer will escort all tour groups.



                                          CRAIG P. RASMUSSEN, Col, USAF
                                          Commander, 62d Airlift Wing
