BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  62D AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 32-20
62D AIRLIFT WING                                                                        15 MARCH 2007

                                                                                           Civil Engineer

                                                        MCCHORD AFB DORMITORY STANDARDS
                                                            AND QUARTERS INSPECTION PLAN



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 62 CES/CEH                                                                 Certified by: 62 CES/CC
                                                                              (Lt. Col Jeffrey W. Perham)
Supersedes 62AWPAM32-20, 1 March 1999                                                           Pages: 26

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-60, Housing, and Air Force Instruc-
tion (AFI) 32-6005, Unaccompanied Housing Management, and is applicable to all members living in or
involved with the management of unaccompanied living quarters on McChord AFB. This instruction pro-
vides the minimum frequency of inspections in unaccompanied housing quarters on McChord AFB and
designates those members authorized to conduct such inspections. Additionally, this instruction provides
minimum standards in unaccompanied housing, restrictions, visitor policy, and other guidance to provide
for the safe, clean, and healthy environment desired in McChord AFB unaccompanied housing facilities.
Failure to comply with this directive may be punishable under Article 92 of the United Code of Military
Justice (UCMJ). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located
at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publica-
tion; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes include:
Chapter 1 is changed to management and subparagraphs are numbered. Chapter 2 is changed to inspec-
tions/visitations. Chapter 3 is entitled restrictions. Subparagraph 3.1.9. the following sentence has been
added: “No car washing in the parking lot.” Subparagraph 3.1.18. added what constitutes as a group when
barbecuing. Chapter 4 is changed to dorm room standards. Subparagraph 4.1.3. added the following:
“Members will not tamper or dismantle Fire/Smoke/Sprinkler detection systems.” Subparagraph 4.1.5.
explains recycling program. Subparagraph 4.1.5.1. added “Trash dumpsters and recycling bins are for
dormitory residents only.” Subparagraph 4.1.9. explains the no smoking policy in the dormitories and pro-
vided an alternative “Designated Smoking Area.” Chapter 5 is changed to visitors but no changes made to
its contents. Chapter 6 is changed to other guidance. Subparagraph 6.9. added guidance prior to dorm res-
2                                                                                                    62AWI32-20 15 MARCH 2007


idents moving off base. This instruction also added Attachment 7, Dormitory Competition Criteria, and
Attachment 8, No Smoking Policy Letter and Designated Smoking Locations. A bar ( | ) indicates change
from last publication.
      1.     Management ...............................................................................................................          3
      2.     Inspections/Visitations ...............................................................................................             3
      3.     Restrictions ................................................................................................................       4
      4.     Dorm Room Standards ...............................................................................................                 6
      5.     Visitors .......................................................................................................................    7
      6.     Other Guidance ..........................................................................................................           8

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                 11

Attachment 2— RECOMMENDED INDIVIDUAL DORM ROOM INSPECTION
           CHECKLIST                                                                                                                            12

Attachment 3— CONDITION CHECKLIST                                                                                                               14

Attachment 4— SAMPLE FOR HARDSHIP REQUESTS FOR OFF-BASE
           SINGLE-RATE BAH OR PRIORITY 1 REQUEST                                                                                                19

Attachment 5— SAMPLE OF PREMARITAL REQUEST FOR SINGLE-RATE BAH                                                                                  20

Attachment 6— DORMITORY/FACILITY MANAGER LOCATION                                                                                               21

Attachment 7— DORMITORY COMPETITION CRITERIA                                                                                                    22

Attachment 8— NO SMOKING POLICY LETTER AND DESIGNATED SMOKING
           LOCATIONS                                                                                                                            25

Attachment 9— DESIGNATED SMOKING AREAS                                                                                                          26
62AWI32-20 15 MARCH 2007                                                                                3


1. Management
   1.1. Installation Responsibilities.
       1.1.1. Installation Commander: Defined in AFI 32-6005
       1.1.2. Installation Command Chief: Will chair the Wing Dormitory Council
       1.1.3. Dormitory Managers: Along with responsibilities defined in AFI 32-6005, Dormitory Man-
       agers are responsible for the following:
          1.1.3.1. Will be responsible for their assigned dormitories
          1.1.3.2. Will supervise Bay Orderlies assigned to their dormitories
          1.1.3.3. Manage Bay Orderlies and ensure cleanliness of all common areas
          1.1.3.4. Will conduct a walk-through with Bay Orderly in the morning, conduct periodic fol-
          low-ups throughout the day and do a final walk-through at the end of the day (this is their pri-
          mary responsibility)
          1.1.3.5. A weekend duty roster will be established to provide oversight for weekend Bay
          Orderly duty
          1.1.3.6. Will perform weekly walk-through with their assigned Lead First Sergeant or more
          often as the situation requires
          1.1.3.7. Will track and follow up on work-orders
          1.1.3.8. Will provide name and unit identifier for the residents’ doors
       1.1.4. Dormitory Lead First Sergeants:
          1.1.4.1. Will oversee individual dormitory councils
          1.1.4.2. Will perform regular walk-throughs
          1.1.4.3. Will be the point of contact for personnel issues concerning their dormitory
       1.1.5. Individual Dormitory Councils:
          1.1.5.1. Will conduct monthly meeting
          1.1.5.2. Will work with the Dorm Manager and Lead First Sergeant resolving issues
          1.1.5.3. Will submit a status report to the Wing Dormitory Council two weeks prior to the
          Wing’s Council meeting
          1.1.5.4. Will operate according to the guidance directed by the Wing Dormitory Council

2. Inspections/Visitations
   2.1. Inspections. As directed in AFI 32-6005, paragraph 1.8, inspection intervals should be held at a
   level providing for as much privacy as possible. As a minimum, room inspections should be scheduled
   quarterly, or as needed as determined by the squadron commander or first sergeant. First sergeants are
   the key to monitoring and recording inspections for their members.
       2.1.1. Inspections will be conducted to ensure the minimum criteria of safe, clean, and healthy
       environment exists. Refer to Attachment 2 for use as an inspection guide.
4                                                                        62AWI32-20 15 MARCH 2007


       2.1.2. Members authorized to inspect unaccompanied housing rooms assigned to members of
       their units are: 62 Airlift Wing Commander (AW/CC), 62 Airlift Wing Vice Commander (AW/
       CV) and/or 62 Airlift Wing Command Chief Master Sergeant (AW/CCC), (may inspect any unac-
       companied housing room regardless of member's unit of assignment), group commander, deputy
       commander, unit commander, unit first sergeant, member's supervisor when authorized by the unit
       first sergeant, members appointed by squadron commander to assist the first sergeant, members
       performing dormitory manager duties, unaccompanied housing manager, and housing manager/
       flight chief and other members during the course of their official duties (i.e.: fire dept inspectors,
       visiting inspectors or teams from higher headquarters, etc.).
       2.1.3. Members need not be present during inspections and inspections may be announced or
       unannounced. Inspectors (conducted by a minimum of two personnel, operating as a team) should
       always knock and announce themselves clearly prior to entering rooms permitting occupants ade-
       quate time to dress. Use categories outlined in AFI 32-6005, Attachment 2 to describe results of
       inspections.
    2.2. Visitations. Group and Squadron Commanders will visit their dormitories on a monthly basis.

3. Restrictions
    3.1. Restrictions. Members may not display any picture, writing, photo, or other object advocating
    racism, supremacy, unlawful discrimination, or denial of the constitutional rights of others. Addition-
    ally, explicitly sexual and obscene material, material advocating the violent overthrow of the govern-
    ment, vulgar or profane material, or any other material that will or could have an adverse effect on the
    good working order and discipline of other members is prohibited. Members may not possess child
    pornography of any sort.
       3.1.1. Weapons and ornamental displays, to include knives with blades of more than three inches
       (other than kitchen utensils), firearms, air guns, bows, crossbows, blowguns, dart guns, slingshots,
       wrist rockets, nunchakus, throwing stars or knives, stun guns or devices intended to inflict an elec-
       trical shock, etc. are not authorized. For the purpose of this publication, a weapon is any instru-
       ment, which a reasonable person would assume could cause serious bodily injury or death.
       Firearms are stored in the 62 SFS armory. For other items contact your First Sergeant.
       3.1.2. Drug paraphernalia to include drug pipes, glass pipes, syringes (other than those prescribed
       by medical authorities), bongs, roach clips, or any other instrument used to inhale, ingest or inject
       illegal substances is prohibited. Tobacco paraphernalia is permitted (pipes, cigars, cigar and
       pipe-related materials, etc.); however, in no case is any material permitted that contains any resi-
       due of any illegal or illicit drugs. This is not an all-inclusive list.
       3.1.3. Illegal and/or illicit drugs are prohibited. This includes prescription medication intended for
       anyone other than the room occupant, prescription medication whose date of issue plus the total
       time of treatment (i.e.: medication issued on 1 Feb 01 with instructions to take one per day and
       total issued was 20, then this medication becomes contraband on 21 Feb 01) has expired, or any
       controlled substance without authorization.
       3.1.4. Highly flammable materials such as gas, oil, camp stove fuel, solvents, charcoal, fireworks,
       explosives, ammunition, etc. are not permitted in unaccompanied quarters.
       3.1.5. Appliances not Underwriters Limited (UL) listed are prohibited. Space heaters are not
       authorized.
62AWI32-20 15 MARCH 2007                                                                                 5


     3.1.6. Alcohol may not be possessed, transferred, stored, or consumed by anyone under the age of
     21. Underage occupants in unaccompanied housing may not possess alcoholic beverages in their
     rooms at any time regardless of who might own such beverages.
     3.1.7. Hot plates will not be used or stored in any unaccompanied quarters. Toasters, slow cookers
     and coffee makers are permitted.
     3.1.8. Underage visitors: Visitors under the age of 18 are not permitted in any unaccompanied
     quarters at any time. Exception: Immediate family members of the active duty person may be
     authorized when approved by the unit commander or first sergeant in writing. A copy of this
     approval must be given to the dorm management office. In addition, visitors 17 years of age are
     permitted if they are active duty military members.
     3.1.9. Car, truck, or motorcycle parts are not permitted in unaccompanied housing rooms. Excep-
     tion: New parts still in packaging, i.e. tune up or oil changing items such as oil filters. Absolutely
     no fluids of any type will be stored or kept in the dorm rooms. (This refers to fluids such as anti-
     freeze, oil, transmission fluid, etc.) No car washing in the parking lot.
     3.1.10. Quiet hours are 24 hours/day. All members will refrain from excessive noise. Excessive
     noise is defined as any sound from inside a room that can be heard from outside the member's
     room, shouting or loud talking outside other members' rooms, or noise from outside that can be
     heard inside a member's room with the door and window closed. All unaccompanied housing res-
     idents are entitled to a reasonable level of peace and quiet.
     3.1.11. Pets, other than legal species of fish, are not permitted. Fish, if kept, must be kept in a
     clean and well-maintained environment free of odor or leaks. Aquariums will not exceed 30 gal-
     lons and no more than 2 aquariums per room.
     3.1.12. Open flames of any kind, to include candles of any size, are not authorized. Candles are
     for decoration/display only. No sign of being used.
     3.1.13. Barbecuing will not be done within 10 feet of any dormitory facility and strictly forbidden
     on any balcony, walkway or stairwell. Personal gas and/or charcoal type grills are not authorized,
     as propane type barbecue grills are available for member’s use in the pavilion areas.
     3.1.14. Windows will not be used as exits. Members will not lean out of or sit in windows.
     Screens will only be removed for cleaning. Windows and doors will be secure when members are
     away from the room.
     3.1.15. Members will not tamper with fire extinguishers, smoke alarms or any other safety equip-
     ment.
     3.1.16. Gambling is prohibited.
     3.1.17. Live bands, planned events, DJ’s, karaoke are permitted only when a request has been
     accomplished and the squadron commander or first sergeant has recommended approval. The
     request will then be forwarded to the Housing Flight for routing to the 62d Mission Support Group
     Commander (MSG/CC) for written approval. Contact the dormitory manager for more informa-
     tion.
     3.1.18. When using the pavilion areas for a group (20 or more attendees) barbecue/function,
     ensure reservations are made with the Housing Flight to ensure the facility will be available on the
     requested date. Groups using the pavilions in dormitory areas are reminded that quiet hours are 24
6                                                                         62AWI32-20 15 MARCH 2007


       hours, 7 days a week and noise level must be kept to a minimum. Pavilion and surrounding area
       will be cleaned after each function. The pavilion areas in the 1100 area are for use for both dorm
       and lodging residents. Same rules apply to lodging guests as well as dorm residents.

4. Dorm Room Standards
    4.1. Standards. All rooms are expected to be maintained in a safe, clean, and healthy manner at all
    times. During scheduled/announced inspections, members are required to maintain the room in a man-
    ner suitable for viewing by the 62 AW/CC. During unannounced inspections, members' rooms are still
    expected to be clean, safe, and healthy.
       4.1.1. Room standards will be maintained in accordance with Attachment 2.
       4.1.2. Stickers, logos, or decorations on outer doors and windows are not permitted. Exception:
       Holiday specific decorations temporarily displayed during specific season.
       4.1.3. Members will not hang any items from smoke/heat detectors or sprinkler heads. Addition-
       ally, members will not place any item near smoke/heat detectors or sprinkler heads that would
       interfere with their proper operation. Members will not tamper or dismantle Fire/Smoke/Sprinkler
       detection systems.
       4.1.4. Cords, cables, or electrical strips will not be placed in walkways or areas usually used for
       foot traffic (i.e.: between living area and bath area). Speaker cables, TV cable, or other non-elec-
       trical source cables may be placed in such areas provided they are taped down, properly covered,
       or secured in such a manner that they will not present a tripping hazard.
       4.1.5. Individual room recycle and trash receptacles will be emptied on a regular basis, not allow-
       ing excess accumulation. Recyclables and trash items will not be left outside member’s room or in
       the facility stair well. Recyclables will be disposed of at a Recycling Station (co-located near
       dumpster). Cardboard shall not be placed in the trash. Flatten and place cardboard items between
       recycle stations and enclosure walls. In rare circumstances, customers may be required to call to
       request emptying of recycling containers when large amounts of recyclables are placed in the con-
       tainers. If the containers are full, call 982-3451 to schedule service. No recyclable materials shall
       be left outside of enclosures or on top of the recycle bins. Disposal of the following items in the
       dormitory dumpsters is prohibited: Hazardous/toxic materials, petroleum products, lubricants,
       engine fluids, car parts of any type, batteries, tires, wood, metal, paints, branches, dirt, and con-
       struction materials. Any of the aforementioned items to include gasoline, compressed gases, flam-
       mable liquids, solvents, oily or gasoline-soiled rags will not be stored in dormitory rooms or
       members’ storage room/cage. Doors to the dumpster enclosures must be closed at all times.
           4.1.5.1. Trash from room receptacles shall be placed in the nearest dumpsters. Dumpsters are
           located inside enclosures near dormitories. Residents will empty trash into dumpsters and
           close dumpster doors after each use. Doors to the dumpster enclosure must remain closed at all
           times. Residents shall not place materials inside dumpster that will not allow the dumpster to
           close completely. Residents are prohibited from disposing of trash from off-base in any
           McChord AFB dumpster. Residents also shall not over fill dumpsters so that trash is visible
           outside of dumpsters. No trash will be left outside the dumpster or the dumpster enclosure. If
           a particular dumpster is full, residents shall locate an alternate dumpster to dispose of trash. If
           dumpsters are full please call 982-3099 to schedule service. Trash dumpsters and recycling
           bins are for dormitory residents only.
62AWI32-20 15 MARCH 2007                                                                                  7


          4.1.5.2. Dormitory Managers shall serve as the on site Quality Assurance (QA) for the refuse
          and recycle contractors. Where contractor performance deficiencies are noted the Dormitory
          Managers shall contact the Quality Assurance Personnel (QAP) assigned contract oversight of
          the refuse contract (CEO/CEOEC, 982-5155/3099 and the recycling contact (CES/CEV,
          982-3913) to document performance deficiencies. Dormitory managers are also responsible
          for the cleanliness of dumpster and the dormitory recycle stations and recycling bins with the
          exception of spillage by contract personnel.
       4.1.6. Bicycles. Bicycles may be stored inside individual dorm rooms but must still comply with
       all related requirements for room cleanliness and safety. They will not be stored on balconies at
       any time.
       4.1.7. All doors must be cleared so as to be able to open fully for safety reasons. Items may not be
       stored behind doors if they interfere with the door operation to its full open position.
       4.1.8. Rooms may be decorated/arranged to suit individual desires, but must conform to this and
       any other directive concerning unaccompanied quarters. Furnishings may not be removed from
       rooms without permission from the dorm manager. Personal furnishings are permitted so long as
       they do not present a safety hazard. Waterbeds are only permitted in first floor dormitory rooms.
       Absolutely no interior furnishings will be placed or stored anyplace on the exterior of the dormi-
       tories. The only furniture that is authorized outside the room are lawn chairs provided by the gov-
       ernment or personal lawn furniture, as long as the furniture does not block traffic flow.
       4.1.9. Smoking is NOT permitted in the dormitories, i.e. rooms, corridors, hallways, dayrooms,
       laundry rooms, and kitchen areas, etc. Smoking is allowed in the “Designated Smoking Area”
       only. See Attachment 8.
       4.1.10. Refrigerators will be kept clean, inside and outside, and free of odors. Defrosting the
       freezer will be accomplished to prevent more that one-quarter inch of frost build-up. Defrosting
       will be accomplished by turning the temperature control to the lowest setting and allowing the
       frost to melt. Members will be held accountable for any damage caused to the freezer by trying to
       chip, break or forcibly remove frost build-up.

5. Visitors
   5.1. Visitors. Visiting hours are 24 hours/day to accommodate shift workers.
       5.1.1. Occupants are responsible for the behavior and conduct of their visitors and can be held
       accountable for damage, disturbances, or misconduct of their visitor(s). Visitors may not be left
       unescorted in unaccompanied housing.
       5.1.2. Overnight guests or those sleeping over are not permitted. Cohabitation is not permitted.
       5.1.3. While visitors of the opposite sex from the occupant are permitted, occupants must ensure
       that their presence does not disturb other residents (i.e.: when male visitors use female shared
       bathrooms).
       5.1.4. All visitors must be at least 18 years of age. Exception: Active duty military members who
       are 17 years of age and possess valid military ID cards and immediate family members of the
       active duty person when authorized and approved by the unit commander or First Sergeant in writ-
       ing.
8                                                                       62AWI32-20 15 MARCH 2007


       5.1.5. Do not lend keys to or make copies of keys for any visitors. Visitors may not occupy any
       room without their sponsoring occupant present. However, during extended absences (more than
       3 days) of the dorm resident, a key can be given to the supervisor or neighbor to keep an eye on the
       resident’s room.

6. Other Guidance
    6.1. Other Guidance.
       6.1.1. Maintenance. Occupants must report any maintenance discrepancy to the dorm manager no
       later than (NLT) the end of the duty day following the discovery of the problem.
       6.1.2. Broken or unserviceable furniture must be reported to the dorm manager NLT the end of the
       duty day following the discovery of the problem.
       6.1.3. While members are expected to prevent damage to their rooms, they may not perform
       maintenance (self-help work) without the expressed permission of the dorm manager. Report all
       damage to government quarters to the dorm managers NLT the next duty day. During non-duty
       hours, report any structural damage to the Civil Engineering (CE) Customer Service Desk,
       982-5739 or 982-2603.
    6.2. Liability. Members may be held financially and/or criminally liable for all damage they cause,
    allow to happen, or that their guests cause. Renter’s insurance is not required, but encouraged. Addi-
    tionally, occupants whose actions or lack of action cause damage to other members’ rooms and/or
    belongings may be liable for any damage they cause or allow to happen.
       6.2.1. Members will be held financially liable for lost, stolen or broken room and postal box keys.
       Method of payment will be collected with the AF Form 139, Military Pay Deduction, or 1131,
       Cash Collection Voucher.
       6.2.2. Members are liable to pay all fees in conjunction with initial cable television and telephone
       installation and/or termination. If a member is directed to move by the government, all transfer
       fees for cable and telephone will be paid by the government.
       6.2.3. Self-help projects using authorized paints may be permitted with proper advance approval.
       Members must complete an AF Form 332 and be approved by both the dorm management office
       and Civil Engineer. Members are responsible for any damage that may be caused by self-help
       projects.
    6.3. Room Identification. Room Identification is required immediately outside each room in a stan-
    dard manner for each building. Occupants are responsible to ensure the information (name, grade,
    unit, and shift worker status) is correct at all times.
    6.4. Storage. Members are assigned storage locker at time of room assignment.
    6.5. Laundry Rooms. Laundry facilities are provided in each building for occupant use. Members
    must clean lint filters after each use. Malfunctioning equipment will be reported to the dormitory man-
    ager immediately. If after duty hours, a note should be left on the dorm manager’s office door, with a
    follow-up notification during duty hours. However, if this is an emergency, (such as water leak) call
    982-5739, Service Call Desk. Clothing left in the laundry facility for over 24 hours and not claimed
    will be collected by the dormitory manager and held for one month. If clothing is not claimed at that
    time, it will be donated to the Airman’s Attic.
62AWI32-20 15 MARCH 2007                                                                               9


  6.6. Parking. Recreational vehicles (RV’s), utility trailers, boats, ATVs, canopies, campers or inoper-
  ative vehicles will NOT be stored or left unattended in dormitory parking lots. Motorcycles, mopeds,
  and scooters will be parked ONLY in the motorcycle or vehicle parking spaces in the dorm parking
  lot. Costs for towing will be assessed against the owner.
  6.7. Vehicle Maintenance. Major auto maintenance, to include oil, transmission, antifreeze changes,
  and body work/painting IS NOT allowed in parking lots and will be accomplished in the Auto Craft
  Center or off base. Minor maintenance such as changing plugs, points, wiper blades and bulbs is per-
  mitted.
  6.8. Termination Procedures. Each member will give 30 days notice to schedule a final inspection
  through the Consolidated Dorm Management Office. Prior to the member departing, the dormitory
  manager will inspect the member’s room to the criteria on the Condition Checklist (Attachment 3).
  After the room has passed inspection, the dormitory manager will issue a clearance letter. All repairs
  must meet minimum Air Force standards. Government furniture will be checked against the AF Form
  228 that was accomplished at check-in. Any lost or damaged furnishings will be assessed against the
  member. Reimbursement to the government for any damages or lost furnishings must be accom-
  plished before member can be cleared from the dormitory. First Sergeant will notify Dorm Office
  upon initial notification of separation from Squadron Commander.
  6.9. Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH) Waiting List. Members wishing to reside off base and
  receive single rate BAH must place their name on the BAH waiting list. The list is maintained at the
  Consolidated Dormitory Office, Bldg. 566. Names are placed on the list by Rank and date of rank.
  When the occupancy rate for space required personnel (Priority 1 & 2) is above 95%, the housing
  manager, acting on behalf of the Installation Commander, can authorize members on that waiting list
  to move off base. Once the member has been notified they will have 30 calendar days to clear their
  dormitory room. If the room is not cleared the member will be removed from the offer and the next
  eligible will be offered. All moves will be at government expense. Note: Everyone moving off base
  must attend financial management class through Family Support Center. FSC will provide the
  financial management class and provide documentation of attendance. First Sergeants will have to
  approve the member’s request to reside off-base. Also, everyone must visit the Housing Referral
  Office for briefing on key provisions of the Washington State law and the “military clauses” to be
  used which reflect the provisions of the “Service Members Relief Act.”
     6.9.1. Residing off base without BAH. Members who are not entitled to BAH but wish to reside
     off base may do so at their own expense and with an approval letter from the member’s com-
     mander. Unless the member processes out of the dormitory, they are required to maintain their
     room to inspection order and must perform bay orderly duties.
     6.9.2. Residing off base due to hardship. Members may reside off base due to hardship with
     proper approval and documentation. Supporting documentation may include, but is not limited to,
     copies of divorce decrees, household goods inventories, financial statements, and any other docu-
     mentation necessary to support the request. Based upon the type of hardship request, a financial
     analysis from the Personal Financial Manager may be required. Refer to Attachment 4 for exam-
     ple letter of request.
         6.9.2.1. Members who were eligible to reside off base at their previous assignment, does not
         automatically entitle the member to reside off base at McChord. A hardship letter would have
10                                                                   62AWI32-20 15 MARCH 2007


        to be submitted with supporting documentation as to why living in the dormitory would create
        a hardship. Refer to Attachment 4 for example letter of request.
     6.9.3. Divorced members. If a member is divorced and the divorce decree indicates shared or joint
     custody or visitation rights of children, the member can submit a hardship request to reside
     off-base and draw single-rate BAH. A copy of the divorce decree and/or parenting plan must be
     attached with the request. This request is sent to the Housing Management Office for coordination
     and forwarded to the 62d MSG/CC for final approval/disapproval. Supporting documentation may
     include, but is not limited to, copy of divorce decree and parenting plan. Attachment 4 is a format
     sample.
     6.9.4. Members within 30 days of marriage who are establishing a joint household in the local
     area can be authorized to terminate his/her dorm room. The member will submit, through the First
     Sergeant, a request using the format in Attachment 5 to the Consolidated Dorm Management
     Office, Bldg 566. Once the member clears the dorm rooms, AF Form 291 will be completed and
     single rate BAH will be started. Once the member gets married, the marriage license must be taken
     to the Accounting and Finance Office to have the Single-Rate BAH changed to With Dependent
     Rate BAH. If for any reason the member does not get married, and BAH was authorized for that
     purpose, then the member must submit a hardship request with justification as described above
     and obtain authorization from the Mission Support Group Commander to continue residing
     off-base and receiving BAH.
        6.9.4.1. Members getting or gotten married while assigned a dormitory room will notify the
        Consolidated Dorm Management Office to update priority status and make dorm out-process-
        ing arrangements.
     6.9.5. Military married to military (E1-E4 under 3 yrs Time-in-Service) who are geographically
     separated must reside in the dormitories. Termination of dormitory room can be granted 30 days
     prior to arrival of military spouse. A copy of spouse’s orders is required to schedule termination
     inspections.
     6.9.6. Pregnant women, at their option and with unit commander’s approval, may submit a
     request to the housing office to move from assigned Unaccompanied Housing (UH) to community
     housing at the 20th week of pregnancy. Profile change will suffice. An earlier move may be
     requested if determined necessary by medical authority. The member must terminate her room
     NLT 30 days before the due date of the baby.



                                            JERRY P. MARTINEZ, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 62d Airlift Wing
62AWI32-20 15 MARCH 2007                                                               11


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Air Force Instruction (AFI) 32-6005, Unaccompanied Housing Management, June 01, 1998
Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-60, Housing, July 20, 1994

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AW/CC—62 Airlift Wing Commander
AW/CCC—62 Airlift Wing Command Chief Master Sergeant
BAH—Basic Allowance for Housing
MSG/CC—62 Mission Support Group Commander
NLT—No Later Than
12                                                                       62AWI32-20 15 MARCH 2007


                                            Attachment 2

        RECOMMENDED INDIVIDUAL DORM ROOM INSPECTION CHECKLIST
Bldg# _____, Room _____ Occupants Name: _________________ Overall Rating: ______


        INSPECTION ITEMS                                                          Pass    Fail


1       BEDROOM/LIVING AREA


1.1     Beds neatly made.


1.2     Carpet clean.


1.3     Furniture clean and dusted


1.4     Trash can empty.


1.5     Clothes properly stored.


1.6     Luggage or boxes properly stored.


1.7     Refrigerator clean, does not need defrosting (as appropriate).


1.8     Foodstuff properly stored.


1.9     Windows and windowsills clean.


1.10    Shoes clean and neatly arranged


1.11    Doors/Windows secured.


1.12    Air conditioner/heat vents clean


1.13    Venetian blinds/window shades clean


1.14    Walls: clean and free of marks
62AWI32-20 15 MARCH 2007                                                                               13


        INSPECTION ITEMS                                                            Pass        Fail


2        BATHROOM/SINK AREA:


2.1     Commode clean.


2.2     Toiletry items neatly arranged.


2.3     Bathtub/shower clean


2.4     Floor clean.


2.5     Sink/Mirror Area clean.

NOTES:
1. Alcoholic beverages are not allowed in rooms where the occupant is under 21 years of age.
2. Rooms that fail will be re-inspected by the member’s supervisor within 24 hours of initial inspec-
   tion.
3. Failure of any 5 items above is an automatic failure, an inspector may fail a room on any item listed
   above based on the severity of the violation observed.
RATINGS ARE AS FOLLOWS: O –Outstanding S – Satisfactory U – Unsatisfactory
Notes/Discrepancies:
Inspector(s): ___________________________________ Date Inspected: _____________
14                                                                  62AWI32-20 15 MARCH 2007


                                                 Attachment 3

                                      CONDITION CHECKLIST


                                                       Check-in   Pre-Check        Final
1        EXTERIOR                                      Yes No     Yes         No   Yes No
     a   Is the sidewalk free of dirt/stain
     b   Is the screen clean
     c   Is the window pane clean
     d   Is the window sill clean
     e   Is the door clean
     f   Is the door paint in good condition
     g   Has the individual swept the sidewalk
     h   Has the mat been shaken/vacuumed
     I   Has the area been policed for trash


2        INTERIOR                                      Yes No     Yes         No   Yes No
     a   Is the door clean (including frame)
     b   Have the curtains been vacuumed for dust
     c   Have the curtains been DRY cleaned if
         necessary
     e   Have the windows been cleaned with glass
         cleaner


3      VENTS/HEATER                                    Yes No     Yes         No   Yes No
     a Has the heater filter been cleaned
     b Has the heater been wiped down


4      CEILING                                         Yes No     Yes         No   Yes No
     a Have all cob webs been removed
     b Is the smoke detector attached properly


5        LIGHTS                                        Yes No     Yes         No   Yes No
     a Have all burned out bulbs been replaced
     b Are the globes/fixtures clean
62AWI32-20 15 MARCH 2007                                                                   15


                                                        Check-in   Pre-Check      Final
6       WALLS                                           Yes No     Yes       No   Yes No
    a   Are the walls clean and mark free
    b   Have all nails been removed
    c   Have all holes been spackled over
    d   Has the room been painted (if required)
    e   Are the baseboards clean
    f   Are light switches, outlets, etc. wiped clean


7     FLOORS                                            Yes No     Yes      No    Yes No
    a Has the floor been vacuumed (corner to
      corner)
    b Has the carpet been steam cleaned (if
      required)


8       FURNISHINGS                               Yes No           Yes      No    Yes No
    a   Have all personal belongings been removed
    b   Has the exterior of furniture been wiped
        down
    c   Have all drawers been vacuumed and wiped
        out
    d   Is linen clean/folded and placed on bed
    e   Are all chairs clean (steam cleaned if
        necessary)
    f   Have all decals/stickers been removed
    g   Are trash cans clean


9     WARDROBES/CLOSETS                                 Yes No     Yes      No    Yes No
    a Is the exterior of the wardrobe wiped down
    b Is the interior of the wardrobe wiped down
    c Are all stickers/decals/coverings removed
16                                                                   62AWI32-20 15 MARCH 2007


                                                        Check-in   Pre-Check      Final
10       REFRIGERATOR/MICROWAVE                         Yes No     Yes       No   Yes No
     a   Have the outsides been wiped down
     b   Has the refrigerator been pulled out and
         cleaned behind
     c   Has the freezer been defrosted
     d   Are all inside walls, drawers, shelves wiped
         down
     e   Has the seal around the refrigerator been
         cleaned
     f   Is the bulb in the refrigerator working
     g   Has the inside of the microwave been cleaned


11       SINK/COUNTERTOP                              Yes No       Yes      No    Yes No
     a   Is the countertop clean and dust free
     b   Is the sink clean and free of water stains
     c   Has the faucet been polished
     d   Have the drawers been vacuumed and wiped
         down
     e   Has the cabinet front been wiped down
     f   Have the inside of the cabinet doors been
         wiped down
     g   Is the mirror clean
     h   Has the medicine cabinet been wiped down
         and cleaned
     I   Is the top of the medicine cabinet dust free
     j   Is the inside of the medicine cabinet wiped
         down and clean
     k   Has the track been cleaned
     l   Has any damage to the cabinet been repaired


12     LATRINE AREA                                     Yes No     Yes      No    Yes No
     a Is the toilet clean – (mineral deposits)
     b Has the exterior of toilet been wiped down
     c Has the floor around toilet been disinfected
62AWI32-20 15 MARCH 2007                                                                 17


                                                      Check-in   Pre-Check      Final
13     SHOWER/TUB                                     Yes No     Yes       No   Yes No
     a Is the shower clean (no soap scum or mildew)
     b Has the fixture been polished
     c Has the floor been mopped


14       KITCHEN (572/574)                            Yes No     Yes      No    Yes No
     a   Have the counter tops been wiped down
     b   Have the counter fronts been wiped down
     c   Have all drawers been cleaned out
     d   Have all personal belongings been removed
     e   Is the stove top clean
     f   Has the stove top been lifted and cleaned
     g   Have the stove spill sups been cleaned and
         polished
     h   Has the stove been pulled out and cleaned
         behind
     I   Have the sides of stove and cabinet been
         wiped down
     j   Is the inside of the oven clean
     k   Has the exhaust vent been cleaned (outside
         and inside)
     l   Has the filter been cleaned or replaced
15       KITCHEN (572/574) cont.                      Yes No     Yes      No    Yes No
     m   See REFRIGERATOR/MICROWAVE above
     n   See WALLS above
     o   Are the table and chairs clean and dust free
     p   Has the floor been mopped and waxed
     q   See WINDOWS above
18                                                               62AWI32-20 15 MARCH 2007


     Residents Check-in signature signifies
                                                    (Signature/Date)
     satisfactory completion


     Is room ready for a new occupant? __________
     Bed?__________


     Pre-Check: Residents signature signifies
     That they have read and understand the check   (Signature/Date)
     list


     Residents Final signature signifies
     satisfactory completion                        (Signature/Date)


     Dorm Managers signature signifies
     satisfactory completion                        (Signature/Date)


     *** Upon check-in if you check “No” in any block please describe in detail on
     checklist.
     Explain to Dorm Manager prior to
     move-in***


Furnishings: Bed _______ Nightstand ________ Dresser _________ Wall unit ________
Desk ________ Desk Chair _________
Lounge Chair ________ Recliner ________ Lamp ________
Patio Chair ________
62AWI32-20 15 MARCH 2007                                                                               19


                                             Attachment 4

SAMPLE FOR HARDSHIP REQUESTS FOR OFF-BASE SINGLE-RATE BAH OR PRIORITY
                             1 REQUEST


                                      (Use Appropriate Letterhead)
                                                                                                     (Date)
MEMORANDUM FOR (Individual’s Unit CC)
FROM: (Unit/Individual/Duty Phone)
SUBJECT: Request to Reside Off Base and Receive Singe-Rate BAH
I request to reside off base and received single-rate BAH. The justification for my request is: (completely
state the situation and provide supporting documentation, i.e., divorce decree, parenting plan, financial
statement/analysis, household goods inventory, and other documents necessary to support the request
                                                         (Individual’s Signature above Typed Name)
Attachments:
(List Attachments)
1st Ind, (Individual’s Unit Commander)                                                            (Date)
TO: 62 CES/CEH
Recommend approval/disapproval.
                                                         (Unit Commander’s Signature Block)
20                                                                    62AWI32-20 15 MARCH 2007


                                            Attachment 5

              SAMPLE OF PREMARITAL REQUEST FOR SINGLE-RATE BAH


                                      (Use Appropriate Letterhead)
                                                                                                   (Date)
MEMORANDUM FOR (Individual’s Unit CC)
FROM: (Unit/Individual/Duty Phone)
SUBJECT: Request to Reside Off Base and Receive Singe-Rate BAH
Request I be authorized to reside off base and received single-rate BAH. I have a firm marriage date of
_________. I understand my entitlement begins on the date I terminate dorm residency, and it is valid up
to 30 days prior to my date of marriage. I will provide a copy of my marriage certificate to the
Unaccompanied Housing Managers Office within 30 days after my marriage date. I understand that should
my marriage be canceled or postponed after BAH has been authorized, I must obtain authorization to
continue off base with BAH fro the Mission Support Group Commander
                                                         (Individual’s Signature above Typed Name)
1st Ind, (Individual’s Unit Commander)                                                             (Date)
TO: 62 CES/CEH
Recommend approval/disapproval.
                                                       (Unit Commander’s Signature Block)
62AWI32-20 15 MARCH 2007                                                                        21


                                           Attachment 6

                       DORMITORY/FACILITY MANAGER LOCATION
Note: The following list provides the locations and phone numbers for Dorm/Facility Managers:


Dormitory    Location of Dorm/Facility Manager      Phone#
564          Bldg 566                               982-2824
565          Bldg 566                               982-2824
567          Bldg 566                               982-2824
572          Bldg 566                               982-2824
574          Bldg 566                               982-2824
1151         Bldg 1151                              982-7508
1152         Bldg 1151                              982-7508
22                                                                       62AWI32-20 15 MARCH 2007


                                              Attachment 7

                             DORMITORY COMPETITION CRITERIA

A7.1. The following criteria will be used to rate the dormitories.

A7.2. Judge will consist of one Group Superintendent.

A7.3. Outside Area (30 Points):
     A7.3.1. Maintenance and appearance. Breezeways, stairwells free of trash, debris and cobwebs. Win-
     dow Screens in place, not damaged. Entrance doors clean and in good working order. EXIT signs in
     place.
     A7.3.2. Landscaping and yard area. Flower and rock beds free of weeds, dead plants and debris.
     Landscape timbers and/or red bricks are arranged and lined up. Lawn area free of trash and debris.

A7.4. Inside Area (50 Points)
     A7.4.1. Common areas well organized – meets residents needs for comfort and décor. Room should
     be arranged for comfortable television viewing or conversation pits for dayrooms without televisions.
     No overflowing trash cans.
     A7.4.2. Kitchenettes. Stove tops and ovens will be clean and free of spilled and burned on foods.
     Refrigerators will be clean and free of spoiled foods. Freezer compartment should be defrosted. No
     overflow trash cans.
     A7.4.3. Laundry Rooms. Washers and dryers wiped down. Lint traps clean. Dryer hoses attached to
     dryers and wall vent. No soap or fabric softener residue inside or on outside of washer. Floors clean
     and free of dryer sheets. No overflowing trash cans.
     A7.4.4. Personal rooms – two random and one chosen. Thes rooms will be judged on the Quarterly
     Wing Dorm Inspection criteria.

A7.5. Other consideration (20 points)
     A7.5.1. Self improvement efforts evident – self-help plan and briefing that show achievable quality of
     life improvements (short and long range)
     A7.5.2. Resident recreation. Pool tables, table tennis, video games are operational and have equip-
     ment available for use. Game rooms are neat and arranged for easy access to use the equipment.
62AWI32-20 15 MARCH 2007                                                                                   23


Table A7.1. Judging Score Sheet.
1. Outside Area                                                                                30 Points
   a. Maintenance/appearance
   b. Landscaping
2. Inside Areas                                                                                50 Points
   a. Common areas well organized – meets residents needs for comfort and décor.
   b. Kitchenettes
   c. Laundry Rooms
   d. Personal Rooms – two random and one chosen
3. Other considerations                                                                        20 Points
   a. Self-improvement efforts evident – self help plan and briefing that show achievable
quality of life improvements (short and long range).
   b. Resident recreation.

A7.6. Dorm Room Standards. Dorm rooms should be kept neat and clean at all times. Decorations
should be in good taste and not pornographic or offensive. Furniture should be arranged neatly and
present no safety hazards. All electrical outlets will not be overlooked.
   A7.6.1. Clothing – All clothing should be neatly stored away in lockers or drawers.
   A7.6.2. Carpet – Cleaned and vacuumed.
   A7.6.3. Walls – Clean, neatly decorated. Remove all smudges. Ensure there are no holes.
   A7.6.4. Windows/blinds/sills blinds/sills should be cleaned and dusted – Windows should cleaned
   with no streaks.
   A7.6.5. Light fixtures – Ensure all lights are in good working order, fixtures cleaned/dusted.
   A7.6.6. Trash cans – Trash cans will be emptied.
   A7.6.7. Furniture – Should be in good condition (not broken), dusted and cleaned.
   A7.6.8. Beds – Beds should be neatly made at all times.
   A7.6.9. Lockers – Ensure lockers are closed/locked and dust free.
   A7.6.10. Refrigerator – Cleaned all seals – defrost freezers – ensure they are odor free.
   A7.6.11. Microwave – Cleaned and UL approved.
   A7.6.12. Mirrors – Cleaned and streak free.
   A7.6.13. Sink/Counter top – cleaned and arranged neatly.
   A7.6.14. Cabinets – All cabinets will be dusted/cleaned and in good condition (no broken parts or
   holes).
   A7.6.15. Tile Floor – Cleaned mopped. Ensure corners are cleaned.
24                                                                        62AWI32-20 15 MARCH 2007


     A7.6.16. Shower – Showers will be cleaned and free of mildew and soap scum. Ensure curtains are in
     good condition and free of mildew. All items in shower will be neatly arranged. Area should be odor
     free.
     A7.6.17. Toilet – Cleaned and in good working condition.

A7.7. Quarterly Dorm Competition Award.
     A7.7.1. The Quarterly Dorm Award will be used for quality of life improvements for the residents
     based on the dormitory self-help plan. A maximum of $2,500.00 for 1st Place, $1,000.00 for 2nd
     Place, and $500.00 and 3rd Place will be available to the dorm that wins the competition.
     2. Spending/usage will be determined by majority consent of the dorm council.
     3. Self-help projects – cleared by CE before money is committed.
     4. Items/equipment must meet acceptable Air Force standards of usage, appearance and safety.
     5. The award must be used for the specific projects identified by the squadron commander and is sub-
     ject to forfeit if used otherwise. Awards usage record must be kept by Dorm Management and made
     available upon request.
     6. First place winner will be ineligible to compete for the following quarter.
62AWI32-20 15 MARCH 2007                                         25


                            Attachment 8

     NO SMOKING POLICY LETTER AND DESIGNATED SMOKING LOCATIONS
26                          62AWI32-20 15 MARCH 2007


            Attachment 9

     DESIGNATED SMOKING AREAS
