BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   62D AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 32-17
62D AIRLIFT WING                                                                     9 SEPTEMBER 2008

                                                                                         Civil Engineering

                                                                BASE FIRE PREVENTION PROGRAM




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                        e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 62 CES/CEFP                                                                 Certified by: 62 MSG/CC
                                                                               (Colonel Francis J. Rechner)
Supersedes 62AWI32-17, 1 September 2003                                                          Pages: 23

This instruction establishes McChord AFB policies and procedures for Fire Prevention and Fire Protec-
tion. It applies to all units, organizations, activities, and persons assigned or operating within the bound-
aries of the base. Air Force Instruction (AFI) 32-2001, National Fire Protection Association Standards,
and Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Standards have been used to establish the fire prevention
and protection criteria in this instruction.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accor-
dance with (IAW) Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility
(OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This version consoli-
dates and supersedes 62 AWI 32-17, 1 September 2003. Major changes include primary and secondary
egress routes and assembly points need to be briefed to personnel within the first week of duty, if you are
calling 911 from a cell phone ensure you tell them you are on McChord AFB as they may need to transfer
you to McChord dispatch, Outdoor manufactured fireplaces are now addressed, fire extinguisher mainte-
nance is addressed for contractors, the interim change on flight line extinguishers has been included to
reduce the number on extinguishers required for C-17’s. This publication also addresses the change in
occupancy use of facilities, i.e., any time a facility, which was not built as a public assembly facility, is
going to be used for a public assembly function you need to contact the fire prevention section for life
safety issues, and 911 stickers for phones.
2                                                                                          62AWI32-17 9 SEPTEMBER 2008


     1.   Objective: ...................................................................................................................      3
     2.   Policy: ........................................................................................................................    3
     3.   Responsibilities: .........................................................................................................         3
     4.   Emergency Planning and Evacuation Procedures: ....................................................                                  4
     5.   Fire Drills: ..................................................................................................................     4
     6.   Fire Reporting: ...........................................................................................................         5
     7.   Flammable and Combustible Liquids: .......................................................................                          5
     8.   Smoking, Smoking Areas, Materials and Restrictions: .............................................                                   6
     9.   Open Flame, Spark or Heat Producing Equipment: ..................................................                                   7
    10.   Combustible Packing Materials: ................................................................................                     8
    11.   Fire Hydrant and Fire Protection Systems: ................................................................                          8
    12.   Fire Extinguishers: .....................................................................................................           9
    13.   Fire and Chemical Hazard Markers and Symbols: ....................................................                                 10
    14.   Housekeeping: ...........................................................................................................          10
    15.   Electrical: ...................................................................................................................    10
    16.   Fireworks: ..................................................................................................................      12
    17.   General Requirements: ..............................................................................................               12
    18.   Self-Help Projects. .....................................................................................................          13
    19.   Places of Public Assembly and Recreational Facilities: ............................................                                13
    20.   Decorations: ...............................................................................................................       14
    21.   Prescribed Forms .......................................................................................................           14
    22.   Adopted Forms ..........................................................................................................           14

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              15

Attachment 2— FIRE PREVENTION CHECKLIST ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES
           AND WAREHOUSES                                                                                                                    17

Attachment 3— FIRE PREVENTION CHECKLIST INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES                                                                                19

Attachment 4— FIRE PREVENTION CHECKLIST PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES DAILY
           OPERATIONS                                                                                                                        21

Attachment 5— FIRE PREVENTION CHECKLIST PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES CLOSING                                                                            23
62AWI32-17 9 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                                 3


1. Objective:
   1.1. The objective of this Instruction is to eliminate the causes of fire, and to reduce the monetary
   losses and mission degradation if a fire does occur. Motivating personnel to recognize and reduce fire
   hazards and unsafe practices can only meet this objective.

2. Policy:
   2.1. Commanders and supervisors will ensure this Instruction is maintained in all branches and sec-
   tions and that all military and civilian personnel are familiar with the requirements of this Instruction.

3. Responsibilities:
   3.1. The Civil Engineering Squadron Commander is designated as the Base Fire Marshal and super-
   vises the Fire Chief. The Base Fire Chief is the fire protection flight chief and responsible to the base
   fire marshal for establishing and carrying out effective fire protection and prevention programs,
   including hazardous materials, mutual aid, initial emergency medical care, and confined space rescue
   emergency response programs. The Fire Chief or senior representative has final authority over Fire
   Department equipment and personnel responding to or operating where fire protection services are
   requested or needed. The senior fire officer at the scene of an emergency has the authority to comman-
   deer military vehicles, equipment and personnel considered necessary to rescue personnel, control or
   extinguish a fire or to take actions in any situation where preventive measures are immediately
   required to prevent loss of life or property.
   3.2. Facility managers are directly responsible to the functional managers for the fire prevention
   within their assigned facility.
   3.3. Unit commanders, functional managers, and supervisors will ensure that sound fire prevention
   practices and a hazard abatement program are established for activities and functions under their juris-
   diction.
   3.4. Facility managers and supervisors will ensure monthly checks are done to ensure that all fire
   extinguishers, exits, exit lights, emergency lighting, fire doors, and all equipment needed for the safe
   egress of personnel from the facility and the control of a fire are in proper operating condition. Fire
   doors will be kept closed at all times unless they are equipped with approved automatic self-closing
   devices.
       3.4.1. Supervisors will brief all newly assigned personnel under their jurisdiction on the activation
       and sounding of the fire alarm, location of exits, how to operate all fire extinguishers in their area,
       and how to report a fire in accordance with paragraph 6. of this regulation. Supervisors will also
       brief the location of the assembly point for evacuating personnel in case of a fire alarm. This
       should be done within the first 15 days of being assigned.
       3.4.2. Fire prevention inspections and practices in facilities, rooms, or areas which are under con-
       tinuous lock and key are the responsibility of the individual supervisor maintaining that secured
       area. Furthermore, it is their responsibility to arrange access to these facilities for the Base Fire
       Department to perform fire prevention inspections.
       3.4.3. When hazards are not corrected at the time of inspection, the fire inspector will issue an AF
       Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report, stating discrepancy found and corrective action
       expected. Corrective action will be taken by the suspense date noted in item 4 of the report and the
4                                                                     62AWI32-17 9 SEPTEMBER 2008


       AF Form 1487 will be answered, signed by the Functional Manager, and returned to the Base Fire
       Department by the suspense date noted in item 5. The functional manager takes interim control
       measures to reduce the risk of a fire hazard if it cannot be eliminated and initiates actions to abate
       the hazard as noted on the fire prevention visit report.
    3.5. New base personnel including all Enlisted, Officers, Civilians, and long term contractor person-
    nel such as Simplified Acquisition of Base Engineering Requirements (SABER) and Custodial Main-
    tenance must:
       3.5.1. Be familiar with the contents of this instruction.
       3.5.2. Be aware of their part in the Base Fire Prevention Program.

4. Emergency Planning and Evacuation Procedures:
    4.1. A written emergency evacuation plan will be established, kept current and readily available and
    posted for all personnel by the facility manager throughout major areas and facilities. Persons living
    or working in a building must be thoroughly familiar with the established plans and exit routes (pri-
    mary and secondary) and assembly points. The plan will include the fire reporting system, fire fight-
    ing plan, closing doors or windows and special features pertinent to the respective unit such as
    evacuation of patients, towing aircraft clear of danger area, turning off ventilation systems, securing
    classified documents or equipment, etc.
    4.2. The plan will also require complete evacuation of a facility when a fire alarm system is activated
    or a fire condition is announced. Personnel or positions exempted from evacuation must be identified
    in the plan. The plan should also be compliant with force protection measures for the base.
    4.3. Posted evacuation plans are required in all occupied facilities.

5. Fire Drills:
    5.1. Notification will be given to the Fire Prevention Section at least 24 hours before each fire drill is
    held. Fire drills will include: activation of notification process, simulation of proper use of fire extin-
    guishers or other first aid fire fighting equipment, and the orderly evacuation of all other personnel
    within prescribed time limits, in accordance with organizational plans. Standpipe hoses will not be
    removed from racks during fire drills. Base Fire Department vehicles will not respond to drills except
    by specific prior arrangement with the Base Fire Chief or representative. A fire drill will require the
    complete evacuation of a facility or work center. Exceptions must have prior approval of the senior
    fire official conducting the drill. All work centers can contact fire prevention at DSN 382-2603 / Com-
    mercial 253-982-2603 to arrange a fire drill.
    5.2. Monthly fire drills are required by all managers of child day care centers, preschool centers, and
    nurseries, regardless of number of occupants.
    5.3. Fire drills will be conducted quarterly by organizations having responsibility for medical facili-
    ties.
    5.4. Explosive storage areas and aircraft maintenance facilities will conduct fire drills at least semian-
    nually. Aircraft maintenance facilities will demonstrate aircraft removal capability during fire drills.
    Actual removal of aircraft from hangers will not be required.
    5.5. Fire drills will be conducted at least annually by public assembly facilities.
62AWI32-17 9 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                             5


6. Fire Reporting:
   6.1. All fires must be reported to McChord AFB Fire Department DSN 382-2603 / Commercial
   253-982-2603 or 911 even if already extinguished.
      6.1.1. Fire Reporting telephone number is 9-1-1 for all Base Facilities, commercial telephones,
      and Military Family Housing:
      6.1.2. The Fire Department Dispatcher answers all 9-1-1 calls.
      6.1.3. Fire Department Dispatch handles Fire and Medical Emergencies. Law Enforcement calls
      are transferred to the Law Enforcement Desk.
      6.1.4. Radio equipped flight line vehicles will call their control center to report a fire.
      6.1.5. The Western Air Defense Sector (WADS) will use their 9-1-1 telephone reporting system in
      accordance with their pre-fire plans and established procedures.
   6.2. Anyone discovering a fire in a building will take the following actions:
      6.2.1. Sound the alarm.
          6.2.1.1. Use fire alarm pull boxes located near exits, if the building is so equipped.
          6.2.1.2. Run through building yelling “FIRE,            FIRE,     FIRE” if the building is not
          equipped with fire alarm pull boxes.
      6.2.2. Call Base Fire Department by dialing 9-1-1.
          6.2.2.1. Always call Base Fire Department by telephone, even though the fire alarm has been
          activated. Call when your safety is not in jeopardy.
          6.2.2.2. Give your name, location (building number, room number, address), and nature of
          emergency. Stay on the line until told to hang up. It is best to call from another building or a
          location remote from the fire and close to an exit.
          6.2.2.3. If you are calling from a cell phone ensure you tell them you are on McChord AFB as
          they may need to transfer you to McChord dispatch.
      6.2.3. Use a fire extinguisher to fight fire, if this can be done without endangering yourself.
      6.2.4. Evacuate the building and report to pre-designated assembly point.
          6.2.4.1. Be sure everyone is evacuating the building. After evacuation ensure all coworkers
          are accounted for. Advise first arriving fire fighting vehicle if someone is missing and pre-
          sumed inside.
   6.3. Fire reporting telephone numbers will be affixed on or near each telephone on the base. Emer-
   gency telephone number decals/stickers (McChord AFB Form 237 McChord AFB Emergency Num-
   ber (RED) or 911 decals) are available through the Base Fire Department.
   6.4. If the fire alarm activates and you suspect that there is no fire, 9-1-1 should still be called to
   report the alarm. Report what is known about the cause of activation and evacuate the facility to meet
   and direct the fire department.

7. Flammable and Combustible Liquids:
6                                                                      62AWI32-17 9 SEPTEMBER 2008


    7.1. In general, flammable and combustible liquids will be stored in approved flammable storage cab-
    inets. Cabinets will be labeled with conspicuous lettering, “FLAMMABLE KEEP FIRE AWAY”.
    The letters must be large enough to be read at 50 feet.
        7.1.1. The Base Fire Department (62 CES/CEFP) approves all flammable and combustible stor-
        age. Requests must be in writing and include an outline of the building showing the location where
        the flammable storage cabinet is to be placed. Permits will be reviewed annually and re-issued if
        conditions change.
        7.1.2. Flammable liquids will be kept in containers that are tightly capped or in safety-type
        approved containers with self-closing lid or pour spout. Flammable liquid containers will be kept
        closed when not in actual use. At no time will flammable liquids be stored in open containers.
        7.1.3. Flammable and combustible liquids will be in their original container or in an approved
        container (Underwriters’ Laboratories or some other approving agency) labeled as to the contents.
        7.1.4. Refrigerators used for storing flammable liquids will be of an approved explosion proof
        type. In addition, the location and use of refrigerators for flammable or combustible liquids will be
        coordinated with and approved by the Base Fire Department Prevention Section. Request an
        authorization letter. (62 CES/CEFP, DSN 382-2603 / Commercial 253-982-2603).
        7.1.5. Flammable or combustible liquids will not be stored in furnace or boiler rooms, under stair-
        ways, in stairwells, in utility rooms or in mechanical rooms.
    7.2. Disposal of contaminated flammable or combustible liquids will be coordinated through the 62d
    Civil Engineering Squadron Environmental Flight (62 CES/CEV).
    7.3. Flammable and combustible paints, rags, stains, drop cloths, tarpaulins, and clothing used in con-
    junction with flammable and combustible coatings or stains will be removed from the building and
    stored in designated areas at the end of each work day. Only a one-day supply of paints, thinners, or
    stains may be kept on the job site.
    7.4. In all refueling operations, extreme care will be taken to ensure the tank filler spout is not allowed
    to overflow. Vehicle engines will be shut off before and during refueling operations.
    7.5. Before servicing liquefied petroleum (L.P.) gas cylinders on recreation vehicles, eliminate all
    sources of ignition such as engine running, refrigerator or furnace operation, etc. Do not service a rec-
    reation vehicle with gasoline that has an exhaust outlet (furnace, refrigerator, etc.) in the vicinity of the
    filler spout, without first making sure there is no possible means of ignition from those other sources.
    Storage of propane cylinders inside any building is prohibited. They should be stored in an open-air
    area where any release of gas can dissipate into the atmosphere.

8. Smoking, Smoking Areas, Materials and Restrictions:
    8.1. Flight line. Smoking, striking matches or the use of any other spark producing device is prohib-
    ited anywhere on the flight line or within the fenced in areas of the flight line perimeters.
    8.2. Except where authorized in designated smoking areas, the use of matches or mechanical / elec-
    tronic lighters will be prohibited within 50 feet of hangers, aircraft repair docks, paint and plastic
    (used in manufacturing/processing) shops, fuel storage or dispensing facilities, munitions areas, and
    activities of an extra hazardous nature as determined by the Base Fire Chief. Boundaries of designated
    smoking areas will be clearly identified and furnished with suitably marked containers for disposal of
62AWI32-17 9 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                               7


   smoking material. In areas where special authorization for smoking is requested, a letter will be sub-
   mitted to the Base Fire Department (62 CES/CEFP) for approval/disapproval. The facility manager
   must keep letters of approval on file.
      8.2.1. Pathways or doors leading from an authorized smoking area to a “no smoking” area will be
      posted with signs stating “No Smoking Beyond This Point.”
      8.2.2. “No Smoking” signs posted in areas where smoking would present a fire or explosive haz-
      ard will be a “park service” brown sign with white letters. Letters will be at least two inches high.
      Functional managers and supervisors are responsible for obtaining and posting of the no smoking
      signs. Specific sign requirements can be obtained from 62 CES/CEO.
   8.3. Non-combustible receptacles will be available for disposal of smoking materials. Receptacles
   will not be used for disposal of other waste materials, and will be wet down with water before being
   combined with other waste in dumpster. Receptacles will be emptied at least once each week to pre-
   vent overflow or as often as needed if more frequently.
   8.4. Sleeping Areas. Smoking in or on any bed on McChord AFB is prohibited

9. Open Flame, Spark or Heat Producing Equipment:
   9.1. All operations involving welding, cutting, brazing, open flames or spark producing devices will
   be conducted in accordance with Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Standard (AFOSHSTD)
   91-5, Welding, Cutting and Brazing, applicable technical orders and Air Force standards.
      9.1.1. The use of blow torches, soldering irons, welding or cutting equipment using compressed
      gas or electricity, and other equipment in which open flames or sparks are produced will be
      restricted to those areas that are specifically designed for the purpose and are approved, in writing,
      by the Base Fire Chief, Wing Safety Office and Environmental Health. These areas should have a
      permit posted and they must be renewed annually and if conditions change.
      9.1.2. The use of blow torches, soldering irons, propane torches/weed burners, or welding or cut-
      ting equipment outside of approved areas must have prior approval of the Base Fire Department
      and be accomplished in the following manner: The supervisor of the operation will call the Base
      Fire Department to request an inspection of the site and issuance of AF Form 592, USAF Welding,
      Cutting and Brazing Permit. To preclude delays in commencing the operation, the initial notifica-
      tion should be made when possible at least 24 hours prior to scheduled start time. Personnel rou-
      tinely performing hot work on McChord AFB should attend an annual certification training in
      order to issue AF Form 592’s. It is recommended that all personnel conducting hot work of any
      kind on McChord AFB attend the Hot Work Safety training class offered monthly at the fire
      department. Contact 62 CES/CEFP DSN 382-9017 or 2603 / Commercial (253) 982-9017 or 2603
      for information or to schedule training, DSN 382- 2603 / Commercial (253) 982-2603.
   9.2. Barbecuing/cooking is not allowed on landings, in exit ways, under stairs, fire escapes, over-
   hangs, on covered patios, nor within 10 feet of any building. When barbecuing, you must have a fire
   extinguisher nearby. DO NOT add lighter fluid to burning charcoal.
   9.3. The burning of candles and other open flame devices which have the potential for being left unat-
   tended are prohibited in offices, warehouses, industrial areas, dormitories, lodging facilities, and
   places of public assembly. The burning of candles or open flame in all base facilities is not recom-
8                                                                    62AWI32-17 9 SEPTEMBER 2008


    mended and must be coordinated with the base fire department, when in a business or an assembly
    occupancy. Alternatives should be sought.
    9.4. Vehicles and powered equipment operating in hangers where the possibility of flammable vapors
    may exist must meet the requirements of AFOSHSTD 91-100 Aircraft Flight Line – Ground Opera-
    tions and Activities and AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management. Vehicular
    traffic in hangars must be kept to the absolute minimum required for mission completion.
    9.5. Portable combustion heaters will not be operated in hazardous vapor areas, or within close prox-
    imity of combustible material. Combustion heaters used in conjunction with aircraft servicing or
    maintenance will be located at a point 50 feet upwind from servicing points or fuel vents. If the heater
    needs to be refueled, a cool down period of 30 minutes, or as specified by the individual technical
    order on the equipment, will be observed before it can be serviced.
    9.6. Civil Engineer personnel and civilian contractors will adhere to fire prevention criteria contained
    in AFOSHSTD 91-5 and 62AWI 32-18, Fire Prevention Standards During Contract Performance and
    Civil Engineer In House Work Performance, during contract performance and Civil Engineering in
    house work accomplishment.
    9.7. Except when specifically authorized by the Base Fire Chief and Environmental Engineering open
    fires are strictly prohibited. Environmental Engineering (62 CES/CEV) is the OPR for open burning
    on McChord AFB.
    9.8. Outdoor manufactured fireplaces are not allowed on landings, in exit pathways, under stairs, near
    fire escapes, overhangs, on covered patios, nor within 10 feet of any building. When using these, you
    must have a fire extinguisher nearby. DO NOT add lighter fluid or gasoline to burning wood. All
    manufactures guidance must also be followed. In base housing, be aware of furnace air intakes and
    windows that would allow smoke detectors to be set off. The screens must be in place and kept closed
    at all times to eliminate emission of sparks.

10. Combustible Packing Materials:
    10.1. Combustible packing materials whose quantities exceed those stated below will be stored in
    metal containers or metal-lined wooden bins with self-closing lids. In supply activities where materi-
    als are received or prepared for shipment, loose packing materials will not exceed quantities needed
    for immediate use. In administrative areas, loose packing materials will be disposed before the end of
    each workday or work shift.

11. Fire Hydrant and Fire Protection Systems:
    11.1. Vehicle parking is prohibited within 15 feet of a fire hydrant. This restriction applies even
    though all red zones on the base have been eliminated.
    11.2. Fire hydrants will not be used by other than Fire Protection or Civil Engineering personnel.
    Contractors may be permitted to use fire hydrants only by coordinating, through construction manage-
    ment with the Utilities shop (62 CES/CEOIU). Notification will be given to the Base Fire Department
    prior to using any base fire hydrant. To prevent contamination of the base water supply and to ensure
    rapid availability of hydrant for fire fighting, a back flow prevention device with a 2 ½ inch gated ball
    valve will be used whenever a contractor or Civil Engineering personnel make connection to a base
    fire hydrant.
62AWI32-17 9 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                               9


   11.3. When fire hydrants are out-of-service, the Base Fire Department will be notified and the fire
   hydrant will be placarded in accordance with AFOSHSTD 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupa-
   tional Safety Standard. When repairs have been completed and hydrant serviceability has been
   restored, the Base Fire Department will be notified and the placards removed.
   11.4. Access to Base Fire Department sprinkler system connections will not be obstructed or
   obscured.
   11.5. Access to fire suppression system controls and riser (control valve) cages will not be obstructed.
   The use of these areas for storage is prohibited. Where cages are not installed, a minimum of 5-foot
   clearance must be maintained around all sides of the system.
   11.6. Access to Fire Alarm Panels will not be obstructed in any manner. There must be a 3’ clear
   access.
   11.7. Whenever a valve is closed or reopened on the water distribution system or on a fire suppression
   system, the Base Fire Department will be notified 5 minutes before closing or reopening the valve.

12. Fire Extinguishers:
   12.1. The Base Fire Department will be notified when fire extinguishers are used for fire fighting,
   accidentally discharged or damaged. Extinguishers will not be removed or relocated from designated
   locations, except for use during a fire or on-the-spot protection of hazardous operations. Signs or
   arrows to identify fire extinguisher locations are not required except at locations where extinguishers
   are not readily visible.
   12.2. A contractor inspects fire extinguishers annually. Building managers are responsible for
   inspecting fire extinguishers monthly for serviceability. (Ref AFOSHSTD 91-501) The building man-
   ager or functional manager must initial the back of the fire extinguisher tag (McChord Form 601 or
   contractor equivalent) each month after inspecting the extinguisher. Exception: Extinguishers in
   sealed cabinets may have their inspections recorded on an Extinguisher Monthly Inspection Log
   approved by the Fire Department.
   12.3. The building manager or functional manager will advise the Fire Prevention Section of all
   changes within buildings, structures, or areas which may require redistribution of fire extinguishers.
   Distribution of extinguishers should be in compliance with National Fire Protection Association
   (NFPA) 10.
   12.4. All base personnel are required to be trained on the operation and use of fire extinguishers
   within 30 days of arrival at McChord and annually thereafter if required by their AFSC.
      12.4.1. If necessary for training purposes, a fire extinguisher training video is available from the
      Fire Department.
      12.4.2. Unit training managers are required to document fire extinguisher training.
   12.5. Flight Line Fire Extinguishers
      12.5.1. It will be the responsibility of each supervisor involved in flight line or allied maintenance
      functions to ensure that fire extinguishers are in serviceable condition and in position for use. If
      any defects are noted on an extinguisher, the defective extinguisher should be placed in the out of
      service line where it will be checked and serviced by the fire extinguisher contractor. Note: the
      location of the out of service line will be determined by mutual agreement between the Fire
10                                                                    62AWI32-17 9 SEPTEMBER 2008


        Department and Maintenance and will change as required. Contact Fire Prevention at DSN
        382-9017 / Commercial 253-982-9017 to find present location.
        12.5.2. A visual inspection of the flight line fire extinguisher will include, but will not be limited
        to the following:
            12.5.2.1. Pressure gauge needle must be in the green;
            12.5.2.2. Extinguisher charging handle must be sealed;
            12.5.2.3. Check date on inspection tag for Annual Inspection due date;
            12.5.2.4. Hose rack must be free of foreign objects and trash;
            12.5.2.5. Hose must be neatly coiled on rack, with nozzle secured;
            12.5.2.6. Ensure the back of the annual inspection tag (McChord Form 601 or contractor
            equivalent) has been signed off for the month. If not, initial the appropriate block after inspec-
            tion.
        12.5.3. Flight line extinguishers must never leave McChord AFB without coordination of the base
        Fire Department DSN 382-2603 / Commercial 253-982-2603.

13. Fire and Chemical Hazard Markers and Symbols:
     13.1. Any building containing explosives or hazardous chemicals will have the appropriate fire sym-
     bol, chemical hazard marker or hazard identification system symbol posted at entrances to rooms or
     area containing those items.
     13.2. Any changes in the hazardous material storage will require appropriate changes in hazard sym-
     bols. These changes will be called in to the Base Fire Department’s alarm room at DSN 382-2603 /
     Commercial 253-982-2603.

14. Housekeeping:
     14.1. Rags will be stored in self-closing containers. Each container will be clearly marked according
     to contents (i.e., clean rags, dirty rags) and contents will not be intermixed.
     14.2. Supervisors and facility managers will ensure buildings and grounds under their jurisdiction are
     maintained in a fire safe condition.
     14.3. Attics, water heater compartments, furnace/boiler rooms, air handling and heat exchange
     rooms, and utility or mechanical rooms will not be used for storage. Water heaters, furnaces and boil-
     ers will have a minimum of 18” clearance around them.
     14.4. All floor mops will be in racks or hung with the head at least six inches above the floor. Areas
     where mops are hung should be well ventilated.
     14.5. Oily rags, paint rags, trash, floor sweepings and other materials subject to spontaneous combus-
     tion will be kept in a tightly covered, self-closing metal receptacle.

15. Electrical:
62AWI32-17 9 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                            11


  15.1. All electrical appliances will bear the label of an accepted laboratory such as Underwriters’
  Laboratories, Inc. (UL) and Factory Mutual (FM). Appliances will be kept in good working condition,
  including cords and plugs.
  15.2. Appliances that produce heat or that contain heating elements such as irons, portable room heat-
  ers, coffeepots etc., will not be left unattended when current is flowing through them and will be
  unplugged when not in use and must be plugged into direct wall outlet. Combustible materials will be
  kept away from such devices.
     15.2.1. The use of electrical timers on heat producing electrical appliances is strictly prohibited.
     This includes timers that are built into the appliance.
     15.2.2. Hot plates will be of the enclosed element type.
     15.2.3. Heat producing appliances will only be used on noncombustible surfaces. The noncom-
     bustible surface must extend six inches beyond the base of the appliance in all directions.
     15.2.4. Electric space heaters must have guarded elements and a safety (tip-over) switch, must be
     UL listed and plugged directly into a wall outlet.
  15.3. Extension cords will have an ampere capacity rating equal to or larger than the power cord on
  the equipment. Cords will not be used as permanent wiring or where subject to damage. Only UL
  approved cords in good condition will be used. Extension cords will be of one continuous length with-
  out splices. They will not be attached to building surfaces, run through doorways, windows, holes in
  walls or ceilings, or under rugs/carpets. They will not be used for appliances.
  15.4. Only multiple electrical outlets that are equipped with circuit breaker may be used. The use of
  all other types of multiple outlet adapters is prohibited.
  15.5. All electrical switches, receptacles and junction boxes will have serviceable cover plates
  installed.
  15.6. Circuit breakers or fuses in an electrical panel will be labeled as to what they service.
     15.6.1. A three-foot clearance will be maintained to allow access to electrical switch panels, cir-
     cuit breaker panels and fuse boxes.
     15.6.2. Fuses and circuit breakers will be installed, utilized, and maintained in accordance with
     recommendations of the National Electric Code (NEC). Bridging of fuses with wire or any other
     material, or taping open of a circuit breaker is prohibited. All electrical circuits containing fuses
     will be marked as to the size of fuse required.
  15.7. Portable droplights will have a safety globe or guard around the bulb. Portable lights, drop
  cords, and hand lights or lanterns will not be used in hazardous atmospheres unless they are specifi-
  cally approved and labeled for use in the particular hazardous atmosphere and in good repair.
  15.8. Cooking in dormitory rooms without kitchen facilities is allowed only under the following con-
  ditions and in conjunction with the electrical criteria above.
     15.8.1. Only one (1) appliance per room is to be in use at a time.
     15.8.2. Deep fat frying is prohibited.
  15.9. Charging of wet cell batteries will only be accomplished in authorized facilities specifically
  designed and equipped for the purpose. Single battery units may be charged outside of specifically
12                                                                     62AWI32-17 9 SEPTEMBER 2008


     authorized, designated and equipped battery charging facilities under the following conditions and
     restrictions.
        15.9.1. Charging equipment must be UL approved and in good repair
        15.9.2. Area must be free from all flammables and combustibles.
        15.9.3. Area must be well ventilated
     15.10. Charging of wet cell batteries is prohibited in dormitories, living areas of military family hous-
     ing, or any office areas.

16. Fireworks: Except by written permission of the Support Group Commander, storage or use of fire-
works is prohibited. This does not include military pyrotechnics used or stored under an explosive facility
license.

17. General Requirements:
     17.1. When roads, streets, taxiways, or ramps, are to be blocked, notify the Base Fire Department of
     the time and date of closure and probable date of reopening. The Base Fire Department will be noti-
     fied when these areas are reopened.
     17.2. The Base Fire Department will be notified of any scheduled electrical power outage.
     17.3. Fire lanes will be established and kept open on the base and flight line. Access routes for fire
     fighting equipment and/or personnel within open storage areas, aircraft hangars, and around airfreight
     terminal complexes will be provided. Access to fire hydrants will not be obstructed with storage,
     fences, or parked vehicles.
     17.4. Fire vehicles and equipment responding to emergency calls must be given the right-of-way.
     Upon observance of flashing red lights or hearing the sound of a siren, traffic will pull over to the right
     hand side of the road or onto the shoulder and remain parked until all emergency fire vehicles have
     passed. At no time will any vehicle follow fire vehicles closer than 500 feet.
     17.5. Except at the direction of the senior fire official in charge, no vehicle will be driven over an
     unprotected fire hose.
     17.6. No person shall render any portable or fixed fire extinguishing system or device, or any fire
     warning system inoperative or inaccessible except as may be necessary during emergencies, mainte-
     nance, or prescribed testing.
        17.6.1. No person shall willfully and knowingly cause a false fire alarm.
     17.7. Personnel, other than Civil Engineering craftsman and Fire Protection personnel, will not enter
     boiler, furnace, or building utility/mechanical rooms. Communications technicians have full access to
     utility rooms that contain phone or data panels.
     17.8. Emergency fire exits will be readily accessible. Aisles, corridors, stairways and passageways
     leading to exits will be unobstructed at all times, and readily marked and illuminated as required.
     17.9. The bark type ground cover used for decorative purposes will not be used around combustible
     structures and skirting.
62AWI32-17 9 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                               13


   17.10. The 62d Services Squadron will issue a fire prevention policy letter from the Base Fire Marshal
   to personnel and organizations using the Holiday Park pavilion. Personnel must comply with the
   guidelines contained in the letter.

18. Self-Help Projects.
   18.1. All self-help projects must be submitted on AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request,
   for approval. Work requests must be coordinated through Fire Protection and Ground Safety.
   Approval must be obtained from Civil Engineering prior to any work starts. AF Form 332 should con-
   tain description of work and materials in sufficient detail for Fire Protection personnel to determine if
   the project materials are fire safe and do not interfere with life safety, fire protection systems or fire
   fighting operations.

19. Places of Public Assembly and Recreational Facilities:
   19.1. In addition to all other requirements in this AFI, managers of places of public assembly and rec-
   reational facilities will develop a written plan, approved by the Base Fire Chief. The plan will empha-
   size how to report a fire, orderly notification and evacuation of occupants, what to do until the fire
   department arrives, safe operation of commercial equipment, trash disposal, and closing inspection
   procedures. These plans will also include crowd control measures and fire prevention instructions for
   custodial personnel and a method of accountability for both employees and customers.
   19.2. Managers will establish and maintain a certification system to ensure employees have been ade-
   quately trained and understand their fire prevention responsibilities within the work environment. The
   certification system will include semi-annual drills of employees by the manager and orientation of
   newly hired employees (see para 12.4.). This must be documented in facility managers folder and kept
   current.
   19.3. Managers or assistants will conduct closing inspections. This responsibility will not be dele-
   gated to janitorial personnel. Closing inspections will include the procedures outlined in Attachment
   4.
   19.4. Managers will maintain in their office an occupant maximum load for each area of the facility
   as established by the Base Fire Department (62 CES/CEFP). Signs will be posted in each major area
   indicating the maximum capacity to prevent overloading. Managers will ensure that movable seating
   in each area does not exceed the posted limit and ensure that employees do not allow additional seat-
   ing to be moved into posted areas. Certification or documentation is not required for facilities with
   fixed or permanently installed seating.
   19.5. Decorations will not be installed in any manner that will block or obstruct exits, fire extinguish-
   ers, exit signs, sprinkler heads or interfere with the operation of the fire suppression system or the
   movement of personnel toward any exit.
   19.6. Draperies and decorations for use in Public Assemblies must be fire resistant. Labels showing
   fire resistant rating must remain attached to drapes or decorations. Paper work stating fire resistant
   qualities must be maintained in the Manager’s Office.
   19.7. Any time a facility, which was not built as a public assembly facility, is going to be used for a
   public assembly function, the fire prevention section should be contacted for the occupancy and
   egress information. (i.e., a hangar being used for a banquet)
14                                                                   62AWI32-17 9 SEPTEMBER 2008


20. Decorations:
     20.1. Decorations, including Holiday trees in places of public assembly and dormitory day rooms,
     must be fire retardant treated or noncombustible.
     20.2. Natural Holiday trees must be maintained in stands containing water or live trees potted in soil.
     These cannot be located near or in paths of egress or near any heat source.
     20.3. Electrical decorations must bear the UL seal of approval for their intended use.
     20.4. Electrical decorations will not be used on aluminum trees.
     20.5. Electrical decorations will be unplugged when unattended.
     20.6. Holiday decorations will be taken down and safely stored or disposed of within one week fol-
     lowing the holiday. New Year’s Day is considered the last day of the holiday season for this purpose.

21. Prescribed Forms
     21.1. McChord Form 237, McChord AFB Emergency Number (RED)
     21.2. McChord Form 601

22. Adopted Forms
     22.1. AF Form 592, USAF Welding, Cutting and Brazing Permit
     22.2. AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report
     22.3. Fire Extinguisher Inspection Tag
     22.4. Phone Sticker Emergency 911



                                                JEFFREY L. STEPHENSON, Colonel, USAF
                                                Commander, 62d Airlift Wing
62AWI32-17 9 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                    15


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-2001, National Fire Protection Association Standards, and Air Force Occupational Safety and
Health Standards
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standard
AFOSHSTD 91-5, Welding, Cutting, And Brazing
AFOSHSTD 91-100 Aircraft Flight Line – Ground Operations and Activities
AFOSHSTD 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard
NFPA 1, National Fire Protection Association Uniform Fire Code
NFPA 101, National Fire Protection Association Life Safety Code
NFPA 72, National Fire Protection Association National Fire Alarm Code

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AMCI—Air Mobility Command Instruction
FM—Factory Mutual
IAW—In Accordance With
IMT—Information Management Tool (IMT’s have been renamed to Forms)
L.P.—Liquefied Petroleum
NEC—National Electric Code
NFPA—National Fire Protection Association
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SABER—Simplified Acquisition of Base Engineering Requirements
UL—Underwriters’ Laboratories, Incorporated
16                                62AWI32-17 9 SEPTEMBER 2008


WADS—Western Air Defense Sector
62AWI32-17 9 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                            17


                                              Attachment 2

   FIRE PREVENTION CHECKLIST ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES AND WAREHOUSES

A2.1. The following checklist is to be used by supervisors and/or facility managers to inspect administra-
tive offices and warehouses.

A2.2. Has a visual inspection been made of all fire extinguishers for availability, serviceability, and
accessibility?

A2.3. Are fire alarm pull boxes visible and unobstructed?

A2.4. Are all exit lights operating and clear of obstructions?

A2.5. Are fire aisles, lanes, and exits arranged, maintained, and properly identified to provide free and
unobstructed egress?

A2.6. Are all fire doors clear of obstruction and closed if not monitored by the fire alarm?

A2.7. Are all personnel knowledgeable of fire reporting procedures and fire extinguisher operations?

A2.8. Is McChord AFB Form 237, McChord AFB Emergency Number (RED) “9-1-1 Sticker” or other
type 911 decal attached to each phone?

A2.9. Are sufficient trash containers available and have rubbish and combustible waste been removed
from the building?

A2.10. Are flammable liquids being used for cleaning purposes?

A2.11. Are all rooms and areas neatly arranged and clean?

A2.12. Are combustible cleaning supplies such as rags, steel wool, etc., kept in closed containers labeled
as to the contents?

A2.13. Are mops properly stored in well-ventilated areas with heads at least 6 inches off the floor?

A2.14. Is there an accumulation of waste and rubbish in storage closets?

A2.15. Are all drapes curtains, and decorations approved as fire safe for the specific area?

A2.16. Are proper clearances maintained around circuit breaker panels, fire alarm panel, pull stations?
(minimum 36” required)

A2.17. Are heat producing electrical appliances disconnected at the end of the duty day?
18                                                                 62AWI32-17 9 SEPTEMBER 2008


A2.18. Are extension cords being used properly? Have there been any makeshift wiring or repairs? Are
unauthorized drop cords being used? Are multiple outlets being used?

A2.19. Is there proper clearance between heating units and combustible material?

A2.20. Are all electrical motors free of lint and dust?

A2.21. Is there defective wiring, loose connections, or broken appliances which may constitute a fire haz-
ard?

A2.22. Is there proper clearance maintained between lights and storage? (An 18-inch clearance is
required.)

A2.23. Is there proper clearance maintained between sprinklers and high pile storage? (An 18-inch clear-
ance is required or 36-inch if storage height exceeds 15 feet.)

A2.24. Is there evidence that smoking rules are being violated?
62AWI32-17 9 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                            19


                                              Attachment 3

                  FIRE PREVENTION CHECKLIST INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES

A3.1. The following checklist is to be used by supervisors and/(or facility managers to inspect industrial
buildings including hangars

A3.2. Has a visual inspection been made of all fire extinguishers for availability, serviceability, and
accessibility?

A3.3. Is there evidence of smoking rules being violated?

A3.4. Are fire alarm pull boxes visible and unobstructed?

A3.5. Are all exit lights operating and clear of obstructions?

A3.6. Are fire aisles, lanes, and exits arranged, maintained, and properly identified to provide unob-
structed egress and fire fighting operations?

A3.7. Are all fire doors clear of obstructions?

A3.8. Are all exit doors in good operational condition and properly marked?

A3.9. Are all personnel knowledgeable of fire reporting procedures and fire extinguisher operations?

A3.10. Is McChord AFB Form 237, McChord AFB Emergency Number (RED) “9-1-1 Sticker” or other
type 911 decal attached to each phone?

A3.11. Are sufficient metal containers with self-closing lids available and labeled according to contents,
such as clean rags, oily rags, packing materials, hazardous metals, and steel wool?

A3.12. Are sufficient trash containers available and have rubbish and combustible waste been removed
from the building?

A3.13. Are oil spills left on floor?

A3.14. Are approved absorbents used on oil spills?

A3.15. Are drip pans emptied, when needed, to prevent accumulation of combustible and/or flammable
liquids?

A3.16. Are good housekeeping practices being observed?

A3.17. Are mops properly stored in well-ventilated area with heads at least 6 inches off the floor?

A3.18. Are flammable liquids being used for cleaning purposes?
20                                                                  62AWI32-17 9 SEPTEMBER 2008


A3.19. Are flammable and combustible liquids properly stored?

A3.20. Are proper clearances maintained around circuit breaker panels, fire alarm panel, and pull sta-
tions? (36”Minimum)

A3.21. Are unnecessary electrical appliances and equipment disconnected at the end of each duty day?

A3.22. Are heat producing electrical appliances disconnected at the end of the duty day and when left
unattended?

A3.23. Are extension cords being used properly?

A3.24. Have there been any makeshift wiring or repairs?

A3.25. Are unauthorized drop cords being used?

A3.26. Are multiple outlets being used?

A3.27. Are all electrical motors free of lint and dust?

A3.28. Is there defective wiring, loose connections, or broken appliances or equipment which may con-
stitute a fire hazard?

A3.29. Is there proper clearance between heating units and combustible material?
Hangars Only:

A3.30. Are the proper procedures being taken for grounding aircraft and POL equipment according to
current procedures?

A3.31. Are all extension cords used in the hangar explosion proof and in good repair? (No Splices); Are
they only used for temporary work?

A3.32. Are all electrical motors, air compressors, and other electrical equipment located within 18 inches
of the floor approved for use in Class I Div II locations?

A3.33. Are personnel familiar with procedures for emergency removal of aircraft?

A3.34. Are fire lanes for evacuation of aircraft, inside and outside of hangar, kept clear of obstructions?

A3.35. Are fire lanes (between red lines) for fire fighting operations properly marked on hangar floors
and left unobstructed?
62AWI32-17 9 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                           21


                                                 Attachment 4

       FIRE PREVENTION CHECKLIST PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES DAILY OPERATIONS

A4.1. The following checklist is to be used by supervisors and/or facility managers of clubs and recre-
ational facilities.

A4.2. Have all newly hired employees received orientation in fire reporting procedures, customer evacu-
ation procedures, use of hand held fire extinguishers, and other fire prevention practices?

A4.3. Has a visual inspection been made of all fire extinguishers for availability, serviceability, and
accessibility?

A4.4. Are fire alarm pull boxes visible and unobstructed?

A4.5. Are all exit lights and emergency lights operating and clear of obstructions?

A4.6. Are fire aisles, lanes, and exits arranged, maintained, and properly identified to provide free and
unobstructed egress?

A4.7. Are all fire doors clear of obstruction?

A4.8. Are all personnel knowledgeable of fire reporting procedures, patron evacuation procedures, and
fire extinguisher operations?

A4.9. Is McChord AFB Form 237, McChord AFB Emergency Number (RED) “9-1-1 Sticker” or other
type 911 decal attached to each phone?

A4.10. Are sufficient trash containers available?

A4.11. Are flammable liquids being used for cleaning purposes?

A4.12. Are all rooms and areas neatly arranged and clean?

A4.13. Are combustible cleaning supplies such as rags, steel wool, etc. kept in closed containers labeled
as to the contents?

A4.14. Are mops properly stored in well-ventilated area with heads at least 6 inches off the floor?

A4.15. Is there an accumulation of waste and rubbish in storage closets?

A4.16. Are all drapes curtains, and decorations approved as fire resistant?

A4.17. Are proper clearances maintained around circuit breaker panels, fire alarm panel, and pull sta-
tions? (36”Minimum)
22                                                                    62AWI32-17 9 SEPTEMBER 2008


A4.18. Are extension cords being used properly?

A4.19. Have there been any makeshift wiring or repairs?

A4.20. Are unauthorized drop cords being used?

A4.21. Are multiple outlets being used?

A4.22. Is there proper clearance between heating units and combustible material?

A4.23. Are all electrical motors free of lint and dust?

A4.24. Is there defective wiring, loose connections, or broken appliances which may constitute a fire haz-
ard?

A4.25. Is there proper clearance maintained between lights and storage? (An 18-inch clearance is
required.)

A4.26. Is there proper clearance maintained between sprinklers and high pile storage? (An 18-inch clear-
ance is required.)

A4.27. Have filters and the undersides of ducts over cooking equipment been cleaned?

A4.28. Are all range hood exhaust fans in cooking facilities operational?

A4.29. Are spare filters available for replacement so that grease filters can be cleaned during operation?

A4.30. Have all deep fat fryers been tested and certified annually?

A4.31. Are adequate noncombustible containers available for soiled linens?

A4.32. Have cleaning rags and greasy or oily rags been disposed of properly?

A4.33. Have all sofas and chair cushions been checked for smoldering smoking material?

A4.34. Have all rugs, carpets, and floors been checked for smoking material?

A4.35. Are ashtrays regularly emptied into butt cans?

A4.36. Are janitorial supply rooms, closets, and storage areas under bars and counters clean and in a
fire-safe condition?

A4.37. Have temporary decorations been approved by the Fire Department?

A4.38. Is seating arranged with proper width aisles that permit unobstructed access to exits?
62AWI32-17 9 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                             23


                                              Attachment 5

             FIRE PREVENTION CHECKLIST PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES CLOSING

A5.1. Are all stoves, grills, deep fat fryers and other cooking or heating appliances properly disconnected
or switches turned off?

A5.2. Have filters and the undersides of ducts over cooking equipment been cleaned?

A5.3. Is all cooking equipment clean and free of grease?

A5.4. Have covers been placed over deep fat fryers?

A5.5. Have greasy or oily rags been disposed of properly?

A5.6. Are nonessential electrical appliances unplugged or disconnected?

A5.7. Have all rugs, carpets, and floors been checked for smoking material?

A5.8. Have all removable cushions in chairs and sofas been removed and inspected for smoldering smok-
ing materials?

A5.9. Have ashtrays been emptied into butt cans?

A5.10. Have contents of butt cans been wet down and placed in dumpster?

A5.11. Have trash containers been emptied into outside containers?

A5.12. Have all open flame devices been extinguished?

A5.13. Are all soiled linens stored in noncombustible closed containers?

A5.14. Are all mops properly stored outside building?


NOTE: THE BUILDING CANNOT BE LEFT UNATTENDED UNTIL THE ABOVE PROCE-
DURES HAVE BEEN ACCOMPLISHED.
