BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  66 AIR BASE WING INSTRUCTION 48-102
66TH AIR BASE WING
                                                                                               20 MAY 2009
                                                                                          Aerospace Medicine

                                                            INDOOR AIR QUALITY (IAQ) PROGRAM



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:             Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at www.e-
                           publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY:             There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

                                                                            Certified by: 66 MDOS/SGOQ
OPR: 66 MDOS/SGOAB
                                                                                       (Capt Jerrilyn Jones)
                                                                                                  Pages: 11


This instruction implements HQ USAF/ILE/SGO Policy Letter Interim Policy and Guidance for the
Prevention, Surveillance, and Remediation of Water Damage and Associated Mold Contamination in
Air Force Facilities dated 10 May 2005. This instruction describes procedures designed to protect
personnel from the adverse health effects of IAQ and mold issues while performing their duties. This
instruction applies to all government personnel assigned, attached, or associated with Hanscom AFB
Massachusetts. This instruction provides unit commanders, facility managers, and supervisor’s
information and guidance to correctly mitigate indoor air quality and mold issues. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 37-363, Management of Records, and disposed in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

1. Background.
   1.1. Molds. Molds can be found almost everywhere. Mold grows rapidly indoors when the spores
   come in contact with building materials that have sufficient moisture to support active fungal
   growth. The typical conditions leading to mold growth in buildings include inadequate moisture
   control, deficient ventilation systems, poor housekeeping, chronic water intrusion, and/or isolated
   floods, such as from a burst water pipe. Once growth begins, fungal spores and bacteria amplify
   quickly. The microorganisms produce new spores that are introduced into the air stream either
   because the mold grows on the wet building material or during other building material disturbances
   (e.g. renovations, repair work, etc.). Such growth also can lead to the release of volatile compounds
   and odors characteristic of fungal/microbial growth.
   1.2. Preventing and Remediating. Preventing and remediating water damage is necessary to
   protect the health and well being of the Hanscom community infrastructure. In most cases, mold-
   related contamination is associated with water--the key to an effective mold program is controlling
   moisture in the facility. However, moisture control must be combined with adequate housekeeping
   and active participation of facility occupants in inspecting and responding promptly to initial signs of
2                                                                           66ABWI48-102 20 May 2009


    mold. By promoting timely facility moisture control, effective housekeeping, and active occupant
    participation, Hanscom personnel can successfully control mold growth and prevent potential
    subsequent medical concerns.
2. Responsibilities.
    2.1. Policy. This policy covers both facilities (e.g. administrative, industrial, dormitories, and child
    development centers) and management issues related to water damage including: prevention,
    evaluation, control, and disposal of water damaged and mold contaminated building materials. The
    organizations and personnel with primary responsibilities are discussed below. Risk communication
    should be considered a critical element in any water damage or mold remediation project.
    2.2. Building Managers. Using the guidance in Attachment 2 (Mold Prevention Tips for Facility
    Managers), inspect and report moisture problems to Civil Engineering (CE) before mold and related
    microbial contamination become problematic. Since molds depend on the availability of nutrients
    (e.g. dirt, cellulose, and other substrates) as well as moisture, ensure a clean and dry environment is
    maintained within the facility. As part of routine building inspections required by AFPAM 32-1004
    Volume 3, Working in the Operations Flight Facility Maintenance (1 September 1998), conduct
    periodic evaluations of the facility heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) system(s), pipe
    chases, utility tunnels, and building “envelope” (roof, walls, flooring, etc.).
       2.2.1. Perform the following actions during scheduled facility visits (with necessary HVAC
       personnel):
           2.2.1.1. Monitor the facility for signs of water damage (e.g., spotted ceiling tiles, water
           marks near windows/doors/damp floors, etc).
           2.2.1.2. Check for signs of condensation and/or suspected mold growth around diffusers or
           HVAC vents.
           2.2.1.3. Verify HVAC condensate drain pans are functioning properly.
       2.2.2. Clean and correct any small mold problems or water damage within their capability
       promptly (within 48 hours) following the guidelines in Attachment 3. If mold contamination or
       water damage exceeds the building manager’s abilities, the manager will contact the CE
       Customer Service Center to request an AF Form 332 work order.
           2.2.2.1. The initial work order should be classified as an emergency work order for CE to
           respond to the facility to identify and mitigate the moisture problem and dry or remove water
           damaged building materials. This initial work order is an “emergency” because water can
           cause electrical shock and deteriorate building materials beyond normal “safe” conditions,
           potentially leading to dangerous structural failures (i.e., roof collapse, etc.). After the initial
           response, the work order may be downgraded to “urgent” status.
           2.2.2.2. All follow-on actions must be completed as an urgent work order. CE will replace
           damaged building materials and remediate mold contamination from the affected area within
           five workdays after receipt of necessary building materials. When a water leak penetrates
           walls, ceilings, foundation cracks, etc., it should not be downgraded to a routine work order.
           The water problem must be corrected before mold is allowed to develop.
       2.2.3. Before accomplishing a mold or water damage remediation project, the building manager
       shall notify the building occupants and the building’s organizational commander in the affected
       area(s). Notification must include a description of the planned remedial measures and an
66ABWI48-102 20 May 2009                                                                            3


     estimated completion date. Notification should also include points of contact for any occupant
     health concerns.
     2.2.4. If a building manager receives occupant health complaints, he/she should refer the
     potentially affected personnel to their medical provider (paragraph 2.6).
  2.3. Civil Engineering. CE will evaluate mold contamination complaints and adequately resource
  all aspects of remediation activities to control and prevent infrastructure deterioration from mold.
  CE will conduct facility evaluations (upon building manager request) in dormitories, lodging,
  industrial, and administrative buildings following the facility inspection guidelines in AFIERA
  Technical Report, Guide for Indoor Air Quality Surveys, IERA-RS-BR-TR-2003-0001 or in
  subsequent technical report updates. Rely on visual inspection and, where appropriate, humidity
  sensors, to identify obvious growth or persistent water problems. In facilities where mold and/or
  moisture/excess humidity problems are present (reference Attachment 2), CE should determine the
  source.
     2.3.1. Control sources of moisture through proper management, isolation and containment; once
     mold and microbial contamination is identified, remediate water damaged areas.
     2.3.2. Complete emergency work orders and urgent work orders IAW the timeframes listed in
     “Performance Work Statement (PWS) Civil Engineering Services, Hanscom Air Force Base,
     MA”
  2.4. Civil Engineering Environmental (66 MSG/CEKV). Environmental Flight will support CE
  during water damage and mold related remediation projects. The CEV will coordinate remediation
  work with the responsible state or local agency.
  2.5. Medical Treatment Facility (MTF) Commander: The MTF commander will provide
  personnel and expertise to evaluate occupant building related health complaints (These complaints
  may or may not be due to the indoor environment within a building but because of health concerns
  require medical and occupational health personnel evaluation).
  2.6. Physicians. Will provide medical evaluation and appropriate care to personnel with health
  complaints that may be building (including mold) related. In addition physicians will work with
  other members of Team Aerospace when requested to evaluate facilities for potential building
  (including mold) related illnesses. If the medical provider believes the symptoms are related to the
  building, then they should send an AF Form 190, Occupational Illness/Injury Report, or SF-513,
  Medical Record - Consultation Sheet through Public Health (PH).
  2.7. Bioenvironmental Engineering. BE will work with CE to apply Operational Risk
  Management (ORM) principles in conducting health risk assessments to investigate/identify
  potential causes of building-related illness. BE will work with other Team Aerospace members to
  determine the need for and in the completion of health risk assessments in response to physician
  identified illness that may be building related. When remediation of mold-damaged areas is
  required, BE will recommend appropriate PPE, review/validate the remediation plan, and coordinate
  with CE in accordance with Attachment 4.
     2.7.1. When and IAQ investigation is required by a medical provider, BE will gather
     information from Building Manager using 66 ABW IMT 1312, Indoor Air Quality Telephone
     Assessment. During IAQ investigation BE will use 66 ABW IMT 1311, IAQ Employee
     Questionnaire, to gather information from the affected employee.
4                                                                        66ABWI48-102 20 May 2009


       2.7.2. BE will monitor IAQ parameters such as Carbon Dioxide (CO2), relative humidity and
       temperature. BE will provide recommendations/corrective actions if the results of the survey fall
       outside of the recommended levels in Table 2.1.

Table 2.1. Recommended IAQ Levels.

Parameter                                        Recommended Level
CO2                                              1000 part per million (ppm) or less
Relative Humidity                                40-60%
Temperature                                      68-76°F

    2.8. Public Health. PH will evaluate clusters of occupationally linked illnesses or clusters of
    potential mold-related illness in AF buildings as identified through the AF Form 190, SF 513, and
    CA-2.
    2.9. Facility Occupants. Report signs of condensation and wet spots on building materials to
    Facility Manager. Practice sound housekeeping practices in work areas to include vacuum floors,
    remove trash frequently, and prevent excessive dust accumulation. When water leaks or spills occur
    indoors - ACT QUICKLY. If wet or damp materials or areas are dried 24-48 hours after a leak or
    spill happens, in most cases mold will not grow. Report all plumbing/building leaks and moisture
    problems immediately to your Facility Manager.
       2.9.1. Military members seeking initial medical care for suspected building related illnesses or
       nonspecific indoor-related symptom complaints will notify their supervisor and schedule an
       appointment with their primary care provider.
       2.9.2. Civilian members seeking initial medical care for suspected building related illnesses or
       nonspecific indoor-related symptom complaints will notify their supervisor and should then seek
       medical care from their primary care provider. If after consulting with their medical provider the
       provider believes the symptoms are related to the building, then they should contact civilian
       personnel for completion of a US Department of Labor CA-2 Notice of Occupational Disease
       and Claim for Compensation.
       2.9.3. Personnel are encouraged to use the attached flow chart to address water damage and
       mold contamination in their facilities. Consult Attachment 3 for basic mold program
       management guidelines.




                                            DAVID L. ORR, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 66th Air Base Wing
66ABWI48-102 20 May 2009                                                                           5


                                             Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

(a) USAF Interim Policy for the Prevention, Surveillance and Remediation of Mold
Contamination in Air Force Facilities, 10 May 2005.

(b) Additional references are listed in Attachment 4 “References.”

(c) Macher, J. ed. Bioaerosols: Assessment and Control. Cincinnati, OH: ACGIH, 1999.

(d) United States Environmental Protection Agency. Mold Remediation in Schools and Commercial
Buildings. http://www.epa.gov/iaq/molds/images/moldremediation.pdf.
March 2001.

(e) Air Force Institute for Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Risk Analysis (AFIOH).
Guide for Indoor Air Quality Surveys. IERA-RS-BR-TR-2003-0001.
https://kx.afms.mil/ctb/groups/public/documents/afms/ctb_009906.pdf

(f) Navy Occupational Safety & Health. OPNAVINST 5100.23F. July 2002.

(g) Working in the Operations Flight Facility Maintenance. Air Force Pamphlet 32-1004, Volume 3.
September 1998.

(h) United States Environmental Protection Agency. A Brief Guide to Mold, Moisture, and Your
Home. http://www.epa.gov/iaq/molds/moldguide.html EPA 402-K-02-003.

(i) US Army Center for Health Promotion and Preventive Medicine (USACHPPM) Technical Guide
277. Army Facilities Management Information Document on Mold Remediation Issues. http://chppm-
www.apgea.army.mil/mold/TG277.pdf February 2002.

(j) US Army Center for Health Promotion and Preventive Medicine (USACHPPM) Technical Guide
278. Industrial Hygiene/Preventive Medicine Mold Assessment Guide.
http://chppm-www.apgea.army.mil/mold/TG278.pdf February 2002.

(k) Cook, C. and McDaniel, D. IAQ Problem-Solving: An Overview of Successful Techniques for
Improving Indoor Air Quality. Environmental Protection. May 2002.

(l) ASHRE Standard 62-1999, Ventilation for Acceptable Indoor Air Quality.

(m) U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Building Air Quality: A Guide for Building Owners and
Facility Managers, http://www.epa.gov/iaq/largebldgs/baqtoc.html. EPA Doc Ref: #402F-91-102,
December 1991.

(n) FEMA/American Red Cross publication, "Repairing Your Flooded Home." Tiffany, Bader and
Yang. http://www.fema.gov/hazards/floods/lib234.shtm

(o) Adverse Human Health Effects Associated with Molds in the Indoor Environment,
6                                                                66ABWI48-102 20 May 2009


ACOEM Evidence Based Statements, American College of Occupational and
Environmental Medicine (ACOEM), http://www.acoem.org/guidelines
66ABWI48-102 20 May 2009                                                                               7


                                             Attachment 2
                   MOLD PREVENTION TIPS FOR FACILITY MANAGERS

          [Adapted from EPA 402-K-01-001: Mold Remediation in Schools and Commercial
                                    Buildings, March 2001]

1. Report leaky plumbing and leaks in the building envelope in accordance with AFPAM 32-1004 Vol 3
or other applicable guidance. Leaks should be repaired within 24 hours after initial notification and wet
or damp spots should be cleaned and dried within 48 hours.

2. Conduct building survey following rain events to document condensation and wet spots. Request a
work order to repair moisture problems. Attachment 2 addresses response activities for wet building
materials.

3. If condensation on windows and walls are a common occurrence, contact CE for preventative
actions.

4. Keep heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) flowing properly and unobstructed, and drip
pans clean.

5. Perform regular building/HVAC inspections. Coordinate HVAC inspections with CE, as needed, to
ensure maintenance is scheduled and performed.
8                                                                          66ABWI48-102 20 May 2009


                                             Attachment 3
                 RESPONSE ACTIVITIES FOR WET BUILDING MATERIALS

     [Adapted from EPA 402-K-01-001: Mold Remediation in Schools and Commercial Buildings,
                            March 2001, to apply to All AF Facilities]

Prevention:

1. When water-damaged materials are identified in a building, coordinate with CE to repair/alleviate the
water or humidity problem and remediate mold-contaminated materials (reference Attachment 2. If
more damage is discovered during remediation, revise remediation plan as necessary. CE must carry out
and complete a repair plan, as appropriate. CE will revise, if necessary, and perform recurring
maintenance. Facility Manager must revise housekeeping requirements, as required.

2. Facility Managers should continue to communicate with building occupants, as appropriate
depending on the situation. Be sure to address all concerns.

3. Facility managers should cleanup visible spills and contact CE to manage the cleanup of the
remaining water damaged areas. CE will select appropriate cleaning and drying methods for water
damaged materials (see Table 3.1). Carefully contain and remove wet building materials. For military
or civilian (non-contractor) personnel, use only PPE approved by installation BE. Arrange for outside
professional contract support, if necessary.

    3.1. When addressing mold problems, don’t forget to address the source of the moisture problem, or
    the mold problem may simply reappear!

    3.2. Remember to check for high humidity and condensation problems as well as actual water leaks,
    maintenance issues, and HVAC system problems.

    3.3. Protect the health and safety of the building occupants and remediators. Consult an
    occupational health professional or BE, as needed. Use appropriate PPE and containment options
    when working with mold.

    3.4. Table A3.1 presents strategies to respond to water damage within 24-48 hours. These
    guidelines are designed to help avoid the need for remediation of mold growth by taking quick
    action before growth starts. Depending on the size of the area involved and resources available,
    professional assistance may be needed to dry an area quickly and thoroughly.

Table A3.1. AF Cleanup and Mold Prevention Policy Following Water Damage.
Water-Damaged Material           Required Actions
Books and papers                 For non-valuable items, discard Books and papers.
                                 Photocopy valuable/important items, discard originals.
                                 Freeze (in frost-free freezer or meat locker) or freeze dry
Carpet and backing - dry         Remove water with water extraction vacuum.
within
24 to 48 hours                   Reduce ambient humidity levels with dehumidifier.
                                 Accelerate drying process with fans.
66ABWI48-102 20 May 2009                                                                          9


Ceiling tiles                   Discard and replace.
Cellulose insulation            Discard and replace.
Concrete or cinder block        Remove water with water extraction vacuum.
Surfaces                        Accelerate drying process with dehumidifiers, fans, and/or
                                heaters.
Fiberglass insulation           Discard and replace (discard at least two feet around damaged
                                materials).
Hard surface, porus floorings
(Linoleum, ceramic tile,        Vacuum or damp wipe with water and mild detergent and
vinyl)                          allow to dry; scrub if necessary.
                                Check to make sure under flooring is dry; dry under flooring if
                                necessary.
Non-porous, hard surfaces       Vacuum or damp wipe with water and mild detergent and
(plastics, metals)              allow to dry; scrub if necessary.
Upholstered furniture           Remove water with water extraction vacuum.
                                Accelerate drying process with dehumidifiers, fans, and/or
                                heaters.
                                May be difficult to completely dry within 48 hours. If piece is
                                valuable, you may wish to consult with a restoration/water
                                damage professional who specializes in furniture
Wallboard (drywall and          May be dried in place if there is no obvious swelling and the
gypsum board)                   seams are intact.
                                If not, remove, discard and replace (discard at least two feet
                                around damaged materials).
                                Ventilate the wall cavity, if possible
Window drapes                   Follow laundering or cleaning instructions recommended by
                                the manufacturer.
Wood surfaces                   Remove moisture immediately and use dehumidifiers, gentle
                                heat, and fans for drying.
                                (Use caution when applying heat to hardwood floors).
                                Treated or finished wood surfaces may be cleaned with mild
                                detergent and clean water and allowed to dry.
                                Wet paneling should be pried away from the wall for drying
10                                                              66ABWI48-102 20 May 2009


                                      Attachment 4
            FLOW CHART TO HELP RESPOND TO MOLD/WATER DAMAGE

Figure A4.1. Flow Chart to Help Respond to Mold/Water Damage.
66ABWI48-102 20 May 2009   11
