BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            673RD AIR BASE WING INSTRUCTION
673RD AIR BASE WING (PACAF)                                                    48-107

                                                                          3 DECEMBER 2010
                                                          Certified Current On 31 January 2014
                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                                  BLOODBORNE PATHOGEN
                                                                 EXPOSURE CONTROL PLAN

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 673 AMDS/SGPM                                                    Certified by: 673 MDG/CC
Supersedes: 3WGI 48-107, 12 June 2009                                    (Col Paul L. Friedrichs)
                                                                                        Pages: 28


This instruction implements AFPDD 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program, and is used in
conjunction with AFIs 44-108, Infection Control Program, and 48-101, Aerospace Medical
Operations. This instruction establishes guidelines for personnel who have reasonably
anticipated occupational exposure to bloodborne pathogens (BBP) (see Paragraph 1) in the
course of their duties on Joint Base Elmendorf Richardson (JBER). It applies to all organizations
on base whose personnel have reasonably anticipated occupational exposure to blood, body
fluids, or other potentially infectious materials (PIM) in the course of their assigned duties but
does not apply to the Air Force Reserves or Air National Guard units and members. This
primarily involves personnel working in the Medical Group, Fire Department, Security Police,
and Office of Special Investigations (OSI). Also included are employees required to provide
first aid response as part of their duties. However, all personnel working on JBER should
understand how bloodborne pathogens are transmitted in case they must respond to an injured/ill
coworker, dried blood found on an object, or a biohazardous spill. Waivers to this instruction
must be requested through 673 MDG/CC. This instruction does not require functional OPR
review. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the office of
primary responsibility (OPR) (see Attachment 1) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication. Route the AF Form 847 through the appropriate chain of command.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed
of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records             Disposition           Schedule           (RDS)             located          at
https://my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
 2                                                                               673ABWI48-107 3 DECEMBER 2010


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Job categories,
classifications and tasks were updated; .procedures were reorganized and updated and terms in
Attachment 1 were updated. Attachments 2, 4, 5 and 6 were added. References to
Tuberculosis (TB) were removed.

        1.     Exposure Determination: .......................................................................................              2
Table 1.       Category II. ............................................................................................................    4
        2.     Responsibilities: .....................................................................................................      5
        3.     Procedures: .............................................................................................................    8
        4.     Contracted Operations: ..........................................................................................            9
        5.     Record Keeping: ....................................................................................................        10
        6.     Forms Adopted/Prescribed: ...................................................................................               10

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                             12

Attachment 2—JOINT BASE ELMENDORF RICHARDSON BLOODBORNE PATHOGENS
             EXPOSURE CONTROL PLAN                                                                                                         15

Attachment 3—BLOODBORNE PATHOGEN TRAINING                                                                                                  24

Attachment 4—HEPATITIS B VACCINE DECLINATION STATEMENT                                                                                     25

Attachment 5—DECONTAMINATION PROCEDURES FOR BLOOD, BODY FLUIDS, AND
             OTHER POTENTIALLY INFECTIOUS MATERIALS                                                                                        26

Attachment 6—BUILD-YOUR-OWN EMERGENCY BLOOD/BODY FLUID SPILL KIT
             CONTENTS LIST                                                                                                                 28


1. Exposure Determination:
     1.1. Exposure Categories. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) has
     established three risk exposure categories for protection against occupational exposure to
     infectious diseases to include Hepatitis B virus (HBV), Hepatitis C virus (HCV), and human
     immunodeficiency virus (HIV). These categories are as follows:
        1.1.1. Category I (High Risk). High risk tasks are those that involve routine exposure
        to human blood, body fluids, or tissues. All procedures or other job-related tasks that
        involve an inherent potential for mucous membrane or skin contact with human blood,
        body fluids, tissues, PIMs, or a potential for spills or splashes. Use of personal protective
        equipment (PPE) will be required for employees engaged in Category I tasks. Category I
        job classifications will include the following: physicians, dentists, nurses, physician’s
        assistants, medical laboratory officers and technicians, dental and dental lab technicians,
        dental hygienists, dental assistants, dental volunteers, radiology technicians, optometrist,
673ABWI48-107 3 DECEMBER 2010                                                              3


     optometry technicians, immunization technicians, medical technicians, and emergency
     medical technicians.
     1.1.2. Category II (Moderate Risk). These are routine tasks that involve no exposure
     to human blood, bodily fluids, tissues, or other PIMs, but employment may require
     performing unplanned/ emergency Category I tasks. Normal work routine involves no
     exposure to blood, body fluids, or PIMs, but exposure or potential exposure may be
     required as a condition of employment. Appropriate PPE, as determined by the
     supervisor, in consultation with Bioenvironmental Engineering, will be readily available
     to every employee engaged in Category II tasks. Listed below are Category II job
     classifications and tasks which may incur exposure:
 4                                                     673ABWI48-107 3 DECEMBER 2010


Table 1. Category II.


     JOB                                           TASK


     Security Forces                               Rendering First Aid


     Mortuary Affairs                              Potential exposure to human waste and
                                                   human remains


     Hospital Housekeeping                         Duties performed in 673 MDG,Transporting
                                                   PIMs, contaminated laundry/trash
     Hospital Employees/Volunteers not             Potential contact with infectious patients/
     In Category I                                 equipment
     Designated Search and Rescue                  Potential contact with infectious remains/
     Responders                                    personal items during aircraft mishap


     Designated First Aid Responders               First Aid Response in the workplace


     Firefighters                                  First responders, emergency rescue
                                                   procedures, rendering first aid


     JOB                                           TASK
     Fleet Services                                Servicing flights for aeromedical evacuation


        1.1.3. Category III (No Anticipated Risk). Tasks that involve no exposure to human
        blood, body fluids or tissues. Category III tasks are not a condition of employment. The
        normal work routine involves no exposure to human blood, body fluids or tissues
        (although situations may be imagined or hypothesized under which anyone, anywhere,
        might encounter a potential exposure to body fluids). Persons who perform these duties
        are not called upon as part of their employment to perform or to assist in emergency
        medical care or first aid, or to be potentially exposed in some other way. These workers
        may perform care as “Good Samaritans”. Category III tasks and procedures may result in
673ABWI48-107 3 DECEMBER 2010                                                                  5


       occupational exposure of almost any person in any job classification (for example,
       administrative workers, food handlers, routine laborers, industrial shop personnel, and so
       forth). Duties that may involve potential exposure for Category III personnel include:
          1.1.3.1. Disposing of soiled tissues or debris soiled with visible blood from restrooms
          or offices.
          1.1.3.2. Physical contact with other employees or visitors with exudative lesions or
          weeping dermatitis.
          1.1.3.3. Provision of emergency first aid or cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR)
          until professional help arrives. NOTE: Personnel who must be immunized against
          HBV on JBER include all Category I personnel and all active duty personnel and
          civilians who work in Category II shops including medical, fire fighting, security
          police, explosive ordinance disposal, and other identified work centers with job tasks
          that potentially expose assigned workers to human waste and/or blood and body
          fluids. All other personnel in Category III will be evaluated for post-exposure
          prophylaxis to HBV if an exposure incident occurs that is related to their
          occupational tasks.
2. Responsibilities:
   2.1. The 673rd Wing Commander:
       2.1.1. Is responsible for ensuring all units with personnel in Categories I and II (see
       paragraphs 1.1.1 and 1.1.2) develop and review annually a unit-specific Bloodborne
       Pathogen Exposure Control Program (see Attachment 2).
       2.1.2. Ensure initial and annual training (see Attachment 3) is accomplished for
       personnel considered at risk.
       2.1.3. Ensure each unit commander complies with the guidance referred to in the
       following references: 29 Code of Federal Regulation (CFR) 1910.1030, Occupational
       Exposure to Bloodborne Pathogens, Occupational Safety and Health Administration
       (OSHA); AFPD 48-1, AFIs 44-108, 48-101; 91-204, Safety Investigations and Mishaps;
       and 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Prevention, and
       Health (AFOSH) Program; Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, Guidelines for the
       Management of Occupational Exposures to HBV, HCV, and HIV and Recommendations
       for Postexposure Prophylaxis, Vol. 50, No RR-11, 29 June 2001; Morbidity and
       Mortality Weekly Report, Guidelines for the Management of Occupational Exposures to
       HIV and Recommendations for Postexposure Prophylaxis, Vol. 54, No RR-9, 30
       September 2001; Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, Notice to Readers: Updated
       Information Regarding Antiretroviral Agents Used as HIV Postexposure Prophylaxis for
       Occupational HIV Exposures, Vol. 56, No. 49, 14 December 2007; as well as the
       expanded policies set by this program.
   2.2. Unit Commanders. Will ensure that all personnel at risk for occupational exposure to
   blood, body fluids, or other PIMs are adequately protected, receive initial orientation and
   annual training, and comply with established guidelines and requirements defined in this
   program and 29 CFR 1910.1030.
6                                                      673ABWI48-107 3 DECEMBER 2010


    2.3. Commanders of Organizations with Personnel at Risk for Occupational
    Exposures. Will designate an OPR for facilitating completion of the unit’s BBP Exposure
    Control Program (using Attachment 2), monitoring compliance with engineering and work
    practice controls, PPE, housekeeping, elements of hazard communication and training
    documentation as stipulated by this program. NOTE: For contracted services, it’s the
    contractor, not the Air Force, who assumes responsibility for compliance with OSHA
    standards and for the safety and health of their employees. Air Force contract specifications
    for services and materials must stipulate strict adherence to 29 CFR 1910.1030 and must
    specify who provides PPE to whom, who provides Hepatitis B vaccinations, who gives the
    training, and who investigates and documents bloodborne or other potentially infectious
    pathogen exposure incidents.
    2.4. At Risk Individuals. Each at-risk individual (active duty member, government
    employee, contract employee, student or volunteer assigned or attached to work in any
    affected organization)is responsible for knowledge of and compliance with this program.
    Each supervisor must document personnel training on AF Form 55, Employee Safety and
    Health Record, or its equivalent.
    2.5. Training for Self-Aid and Buddy Care. All training for self-aid and buddy care
    (SABC) and CPR will include basic information concerning bloodborne and other potentially
    infectious pathogens, their transmission, and method of exposure control.
    2.6. The 673 MDG will provide:
       2.6.1. Medical oversight for eligible workers exposed to blood, body fluids, or other
       PIMs in the course of their duties. Medical oversight for potentially exposed workers
       includes:
           2.6.1.1. Immunizations (with documentation) to protect Category I and II workers
           against bloodborne pathogens.
           2.6.1.2. Medical follow-up, treatment, and documentation for authorized personnel
           exposed to blood, body fluids, or other PIMs in the course of their duties.
           2.6.1.3. Written risk assessment opinions for employees exposed to blood, body
           fluids, or other PIMs.
       2.6.2. Medical education to authorized workers following potential exposure to
       infectious materials in routine course of their duties.
       2.6.3. Review and approval by Public Health (PH) (when requested by organizations) of
       unit exposure control programs and educational programs developed for workers
       potentially exposed to blood, body fluids, or other PIMs in the course of their duties.
       2.6.4. Disposal of contaminated waste (upon request) through the medical waste disposal
       contract when waste contaminated with blood and body fluids. Any contaminated waste
       collected, gathered and transported in biohazard containers will also be disposed.
       2.6.5. PH provides initial training upon request to organization supervisors on proper
       techniques and prevention of exposure to blood, body fluids, and other PIMs. Units may
       employ their own selected BBP initial training curriculum with review and approval by
       PH. PH also provides:
673ABWI48-107 3 DECEMBER 2010                                                                7


         2.6.5.1. Technical advice and supervisory assistance on:
             2.6.5.1.1. The types of PPE needed to protect workers from exposure to blood,
             body fluids, or other PIMs. Bioenvironmental Engineering and Infection Control
             personnel may also provide recommendations regarding PPE.
             2.6.5.1.2. Training of workers exposed to blood, body fluids, or other PIMs in the
             course of their duties.
             2.6.5.1.3. Training of workers on decontamination of surfaces contaminated with
             blood, body fluids, or other PIMs.
     2.6.6. A medical consultant who will evaluate exposure incidents. A representative
     available to answer questions on exposure incidents.
  2.7. All units with workers in Category I and II job classifications and any workers exposed
  to blood, body fluids, or other PIMs will:
     2.7.1. Develop an Exposure Control Program for their workers using the template in
     Attachment 2. The completed program will be reviewed by PH (673 AMDS/SGPM,
     Occupational Health Section) upon request.
     2.7.2. Ensure the unit’s written Exposure Control Program and its documentation are
     available to workers who may have questions and to authorized program evaluators for
     required review.
     2.7.3. Develop, schedule, provide training materials, and document training for workers
     about the medical aspects of exposure to blood, body fluids, or other PIMs,
     organizational procedures, and the storage and use of PPE. PH will provide consultation
     as requested.
     2.7.4. Purchase, properly store, and ensure the use of PPE needed to protect workers
     from exposure to blood, body fluids, or other PIMs. There must be enough PPE on hand
     to protect all workers involved in procedures with potential exposures. Additionally, PPE
     must be available in sizes that appropriately fit all workers potentially exposed.
     2.7.5. Clean, launder, and/or dispose of PPE at no cost to the employee.
     2.7.6. Repair or replace PPE as needed to maintain its effectiveness, at no cost to the
     employee.
     2.7.7. If a blood or body fluid exposure takes place in the workplace:
         2.7.7.1. Ensure that the affected worker washes the exposed area thoroughly with
         soap and water. Soap should not enter the eyes or the nose or mouth.
         2.7.7.2. Immediately notify supervisor on duty; the supervisor will send the worker,
         and if possible, source individual to the 673 MDG Emergency Department as soon as
         possible.
         2.7.7.3. Appropriately decontaminate surfaces soiled with blood, body fluids, or
         other PIMs, as soon as feasible using personnel trained in the management of
         bloodborne pathogens to limit exposure of others.
 8                                                        673ABWI48-107 3 DECEMBER 2010


            2.7.7.4. To dispose of contaminated waste, call 673 MDG Facility Management at
            DSN 317-580-6136 for guidance. Transport the contaminated waste to 673 MDG for
            proper disposal. Bagged waste need not be transported immediately. It can be
            containerized and held in a secure manner until regular duty hours.
3. Procedures:
     3.1. All Category I civilians will report to PH to be offered the Hepatitis B vaccine at no cost
     to the employee. Civilian employees are required to be vaccinated in accordance with Air
     Force SG Policy Letter #03-004. Volunteers must receive the vaccine prior to working in
     Category I areas.
        3.1.1. The Immunizations Clinic will document receipt of each vaccine for employees/
        volunteers who receive the Hepatitis B series in the Air Force Complete Immunizations
        Tracking Application (AFCITA) or other appropriate record maintenance system. For
        Category I personnel, PH also documents the HBV immunization status and follow-up
        activities into the Preventive Health Assessment and Individual Medical Readiness
        Database. Civilians declining this vaccine must sign a declination statement (see
        Attachment 4). If the employee later wishes to receive the vaccine, they may receive it
        at no cost.
     3.2. At-risk workers will be given initial training prior to working in a work center with risk
     of exposure to blood or body fluids, or other PIMs and annual training as required by 29 CFR
     1910.1030, Occupational Exposure to Bloodborne Pathogens, (see Attachment 3 for training
     requirements).
     3.3. Supervisors will ensure that initial and annual training is documented on the employee's
     AF Form 55 or equivalent (and appropriate computerized training record if used by the
     organization) as Initial Bloodborne Pathogen Training and Annual Bloodborne Pathogen
     Training. PH is available to assist supervisors in training on Bloodborne Pathogens to help
     meet both initial and annual training requirements.
     3.4. PPE. Supervisors will:
        3.4.1. Ensure adequate PPE (gloves, masks, goggles, face shields, outer protective
        garments, and so forth) is available for workers to use at all times where there is a
        potential for occupational exposure to blood, body fluids, or other PIMs.
        3.4.2. Enforce the wearing of PPE during procedures in which there is a potential for
        occupational exposure to blood, body fluids, or other PIMs. Noncompliance of workers
        to adhere to policies and directives of this program must be immediately addressed
        through appropriate administrative procedures. This policy is established to protect the
        government's financial interest and to protect the worker's health.
     3.5. If a worker is actually exposed to blood, body fluids, or other PIMs in the course of their
     duties, (for example, a needle puncture wound, getting cut with a contaminated object such
     as glass, having blood splash on the skin or mucous membranes of the eyes, nose or mouth)
     the supervisor will ensure that the worker thoroughly washes the affected area; for eyes, rinse
     with copious amounts of water. The supervisor will immediately send the exposed worker
     and, if possible, the source individual, to 673 MDG Emergency Department for appropriate
     evaluation, treatment, and follow-up. If it’s not possible to send the source individual to the
673ABWI48-107 3 DECEMBER 2010                                                                  9


   Emergency Department (ED) , the supervisor will ensure that the ED receives the source
   individual’s name and contact information.
      3.5.1. The ED provider will evaluate the worker's potential exposure to bloodborne
      pathogens using criteria developed by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and
      prevention based on the type of exposure and source's risk factors.
         3.5.1.1. If indicated, ensure appropriate testing of the source as well as testing,
         treatment, and follow-up care for the exposed worker are accomplished in a timely
         manner.
         3.5.1.2. Notify worker and their employing organization of the necessity of treatment
         and follow-up of the exposed worker.
      3.5.2. The flight surgeon on call will provide a written opinion on the individual's
      exposure incident and recommended follow-up care within 15 days after all initial
      evaluations have been completed. Ensure that the written opinion is placed in the
      individual's medical record.
      3.5.3. PH will ensure that appropriate follow-up is accomplished using CDC and OSHA
      guidelines for blood, body fluid, and PIMs exposure.
      3.5.4. The unit where the exposure incident occurred will:
         3.5.4.1. Ensure areas, equipment, clothing, and materials contaminated by blood,
         body fluids, or other PIMs are appropriately decontaminated. Small spills/
         contamination may be cleaned by properly trained unit employees or by certified
         contractors.
         3.5.4.2. Contact Contracting for spills that may be beyond the scope of the unit to
         manage internally as appropriate.
         3.5.4.3. Unit employees trained in decontamination procedures will decontaminate
         and dispose of any blood, body fluids, or other PIMs using appropriately trained
         personnel and the procedures outlined in Attachments 5 and 6.
         3.5.4.4. Place all contaminated articles to be disposed of in a biological hazard bag.
         This task will be accomplished by appropriately trained unit personnel wearing
         proper PPE, including: puncture-resistant waterproof gloves, a protective outer
         garment, and shoe coverings, if there is a potential for contaminating the worker’s
         shoes. If aerosolization or splattering of blood, body fluids, or other PIMs is
         expected, individuals must wear a mask and goggles or face shield. The biohazard
         bags will be handled and transported appropriately to 673 MDG (consult with 673
         MDG Facility Management, DSN 317-580-6136). If waste contains sharp items,
         such as broken glass, needles, or knives, these must be placed in a puncture resistant
         container which is sealed prior to placing it in a biohazard bag. NOTE: A regular
         plastic garbage bag can be used instead of a biohazard bag, if it is clearly marked with
         a biohazard label and double bagged. Contact Medical Logistics at DSN 317-580-
         6355 to request a biohazard label.


4. Contracted Operations:
 10                                                   673ABWI48-107 3 DECEMBER 2010


   4.1. Protection for contract employees and appropriate disposal of collected waste should be
   the responsibility of the contractor.
   4.2. Units planning to use contract services for cleanup of blood, body fluids or other PIM
   spills, must proactively establish a standing contract that will be quickly initiated when
   required. Ideally, contract workers should be on scene within an hour of their notification.
   Do not wait until a BBP incident occurs to try and establish an adequate contract.
5. Record Keeping:
   5.1. The supervisor will document training on either an AF Form 55 (or equivalent) or
   computerized database for all units with Category I and II workers for the duration of the
   worker’s employment.
   5.2. At the end of the worker’s employment, the unit will maintain the training record and
   any documentation of non-compliance by the worker for three years. Upon permanent
   change of station (PCS) or permanent change of assignment (PCA), the individual will take
   the AF Form 55 to the gaining unit.
   5.3. Medical record. The 673 MDG will:
      5.3.1. For workers involved in a bloodborne pathogen exposure incident, in the course of
      his/her duties on JBER, the following will be maintained in each individual's medical
      record:
          5.3.1.1. A copy of the employee's Hepatitis B vaccination status including the dates
          of Hepatitis B vaccinations and any medical documents relative to the employee's
          ability to receive the vaccination or the employee’s declination statement.
          5.3.1.2. A copy of all results of examinations, medical testing, and follow-up
          procedures pertaining to an occupational exposure.
          5.3.1.3. Health professional's written opinion if exposure has occurred during
          employment.
      5.3.2. Provide upon request from an authorized authority (as required by law) and in
      accordance with organizational procedures the pertinent portions of the employee's
      medical record for examination and copying. This task will be accomplished under the
      guidance of 29 CFR 1910.20, Access to Employee Medical and Exposure Records and
      must follow requirements of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of
      1996.




6. Forms Adopted/Prescribed:
673ABWI48-107 3 DECEMBER 2010                                             11


  6.1. Adopted:
  AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record
  AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
  6.2. Prescribed:
       No forms were prescribed by this publication.




                                         ROBERT D. EVANS, Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander
 12                                                   673ABWI48-107 3 DECEMBER 2010


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008.
AFI 44-108, Infection Control Program, 1 July 2000.
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program, 3 October 2005.
AFI 48-101, Aerospace Medical Operations, 19 August 2005.
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Mishaps, 24 September 2008
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Prevention, and Health
(AFOSH) Program, 1 June 1996.
MGI 48-9, Occupational Blood and Body Fluid Exposure Control Plan (current version).
29 CFR 1910.20, Access to Employee Medical and Exposure Records.
29 CFR 1910.1030, Occupational Exposure to Bloodborne Pathogens.
Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, Guidelines for the Management of Occupational
Exposures to HBV, HCV, and HIV, and Recommendations for Postexposure Prophylaxis, Vol.
50, No RR-11, 29 June 2001.
Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, Updated U.S. Public Health Service Guidelines for the
Management of Occupational Exposures to HIV and Recommendations for Postexposure
Prophylaxis, Vol. 54, No RR-9, 30 September 2005.
Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, Notice to Readers: Updated Information Regarding
Antiretroviral Agents Used as HIV Postexposure Prophylaxis for Occupational HIV Exposures,
Vol. 56, No. 49, 14 December 2007.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFCITA—- Air Force Complete Immunizations Tracking Application.
AFRIMS—- Air Force Records Information Management System.
BBP—- Bloodborne Pathogens.
CDC—- Centers for Disease Control.
CFR—- Code of Federal Regulations.
CPR—- cardiopulmonary resuscitation.
ED—- Emergency Department.
HBV—- Hepatitis B virus.
HCV—- Hepatitis C virus.
HIV—- Human Immunodeficiency Virus.
JBER—- Joint Base Elmendorf Richardson.
673ABWI48-107 3 DECEMBER 2010                                                                  13


OPR—- Office of Primary Responsibility.
OSHA—- Occupational safety and health administration.
OSI—- Office of Special Investigations.
PCA—- Permanent Change of Assignment.
PCS—- Permanent Change of Station
PH—- Public Health.
PIM—- Potentially Infectious Materials.
PPA—- Personal Protective Attire.
PPE—- Personal Protective Equipment.
RDS—- Records Disposition Schedule.
SABC—- Self-Aid and Buddy Care.
TB— Tuberculosis.

Terms
Additional Terms— For additional terms, see Occupational Safety and Health Standards
(OSHA) Title 29 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) 1910.1030.
Bloodborne Pathogens (BBP)— Disease-causing microorganisms that are present in human
blood and can cause disease in humans. Examples include (but are not limited to) Hepatitis B
Virus (HBV), Hepatitis C Virus (HCV), and Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV).
Contaminated— Refers to the presence or the reasonably anticipated presence of blood or other
PIMs on an item or surface.
Decontamination— Use of physical or chemical means to remove, inactivate, or destroy blood-
borne pathogens on the surface or item to the point where they are no longer capable of
transmitting infectious particles and the surface or item is rendered safe for handling, use, or
disposal.
Employee— All personnel working in any capacity for the United States Government at JBER,
Alaska (that is, military, hired civilians, civilian/military volunteers, housekeeping personnel,
and students).
Engineering Controls— Exposure control measures that isolate or remove the bloodborne
pathogen hazard from the workplace (for example, sharps containers, self-sheathing needles,
hand washing facilities).
Exposed Individual— Any individual who comes in contact with blood or other PIMs.
Exposure— Any encounter, direct or indirect, with an injured person’s blood or body fluids, or
their personal items (that is, clothing, bed linens, bandages, and so forth) contaminated by blood
or body fluids.
Exposure Incident— An incident in which blood or PIMs contact the mucous membranes of the
eye, nose, or mouth, or make contact with broken, non-intact, or irritated skin. It also includes
any incident where a potentially contaminated item penetrates the skin (for example, needle-
 14                                                   673ABWI48-107 3 DECEMBER 2010


stick). Human bites are also considered an exposure incident for purposes of screening and
follow-up.
Occupational Exposure— Eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral (through the skin/mucous
membrane barrier) or non-intact skin exposure to blood or PIMs during the course of an
employee’s duties. Non-intact skin includes skin with dermatitis, hangnails, cuts, abrasions,
chafing, and so forth.
Parenteral— Piercing mucous membranes or the skin barrier through such events as needle
sticks, punctures, human bites, cuts, and abrasions.
Personal Protective Equipment/Attire (PPE/PPA)— Specialized clothing or equipment
(gowns, gloves, masks, goggles) worn by an employee for protection against a hazard. General
work clothes (for example, uniforms, pants, shirts, or blouses) are not intended to function as
protection against hazards and are not considered PPE/PPA.
Potentially Infectious Materials (PIM)— PIMs include: All body fluids; any unfixed tissues
or organs (other than intact skin) from a human (living or dead); and HIV cell/tissue/organ
cultures and HIV or HBV containing culture medium or other solutions; blood, organs or other
tissues from experimental animals infected with HIV or HBV.
Sharps— Any object that can penetrate the skin, including but not limited to needles, scalpels,
broken glass, broken capillary tubes, and exposed ends of dental wires.
Source Individual— Any individual (living or dead) who’s blood or other PIMs may be a
source of occupational exposure to the employee.
Standard Precautions— An approach to infection control in which all human blood and PIMs
(discussed above), or contaminated items that would release blood or PIMs, are treated as if
known to be contaminated with bloodborne pathogens. The approach includes the use of barriers
or other personal protective equipment/attire (PPE/PPA) between the body fluid of the patient
and skin or mucous membranes of the employee.
Work Practice Controls— Measures that reduce the chances of exposure by altering the
manner in which a task is performed (for example, prohibiting the recapping of needles using a
two- handed technique, avoiding picking up broken glass with bare hands, using proper
procedures for collecting and disposing of PIMs).
673ABWI48-107 3 DECEMBER 2010                                                                  15


                                         Attachment 2
      JOINT BASE ELMENDORF RICHARDSON BLOODBORNE PATHOGENS
                      EXPOSURE CONTROL PLAN

A2.1. Sample Program with Detailed Explanations:
   A2.1.1. Unit: ___________________________________
   A2.1.2. Preparation Date: ____________________
   A2.1.3. Certifying Official: __________________
NOTE: This sample program is provided only as a guide to assist in complying with 29 CFR
1910.1030, OSHA’s bloodborne pathogens standard. Organizations will need to add relevant
information or change/delete information non relevant to their particular organization/function in
order to develop an effective, comprehensive exposure control program. Organizations must review
the standard for particular requirements applicable to their specific situation. The exposure control
program must be reviewed annually and updated when necessary.
   A2.1.4. In accordance with the OSHA Occupational Exposure to Bloodborne Pathogens
   Standard, 29CFR 1910.1030, the following exposure control program has been developed.
A2.2. Exposure Determination. OSHA requires employers to perform an exposure
determination concerning which employees may incur occupational exposure to blood, body
fluids or other PIMs. The exposure determination is made without regard to the use of personal
protective equipment.
   A2.2.1. List job classifications where ALL employees have been determined to have a
   reasonably anticipated occupational exposure to bloodborne pathogens while performing
   specific job tasks and procedures.
Table A2.1. Job Titles/Series.
JOB TITLE                                                   JOB SERIES/AFSC


(List Title and Job Series or AFSC
EXAMPLE: Public Health (PH) Technician)                     (4E0X1)


   A2.2.2. In addition, if the organization has job classifications in which SOME employees
   may have occupational exposure, a listing of those classifications is required. Since not all
   the employees in these categories would be expected to incur exposure to blood, body fluids,
   or other PIMs, a listing of tasks or procedures is required to clearly understand which
   employees are considered to have occupational exposure.
 16                                                    673ABWI48-107 3 DECEMBER 2010



Table A2.2. Job Classification and Task Procedures.
JOB CLASSIFICATION                                         TASKS/PROCEDURES


(List Title/Job Series or AFSC)                            (List Task/Procedure such as
                                                           emergency rescue/first aid
                                                           procedures.)


A2.3. Implementation Schedule and Methodology. This plan also requires a schedule and
method of implementation for the various requirements of the standard. The following complies
with this requirement:
   A2.3.1. Standard Precautions. The mandatory use of standard precautions is in effect.
   The term "standard precaution" refers to an infectious disease control system intended to
   prevent health care and public safety workers from mucous membrane, and non-intact skin
   exposures to bloodborne pathogens. Assume all blood and body fluids (semen, vaginal
   fluids, cerebrospinal, lymph, pericardial, and so forth) are potentially infectious and
   appropriate barriers must be established between the patient's blood, body fluids, and other
   infectious materials and the health care and public safety worker. Under circumstances
   where differentiation between body fluid types is difficult or impossible, consider all body
   fluids potentially infectious. Consider all blood, body fluid, or other PIMs infectious
   regardless of the perceived status of the source individual.
   A2.3.2. Engineering and Work Practice Controls. Use engineering and work practice
   controls to eliminate or minimize exposure to employees. Where occupational exposure
   remains after institution of these controls, use personal protective equipment. The following
   engineering controls will be used:
   A2.3.3. Inspections will be conducted for the following controls:
Table A2.3. Control and Inspection Control.
CONTROL                                             INSPECTION CONTROL


(Hand Washes)                                       (Weekly/Inspected by Sgt 11/or list
                                                    responsible Section.)
   A2.3.4. Hand Washing Facilities. Employees who incur exposure to blood, body fluids or
   other infectious materials will wash at a readily accessible area. If hand-washing facilities
   are not feasible, the organization is required to provide either an appropriate antiseptic hand
   cleanser in conjunction with a clean cloth/paper towels or antiseptic towelettes. If these
   alternatives are used, wash the hands with soap and running water as soon as feasible. Also,
   after removal of protective gloves, employees shall wash hands and any other potentially
673ABWI48-107 3 DECEMBER 2010                                                                    17


   contaminated skin area immediately or as soon as feasible with soap and water. If employees
   incur exposure to mucous membranes, wash or flush those areas with running water
   immediately following contact. Organizations will list locations of readily accessible hand
   washing facilities and alternatives to hand washing facilities. Organizations that must
   provide alternatives to readily accessible hand washing facilities must ensure the
   maintenance and accessibility of these alternatives.
   A2.3.5. Hand washing stations are located in the following locations:
Table A2-4. Permanent Locations and Portable Station Locations.
PERMANENT STATION LOCATIONS                              PORTABLE STATION LOCATIONS


(List locations, for example, patient rooms, procedure areas, vehicles, specific areas in hangars,
and so forth.)


   A2.3.6. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE):
       A2.3.6.1. All employees will use PPE to minimize or eliminate exposure risks. Consider
       equipment appropriate only if it does not permit blood, body fluids, or other PIMs to pass
       through or to reach the employee's clothing, skin, eyes, mouth, or other mucous
       membranes, under normal condition of use and for the duration of use.
       A2.3.6.2. Providing PPE. It’s the responsibility of the individual organization to provide
       PPE for their employees at no cost to the employee. List here who in the organization
       will provide PPE to all employees at risk, PPE to include, but not limited to gloves,
       gowns, coats, masks, eye protection, and mouthpieces, resuscitation bags or other
       ventilation devices. Choose PPE based on the anticipated exposure to blood, body fluids,
       or other PIMs. Make hypoallergenic gloves, powderless gloves, or other similar
       alternatives available for those employees who are allergic to the gloves normally used.
       A2.3.6.3. Enforcing the wearing of PPE. The supervisor or section head will enforce the
       use of PPE by all employees. Not wearing PPE when exposed to blood, body fluids, or
       other PIMs is only allowed under rare and extraordinary circumstances where specific
       use of PPE will prevent delivery of health care or pose a safety hazard to the employee or
       co-workers. When the employee makes this judgment, the circumstances will be
       investigated by the supervisor and documented on a ____________________, (use an
       appropriate form for official documentation, such as a memorandum for record) to
       determine whether changes need to be instituted to prevent further incidents where PPE is
       not worn.
       A2.3.6.4. Accessibility of PPE. The supervisor or section head will ensure availability
       of PPE in the work area and provide protective clothing to employees. The following
       (organization, person, unit, and so forth) is responsible for distribution of PPE.
       A2.3.6.5. Coordinate with Medical Supply on types of PPE available for purchase.
A2.4. Personal Protective Equipment is Stored:
 18                                                    673ABWI48-107 3 DECEMBER 2010


   A2.4.1. Remove all PPE penetrated by blood, body fluids, or other PIMs immediately or as
   soon as feasible. Remove all PPE prior to leaving the work area.
   A2.4.2. Place all contaminated PPE in an appropriately designated area or container for
   storage prior to decontamination or disposal. Handle contaminated disposable PPE as
   follows:
   A2.4.3. The buddy system should be used if more than one individual is involved.
   A2.4.4. Remove outer protective garment, (for example, gown, apron, lab coat, and so forth)
   fold garment in on itself as the garment is being removed and place in the biohazard-hazard
   bag.
   A2.4.5. Remove shoe covers and place in the biohazard-hazard bag.
   A2.4.6. Remove the face shield/goggles and place in designated storage area identified for
   holding contaminated PPE prior to decontamination for re-use.
   A2.4.7. Remove gloves by turning inside out and place in designated storage area identified
   for holding contaminated PPE prior to decontamination for re-use or place in biohazard bag
   for disposal.
A2.5. The following protocol has been developed to facilitate leaving the equipment at the work
area:
   A2.5.1. The organization will clean, launder, and dispose of all PPE at no cost to employees.
   The organization will make all repairs and replacement at no cost to the employee.
   A2.5.2. Employees will wear gloves when it is reasonably anticipated that hands could make
   contact with blood, body fluids, other PIMs, non-intact skin, mucous membranes and when
   handling or touching contaminated items or surfaces.
A2.6. Gloves will be made available at the following locations:
   A2.6.1. Wear heavy duty, industrial grade utility gloves when any activity such as handling
   trash, decontamination of instruments/equipment, or environmental cleaning is performed.
   Wash utility gloves when minimal soiling occurs. Change utility gloves when heavily soiled
   or when the integrity of the barrier has been compromised. After removing gloves,
   employees will wash their hands with soap and water immediately or as soon as possible.
   Utility gloves may be decontaminated for reuse provided the integrity of the gloves is not
   compromised. Discard utility gloves when cracked, peeling, torn, punctured, or exhibiting
   signs of deterioration or when their ability to function as a barrier is compromised.
   A2.6.2. Do not reuse disposable gloves. Do not wash or decontaminate disposable gloves
   for reuse. Replace gloves as soon as practical when they become contaminated, torn,
   punctured, or their ability to function as a barrier is compromised.
   A2.6.3. Employees must wear masks in combination with eye protection devices, such as
   goggles or glasses with solid side shields, or chin length face shields, whenever splashes,
   spray, splatter, or droplets of blood, body fluids, or other PIMs may be generated and if eye,
   mouth, or nose contamination is anticipated.
673ABWI48-107 3 DECEMBER 2010                                                                     19


   A2.6.4. The OSHA standard also requires the use of appropriate protective clothing, such as
   lab coats, gowns, aprons, clinic jackets, or similar outer garments. The type and
   characteristics will depend upon the task and degree of exposure anticipated.
A2.7. The following situations/procedures require protective clothing be used:
Table A2.5. Situation/Procedures and PPE Used.
SITUATION/PROCEDURE                                                 PPE USED


(List situations/procedures to be used,                             (List PPE to be used.
for example, Emergency first aid, lab procedures,                   for example, lab coat,
dental procedures, and so forth.)                                   face shield, and so forth.)


   A2.7.1. Handling contaminated needles, sharp instruments, or other contaminated articles.
   Education programs are to stress proper management of needles, sharp instruments, or other
   contaminated articles. Workers are to be aware of the occupational health hazards
   concerning their use. Common sense, safety, and environmental concerns are paramount in
   the workers handling and disposal of needles, sharp instruments, or other contaminated
   articles. Place emphasis on the minimal handling of these items.
   A2.7.2. Do not use hands to pick up sharp instruments, broken glass, needle/syringe units, or
   other sharp objects contaminated with blood, body fluids, or other PIMs. Pick the object up
   using other methods not requiring an individual to come in direct contact with the
   contaminated object, (for example, tongs, forceps, a broom and dust pan, cardboard, and so
   forth).
   A2.7.3. Place the contaminated objects in a puncture resistant, leak proof biohazard
   container, or other impervious, puncture resistant container to be placed in a biohazard bag
   and take to the 673rd MDG for disposal (contact 673 MDG Facility Management, 580-6136,
   for guidance). If the organization does not have a suitable biohazard container, contact the
   673rd MDG to pick one up. You must exercise extreme caution when disposing of needles
   and sharp instruments/objects.
   A2.7.4. Place contaminated non-sharps, (for example, contaminated gauze, towels, clothing,
   and so forth) in a leak proof biohazard bag.
A2.8. Needles. Do not bend, recap, remove, shear or purposely break contaminated needles and
other contaminated sharps. OSHA allows an exception to this if the procedure requires the
contaminated needle be recapped or removed and no alternative is feasible and the medical
procedure requires the action. Use a mechanical device or one-handed technique if recapping or
removal is required.
A2.9. The following procedures require recapping or removal of needles:
   A2.9.1. Reusable Sharps Containers. Place reusable contaminated sharps immediately, or
   as soon as possible, into appropriate sharps containers to wait for cleaning and sterilization.
   At this facility the sharps containers are puncture resistant, labeled with biohazard label, and
 20                                                   673ABWI48-107 3 DECEMBER 2010


   are leak proof. Workplace-specific Bloodborne Pathogen training should include location of
   sharps containers in the workplace training plan.


A2.10. Work Area Restrictions:
   A2.10.1. Employees are not to eat, drink, apply cosmetics, lip balm, smoke, or handle
   contact lenses in work areas where there is a reasonable likelihood of exposure to blood,
   body fluids, or other PIMs.
   A2.10.2. Do not keep food and beverages in refrigerators, freezers, shelves, cabinets, on
   counter tops or bench tops where blood, body fluids, or other PIMs are present.
   A2.10.3. Mouth pipetting/suctioning of blood, body fluids, or other PIMs is prohibited.
   A2.10.4. Conduct all procedures in a manner which will minimize splashing, spraying,
   splattering, and generation of droplets of blood, body fluids, or other PIMs.
A2.11. The following methods will be used to accomplish work area restrictions:
   A2.11.1 Specimens:
   A2.11.2. Place specimens of blood, body fluids, or other PIMs in containers which prevent
   leakage during the collection, handling, processing, storage, transport, or shipping of the
   specimens. Label or color code the containers used for this purpose in accordance with the
   requirements of the OSHA standard. Biohazard (red) bags or red containers may be
   substituted for labels. Organizations should note the standard provides a labeling/color
   coding requirement exemption, provided the facility uses standard precautions in the
   handling of all specimens and the containers are recognizable as containing specimens. This
   exemption applies only while the specimens remain in the facility.
   A2.11.3. Place any specimen, which could puncture a primary container within a puncture
   resistant secondary container. This container must have appropriate biohazard markings.
   Workplace-specific training plans should include training on specimen handling. The
   following containers will be used for the listed specimens:
   A2.11.4. If outside contamination of the primary container occurs, place the primary
   container within a secondary container, which prevents leakage during the handling,
   processing, storage, transport, or shipping of the specimen. If specimen leakage is
   anticipated, double or triple bag the primary container using color-coded plastic bags or
   sturdy clear plastic bags.
A2.12. Contaminated Equipment and Surfaces:
   A2.12.1. Examine equipment contaminated with blood, body fluids, or other PIMs prior to
   servicing or shipping and decontaminate as necessary unless the decontamination of the
   equipment is not feasible.
   A2.12.2. Only trained personnel within the organization will decontaminate contaminated
   equipment and surfaces.
   A2.12.3. Individuals who are responsible for decontaminating equipment and surfaces will
   wear appropriate PPE, including but not limited to: gloves, protective eyewear, and a smock.
673ABWI48-107 3 DECEMBER 2010                                                                 21


   A2.12.4. At a minimum, clean contaminated surfaces and equipment using procedures in
   Attachment 5 and Attachment 6.
A2.13. List the procedures used for decontaminating equipment and surfaces:
   A2.13.1. If you cannot decontaminate the equipment or surfaces in this fashion, contact
   Public Health (551-4000) or 673rd MDG Infection Control Officer (580-2722) for advice.
   A2.13.2. Attach a readily observable biohazard label to the portion of the equipment which
   remains contaminated.
   A2.13.3. Submitting organizations must inform all affected employees, the servicing
   representative, and/or the manufacturer, of the biohazard potential prior to handling,
   servicing, or shipping, so appropriate precautions can be taken. The following is a list of
   equipment that would not be feasible to decontaminate prior to shipping or servicing:
A2.14. Housekeeping:
   A2.14.1. Supervisors or section heads are responsible for maintaining their work areas in a
   clean and sanitary condition.
       A2.14.1.1. Schedule of housekeeping procedures: Establish operating instructions for
       each section indicating schedule for cleaning and methods of decontamination based
       upon work area and procedures performed in the area.
       A2.14.1.2. This facility will be cleaned and decontaminated according to the following
       schedule:
       A2.14.1.3. Accomplish decontamination by utilizing the following materials:
       A2.14.1.4. Decontaminate all contaminated equipment and work surfaces after
       completion of procedures and immediately or as soon as feasible after any spill of blood,
       body fluids, other PIMs (see Attachment 5), and at the end of the work shift if
       contamination occurred since the last cleaning. (Employers should add in any
       information concerning the usage of protective coverings, such as plastic wrap used to
       assist in keeping surfaces free of contamination.)
       A2.14.1.5. Immediately replace protective coverings such as plastic wrap, aluminum
       foil, or imperviously-backed absorbent paper used to cover equipment and work surfaces
       when they become overly contaminated, or at the end of the work shift if contamination
       occurs.
       A2.14.1.6. Inspect all bins, pails, cans, and similar receptacles, intended for reuse, for
       blood, body fluid, or other PIMs. Decontaminate the receptacles on a regularly scheduled
       basis (for example, daily, weekly) and decontaminate immediately or as soon as feasible
       if contaminated. Inspect all bins, pails, cans, and similar receptacles and decontaminate
       on a regularly scheduled basis:
A2.15. Regulated Waste Disposal:
   A2.15.1. Discard all contaminated sharps as soon as feasible in sharps containers located in
   the facility. Sharps containers are located:
   A2.15.2. Place regulated waste other than sharps in appropriate containers. Such containers
   are located:
 22                                                        673ABWI48-107 3 DECEMBER 2010


A2.16. Laundry Procedures:
   A2.16.1. Handle laundry contaminated with blood, body fluids, or other PIMs as little as
   possible. Place such laundry in appropriately marked bags at the location where it was used.
   Do not sort or rinse such laundry in the area of use.
   A2.16.2. All employees who handle contaminated laundry will use PPE to prevent contact
   with blood, body fluids, or other PIMs.
   A2.16.3. Laundry at this facility will be cleaned at:
   A2.16.4. When contaminated laundry is shipped off site to a second facility which does not
   use standard precautions in handling all laundry, the facility generating the contaminated
   laundry must place such laundry in bags or containers which are labeled or color-coded in
   accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1030(g)(1)(i).
A2.17. Hepatitis B Vaccine. At no cost to the employee the hepatitis B vaccine will be given to
all appropriately designated individuals (for example, clinic personnel, fire department
personnel, security police, OSI and other military members with potential occupational blood or
body fluid exposure) who have been identified as having exposure to blood, body fluids, or other
PIMs. All other civilian employees with exposure potential will be offered the vaccine at no cost
to the employee. The vaccine will be offered within 10 working days of their initial assignment
to work involving the potential for occupational exposure to blood, body fluids, or other PIMs
unless the employee has previously had the vaccine. Civilian employees (with the exception of
Category I employees) who decline must sign the hepatitis B declination statement, Attachment
4, which is placed in their medical record kept at the clinic.
   A2.17.1. Post-Exposure Evaluation and Follow Up. When the employee incurs an
   exposure incident, the supervisor will report the exposure to PH and immediately direct the
   employee to the 673 MDG Emergency Department for initial evaluation and treatment. Post
   exposure evaluation and follow up will be done in accordance with the OSHA occupational
   exposure to bloodborne pathogens standard, 29 CFR 1910.1030.
A2.18. Interaction with Health Care Professionals:
   A2.18.1. The health care provider (for example, attending physician, nurse practitioner,
   physician’s assistant, and so forth) will give a written opinion for employees whenever the
   employee is sent to a health care provider following an exposure incident.
   A2.18.2. Health care providers will be instructed to limit their opinions to:
       A2.18.2.1. Whether the Hepatitis B vaccine or Hepatitis B immune globulin is indicated,
       if the employee has received the vaccine, or for evaluation following an incident.
       A2.18.2.2. Information of the results of the evaluation.
       A2.18.2.3. Telling the employee about any medical conditions resulting from exposure
       to blood, body fluids, or other PIMs. (NOTE: the written opinion to the employer is not
       to reference any personal medical information).



A2.19. Training:
673ABWI48-107 3 DECEMBER 2010                                                                   23


   A2.19.1. Supervisors will ensure training of all employees prior to initial assignment to tasks
   where occupational exposure may occur and annually thereafter. The required training
   elements can be found in Attachment 3.
       A2.19.1.1. All employees will receive annual refresher training. (NOTE: This training
       is to be conducted within one year of the employee's previous training).
Table A2.6. Training Dates/Type Material Used/Who Conducted.
TRAINING DATE                  TYPE OF MATERIAL USED                     WHO CONDUCTED


(Employers should list here if training will be conducted using video tapes, written material, and so
forth. Also the employer is to indicate who is responsible for conducting the training.)


THE OUTLINE FOR THE TRAINING MATERIAL IS LOCATED:


(List where the training materials are located.)


A2.20. Record Keeping. All records required by the OSHA standard will be maintained by:
A2.21. Dates. All provisions required by the standard will be implemented by:
 24                                                     673ABWI48-107 3 DECEMBER 2010


                                         Attachment 3
                         BLOODBORNE PATHOGEN TRAINING

Figure A3.1. Bloodborne Pathogen Training
UNIT:
PREPARED BY:
CERTIFIED BY:
A3.1. OSHA standard blood-borne pathogens 29 CFR 1910.1030. (Briefly outline standard.)
A3.2. Epidemiology and symptomatology of bloodborne diseases. (Testing for exposure and
symptoms of related diseases.)
A3.3. Modes of transmission. (Needle sticks, sharps, punctures, splashes, direct contact, and so
forth).
A3.4. Exposure Control Program. (Outline and explain the plan, what is covered and by who,
also explain how the individual may obtain a copy of the plan.)
A3.5. Procedures that might cause exposure. (Rescue, surgery, dental procedures, CPR, and so
forth.).
A3.6. Control methods.       (PPE requirements, safe handling of material, and standard
precautions.)
A3.7. Personal Protective Equipment. (Types, wear, use, and basis for selection.)
A3.8. Post exposure and follow-up. (Outline what is done.)
A3.9. Signs and labels. (Meaning, where to order, and how to use.)
A3.10. Hepatitis B vaccine. (Requirements, declination form, and request after initial decline.)
A3.11. Questions. (Interactive question and answer session.)
NOTE: The above is only an outline of what should be included in each unit’s training OI. PH has
a set of BBP presentation slides available for use by units. However, each unit will have to tailor
their OI to meet their unit’s needs.
673ABWI48-107 3 DECEMBER 2010                                                                     25


                                           Attachment 4
                  HEPATITIS B VACCINE DECLINATION STATEMENT

Figure A4.1. Hepatitis B Vaccine Declination Statement

I _____________________________, understand that due to my occupational exposure to blood,

body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials PIMs I may be at a higher risk of acquiring

hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. I have been given the opportunity to be vaccinated with

hepatitis B vaccine, at no charge. However, I decline hepatitis B vaccine at this time. I

understand that by declining this vaccine, I continue to be at risk of acquiring hepatitis B, a

serious disease. If in the future I continue to have occupational exposure to blood, body fluids,

or other potentially infectious materials PIMs during my employment on/with Joint Base

Elmendorf Richardson and I decide to be vaccinated with hepatitis B vaccine, I can receive the

vaccination series at no charge. .




Signature and date ________________________________________________


Printed Name ____________________________________________________
 26                                                      673ABWI48-107 3 DECEMBER 2010


                                          Attachment 5
 DECONTAMINATION PROCEDURES FOR BLOOD, BODY FLUIDS, AND OTHER
              POTENTIALLY INFECTIOUS MATERIALS

A5.1. Procedures. The following procedures are recommended for "site specific" clean-up of
spill involving blood or body fluids. Five percent household bleach is used here. Consult the
673 MDG Infection Control Committee for recommendations/approval of other disinfectants.
Also, outline in the unit's control program the procedures for clean-up using the disinfectant.
   A5.1.1. Make a "spill kit" readily available for site clean-up. Place ½ cup of household
   bleach in a dark brown or opaque bottle (sunlight will break down bleach). Put the bleach, ½
   gallon of water (don't mix the two until you clean-up a spill), pair of heavyweight, puncture
   resistant utility gloves, such as those used for house cleaning and dish washing, 2 household
   sponges, and paper towels or gauze in a plastic container or a box. Label the kit, attach a
   hazardous material sticker to the container and place in an area where a spill may occur or in
   the trunk of a security vehicle, and so forth. Also have the following available for large spills
   or spills that have the potential for splattering:
       A5.1.1.1. Clothing. Use cloth or disposable gowns/coats to prevent blood contamination
       of clean-up workers’ clothing. A disposable plastic apron that covers the torso and thighs
       is recommended if there is a significant probability that blood or body fluids may be
       splashed onto the clean-up workers. At the completion of clean-up, discard the
       disposable apron into the biohazard-hazard waste bag.
       A5.1.1.2. Facial Protection. Wear facial protection if splattering of blood or body fluids
       is anticipated. A disposable mask offers protection for the nose and mouth. Plastic,
       wrap-around safety glasses offer adequate protection; however, if there is substantial risk
       of splattering of blood or body fluids, wear a full face shield or goggles. Ordinary glasses
       do not offer adequate protection against splattering. After the completion of clean-up,
       discard disposable facial protection into a biohazard-hazard waste bag.
       A5.1.1.3. Shoes. If the spill is large and/or there is a potential of contaminating the
       worker's shoes, wear water-proof shoe covers.
       A5.1.1.4. Contaminated Sharp Objects. Do not pick up contaminated sharp objects by
       hand. If the spill contains broken glass or other sharp objects, these must be picked up
       without direct contact with hands. Use metal tongs, a broom and dustpan, or rigid sheets
       of cardboard used as "pusher" and "receiver" to pick up objects. Place sharp objects into
       a puncture-resistant container prior to placing into a biohazard- hazard waste bag.
A5.2. Absorb the Spill. Absorb the bulk of spilled material prior to disinfection with
disposable absorbent material (paper towels, gauze pads, or if a small spill, sponge). If the spill
is large, granular absorbent material like that used to absorb caustic chemical spills may be used
(for example, kitty litter). Blot (do not wipe) up the spill allowing the fluids to be absorbed by
the towels, etc. After absorption of the liquid, discard all materials into a biohazard-hazard waste
bag. Mix the 1/2-cup of bleach with the 1/2-gallon of water. Flood the site or wipe down the
spill site with disposable towels or sponge soaked in bleach to make the site "glistening wet."
Allow the bleach solution to remain in contact with the infectious material for 10 minutes.
Absorb the disinfectant with paper towels and dispose of the paper towels in a biohazard-hazard
673ABWI48-107 3 DECEMBER 2010                                                               27


waste bag. Alternatively, the spill site may be permitted to air dry. Rinse the spill site with
water to remove a chemical residue. Dry the site to prevent slipping. Place all disposable
materials used in the decontamination process into a biohazard-hazard waste bag. Dispose of the
remaining disinfectant by pouring down the sanitary sewer. Decontaminate reusable materials,
and equipment following above procedures. If clothing becomes contaminated with blood or
body fluids it should be removed as soon as possible, the skin washed with soap and water, the
clothing placed in a biohazard-hazard bag and disposed of or cleaned by a laundry capable of
handling blood contaminated clothing.         NOTE:       The above disinfecting solution is
approximately a 1:10 dilution of household bleach. Larger or smaller amounts may be made
following this dilution rate.
 28                                                    673ABWI48-107 3 DECEMBER 2010


                                         Attachment 6
 BUILD-YOUR-OWN EMERGENCY BLOOD/BODY FLUID SPILL KIT CONTENTS
                            LIST

A6.1. Suggested Components:
   A6.1.1. Impervious coverall w/hood and boots -- 1
   A6.1.2. Pairs disposable nitrile gloves -- 3
   A6.1.3. Faceshield w/Head Strap -- 1
   A6.1.4. CPR microshield rescue breather -- 1
   A6.1.5. Disposable dust/mist respirator mask -- 1
   A6.1.6. Biohazard bags -- 2
   A6.1.7. Sheet of Biohazard labels -- 1
   A6.1.8. Household sponges -- 2
   A6.1.9. Zip closing bag containing paper towels or gauze -- 1
   A6.1.10. One small brown or opaque bottle containing ½ cup of household bleach (bottle
   must be tightly sealed and appropriately labeled); include an instruction sheet on how to mix
   with water (see Attachment 5).
   A6.1.11. One half gallon water in a sealed container (container with enough leftover space
   to add the ½ cup bleach), or a bucket marked to ½ gallon if water is immediately available.
   A6.1.12. One pair of disposable (plastic) tongs or other rigid tool to use for picking up
   contaminated sharps (explanation of this tool is explained in greater detail in
   decontamination procedures protocol, Attachment 5). Kit should not be reused.
   A6.1.13. Kit is non-sterile; please dispose of contaminated, noncleanable material properly.
   Use Biohazard Labels on all containers used to transport biohazardous materials as well as
   bags containing contaminated waste.
NOTE: Components of this kit, which are not contaminated during its use, may be reused when
building another kit.
