BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               673D AIR BASE WING INSTRUCTION
673D AIR BASE WING (PACAF)                                                       32-1007

                                                                                      9 JULY 2014

                                                                                 Civil Engineering

                                                          SAFEGUARDING UTILITIES FROM
                                                                              DAMAGE

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 773 CES/CEOI                                                       Certified by: 673 CEG/CC
                                                                        (Col Anthony R. Ramage)
Supersedes:    673WGI 32-1007,                                                            Pages: 7
               3 July 2013


This instruction implements AFPD 32-10, Installation and Facilities, and establishes procedures
to prevent damage to base utility systems, including communications, steam, water, sewer,
drainage, pavements, fire alarms, electricity, natural gas, environmental systems (systems and
wells), and petroleum, oil, and lubricant (liquid fuel) systems caused by other than enemy action,
ravages, and fair wear, and places responsibility for such damage. It applies to all utility systems
within the geographical limits of Joint Base Elmendorf Richardson (JBER), and within areas
where the 673d Air Base Wing (673 ABW) furnishes logistical support. This publication applies
to US Army, US Air Force Reserve, and Air National Guard units and members. Submit
requests for waivers through the chain of command to the publications OPR for non-tiered
compliance items and this instruction cannot be supplemented or further extended. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Route the AF Forms 847 through the appropriate chain of command. Ensure all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS). The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial
product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is revised and must be completely reviewed. Office symbols and names were
updated and changes were made as a result of Civil Engineer Transformation.
 2                                                                673ABWI32-1007 9 JULY 2014


1. Procedures:
     1.1. The offices listed below will maintain copies of appropriate maps and drawings,
     delineating the utility system under their control, and are authorized to approve work to be
     done on, and adjacent to, the controlled utility system:
        1.1.1. Commander, 673d Communications Squadron (673 CS). Communication
        cable, detection/alarm systems in airfield secure areas.
        1.1.2. Commander, 773d Civil Engineer Squadron (773 CES). Steam, water, sewer,
        drainage, pavements, Runway Ice Detection System (RIDS) natural gas, fire alarms,
        cathodic protection, detection/alarm systems in airfield secure areas, and electricity.
        1.1.3. Commander, 673d Civil Engineer Squadron (673 CES). Environmental
        systems and clean-up sites.
        1.1.4. Commander, 773 CES. Base liquid fuels system.
        1.1.5. Enstar Natural Gas ® (a trademark of Enstar Natural Gas Company). Gas lines
        under their control.
        1.1.6. Anchorage Communications Systems (ACS) ® (a trademark of ACS).
        Communication cables under their control.
        1.1.7. AT&T Alascom Communications ® (a trademark of Alascom Communications).
        Communication cables under their control.
        1.1.8. General Communications, Inc. (GCI) ® (a trademark of GCI).                  Cable TV
        systems under their control.
        1.1.9. Aurora Housing (Privatized Housing). All utilities under their control.
        1.1.10. Doyon Utilities, LLC. All utilities under their control.
     1.2. All construction agencies, such as 673 CS, 773 CES, 673 CES, 176 CES, US Army
     Corps of Engineers, and all contractors will maintain close liaison with offices mentioned in
     paragraph 1.1, this instruction, to ensure NO EXCAVATION is accomplished without prior
     coordination and approval for such excavation.
     1.3. The construction agent will present a plan of intended work to the appropriate
     coordinating and approving base agency, prior to commencing such work, to ensure existing
     base utilities WILL NOT BE DAMAGED. A duplicate copy of the construction drawing, if
     not already available to the base agency, will be made available by the construction agent.
     Any project in which mechanized equipment penetrates or disturbs the ground (including
     vacuum excavation), or any project in which hand digging will penetrate more than 4 inches
     into the ground, must be cleared in accordance with this instruction.
        1.3.1. Formal clearances will be approved by the 773 CES Chief of Operations Flight, or
        the 673 CES Chief, Engineering, or their designated representative(s) on 673 ABW Form
        3, Base Civil Engineer Work Clearance Request. Clearance requests are not valid until
        signed by the approving officer and assigned a permit number. The approving officer
        will not sign the request until all utilities are marked, and all utility agency signatures are
        on the clearance request. Once completed and approved, the original work clearance
        request, with any applicable attachments, will be maintained on the job site by the
673ABWI32-1007 9 JULY 2014                                                                     3


       requester during excavation and construction. A copy of the approved work clearance
       request will be maintained in the 773 CES/CEOER office in accordance with appropriate
       records management table of disposition.
       1.3.2. Scope of work will be identified on the clearance request. Drawings, sketches,
       and additional information will be attached to the clearance request. Any future changes
       to the scope of work will require a new clearance request.
       1.3.3. Construction agencies requesting clearance will schedule a time to meet with each
       utility locate agency at the excavation site to locate affected utilities.
       1.3.4. Construction agencies requesting clearance will be responsible for maintaining
       utility locates once they are initially marked by each utility agency by placing stakes in
       the ground or transcribing the marks on a drawing. If markings are damaged,
       construction agencies must request new locates and will give the utility locating agency
       at least 48 hours to perform utility locates. Expenses for time and materials to
       accomplish repeat locates will be borne by the construction agency at the respective shop
       rate of the locating utility owner and the actual cost of materials. Construction agencies
       will be provided drawings depicting the locations of environmental systems as an
       attachment to the original work clearance request. Systems and monitoring wells have
       been flagged, but construction agencies will be provided a 673 CES/CEI contact to call if
       additional information is required or flags are missing.
       1.3.5. Excavation work will commence within 30 days after the approving officer’s
       signature, otherwise clearance request is invalid and a new request is required. The
       clearance becomes invalid 6 months after the approving officer’s signature and must be
       renewed if the original requirement remains valid.
   1.4. Agencies responsible for the movement of vehicles of unusual size, or having cleat-type
   tracks, will obtain a base map from the 773 CES Engineering Assistants (773 CES/CEOER)
   and coordinate a desired travel route with the agencies listed in paragraph 1.1, this
   instruction. The agency will provide a map, and the security force personnel will allow
   vehicle access to the base and provide an escort at the time of movement. Specific
   limitations will be in effect for:
       1.4.1. Vehicles or loads in excess of 14 feet in height.
       1.4.2. Any vehicles or objects which may damage the surface of pavements or grounds,
       due to the nature of track or skid.
2. Responsibilities:
   2.1. All construction agencies will comply with this instruction.
   2.2. All design and specification-preparing agencies will ensure all contractors are familiar
   with this instruction. This instruction must be referenced in all design specifications, and a
   copy will be provided to the contractor during the pre-construction meeting.
   2.3. The responsible organization for each utility will:
       2.3.1. Conduct investigations into the circumstances surrounding the damage of its
       facility, as to time, cause, responsible person, agency or activity, and determine whether
       proper prior clearance has been obtained.
4                                                               673ABWI32-1007 9 JULY 2014


       2.3.2. Determine method of repair and cost, if the government is responsible, for time
       and material for repairs.
       2.3.3. Initiate action against appropriate agencies for damage caused by individuals or
       agencies.
       2.3.4. Initiate other action, as necessary, to minimize repetition or damage incident.
       2.3.5. All utility agencies with utilities in the impacted area will locate their respective
       utility, regardless of the depth of excavation.
       2.3.6. All utilities and excavation site will be marked according to the American Public
       Works Association uniform color codes:
           2.3.6.1. WHITE – Proposed Excavation.
           2.3.6.2. PINK – Temporary Survey Markings.
           2.3.6.3. RED – Electric Power Lines, Cables, Conduit, Lighting Cables.
           2.3.6.4. YELLOW – Gas, Oil, Steam, Petroleum, or Gaseous Materials.
           2.3.6.5. ORANGE – Communications, Alarms, or Signal Lines, Cables or Conduit.
           2.3.6.6. BLUE – Potable Water.
           2.3.6.7. PURPLE – Reclaimed Water, Irrigation, and Slurry Lines.
           2.3.6.8. GREEN – Sewers and Drain Lines.
       2.3.7. When known, the total number of lines within the ground will be indicated. The
       number of lines indicated should be based on the physical lines. Multiple cables twisted
       together to form a single facility, as in the case of electric lines, would be considered one
       cable for locate purposes.
       2.3.8. All agencies will notify the Fire Department, Hospital (Emergency Room) and
       Security Forces on all road closures.
       2.3.9. To the extent possible, all agencies will allocate sufficient time to the GeoBase
       Section for the purpose of surveying/mapping of any exposed utility.
    2.4. To minimize damage to the utility and loss of service to customers; all digging within 2
    feet of the marked utility will be performed by hand.
       2.4.1. Some utilities, that is, certain communications cables, may require hand digging
       within 3 or 4 feet. This requirement will be at the discretion of the Commander, 673 CS,
       673 CES, 773 CES, or each utility owner as appropriate.
       2.4.2. Under certain conditions, digging could be accomplished within 2 feet of a utility
       with equipment, upon written request and approval. This requirement will be at the
       discretion of the Commander, 673 CS, 673 CES, 773 CES, or each utility owner as
       appropriate.
       2.4.3. ENSTAR ® has specific safety requirements for excavations adjacent to natural
       gas pipelines.
    2.5. Any damage to utilities will be the responsibility of the construction agency. Repairs to
    damaged utilities will commence within 2 hours, unless otherwise specified by the utility
673ABWI32-1007 9 JULY 2014                                                                    5


  owner. Communication cable repairs will be performed by a licensed and certified
  technician, unless otherwise specified by the utility owner.
  2.6. Coordination of oversized vehicles and equipment movement will be through either the
  673 CES Construction Management section or the 773 CES section requiring vehicle or
  equipment movement. The responsible agency will notify the 673d Security Forces
  Squadron Law Enforcement Desk prior to such a movement, and will ensure the contractor
  or agency moving the oversized vehicle or equipment provides an escort and spotters to
  prevent damage to exposed utilities such as overhead cables, fire hydrants, utility poles, and
  so forth.
  2.7. The Chief, Fire and Emergency Services Flight will coordinate on all construction
  activity involving disruption of utility services--especially water supply, fire
  alarms/suppression systems, and street closures. NOTE: Disruption of water supply will be
  delayed during extremely dry climatic conditions, near open fields, tree areas, and so forth,
  when requested by the Fire and Emergency Services Flight.
  2.8. All self-help involving excavation, installation of television/citizen’s band radio
  antennas, or any other work that may involve disruption of utilities requires the requester to
  have an approved 673 ABW Form 3 which can be obtained from the 773 CES Customer
  Service Unit or online, and coordinated through appropriate agencies.
  2.9. The Air Force, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and the Alaska
  Department of Environmental Conservation (ADEC) have signed Records of Decision
  (ROD) that outline land use control (LUC) requirements for contaminated sites on JBER.
  All construction agencies will comply with the general land use controls as described below
  (Note: There are specific land use controls associated with certain environmental sites,
  which will be provided to the construction agency at the time of Work Clearance Request
  review):
     2.9.1. Stop work and IMMEDIATELY contact 911 if contaminated soil or debris is
     encountered during excavation. Contaminated soil, if encountered, must be handled in
     accordance with JBER OPLAN 19-3, Environmental Management Plan.                 The
     construction agency is responsible for proper handling until laboratory analysis
     determines otherwise.
     2.9.2. Immediately contact 673 CES/CEI, 384-2984, if an environmental system is
     encountered or damaged.
     2.9.3. Prepare a Health and Safety Plan if working in an area of known contamination.
     2.9.4. Water from the shallow aquifer is not allowed to be used for any purpose
     including, but not limited to, drinking, irrigation, fire control, or dust control.
     2.9.5. Submit for approval to 673 CES/CEI a report of engineering controls and methods
     designed to prevent cross contamination from the shallow aquifer to the confined aquifer
     prior to submitting a work clearance request to drill through the shallow aquifer.
     2.9.6. Do not damage or interfere with access to and operation of any environmental
     system.
     2.9.7. Return to 673 CES/CEI a written certification of compliance with these land use
     controls no later than 30 days upon completion of any excavation or drilling.
 6                                                           673ABWI32-1007 9 JULY 2014


3. Information Collections. No information collections are required by this publication.




                                            BRIAN P. DUFFY, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
673ABWI32-1007 9 JULY 2014                                     7


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFROMATION

References
AFPD 32-10, Installation and Facilities, 4 March 2010
AFMAN 33-363_AFGM1.2, Management of Records, 23 October 2012
JBER OPLAN 19-3, Environmental Management Plan, May 2011
Prescribed Forms
673 ABW Form 3, Base Civil Engineer Work Clearance.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABW—Air Base Wing.
ACS—Anchorage Communications Systems.
ADEC—Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation.
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System.
CES—Civil Engineer Squadron.
CS—Communications Squadron.
EPA—Environmental Protection Agency.
GCI—General Communications.
LLC—Limited Liability Corporation
LUC—Land Use Control.
OPLAN—Operations Plan
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility.
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule.
ROD—Records of Decision.
