BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              673D AIR BASE WING INSTRUCTION
673D AIR BASE WING (PACAF)                                                      34-110

                                                                          18 SEPTEMBER 2013

                                                                                         Services

                                                    SIX MILE LAKE (SML) RECREATIONAL
                                                        AIRCRAFT STORAGE AREA (RASA)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 673 FSS/FSC                                                      Certified by: 673 MSG/CC
                                                                           (Col Frank Battistelli)
                                                                                        Pages: 20




This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 34-1, Air Force Services, and is
used in conjunction with AFIs 34-101, Air Force Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR)
Programs and Use Eligibility, 34-110, Air Force Outdoor Recreation Programs and Procedures,
34-217, Air Force Aero Club Program, and 10-1001, Civil Aircraft Landing Permits. It
establishes policies and procedures for use of SML Recreation Area for temporary storage of
private aircraft. It applies to all patrons and administrators of the SML RASA as well as the Air
Force Reserves and Air National Guard units and members. Flight Chiefs, Managers, Activity
Supervisors and/or any person in a position of responsibility to whom this instruction applies are
responsible for complying with the requirements, policies and procedures established herein.
Compliance with this instruction cannot be waived. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the office of primary responsibility (OPR), using AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route the AF Forms 847 through the appropriate
chain of command. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). See Attachment 1 for
Glossary, References and Supporting Information.

This publication requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by
the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 16 U.S.C. 670, The SIKES ACT. The applicable
Privacy Act SORN, #F010 AFXO A.
 2                                                                              673ABWI34-110 18 SEPTEMBER 2013




        1.      General. ..................................................................................................................    2
        2.      Procedures: .............................................................................................................      2
        3.      Information Collections. ........................................................................................              7

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                 8

Attachment 2—SIX MILE LAKE (SML) RECREATIONAL AIRCRAFT STORAGE
             AREA (RASA) RENTAL USE AGREEMENT                                                                                                 10

Attachment 3—AUTHORIZED AND UNAUTHORIZED HAZARDOUS MATERIAL
             STORAGE ITEMS                                                                                                                    13

Attachment 4—SPILL PREVENTION, CONTROL, AND COUNTERMEASURE PLAN                                                                               14


1. General. This instruction establishes policy for the temporary storage of recreational aircraft
at SML and management of the same. The 673d Force Support Squadron (673 FSS) Outdoor
Recreation Center Activity (ORC) has been delegated management responsibility and authority
for rental application, fee collection, and oversight of the SML RASA.
2. Procedures:
     2.1. Authorized Patrons:
        2.1.1. Active Duty Military, Department of Defense (DoD) Retirees, National Guard,
        Reservists, DoD/Nonappropriated Funds (NAF) Employees, their families and other
        patrons as specified in AFI 34-101 are authorized to store private aircraft at the SML
        RASA.
        2.1.2. Prior to storing a private aircraft at SML RASA, owners must comply with the
        requirements of AFI 10-1001 and submit the following forms with 3 OSS/OSAM,
        Airfield Management, for approval and issuance of a Civil Aircraft Landing Permit:
             2.1.2.1. DD Form 2400, Certificate of Insurance.
             2.1.2.2. DD Form 2401, Civil Aircraft Landing Permit.
             2.1.2.3. Civil Aircraft Landing Permit Supplemental Conditions of Use for Six Mile
             Lake.
             2.1.2.4. DD Form 2402, Hold Harmless Agreement.
             2.1.2.5. Supplemental Hold Harmless Agreement for Six Mile Lake.
        2.1.3. Patrons must maintain a current copy of DD Form 2401 in their aircraft at all
        times. Patrons should renew their landing permits annually prior to expiration and will
        not operate any aircraft without a current DD Form 2401. The 3 OSS/OSAM will
        promulgate, as necessary, any local supplements, directives, and orders governing aircraft
        operations at SML. Compliance with AFI 10-1001 and all local supplements, directives,
673ABWI34-110 18 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                             3


     and orders is an express condition of any Civil Aircraft Landing Permit and by
     implication the opportunity to store private aircraft at SML RASA.
  2.2. Types of Aircraft Permitted:
     2.2.1. Aircraft must be privately owned and used for non-commercial purposes.
     2.2.2. Aircraft wing span may not be greater than 60 feet.
  2.3. Aircraft Registration, Ownership and Insurance:
     2.3.1. All private aircraft stored and operated at SML must be properly registered in
     accordance with Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Regulations.
     2.3.2. Patrons of the SML RASA must provide proof of insurance equal to or greater
     than the insurance requirement for civil aircraft outlined in AFI 10-1001. A copy of a
     current Civil Aircraft Landing Permit will satisfy this requirement.
     2.3.3. Rental application and fee collection is accomplished at the ORC Recreational
     Vehicle (RV) Storage Lot Desk located in Building 7301. Fees may be processed as
     either a group or individual payment. All items stored within the SML RASA must
     comply with this instruction and all applicable regulations. All patrons will complete a
     SML RASA Rental Use Agreement, see Attachment 2, this instruction. Patrons must
     read this instruction prior to signing the Agreement.
  2.4. Prohibited Activities and Items:
     2.4.1. SML landing areas include a 1,600-foot gravel landing area and a 4,000-foot
     sea/ski lane. Patrons are advised that they share the use of SML Recreation Area and
     shoreline with others who are likewise privileged to engage in recreational opportunities
     on Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson (JBER). No one will behave in such manner as to
     impose a safety risk to other users of SML or its shoreline.
     2.4.2. Repairing aircraft is not allowed on SML. When necessary, patrons may perform
     routine maintenance on their aircraft at designated maintenance areas in the SML
     Recreational Aircraft Storage Area, in accordance with applicable guidance and
     regulations. Patrons may add up to two quarts of oil or other fluids within their storage
     area. Patrons adding hazardous fluids to their aircraft will adhere to the SML Spill
     Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure (SPCC) Plan (see Attachment 4, this
     instruction).
     2.4.3. Patrons will not discharge any amount of petroleum products or any wastewater
     containing petroleum products into SML or on the land.
     2.4.4. With the exception of authorized types and quantities, listed in Attachment 3,
     this instruction, patrons MAY NOT store hazardous materials at SML RASA. All
     storage sheds will be marked appropriately if storing authorized types and quantities of
     hazardous materials, as listed in Attachment 3.
     2.4.5. All patrons must empty water from pontoons before returning to SML to minimize
     the potential for introduction of invasive species.
4                                                      673ABWI34-110 18 SEPTEMBER 2013


    2.5. Allowable Activities:
       2.5.1. Aircraft refueling must conform to the SPCC Plan found in Attachment 4, this
       instruction.
       2.5.2. Patrons may maintain storage sheds in their assigned storage area. Storage shed
       size and placement will conform to the standards set forth in the Rental Use Agreement.
       Existing storage sheds exceeding size limitations may stay until the current patrons
       terminate their occupancy or further guidance dictates removal. The location of storage
       sheds will be evaluated periodically to determine potential spills of contaminants into the
       lake, and owners may be required to relocate sheds within their assigned storage area. A
       copy of the approval and/or authorization from the 673 MSG/CC to build and maintain a
       new shed will be made available to the ORC to be kept with the rental use agreement.
       The government reserves the right to inspect the interiors of the sheds upon request.
       2.5.3. All docks employed on SML must comply with the US Clean Water Act and state
       anadromous waterway regulations. Prior approval from 673 MSG/CC is required for
       patrons to install a dock to gain safe access to their floatplane.
       2.5.3.1. Individuals may, with written approval from 673 MSG/CC, install a floating
       dock consistent with current nation-wide permits under Section 404 of the Clean Water
       Act for the use of "temporary recreation structures" which includes floating docks that are
       seasonally used and removed at the end of the recreation season. Floating docks will be
       removed before the lake freezes up. Individuals wishing to install floating or permanent
       docks must coordinate with 673 FSS for JBER to obtain the requisite Clean Water Act
       permit from the District Office of the Corps of Engineers and Alaska Fish habitat
       permits. Patrons will be responsible for any direct costs associated with such permits.
       Patrons are also advised that the permitting process may take time and may be expensive.
           2.5.3.2. Existing docks conforming to federal and state regulations may remain in
           place until the current patron terminates her/his occupancy. Patrons are authorized to
           repair private docks and must maintain their docks in a safe condition. Patrons may
           not expand or modify existing docks unless they have obtained the necessary federal
           and state permits.
           2.5.3.3. Generally, privately owned docks will be removed at the time a patron
           terminates her/his occupancy. Patrons failing to remove privately owned docks shall
           be charged the cost of removal. Patrons may seek to donate their docks to the
           Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentality (NAFI) or a successor patron, but offers and
           acceptance of such donations must be in writing with copies maintained at the ORC.
           2.5.3.4. A copy of approval documents and required permits will be kept on file at
           the ORC with the patron’s Rental Use Agreement.
       2.5.4. Aircraft pontoons and skis may be stored within the patrons assigned storage area.
       2.5.5. A list of hazardous materials that may be stored on site, either in a shed or in the
       aircraft, is provided in Attachment 3, this instruction. Written authorization from the
       ORC is required for storage of any hazardous material not listed in Attachment 3.
    2.6. Patron Responsibilities:
       2.6.1. Patrons must adhere to all conditions for storage of aircraft.
673ABWI34-110 18 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                5


     2.6.2. Patrons are advised that SML is an anadromous water body. Salmon spawning in
     the lake are recognized as an important food source for endangered Cook Inlet Beluga
     Whales. Deliberate or negligent destruction of lake floor or shoreline without the
     requisite federal and state authorization is a violation of both federal (Clean Water Act;
     Magnuson-Stevens Act) and state (Alaska Anadromous Fish Act) law. Patrons may
     avoid violations of federal and state law through responsible use of their assigned areas.
     Patrons must take reasonable measures to prevent permanent damage to the natural
     shoreline and not engage in any activity that is likely to cause the shoreline to erode.
     This obligation can be achieved by proper preservation and maintenance of shoreline
     vegetation. Patrons may not install riprap (sustaining wall) or other material designed to
     alleviate erosion without the appropriate federal and state permits and approval of the 673
     MSG/CC.
     2.6.3. Patrons must immediately report observation of any spill of hazardous or waste
     material, including petroleum, oil, and lubricants. Reports are made by calling 911 and
     asking for JBER Fire Dispatch.
     2.6.4. Patrons will have a functioning fire extinguisher available prior to starting an
     aircraft engine.
     2.6.5. Aircraft will be parked at their assigned location.
     2.6.6. Patrons will immediately report any theft or vandalism to the appropriate
     authorities.
     2.6.7. Patrons must keep account balances up-to-date.
     2.6.8. Patrons may not store waste materials on site, including inside private storage
     sheds.
     2.6.9. Patrons must notify the ORC of any change of address, contact telephone
     numbers, temporary duty (TDY), permanent change of station (PCS) move or change in
     eligibility status.
     2.6.10. Patrons acknowledge that property stored at SML RASA is vulnerable to theft,
     vandalism and other hazards. To use the SML RASA the patron must agree to waive any
     and all claims against the United States Air Force, and its agents, for any personal injury,
     damage or loss to the patron’s person, patron’s aircraft and/or any other personal
     property.
  2.7. Fees and Charges:
     2.7.1. The 673 FSS/CC will approve aircraft storage fees. Fees will be based on a
     reasonable value of the service offered to patrons and will include recovery of
     administrative expense for managing the service. Fees will be posted at the ORC.
     2.7.2. In recognition that some water accessible storage areas do not have adequate space
     for a land tie down and storage facility in winter months, these patrons will be permitted
     additional nearby space to permit accommodation of their storage facility or aircraft
     without additional charge. Prior coordination with the ORC is required so as to not
     displace another patron; records of this use will be made and stored at the ORC. Patrons
     extending beyond their assigned area(s) will be assessed additional fees based on the
     equivalent number of additional storage areas their property occupies.
6                                                     673ABWI34-110 18 SEPTEMBER 2013


       2.7.3. Storage fees are paid for in full-month increments. Patrons may pay up to 12
       months in advance. Refunds will be based on full-month increments.
       2.7.4. A record of payment will be kept with the Rental Use Agreement and the records
       will be maintained at the ORC.
    2.8. Waiting List:
       2.8.1. A waiting list will be maintained by the ORC.
    2.8.2. When an area becomes available, a staff member will call the next person on the
    waiting list. A patron has 5 business days to come to the ORC and apply for a storage area.
    If a patron fails to apply within that time they will be dropped from the waiting list and the
    next person on the list will be contacted.
    2.9. Abandoned Property:
       2.9.1. Upon the termination of a patron’s Rental Use Agreement, patrons must remove
       all personal property from the site. Personal property includes any consumer items,
       equipment, aircraft parts, floating docks and sheds situated within the assigned parking
       slip. Any personal property left within an assigned parking slip after termination of the
       patron’s use will be considered abandoned property. Patrons will be assessed the cost of
       collecting and disposing of abandoned property. The abandonment of hazardous
       materials will be documented by the ORC staff, to include a full inventory of hazardous
       materials. All abandoned hazardous materials will be deemed waste upon collection.
       These waste items will be disposed of according to federal and state law. The offending
       patron will be assessed the full cost of collection, management and disposal of hazardous
       waste.
       2.9.2. Any patron may contact the ORC to voluntarily transfer personal property, such as
       storage sheds or docks, to JBER. Should such items of personal property be accepted,
       they will be deemed gifts to JBER with the patron no longer responsible for such items.
       All offers and acceptance of personal property must be in writing.
    2.10. Abandoned Aircraft:
       2.10.1. Aircraft left behind after expiration or termination of the Rental Use Agreement
       will be considered abandoned. Abandoned aircraft will be managed in accordance with
       AFI 31-218(I). Installation management options include impoundment and ultimate sale
       of the abandoned aircraft.
       2.10.2. Patrons will be assessed all costs incurred by the federal government related to
       the management, transportation, storage and sale of an abandoned aircraft.
    2.11. Delinquent Accounts. An ORC staff member will notify or attempt to notify
    customers as soon as their account becomes delinquent. A record of all contacts or attempts
    to contact the patron will be maintained. Accounts more than 30 days delinquent are subject
    to a late fee. When accounts are more than 60 days delinquent, property located in the
    storage area may be considered abandoned and subject to conditions set forth in paragraphs
    2.9 and 2.10, this instruction, and the terms of the Rental Use Agreement.
673ABWI34-110 18 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                            7


   2.12. Authority to Modify Use Agreement. The 673 FSS/CC is authorized to make any
   changes to the Rental Use Agreement necessary to meet changing conditions or
   requirements, to include adjustment of fee schedules.
3. Information Collections. No information collections are required by this publication.




                                            BRIAN P. DUFFY, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
 8                                                  673ABWI34-110 18 SEPTEMBER 2013


                                          Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 34-1, Air Force Services, 2 November 2012.
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008.
AFI 31-218(I), Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, 15 July 2011
AFI 34-101, Air Force Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) Programs and Use Eligibility,
28 March 2013.
AFI 34-110, Air Force Outdoor Recreation Programs and Procedures, 6 January 2012.
AFI 34-217, Air Force Aero Club Program, and 10-1001, Civil Aircraft Landing Permits, 1
February 2012.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
DD Form 2400, Certificate of Insurance.
DD Form 2401, Civil Aircraft Landing Permit.
DD Form 2402, Hold Harmless Agreement.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN—Air Force Manual.
AFPD—- Air Force Policy Directive.
AFRIMS—- Air Force Records Information Management System.
DoD—- Department of Defense.
FAA—- Federal Aviation Administration.
JBER—- Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson.
NAF—- Nonappropriated Fund.
NAFI—Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentality.
OPR—- Office Of Primary Responsibility.
ORC—- Outdoor Recreation Center.
PCS—- Permanent Change Of Station.
RDS—- Records Disposition Schedule.
RV—- Recreational Vehicle.
SML—- Six Mile Lake.
SML RASA—- SML Recreational Aircraft Storage Area.
673ABWI34-110 18 SEPTEMBER 2013                         9


SPCC—- Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure.
TDY—- Temporary Duty.
 10                                                    673ABWI34-110 18 SEPTEMBER 2013


                                          Attachment 2
   SIX MILE LAKE (SML) RECREATIONAL AIRCRAFT STORAGE AREA (RASA)
                        RENTAL USE AGREEMENT

Figure A2.1. SML RASA Rental Use Agreement
1. In signing this Rental Use Agreement, I certify that I have read and am familiar with 673
ABWI 34-110, Six Mile Lake (SML) Recreational Aircraft Storage Area (RASA). I also certify
that I am an eligible patron for this service as defined in AFI 34-101, Air Force Morale, Welfare,
and Recreation (MWR) Programs and Use Eligibility. At the time of registration I have
provided proof of eligibility and proof of insurance. My insurance policy(ies) conform to
guidance given in AFI 10-1001, Civil Aircraft Landing Permits. Copies of such documents will
be made by Outdoor Recreation Center (ORC) Staff and maintained on file with this agreement.
Copies will be returned at the termination of the rental term. All Privacy Act information will be
masked on retained copies.
2. The SML RASA is for the temporary storage of authorized patrons’ privately-owned aircraft,
which are used for recreation and personal transportation. I have been assigned Storage Area
______, for a term of _________months. I may store my aircraft, the vehicle used to travel to
SML Recreation Area and personal items as authorized in 673 ABWI 34-110.
3. I must pay rental fees and provide necessary documents at the time of signing this agreement.
I may pay for up to twelve months of rental storage in advance. Payment must be made prior to
the expiration of the Rental Use Agreement. Payments will be presented to ORC in Building
7301 at the Recreational Vehicle (RV) Lot Storage Desk or the Front Counter. While fees are
charged on a monthly basis, the first month’s fee will be prorated to account for start of a term at
a date other than the beginning of the month.
   a. Fees are due on the First Day of each Month. A fee is considered delinquent after 7
days past due and patrons will be sent Notice of Delinquency. A $25 late administrative fee
will be charged once the account is 30 days delinquent.
   b. I will be given 60 days from the date of the delinquency to cover fees that are due. Failure
to do so will result in the patron’s aircraft and personal property being considered as abandoned
property. Abandoned aircraft will be managed in accordance with AFI 31-218(I), Chapter 6.
Other abandoned property will be managed in accordance with 673 ABWI 34-110. Patrons will
be assessed costs associated with the collection and disposition of abandoned aircraft and
property.
    c. I may seek a refund of storage fees for remaining months of my Rental Use Agreement
should I choose to remove my property from SML. If I wish to terminate early I must notify
ORC in writing. Refunds will be made after ORC determines that all personal property has been
removed and the storage area in question is in serviceable condition. I will be advised if there
are conditions that prevent early termination. Rental fees will continue to accumulate until the
area is made serviceable. A rental area is not serviceable if vegetation is not maintained, if waste
material or debris is left on the site, or if I have not removed all personal property, excepting
items that ORC has accepted as a gift to JBER. Refunds will only be given for complete months.
If I am deemed a hold over because of failure to remove property or present a serviceable area
for any part of a month the rental fee for that entire month will be assessed and I may only
673ABWI34-110 18 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                  11


recover rental fees for those remaining months of the term of this agreement.
  d. I will be assessed reasonable costs for the management and disposal of any abandoned
waste, debris or personal property left at the slip after expiration of the rental agreement.
   e. I may choose to donate sheds, portable docks and other equipment to JBER. All offers of
donation must be in writing, with written acceptance also provided in writing. If I have received
written acceptance of my donation I am not required to remove donated items from my rented
storage area at the end of my rental term.
4. My storage area has been clearly identified to me by the ORC staff and it has been marked in
an easily identifiable manner. In addition to the aircraft, I may temporarily store vehicles used
to access the aircraft and my personal effects. All personal effects must be secured in either a
vehicle or approved storage shed or locker. I will coordinate with the 673 MSG/CC and 673
CEG personnel for permission and guidance in building and maintaining floating docks to gain
access to my floatplane, if I have one. Any aircraft, vehicle, or personal property that is found to
be routinely stored outside of my assigned storage area may be removed by ORC at my expense.
5. All patrons must initial and sign the following statement:


_____ I certify that I have had the opportunity to inspect Six Mile Lake Recreational Aircraft
Storage Area and am familiar with the layout. I understand that JBER does not provide
additional security specific to this storage area. I hereby agree to hold harmless Joint Base
Elmendorf-Richardson and the United States Government for any damages or injury to my
property, aircraft and person that may occur at my storage area, Six Mile Lake and the
immediate area around the Lake. In addition, I agree to indemnify the United States
Government for any damage or injury to persons or property that result from my operation
and storage of an aircraft and equipment at Six Mile Lake Recreational Aircraft Storage Area.


Printed Name: _______________________________________                Date: ________________


Signature: ___________________________________________


6. I will adhere to the operational requirements set forth in 673 ABWI 34-110, and maintain my
storage area in a serviceable condition. I will strictly follow the SML Spill Prevention, Control,
and Countermeasure (SPCC) Plan (Attachment 4 of 673 ABWI 34-110) and immediately report
any fuel, oil or chemical spill.
7. If the SML RASA becomes filled, a waiting list will be maintained by the ORC staff for
assignment of areas as they become available. It will be up to the customer to contact ORC for
availability.
8. I may place a storage shed or similar storage facility within my allotted area, provided the
shed footprint is no greater than 8 feet by 12 feet and no closer than 25 feet from the shoreline.
Any variance to this guidance will be approved by the 673 MSG/CC and a copy of the approval
will be stored with this Rental Use Agreement. I understand that future guidance might dictate a
 12                                                    673ABWI34-110 18 SEPTEMBER 2013


change to the shed size and location.
9. I will keep my storage area clean and free of waste and debris. Waste will not be stored at the
SML RASA and must be removed when I leave the area. I am responsible for maintaining grass
and vegetation within the rented storage area. I am also responsible for preserving vegetation
cover to ensure against bank erosion. I am responsible for snow removal necessary to gain
access to my storage area. If I fail to remove waste material or fail to maintain vegetation cover I
will be assessed costs necessary to correct my violations. Warning letters will be sent to my
address of such violations. On the third such violation within 1 year, my privileges will be
revoked.
10. Repairing aircraft is not allowed on SML. When necessary, I may perform routine
maintenance on my aircraft at designated maintenance areas in the SML RASA in accordance
with applicable guidance and regulations. The exception being charging batteries and servicing
with safety of flight items prior to flight, provided these actions are performed in accordance
with the SML RASA SPCC Plan and follow 673 ABWI 34-110 guidance.
11. I acknowledge that property stored at SML RASA is vulnerable to theft, vandalism and other
hazards. To use the SML RASA I agree to waive any and all claims against the United States
Air Force, and its agents, for any personal injury, damage or loss to the patron’s person, patron’s
aircraft and/or any other personal property.
12. I acknowledge that I am responsible for snow removal and grass mowing at my rented
storage area. I acknowledge that the ORC and 673d Force Support Squadron (673 FSS) will not
provide these services as part of the rental agreement.
13. Renewal of this Rental Use Agreement is at the discretion of ORC. The delivery and
acceptance of fees covering additional monthly rent constitutes a renewal of this Rental Use
Agreement for the term covered by said additional fees, with all provisions of this Rental Use
Agreement controlling the conditions, rights and obligations of the patron and JBER for the term
covered by the additional rent.
14. I acknowledge that the storage rental at SML RASA is a privilege that may be revoked for
violation of this Rental Use Agreement or violations of 673 ABWI 34-110.


Printed Name: ________________________________________                 Date: ________________


Address: _____________________________________________________________________


Signature: ____________________________________________________________________
673ABWI34-110 18 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                              13


                                         Attachment 3
AUTHORIZED AND UNAUTHORIZED HAZARDOUS MATERIAL STORAGE ITEMS

A3.1. All items must be stored within a locked, waterproof shed or storage container. Storage is
intended for temporary and recreational use only. The list may be augmented by the 673 FSS/
CC and given to the patron with a 30-day notice for compliance and/or provided with the Rental
Use Agreement when the patron first rents the area, whichever is applicable.
A3.2. Authorized Hazardous Material Storage Items:
   A3.2.1. Sealed bottles of oil, maximum 12 quarts.
   A3.2.2. Five-gallons of fuel in Underwriters Laboratory (UL) Listed approved polyurethane
   container.
   A3.2.3. Two quarts of miscellaneous aircraft fluids.
   A3.2.4. One quart of charcoal lighter fluid.
A3.3. Unauthorized Storage Items:
   A3.3.1. Explosives.
   A3.3.2. Unauthorized hazardous material.
   A3.3.3. Hazardous waste.
 14                                                  673ABWI34-110 18 SEPTEMBER 2013


                                         Attachment 4
         SPILL PREVENTION, CONTROL, AND COUNTERMEASURE PLAN

Figure A4.1 Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure Plan


Standard Operating Procedure
Over-Water Aircraft Refueling and Routine Maintenance
Six Mile Lake Recreational Aircraft Storage Area
Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson


A4.1. This Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) was developed to prevent fuel spills and outline
procedures for response to spills during aircraft refueling operations and routine maintenance
conducted over water at the Six Mile Lake Recreational Aircraft Storage Area (SML RASA).
This SOP is applicable for all over-water aircraft refueling operations, regardless of the method
used to deliver fuel to the aircraft. It’s a violation of state and federal law to negligently
discharge fuel to land or water. Patrons conducting refueling operations will be individually
responsible for spill response and cleanup in the event of a release to the environment.
   A4.1.1. Types of Product. Aviation fuels and oils.
   A4.1.2. Means of Delivery. Fuel and/or oil may be transferred to aircraft using the
   following means:
       A4.1.2.1. UL listed portable containers. UL listed portable containers may not hold
       more than 5 gallons of fuel and must have a means to automatically close when fuel is
       not being dispensed.
       A4.1.2.2. UL listed mobile fuel tanks may not contain more than 100 gallons of fuel,
       must meet all applicable UL and Department of Transportation (DOT) safety
       requirements, and the hose cannot be more than 25 feet in length.
       A4.1.2.3. Fuel storage tanks that meet all applicable regulatory requirements. The tank
       must be maintained and inspected in accordance with regulatory requirements. The hose
       may not be more than 50 feet in length.
       A4.1.2.4. Oil may be transferred to the aircraft via original manufacturer containers of
       one quart capacity.
   A4.1.3. Probable Spill Routes:
       A4.1.3.1. An estimated 5 gallons of fuel could be released in the event of a spill from a
       UL listed fuel container. Because refueling is conducted over water, the fuel would be
       released directly to surface water.
       A4.1.3.2. A maximum of 100 gallons of fuel could be released from a UL listed mobile
       fuel tank and could be released directly to water.
673ABWI34-110 18 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                  15


     A4.1.3.3. A maximum of 4,000 gallons of fuel could be released from a land-based fuel
     storage tank in the event of a catastrophic failure of the tank. Generally, tank leakage
     will be trapped inside the double wall containment that is monitored via a leak detection
     system.
     A4.1.3.4. A maximum of one quart of oil could be spilled onto water in the event an oil
     container was overturned while open for pre-flight service. Oil could be spilled to land
     while adding or draining oil from aircraft in the designated maintenance area.
  A4.1.4. Impact Of A Fuel Spill. A fuel spill during refueling over water could have
  significant impact on the installation's mission and natural resources. Fuel and/or oil released
  to land could result in excavation of contaminated soil and significant cost for clean-up. Fuel
  and/or oil released to land adjacent to a surface water body could migrate into and
  contaminate surface waters. Fuel and/or oil released directly to water could contaminate a
  large area of fresh water and could eventually be transported into Knik Arm. Fuel and/or oil
  releases to surface water are generally difficult to contain and expensive to clean up.
  A4.1.5. Required Spill Prevention Safeguards. The following procedures will be followed
  to prevent fuel spills during refueling operations:
     A4.1.5.1. Ground training must be accomplished for fuel spill, containment and
     recovery. All training must be documented. Training will be offered as needed by
     Outdoor Recreation, in coordination with 673 CES/CEIEC (Environmental Compliance).
     Training will address items below in detail.
     A4.1.5.2. All persons conducting refueling or routine maintenance operations must be
     familiar with the JBER SPCC plan and must review pertinent spill response procedures.
     A4.1.5.3. Spill reporting placards (see Figure A4.1, this instruction) must be posted on
     all land-based tanks and near the refueling area. Placards are available from 673
     CES/CEIEC.
     A4.1.5.4. Designated areas are available for refueling operations conducted at the SML
     RASA. Patrons are only allowed to refuel at individually leased aircraft parking areas
     using UL approved 5-gallon containers. See Figures A4.2 and A4.3, this instruction, for
     the locations of designated refueling areas.
     A4.1.5.5. Ground wires must be used and all fuel containers must be grounded prior to
     opening.
     A4.1.5.6. A fire extinguisher must be readily accessible at the refueling site. Patrons
     must be familiar with operation of the specific fire extinguishers located at the refueling
     area. Operation of fire extinguishers will be covered during ground training.
     A4.1.5.7. Spill containment equipment must be emplaced at the fueling site. Standard
     spill kits will be deployed during each refueling operation. Spill kits must contain
     equipment specifically designed for response to releases on land and water.
     A4.1.5.8. Prior to any petroleum, oil, or lubricants being transferred to the aircraft, a spill
     containment boom must be deployed around the perimeter of the aircraft. The boom will
     be a Class II for use on water. The boom must be retracted and properly stored after each
     refueling operation. Not deploying the boom will be grounds for termination of the
     Rental Use Agreement.
16                                                  673ABWI34-110 18 SEPTEMBER 2013


     A4.1.5.9. If portable containers are used, only one 5-gallon fuel container will be
     allowed on the dock or aircraft at a time.
     A4.1.5.10. If fuel is dispensed from a portable fuel tank or land-based tank using a hose,
     a cap must be installed over the end of the dispenser when deploying the hose to and
     from the aircraft. This will prevent fuel from draining out of the dispenser during
     movement. After fueling, the pump must be turned off and the hose retracted and
     properly stored to prevent releases.
     A4.1.5.11. A fuel dispenser handle latch may not be used and patrons must be present at
     all times during refueling operations. This is to prevent surging and overfilling of the
     fuel tank.
     A4.1.5.12. Absorbent pads must be used to clean up any fuel spilled on the aircraft
     during refueling operations. Pads will be deployed around the fuel tank opening to
     ensure fuel does not run off the aircraft and into the water. Fuel-contaminated pads must
     be properly disposed upon completion of refueling operations.
     A4.1.5.13. An approved waste fuel container must be deployed at the refueling site. All
     fuel drained from tank sumps must be placed in the approved waste fuel container and
     removed promptly from the site upon completion of fueling or maintenance operations.
     A4.1.5.14. Routine maintenance may be conducted at the designated maintenance areas.
     A drip pan (or pans) must be deployed underneath the engine compartment prior to
     conducting routine maintenance such as changing the oil in the aircraft. Drip pans must
     be capable of containing 110% of the largest volume of petroleum product being added or
     drained from the aircraft. Absorbent pads will be used to contain any petroleum products
     that drip onto the pan. Oil and oil-stained/soaked pads must be properly disposed upon
     completion of maintenance operations.
  A4.1.6. Spill Response. In the event a spill occurs the following procedures will be
  followed. Table A4.1, this instruction, contains a checklist to be used as a guide for initial
  spill response.
     A4.1.6.1. If possible and safe, stop the source of the spill by turning off power to pumps,
     righting containers, or placing spill equipment under a leaking hose.
     A4.1.6.2. Immediately notify the JBER Fire Department by calling 911. This will
     initiate the spill response system. Let the 911 operator know if it is an emergency or non-
     emergency response.
     A4.1.6.3. If possible and safe, deploy required materials from the spill kit. Absorbent
     pads may be placed on the soil or surface of the water to contain fuel releases. If fuel is
     released to water, ensure the containment boom is properly deployed to prevent fuel from
     spreading on the lake.
     A4.1.6.4. Patrons may be required to conduct cleanup, including excavation and disposal
     of contaminated soil, water, and spill response equipment.
673ABWI34-110 18 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                         17


Table A4.1. Spill Response Checklist
 RESPONSE ACTIONS                                                 YES NO   N/   TIME/INITIAL
                                                                           A    S
 Immediately notify JBER Fire and Emergency Services
 (673 CES/CEF) Phone: 911
 Report the following:
 Location
 Source
 Possible cause
 Present conditions (still leaking or spill contained) and
 extent of spill (estimated volume)
 Direction of spill movement (towards a ditch, into water,
 etc)
 Location of nearest drainage ditch, sewer, storm drain, or
 water body
 Extent of personnel injuries
 If evacuation is not necessary and responder can begin
 or manage spill cleanup:
 Stop all sources of ignition and source of spill (if possible)
 Obtain and deploy spill cleanup materials/equipment
 Initiate spill cleanup or response until JBER FES or other
 personnel arrive
 Initiate evacuation if necessary:
 Evacuate to an upgrade or upwind location a safe distance
 from the spill
 Activate signals (horns, bells, whistles, etc) to alert others
 of potential dangers
 Stop all vehicle traffic into the area
 Limit access until JBER FES arrives
 Shut off electrical power and valves if safe to do so
 18                                      673ABWI34-110 18 SEPTEMBER 2013


Figure A4.2. Spill Response Procedures
673ABWI34-110 18 SEPTEMBER 2013                                 19


Figure A4.3. Six Mile Lake Recreational Aircraft Storage Area
 20                                              673ABWI34-110 18 SEPTEMBER 2013


Figure A4.4. Refueling Areas - Six Mile Lake Recreational Aircraft Storage Area
