BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             673D AIR BASE WING INSTRUCTION
673D AIR BASE WING (PACAF)                                                     23-302

                                                                                  19 MAY 2011

                                                                          Materiel Management

                                                                   VEHICLE MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 673 LRS/LGRV                                                     Certified by: 673 LRG/CC
                                                                        (Col Deanna L. Cooper)
Supersedes:   3WGI 23-302,                                                             Pages: 10
              18 September 2006


This publication implements AFPD 23-1, Materiel Management Policy and Procedures, as
required by AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management, and is used in conjunction with the PACAF
Supplement of AFI 23-302. This instruction applies to all unit commanders, equipment
custodians/vehicle control officers (VCO), vehicle control noncommissioned officers (VCNCO),
and registered vehicle/other government motor vehicle conveyances (OGMVC)/non-registered
equipment management system (REMS) reportable low speed vehicles (NRLSV) operators
assigned to host and associate units assigned to Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson, but does not
apply to the Air Force Reserve or Air National Guard units and members. This instruction
establishes the procedures for implementing and managing the installation’s registered vehicles,
OGMVC, NRLSV and General Service Administration (GSA) leased vehicles. This instruction
also establishes the policies and procedures for implementing the wing’s vehicle accident, abuse,
and incident program. It includes specific guidance and addresses the definitions, authority,
disposition, reporting procedures and reimbursement of repairs for Air Force owned vehicle and
GSA lease vehicle accidents, abuses, and incidents. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the office of primary responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route the AF Form 847 through the appropriate
chain of command. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a Glossary of References and Supporting
Information.
 2                                                               673ABWI23-302 19 MAY 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. All
outdated terminology, references and contents was updated to correlate with the activation of the
new 673 ABW throughout the text.
1. Vehicle Accident and Abuse Policy. The key to successfully reducing damage to vehicles is
placing responsibility where it rightfully belongs, that is, with the operator and the operator's
commander charged with maintaining high standards of vehicle operator training and discipline.
Consequently, using the procedures set forth in this instruction, units will transfer funds for the
actual cost of materials used to repair damage to vehicles operated by their personnel. In cases
of vehicle accident and abuse, unit funds will be transferred to cover material, contract and
civilian labor expenses. Nothing in this instruction relieves an individual of personal liability
under a report of survey (ROS). See AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property.
2. Responsibilities:
     2.1. Vehicle Management. The 673 LRS/LGRV (Vehicle Management Flight), leadership
     will evaluate each vehicle accident, suspected abuse or incident. LGRV is the final authority
     entrusted with differentiating between an accident, abuse, or incident. Reporting damage to
     an Air Force vehicle or GSA lease vehicle is a unit responsibility. Documentation and
     tracking of the accident, abuse, or incident damage repair is the responsibility of LGRV.
     2.2. Using Organization. Ultimate financial responsibility for vehicle damage rests with
     the vehicle operator’s assigned organization. However, nothing in this instruction relieves an
     individual of personal liability under a ROS.
     2.3. Vehicle Operator. The vehicle operator is the primarily responsible to prevent vehicle
     accidents, abuses, or incidents. Any damage must be immediately reported to the 673rd
     Security Forces. Operators will provide a copy of the SF Form 91, Operator’s Report of
     Motor Vehicle Accident, to LGRV when turning vehicles in for maintenance. Additionally,
     two copies of the SF Form 94, Statement of Witness, are required for GSA lease vehicles.
     2.4. VCO/VCNCO. Unit VCOs/VCNCOs are responsible for inspecting unit vehicles
     periodically for unreported damage and to inspect each vehicle turned into LGRV for repair.
3. Accident Reporting Procedures for Government Owned Vehicles (GOV). Upon
determination of vehicle damage as a result of accident or abuse:
     3.1. LGRV will initiate a work order estimating the repair cost. A letter identifying the
     accident or abuse damage, signed by the 673 LRS Commander, will be sent to the
     responsible organization's commander. The unit commander/resource advisor signs the
     release letter and provides a fund site for reimbursement. Vehicles will not be returned to the
     user until the release letter is received by LGRV.
     3.2. LGRV will ensure photos of damages are taken prior to repair, and provided to 673
     ABW/JA and 673 ABW/SEG. At the request of the using organization’s commander, an AF
     Form 20, Repair Cost and Repairable Value Statement, will be prepared by LGRV, depicting
     actual cost expended to repair the vehicle.
     3.3. Repairs will begin after the unit's VCO/VCNCO notifies LGRV that the vehicle is no
     longer needed for investigative purposes, or within 5 calendar days.
673ABWI23-302 19 MAY 2011                                                                     3


   3.4. The organization using vehicles and equipment will reimburse LGRV for material cost,
   civilian labor, and contract repair costs to repair accident and abuse related damage.
   Reimbursement will be made, regardless of pecuniary liability. Organizations responsible
   for accident and abuse damage will provide an OF Form 1017-G, Journal Voucher, to LGRV
   for the amount of the accident/abuse cost. Vehicle Management and Analysis reserves the
   right to contract accident/abuse costs. LGRV reserves the right to contract accident or abuse
   repairs, and to have the organization responsible for such vehicle damage pay contract cost
   using appropriate contracting methods available. Reimbursement for reimbursable or
   refundable organizations will be accomplished through a transfer of funds from the using
   organization's operation and maintenance (O&M) account through 673 CPTS/FMA to 673
   LRS O&M account.
   3.5. The 673 LRS/CC is the final decision authority to resolve all conflicts with regard to
   this program.
4. Accident Reporting Procedures for GSA Leased Vehicles:
   4.1. Using organizations will immediately report accident or abuse damage directly to the
   GSA Accident Management Center (AMC) at 1-866-400-0411, then submit SF Form 91 or a
   memorandum for record (with pictures including license plate) within 5 business days after
   the incident. Have the following information ready when calling the AMC to repot damage:
      4.1.1. Tag number.
      4.1.2. Date, time, and location of accident/mishap.
      4.1.3. Any injuries or fatalities.
      4.1.4. Brief description of crash, road and weather conditions.
      4.1.5. Were seatbelts use and, if equipped, did the air bags deploy.
      4.1.6. Towing requirements and is the vehicle in storage.
      4.1.7. Did police respond.
   4.2. GSA AMC will provide a purchase order (PO) to the GSA authorized service center
   once police reports, estimates, pictures, SF Form 91 and/or the memorandum have been
   submitted to the AMC to perform the necessary repairs. VCOs/VCNCOs will coordinate
   with GSA-authorized service center for repairs.
   4.3. Upon notification from service center, VCOs/VCNCOs will pick up vehicles in a timely
   manner and ensure repairs are satisfactory prior to departing the service center.
   4.4. Once repairs are complete, e-mail the complete accident package (including police
   reports, estimates, pictures, SF Form 91, the memorandum and PO) to 673 LRS/LGRV
   vehicle maintenance and analysis (VM&A) organizational e-mail account. The LGRV
   accident and abuse monitor will assign a case number to the package, and forward the
   package to 673 ABW/ JA and 673 ABW/SEG. The 673 LRS Resource Advisor will obtain
   reimbursement from units for repairs.
   4.5. VCOs/VCNCOs will ensure using organization obtains an estimate from a GSA-
   authorized service center. Units will obtain only one estimate for damages under $2,500, and
   obtain two additional estimates (total of three) for damages over $2,500.
 4                                                               673ABWI23-302 19 MAY 2011


5. Accident Reporting Procedures Involving Privately Owned Vehicles (POV) and
Government Owned Vehicles (GOV) or GSA Lease Vehicles:
     5.1. Report all accidents involving GOVs and GSA leased vehicles on SF Forms 91 and 94.
     Vehicle operators must ensure the names of all the individuals involved are documented and
     that the completed forms are delivered to the unit VCOs/VCNCOs.
     5.2. Vehicle accident cases involving private insurance companies will be coordinated
     through the Base Claims Office or the GSA AMC for lease vehicles.
     5.3. All GOV repair estimates and actual repairs must begin with LGRV.
     5.4. GSA lease vehicles will be repaired in accordance with paragraph 4, this instruction.
6. Low Speed Vehicle (LSV) and Other Government Motor Vehicle Conveyance
(OGMVC). PACAF has established a ceiling on the number of REMS LSV (NRLSV) and
OGMVC authorizations at 10 percent of the light duty general purpose vehicle authorizations,
1.5 ton and below, excluding ambulances, trailers, and special purpose (management Code C)
telephone maintenance trucks identified on the unit’s vehicle authorization list (VAL). For units
without vehicle authorizations, the number
of NRLSV and OGMVC authorizations is capped at one. Slow moving conveyances (to include,
neighborhood electric vehicles (EV), golf carts, scooters, and other small low-speed utility
vehicles, and so forth) will be managed in several different categories with a prime national stock
number (NSN) for each category. This guidance does not include non-appropriated funded
LSVs and OGMVCs.
     6.1. Accountability:
        6.1.1. Commanders will appoint a VCO/VCNCO as the OGMVC/NRLSV equipment
        account custodian. The VCO/VCNCO is the focal point for all matters concerning new
        requests, fuel, fuel keys, transfers, asset accountability and salvage.
        6.1.2. Units must first coordinate with 673 LRS/LGRV vehicle management and analysis
        (VM&A) for approval to purchase or lease any item that may be classified as a vehicle.
        VM&A will coordinate with PACAF/A4R and the centralized Air Force Vehicle
        Equipment        Management       Support     Office  (VEMSO)       for     approval.
        Vehicles/LSVs/OGMVCs purchased by units without prior approval may be required to
        be turned in for disposition.
        6.1.3. OGMVCs approved for unit procurement will be managed as equipment items.
        Since the Air Force will centrally procure LSVs, units may no longer procure these assets
        locally. In accordance with AFI 23-302, paragraph 4.20.1.1, LSVs procured prior to June
        2006 will be managed as equipment items and will not be replaced as each eventually
        reaches life-expectancy.
        6.1.4. Tracking for OGMVCs and NRLSVs will be by the Air Force Equipment
        Management System (AFEMS). These assets will be accounted for on the owning
        squadron’s Custodian Authorized Custody Receipt Listing (CA/CRL). Assets will be
        assigned a separate shop code and will be independent from other shop equipment.
        Assets owned by organizations not structured as a squadron will be managed on the
        accounts of the next level of unit leadership. The 673 LRS/LGRM (Materiel Management
        Flight) will load the asset in AFEMS by vehicle identification number (VIN)/serial
673ABWI23-302 19 MAY 2011                                                                     5


     number in the Use Serialized Asset Screen; by the manufacturer of the vehicle’s cage
     code in the Cage Code Field and by the VEMSO-supplied registration number in the Part
     Number Field. Unit type codes (UTC) for deployable OGMVCs will be loaded in the
     UTC field, as necessary.
     6.1.5. Units may not deploy or ship vehicles/LSVs/OGMVCs without prior coordination
     through LGRV to ensure accountability, safety, and serviceability of assets.
     6.1.6. With the exception of markings outlined in TO 36-1-191, Technical and
     Managerial Reference for Motor Vehicle Maintenance, units may not affix markings or
     stickers on any vehicles/LSVs/OGMVCs (including GSA vehicles) without prior
     approval from LGRV. A vehicle add-on letter will be used to request such approval and
     a copy must be stored in the vehicle’s permanent record. EXCEPTION: Vehicles
     operated on the flightline may have radio call sign’s applied to the top center of the
     windshield, however, a vehicle add-on letter must still be submitted to LGRV.
  6.2. Safety and Serviceability:
     6.2.1. OGMVCs/LSVs operating on Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson roadways, at a
     minimum, will be equipped with seatbelts, headlights, tail lights/directional signals and a
     horn. All OGMVC/LSVs must display a decal “For on Base Use Only” or “On Base
     Only” on the rear fender of the asset. All NRLSVs will have a placard visible to the
     operator, which states “LSV-Do not exceed 25 MPH.” These decals and placards will be
     provided by 673 LRS/LGRV.
     6.2.2. LSVs/OGMVCs are not authorized to travel off base.        EXCEPTION:
     LSVs/OGMVCs may be transported off-base (for example, flat-bed truck) for use at
     official government work sites.
     6.2.3. VCOs/VCNCOs will ensure all pending maintenance actions are accomplished
     and will notify VM&A, in writing, no later than 5 business days after preventative
     maintenance inspection (PMI) actions are complete.         Service or PMI will be
     accomplished in accordance with the asset owner’s manual. When the owner’s manual is
     unavailable, at a minimum, service the asset in accordance with TO 36-1-191 and AF
     Form 4354, Preventative Maintenance and Inspection. This form may be down loaded at
     http://www.e-publishing.af.mil. VCOs/VCNCOs must provide VM&A with the
     warranty documents, the year that the equipment was manufactured, make, model and
     serial number/VIN to ensure the safety and serviceability of the equipment.
     VCOs/VCNCOs are required to retain copies of repair/service invoices.
     6.2.4. VCOs/VCNCOs will park OGMVCs/LSVs that have overdue PMI or safety
     inspections, and will manage these as unserviceable equipment.
     6.2.5. VCOs/VCNCOs will ensure operators receive familiarization training and that
     completion of training is documented on a competency card and/or in employee training
     records. Ensure vehicle lesson plans include at a minimum: inspection prior to use safe
     operation, and any other operator specific instructions in accordance with applicable
     owner’s manual.
 6                                                               673ABWI23-302 19 MAY 2011


7. Management of GSA Leased Vehicles:
     7.1. In accordance with AFI 23-302, paragraph 1.17.1.3, LGRV is not authorized to perform
     maintenance on GSA leased vehicles. Only GSA approved local vendors will perform
     maintenance on leased vehicles. A list of GSA-authorized service centers may be obtained
     from LGRV.
     7.2. LGRV will provide training to all commander-appointed VCOs/VCNCOs on
     management requirements of GSA vehicles assigned to the organization.
     7.3. VCOs/VCNCOs will make arrangements (to include pick-up and drop off) with GSA-
     authorized service centers for repairs and PMI. All jump starts/road service requests must be
     performed by GSA-authorized service centers and MAY NOT be accomplished by the using
     organization. The GSA Fleet Service credit card is used for minor maintenance repairs under
     $100. The GSA-authorized service center will contact GSA to obtain authorization/payment
     for repairs in excess of $100. GSA Fleet Service credit cards are assigned to specific
     vehicles and must only be used for that vehicle. Personnel using GSA Fleet Service credit
     cards are acting as Air Force purchasing agents and are responsible for each transaction in
     accordance with all applicable financial management regulations.
     7.4. Units who manage a billed office address code (BOAC) MAY NOT request more
     vehicles from GSA than the VAL allows. Any vehicles obtained in excess of approved
     authorizations must be immediately returned to GSA.
     7.5. Vehicle operators will use AF Form 1800, Operator’s Inspection Guide and Trouble
     Report, to annotate discrepancies on GSA vehicles. The work order number, date, status
     code and initials fields in the Maintenance Report Status section will be left blank for GSA
     vehicles. VCOs/VCNCOs will maintain a waiver card for all GSA vehicles.
     7.6. GSA will assess payment from the leasing agency (unit of BOAC assignment) for
     services that exceed the terms of the lease. This includes but is not limited to damages not
     attributed to fair wear and tear and excessive mileage. In turn, units that do not maintain an
     independent BOAC will reimburse LGRV for any GSA bill-backed funds. GSA wear and
     use guidance is located in the VCO/VCNCO guidebook.
     7.7. Any additional equipment, markings, and so forth, required to be added to any GSA
     vehicle requires coordination through LGRV for approval. Requesting units are held
     responsible for the maintenance of the equipment and repair of any damage caused by the
     installation or removal of this equipment. Additionally, units will put the vehicle back into
     original condition when the vehicle is rotated or replaced.
     7.8. Units will be notified by LGRV when new vehicle replacements arrive. Once notified,
     unit VCOs/VCNCOs will:
        7.8.1. Coordinate repairs for any major body damage with a GSA-authorized service
        center through LGRV.
        7.8.2. Coordinate repairs causing the malfunction indicator lamps to be illuminated with
        a GSA-authorized service center through LGRV.
673ABWI23-302 19 MAY 2011                                                                   7


     7.8.3. Remove all add-on equipment and coordinate repair with a GSA-authorized
     service center for damage caused by the installation of items to include patching/sealing
     holes from drilling into sheet metal/plastic.
     7.8.4. Pick-up and drop off of replacement vehicles in a timely manner.




                                          ROBERT D. EVANS, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
 8                                                         673ABWI23-302 19 MAY 2011


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 23-1, Materiel Management Policy and Procedures, 10 March 2006.
AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, 1 July 1996.
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008.
Forms Prescribed
No forms were prescribed by this publication
Forms Adopted
Adopted - AF Form 20, Repair Cost and Repairable Value Statement, SF Form 91, Operator’s
Report of Motor Vehicle Accident, SF Form 94, Statement of Witness, PACAF Form 161,
Notification of Civilian/ Military Injury or USAF Property Damage Ground Mishap Report, DD
Form 200, Financial Liability Investigation of Property Loss, AF Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication, AF Form 1800, Operator’s Inspection Guide and Trouble Report,
AF Form 4354, Preventative Maintenance and Inspection, OF Form 1017-G, Journal Voucher.

Acronyms and Abbreviations
AFEMS—Air Force Equipment Management System.
BOAC—Build Office Address Code.
CA/CRL—Custodian Authorization/Custody Receipt Listing.
GSA—- General Service Administration.
EV—Electric Vehicle.
LSV—Low Speed Vehicle.
NRLSV—Non-REMS Reportable Low Speed Vehicle.
NSN—National Stock Number.
OGMVC—Other Government Motor Vehicle Conveyance.
O & M—- Operation and Maintenance.
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility.
POV—- Privately Owned Vehicles.
PMI—Preventative Maintenance Inspection.
REMS—Registered Equipment Management System.
ROS—- Report of Survey.
RDS—- Records Disposition Schedule.
TDY—- Temporary Duty.
673ABWI23-302 19 MAY 2011                                                                  9


UTC—- Unit Type Codes.
VAL—Vehicle Authorization Listing.
VEMSO—Vehicle Equipment Management Support Office.
VCO—- Vehicle Control Officers.
VCNCO—- Vehicle Control Noncommissioned Officers.
VFM—- Vehicle Fleet Manager.
VM&A—- Vehicle Management and Analysis.
VMS—- Vehicle Management Superintendent.

Terms
Vehicle Accident— A vehicle accident is defined as a collision, impact, or abrasion against a
fixed or moving object with an Air Force owned vehicle or GSA lease vehicle, causing damage
and/or requiring repairs, whether or not immediately noticeable.
Vehicle Abuse— Vehicle abuse is defined as willful or negligent acts that has, or may cause
damage to a vehicle. Vehicle abuse may result in early failure or components or immediately
detectable damage (see Attachment 2).
Vehicle incidents— Vehicle incidents are defined as damage not caused by an accident or
abuse, and which cannot be considered fair wear and tear. An example would be an act of
nature.
 10                                                               673ABWI23-302 19 MAY 2011


                                           Attachment 2
                              EXAMPLES OF VEHICLE ABUSE

A2.1. Failure to accomplish operator maintenance.
A2.2. Not reporting malfunctions, defects, accident damage or safety discrepancies affecting
vehicle maintenance within 24 hours of discovery or incident to Vehicle Management.
A2.3. Overloading or failing to tie down or otherwise secure cargo.
A2.4. Tampering with governors or pollution control devices.
A2.5. Operating vehicle/equipment with broken tire chains or improperly inflated tires.
A2.6. Failure to protect the painted surface from oxidation and corrosion.
A2.7. Failure to bring a vehicle/equipment into the shop for scheduled maintenance.
A2.8. Modifying a vehicle/equipment without written permission from the Vehicle Management
Flight Commander/Vehicle Management Superintendent (VMS).
A2.9. Refueling a vehicle with the incorrect type of fuel, that is, diesel instead of gasoline.
A2.10. Contributing to wind damage by not parking vehicles into the wind or restraining doors
when opening.
A2.11. Riding or slipping clutches, except when necessary to maintain control of a vehicle
during backing operations.
A2.12. Operating vehicles using improperly selected gears, such as lugging in high gear and
shifting into reverse when traveling forward.
A2.13. Using a vehicle for other than its designated purpose.
A2.14. Use of stop leak in radiators.
A2.15. Operating a vehicle in violation of operator’s manual or accepted driving practices.
