BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                673D AIR BASE WING INSTRUCTION
673D AIR BASE WING (PACAF)                                                        32-7001

                                                                                      25 JULY 2012

                                                                                  Civil Engineering

                                                   CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT OF
                                                    CULTURAL AND NATURAL RESOURCES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 673 CEG/CEANC                                                       Certified by: 673 CEG/CC
                                                                               (Mr. Allan D. Lucht)
Supersedes:    3WGI 32-7001,                                                              Pages: 38
               14 January 1999


This instruction implements AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality, and prescribes the policies
and responsibilities for the management and conservation of land, water, forest, fish, wildlife and
outdoor recreation resources, as well as historical and archeological site protection on Joint Base
Elmendorf-Richardson (JBER) lands. These resources will be managed to sustain biodiversity
under the principles of multiple-use and sustained yield within the limitations of the overriding
military mission. It‘s the responsibility of commanders at all levels to ensure compliance with
this instruction. This instruction applies to any individual, active duty, reserve, and civilians on
JBER lands. Tennant organizations are also bound by the provisions of this regulation.
Violations of the specific prohibitions and requirements of this instruction by military personnel
may result in prosecution under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). All violators,
regardless of affiliation, may be prosecuted in courts of state or federal jurisdiction for applicable
violations of State or federal law, and are subject to the penalties of those jurisdictions through
Assimilated Crimes Act (18 U.S.C. 1382), and/or in addition to the above penalties. The 673d
Air Base Wing Commander (673 ABW/CC) may impose administrative sanctions for non-
compliance in the form of warnings, suspension of recreational privileges, and barment from the
installation, (18 U.S.C 1382). Law Enforcement, Natural Resource, Cultural Resource, Range
Control, and Alaska Department of Fish and Game (ADF&G) personnel are exempt from the
provisions of this instruction while operating within the scope of their authority. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the office of primary
responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Route the AF Form 847 through the appropriate chain of command. Ensure all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
 2                                                                                    673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012


Information management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for Glossary of
References and Supporting Information. AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Program. This
publication requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by the
Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 16 U.S.C. 670, The SIKES ACT. The applicable Privacy
Act SORN, #F031 AF SF C.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This document is
a required combination of US Army Garrison, Fort Richardson, Alaska Regulation 190-13
(Conservation Program-Enforcement on Fort Richardson, Alaska), and 3WGI 32-7001
(Conservation and Management of Natural Resources). Changes made reflect the current
policies and procedures for the Conservation and Management of Cultural and Natural Resources
of 673 ABW, JBER , Alaska.

        1.     Background Concepts and Functional Area Responsibilities: ...............................                            2
        2.     Implementing Integrated Natural Resources Management: ...................................                            3
        3.     Wetlands and Floodplains: .....................................................................................      6
        4.     Fish and Wildlife Management: .............................................................................          7
        5.     Vegetation Management: .......................................................................................      14
        6.     Outdoor Recreation Management: .........................................................................            16
        7.     Land Management: ................................................................................................   22
        8.     Information Collections. ........................................................................................   25

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                     26

Attachment 2—JBER MAPS                                                                                                             28

Attachment 3—THE LETHAL DISPATCH OF WILDLIFE ON JBER                                                                               30

Attachment 4—HOLD HARMLESS AGREEMENT                                                                                               34

Attachment 5—BARMENT POLICY                                                                                                        35


1. Background Concepts and Functional Area Responsibilities:
     1.1. Policy:
        1.1.1. Department of Interior land acquired for Department of Defense (DoD) use is for
        national defense. JBER land is required to support the military mission. In most
        instances, it can concurrently and compatibly support the military mission and sustained
        yields of renewable natural resources. The President and Congress, through various
        public laws, have directed conservation measures be implemented on all military lands.
673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012                                                                      3


      1.1.2. JBER has a public land trusteeship responsibility to protect and enhance
      environmental quality through the maintenance of natural diversity and ecosystem
      sustainability. To fulfill its commitment to stewardship, the installation will comply with
      State of Alaska (State) and United States (federal) laws, regulations, and directives
      governing the management of natural and cultural resources.
   1.2. Responsibilities:
      1.2.1. The Commander, 673 Air Base Wing (673 ABW) is responsible for ensuring that
      natural and cultural resource plans, agreements, and activities are developed and
      monitored on JBER.
      1.2.2. The Commander, 673d Civil Engineer Squadron (673 CES) hereafter referred to
      as JBER Civil Engineer, is responsible for developing and implementing an integrated
      natural resources management program in cooperation with ADF&G, the US Fish and
      Wildlife Service (USFWS), Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and National Marine
      Fisheries Service (NMFS). The OPR for the natural resources programs is the Cultural
      and Natural Resource Conservation Office (673 CES/ CEANC) hereafter referred to as
      ―CEANC.‖
      1.2.3. The Commander, 673d Security Forces Squadron (673 SFS/CC) is responsible for
      enforcing all laws on the installation. The 673 SFS/CC will delegate the authority to
      CEANC to enforce all cultural and natural resource laws, regulations and policies
      governing the use of JBER lands. Full time Conservation Law Enforcement Officers
      (CLEO), selected Military Conservation Agents (MCA), and detailed Military Police
      (MP) will provide enforcement of natural and cultural resources along with off-road
      vehicle regulations. In accordance with 673 SFS requirements MCAs, selected and
      trained to provide enforcement, will be designated in writing by 673 SFS/CC.
      1.2.4. The US government will not be liable for any damage or injury to equipment,
      persons, or property, resulting from the use or participation in any recreational activity on
      JBER lands. Anyone who engages in recreational and natural resource harvesting
      activities, do so completely at their own risk. Recreational users and those harvesting
      natural resources are financially liable for any damage to government or private property
      resulting from their activities.
2. Implementing Integrated Natural Resources Management:
   2.1. Ecosystem Management. JBER minerals, vegetation, wildlife resources, wetlands,
   lakes, and streams will be managed within the limitations of the overriding military mission
   and under the principles of ecosystem management.
   2.2. Management Priorities. The principal purpose of JBER is to support the mission. The
   673 ABW will strive to provide continued DoD access to JBER lands for realistic military
   training and testing while sustaining the long term ecological integrity of its resource base
   through protection, conservation, and enhancement of its environmental resources. In
   support of the missions of the 673 ABW and its tenants.
      2.2.1. First priority will be given to support of the military mission.
4                                                             673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012


       2.2.2. Second priority will be given to the protection, preservation, and enhancement of
       habitat used by threatened and endangered species and species of special concern
       designated by the State of Alaska.
       2.2.3. Third priority will be given to maintaining biodiversity through the protection,
       conservation, and enhancement of fish and wildlife habitat.
       2.2.4. Fourth priority will be given to the development, management, and conservation
       of areas capable of providing intensive recreational use; such as winter sport sites, picnic
       areas, and nature trails. Such areas will be managed primarily for their recreational
       value.
       2.2.5. Fifth priority will be to manage the remaining areas to provide for the greatest
       public benefit. This determination must be based upon an analysis of the ecological
       factors involved, the supply and demand relationship of the various resources and uses
       made of the resource. In determining the greatest benefit, full consideration must be
       given to tangible and intangible social and economic values.
    2.3. Conservation Education. Conservation education is a major component of the natural
    resources program. Every effort will be made to educate JBER personnel on all aspects of the
    program through:
       2.3.1. Maintenance of wildlife and cultural displays at the JBER Wildlife Education
       Center.
       2.3.2. Presentation of briefings to newcomers, units, organizations, and community
       schools.
       2.3.3. Publication of resource information, articles, and notices in the following:
           2.3.3.1. JBER newspaper.
           2.3.3.2. Intranet local area network bulletin board.
           2.3.3.3. US Army Alaska (USARAK) Conservation Website.
           2.3.3.4. JBER Recreational Access System.
           2.3.3.5. Kiosks and signage.
           2.3.3.6. Electronic bulletin boards.
           2.3.3.7. Information displayed at the Visitor Centers.
           2.3.3.8. Recorded information via the JBER Wildlife Education Center (552-2282).
    2.4. Desired Program Staffing:
       2.4.1. The JBER Civil Engineer will provide sufficient staffing to the conservation
       function for accomplishment of cultural and natural resources program objectives.
       Minimum staffing goals, resources permitting, are as follows:
           2.4.1.1. Chief, Cultural and Natural Resources Conservation.
           2.4.1.2. Fish and Wildlife Biologist/Natural Resource Specialist--five.
           2.4.1.3. Forester -- one.
673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012                                                                  5


        2.4.1.4. Seasonal Biological Technicians -- Five.
        2.4.1.5. GIS Specialist -- one.
        2.4.1.6. Conservation Law Enforcement Officers -- two.
        2.4.1.7. Cultural Resources Manager -- one.
        2.4.1.8. Detailed Military Police -- four.
     2.4.2. Conservation enforcement staff includes CLEOs, detailed Military Police and
     MCAs. MCA program management is the responsibility of CEANC, as specified in
     operating instructions issued by the Senior CLEO.
     2.4.3. MCAs and natural resources volunteers (NRV). Programs will be established and
     maintained to assist the permanent staff in implementing the natural and cultural resource
     programs. CEANC is authorized to recruit, train, and recognize MCAs and NRVs.
     Criteria for acceptance into the MCA or NRV programs will be briefed upon initiation of
     the application process.
        2.4.3.1. Each MCA will provide a minimum of 72 hours per year towards the
        accomplishment of activities designated by the senior CLEO. These activities will
        include installation patrols to monitor and enforce use of natural/cultural resources,
        regulations, state, federal laws, and range regulations.
        2.4.3.2. NRVs will provide support for monitoring wildlife, enhancing habitat,
        supporting forestry activities, and delivering natural resource education programs.
        2.4.3.3. MCAs and detailed enforcement will be trained by CLEO staff on duty
        requirements.
            2.4.3.3.1. MCAs are designated by the 673 ABW/CC to enforce all applicable
            federal and State of Alaska natural and cultural resource laws and regulations on
            JBER in accordance with 16 United States Code (USC) 670a (b)(1)(h).
            2.4.3.3.2. The senior CLEO will ensure MCAs are trained based on a plan
            approved by the Chief, Cultural and Natural Resources Conservation.
  2.5. Installation Integrated Natural and Cultural Management Plans:
     2.5.1. Integrated Natural Resources Management Plan (INRMP). The JBER INRMP
     will serve as the natural resources component of the Joint Base General Plan (JBGP) and
     will address management of natural resources programs in accordance with DoDI
     4715.03, Natural Resources Conservation Program, AFI 32-7064, Integrated Natural
     Resources Management, and other relevant DoD or Air Force policy. The INRMP will
     be reviewed annually, and revised as needed every 5 years in accordance with AFI 32-
     7064.
     2.5.2. Integrated Cultural Resources Management Plan (ICRMP). The JBER ICRMP
     will serve as the cultural resources component of the JBGP and will address management
     and protection of cultural resources programs in accordance with AFI 32-7065, Cultural
     Resources Management Program, and other relevant DoD or Air Force policy. The
     ICRMP will be reviewed annually and revised as needed every 5 years in accordance
     with AFI 32-7065.
 6                                                           673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012


     2.6. Cooperative Agreements:
        2.6.1. Cooperation with state and federal agencies will be handled through the execution
        of cooperative agreements and memorandums of agreement. CEANC will prepare
        cooperative agreements with appropriate federal and state agencies in the areas of fish
        and wildlife management, forestry, outdoor recreation management, cultural resource
        protection, law enforcement, and land jurisdiction.
        2.6.2. Agreements covering natural resources programs will be reviewed annually by
        CEANC.
        2.6.3. Agreements covering law enforcement will be annually reviewed, coordinated and
        approved by 673 SFS/CC.
     2.7. Access Priority to Natural Resources on JBER:
        2.7.1. First priority is given to active-duty and retired military personnel, dependents,
        and DoD civilian employees.
        2.7.2. Second priority is given to non-DoD civilians. The installation commander may
        open or restrict access to the installation for non-DoD civilians based on the
        commander‘s discretion. The installation commander will consider JBER security and
        the planned use of natural resources when determining access to natural resources on
        JBER.
     2.8. Access Areas Defined:
        2.8.1. Training areas within JBER-Richardson are access controlled by Army Range
        Control and posted on the JBER Recreational Access System.
        2.8.2. Cantonment areas are developed (improved/semi-improved) land that hold a
        concentration of industrial buildings, housing, and airfields (see Attachment 2, Figure
        A2.1, Cantonment Area Map).
        2.8.3. The Restricted Access Area is within the boundaries previously known as
        Elmendorf AFB. Access to this area for recreation is restricted to DoD identification
        card holders (see Attachment 2, Figure A2.2, Restricted Access Map).
        2.8.4. Permanently closed and off limits areas are designated by Range Control or the
        673 ABW/CC and are so designated due to mission conflicts with any recreational
        activities. See paragraph 6.4.4, this instruction, for list of permanently closed and off
        limits areas on JBER.
3. Wetlands and Floodplains:
     3.1. Objectives. JBER will protect, conserve, and manage wetland, floodplain, and coastal
     zone resources. The program will fully comply with state and federal regulatory
     requirements, by accomplishing the following objectives:
        3.1.1. Minimize the location of projects and activities in wetlands and 100-year
        floodplains.
        3.1.2. Minimize bank erosion along the shores of lakes or streams.
673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012                                                                 7


      3.1.3. Identify and minimize point and non-point pollution sources which may impact
      lakes and streams.
      3.1.4. Make coastal zone consistency determinations on all projects which impact the
      identified coastal zone areas on JBER.
   3.2. Responsibilities. Wetland, floodplain, and coastal zone evaluations will be
   accomplished by CEANC during the 673 CES work order and project evaluation process.
      3.2.1. The most current available maps will be used to determine the presence of
      wetlands, floodplains, and coastal zone resources in proposed project areas.
      3.2.2. U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) and State coordination will be
      accomplished prior to the initiation of any projects which impact wetlands, floodplains,
      or the coastal zone. The appropriate permits or waivers will be obtained, posted on site
      and made part of the project file.
      3.2.3. When activities take place in wetland or floodplain areas best management
      practices will be used to limit the movement of silt generated by construction or repair
      work.
   3.3. Wetland Survey and Delineation. Field delineations will be made every 10 years to
   upgrade the wetlands and floodplains maps.
4. Fish and Wildlife Management:
   4.1. Objectives. JBER will have a current program for the protection, conservation, and
   management of fish and wildlife resources identified in the INRMP. The program will work
   to accomplish the following objectives:
      4.1.1. Within mission constraints and safety considerations, maintain or increase the
      diversity of non-invasive JBER wildlife populations through ecosystem based multiple
      species management.
          4.1.1.1. Protect and conserve federally-listed and proposed threatened and
          endangered plants, animals, and their habitat and state listed endangered or rare
          species and species of special concern as recognized by USFWS.
          4.1.1.2. Other species will be managed within habitat constraints of the threatened
          and endangered species after consultation with ADF&G, NMFS and USFWS.
      4.1.2. Manage wildlife populations to minimize undesirable or "nuisance" effects of
      wildlife.
      4.1.3. Maintain or improve opportunities for consumptive and non-consumptive uses of
      wildlife resources.
      4.1.4. Increase the awareness and cooperation by JBER personnel in the fish and wildlife
      management program.
   4.2. Responsibilities:
      4.2.1. CEANC:
          4.2.1.1. Responsible to the Joint Base Civil Engineer (JBCE) for JBER fish and
          wildlife resource plan and regulation development and implementation.
8                                                             673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012


           4.2.1.2. Is responsible for wildlife control and dispatching or treatment of injured
           wildlife in accordance with ADF&G, NMFS and USFWS regulations, statutes and
           permits.
           4.2.1.3. Is responsible for providing enforcement of federal and State fish and
           wildlife regulations and statutes.
       4.2.2. The 673 SFS will assist the conservation enforcement staff, if available, in herding
       wildlife away from areas where they present an immediate danger to life and property.
       4.2.3. The 3rd Wing Safety Office (SE) is responsible for the JBER Bird Aircraft Strike
       Hazard program (BASH).
           4.2.3.1. SE executes its responsibility for hazing and/or removing wildlife and birds
           within the Bird and Waterfowl Exclusion Zones (BEZ/WEZ) in accordance with
           3WGI 91-212, Bird and Wildlife Aircraft Strike Hazard (BASH) Program, through a
           contract with US Department of Agriculture Wildlife Services (Wildlife Services).
           4.2.3.2. CEANC and MCA personnel will assist Wildlife Services as requested,
           when available.
    4.3. Fish and Wildlife Management Plan. A plan covering all aspects of fish and wildlife
    management on JBER will be included in the INRMP and maintained as a component of the
    JBGP in accordance with Air Force requirements.
    4.4. Fisheries Management. Lakes and streams will be managed to maintain natural
    populations, ecosystems, and secondarily produce an optimum number of fish of all sizes for
    the recreational enjoyment of JBER personnel.
       4.4.1. Pacific salmon populations will be cooperatively managed with ADF&G through
       monitoring and habitat management.
       4.4.2. Fishing Regulations. State and federal laws and regulations govern all fishing
       activities on JBER. The 673 ABW/CC may impose additional restrictions but will not
       allow regulations more lenient than State requirements.
           4.4.2.1. All individuals fishing in JBER lakes and streams must possess a valid State
           sport fishing license, and must obtain a recreational access permit (RAP) if fishing on
           JBER-Richardson. If fishing on JBER-Elmendorf, a validating JBER stamp on that
           license from 673d Force Support Squadron (673 FSS) outdoor recreation centers, the
           Base Exchange, or the JBER Wildlife Education Center.
           4.4.2.2. Ship Creek is open to trout fishing in accordance with State fishing
           regulations. However, the creek is closed to fishing from the closure sign at the
           approach of the Elmendorf airfield south runway downstream to the west boundary of
           the installation (Reeve Boulevard), within 500 yards of the JBER Richardson high-
           dam, and from the upstream border of the Moose Run Golf Course to a point 300
           yards downstream of the old Ft Richardson Hatchery.
           4.4.2.3. Fish, Green, Hillberg, Lower and Upper Sixmile, Spring, Triangle, Otter,
           Gwen, Thompson, Waldon, and Clunie Lakes are the only JBER lakes open to
           fishing.
673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012                                                                    9


        4.4.2.4. Eagle River above the Route Bravo bridge is open to fishing in accordance
        with State regulations.
        4.4.2.5. All waters not specifically mentioned in this regulation are closed to fishing.
        4.4.2.6. Northern pike will not be released back into the waters of JBER. Any pike
        caught in JBER waters must be kept or turned into CEANC.
  4.5. Wildlife Management. Mammals and birds will be managed primarily for ecosystem
  considerations, non-consumptive, and recreational use in accordance with AFI 32-7064 as
  outlined in the current JBER INRMP.
     4.5.1. Mammals. Management efforts will be directed toward maintaining healthy
     populations through habitat manipulation.
        4.5.1.1. Habitat improvements will be accomplished as part of the vegetation
        management program included within the INRMP.
        4.5.1.2. In-stream habitat work will not be performed without prior consultation and
        approval from the ADF&G Habitat Division, the USACE, and CEANC.
        4.5.1.3. Where possible, habitat work will be designed to benefit more than one
        species.
     4.5.2. Birds:
        4.5.2.1. Management efforts will be directed at protecting and improving nesting
        habitat outside designated bird/waterfowl exclusion zones. Wetlands will be
        preserved and protected.
        4.5.2.2. Activities which are detrimental to successful breeding are prohibited at
        active nesting sites for loons, swans, bald eagles, and other sensitive species of
        special concern as signed or posted.
        4.5.2.3. Habitat of wildlife hazardous to aircraft will be managed to minimize the
        bird and wildlife aircraft strike hazard in accordance with 3WGI 91-212. This will
        require planting and specific cutting of vegetation along the flightline which will
        discourage use of these areas by hazardous wildlife.
     4.5.3. Wildlife Hazing. JBER personnel will in no way haze or harass wildlife or
     encourage them to develop "nuisance" behavior. Only trained CEANC staff, MCAs,
     Wildlife Services, and airfield management staff are authorized to haze wildlife.
        4.5.3.1. CEANC will secure State and federal permits that allow hazing and taking of
        hazardous wildlife by trained personnel.
        4.5.3.2. No objects will be thrown at wildlife except those permitted under paragraph
        4.5.3, this instruction.
        4.5.3.3. No wild animal may be kept as a pet, except as permitted by the ADF&G
        and the USFWS.
        4.5.3.4. Feeding wildlife, including migratory waterfowl, is strictly prohibited.
        However, birdfeeders designed for songbirds may be operated outside of the Bird
10                                                           673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012


        Exclusion Zone (BEZ) boundary and only during the period of 1 November to 31
        March.
     4.5.4. Becoming a ‗bear resistant installation‘ will be a goal for all units and residents of
     JBER in accordance with the Joint Management of Bear/Human Conflicts Memorandum
     of Agreement (STATE MOA 054) to ensure a safe environment for JBER residents and
     wildlife.
        4.5.4.1. Trash containers and grease barrels will not be allowed to overflow and act
        as bear attractants. Facility managers, building custodians, and owners of leased
        property within the property boundaries of JBER are responsible for ensuring garbage
        cans are emptied when full and all garbage is stored in secured buildings, or in bear
        resistant cages, dumpsters and trash receptacles.
        4.5.4.2. The 773 CES Operations and 673 CES Asset Management flights will ensure
        all dumpsters at risk for attracting bears will be maintained as ―bear resistant.‖ All
        dumpsters purchased to collect any food items on JBER will meet bear resistant
        standards established by CEANC.
        4.5.4.3. Trash/dumpster pickup schedules will be established and maintained to
        minimize nuisance behavior of bears and other wildlife.
        4.5.4.4. CEANC will ensure JBER residents receive training and annual reminders
        that make them aware of bears, regulations and fines associated with feeding bears
        and the safety risks associated with bears and improper garbage management.
        4.5.4.5. JBER conservation enforcement staff will aggressively enforce state
        regulations pertaining to the feeding of bears and other wildlife, and will strive to re-
        train food habituated bears to avoid human foods and garbage through an ADF&G
        approved aversive conditioning program outlined in State MOA 054.
     4.5.5. Hunting Regulations. Hunting activities on JBER will be established in
     accordance with Alaska hunting regulations, and by permission of the installation
     commander as outlined in the INRMP. Hunt areas, methods and JBER hunting
     conditions for each species will be designated by CEANC in consultation with ADF&G,
     673 SFS and approved by the 673 ABW/CC. The 673 ABW/CC has the authority to
     further restrict the ADF&G regulations on JBER. All moose and bear hunters must first
     receive a base orientation by CEANC and may be required to pass weapons proficiency
     skills testing, prior to hunting.
        4.5.5.1. CEANC will ensure Alaska hunting laws and regulations are enforced on
        JBER. Area restrictions and conditions specified in the hunt orientation will be
        strictly enforced. Violations of hunt areas, conditions for accessing and hunting on
        JBER, in most circumstance, will result in immediate barment from JBER.
        4.5.5.2. Archery and muzzleloader moose hunts may be conducted, in cooperation
        with the ADF&G, as part of the State's annual permit drawings. Permits, seasons,
        bag limits and permit hunt conditions will be agreed upon by CEANC and ADF&G.
        Hunting activity will be managed by CEANC, and coordinated with 673 SFS. All
        arrows must be permanently marked with the hunter‘s hunter/bow hunter education
        number at the fletching and near the point.
673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012                                                                 11


        4.5.5.3. An archery/muzzleloader/shotgun with slugs hunts for black bear may be
        conducted, in cooperation with ADF&G, with methods and means, seasons and
        number of permits to be determined jointly. This hunt is intended to control
        population growth and alleviate nuisance wildlife complaints, and may be restricted
        to ―wounded warriors‖ or disabled veterans. All arrows must be permanently marked
        with the hunter‘s hunter/bow hunter education number at the fletching and near the
        point.
        4.5.5.4. Small game and fur animal hunting are currently allowed on JBER.
        However, this is only allowed on designated open training areas and participants must
        fully participate in the JBER recreational access system. Further restriction on the
        harvest of any species will be indicated in a JBER Outdoor Recreation Supplement,
        and the ADF&G Unit 14C area restrictions handout, available at the Anchorage,
        ADF&G office. Only shotguns 10 gauge and smaller and archery gear may be used
        to take small game and fur animals.
        4.5.5.5. Waterfowl hunting is authorized north of Eagle River, but not within 100
        meters of Eagle River, 300 meters of Eagle River Flats, and in accordance with State
        and federal regulations.
        4.5.5.6. A recreation permit is required for trapping or hunting moose or bear and is
        issued by CEANC at the JBER Wildlife Education Center. A RAP is also required
        for hunting waterfowl, small game or fur animals and is available through the JBER
        recreational access system. A fee, specified in the most current JBER INRMP, may
        be collected from hunters for the permit to access and hunt JBER. The RAP holder
        disposes of permit when expired. The RAP is not a valid credential for installation
        access. Therefore, a valid installation access pass must be obtained in addition to the
        RAP.
        4.5.5.7. While hunting or in possession of a firearm, persons under 16 years of age
        must be under the direct, immediate supervision of their parent or an adult 21 years of
        age or older, who has met State hunter education requirements, is currently authorized
        to recreate on JBER, and is full compliance with all applicable rules and regulations.
        4.5.5.8. All special draw hunters will check in and out daily through the current RAP
        system as designated for each hunt. If system is down, individually sign in and out at
        the Visitor‘s Centers.
        4.5.5.9. Areas off limits to hunting include all permanently closed and off-limits
        areas (see paragraph 6.4.4, this instruction.), cantonment areas, Muldoon buffer
        zones, the east edge of Bulldog Trail to the western boundary, and all golf courses.
        Hunters may be directed individually by CEANC to target individual nuisance
        wildlife in one or more of the above areas.
     4.5.6. Trapping Regulations. Recreational trapping on JBER is closed. The harvest of
     game or non-target fur animals by use of trap, snare, or take under a trapping license is
     prohibited, unless otherwise specifically permitted by CEANC. However, trapping on
     JBER may be conducted for nuisance species, identified by CEANC. Nuisance species
     trapping seasons and methods and means will fall within those provided in the Alaska
     Trapping Regulation with the permission of the installation commander. Nuisance
12                                                          673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012


     furbearer trappers will be selected from a pool of volunteers based on experience, trapper
     education course attendance, expertise and animals available for harvest. All trappers
     must have attended the Alaska Trapping School offered by the Alaska Trappers
     Association and received an installation orientation by CEANC. A lottery may be used if
     qualified trappers exceed permits available. Nuisance trapping is by special authorization
     or a RAP. Trappers must have the authorizations in possession while setting and
     checking traps. Current fees for trapping permits are identified in the current JBER
     INRMP.
     4.5.7. Personal Responsibility and Punitive Actions. Personnel using JBER must be
     familiar with and are held responsible for knowing the federal, State and this and other
     fish and game and JBER recreational regulations. CEANC will provide recreational
     supplements, brochures, maps, website and other material as appropriate to inform the
     public of regulatory requirements.
        4.5.7.1. Military personnel who violate any provision of this regulation, to include
        associated federal and state laws, are subject to prosecution under applicable UCMJ
        provisions (10 USC 801).
        4.5.7.2. All violators, regardless of affiliation, may be prosecuted in courts of state or
        federal laws, and are subject to the penalties of those jurisdictions (18 USC 13 –
        Assimilative - Crimes Act, 32 CFR 552.18(f)(2) or 10 USC 2671(c) for enforcement
        of Alaska fish and game laws).
        4.5.7.3. In lieu of or in addition to the above penalties, the 673 ABW commander
        may impose administrative sanctions for noncompliance in the form of warning,
        suspension of      recreational privileges and barment from the installation (18 USC
        1382).
     4.5.8. Wildlife Damage Control:
        4.5.8.1. Control efforts will be accomplished in cooperation with the ADF&G and
        the USF&WS. CEANC will obtain permits from the USF&WS and ADF&G for the
        possession and control of wildlife species on JBER.
        4.5.8.2. Injured wildlife will be destroyed if it‘s determined the animal will not
        recover from an injury. Conservation enforcement staff and law enforcement
        personnel are authorized to destroy animals in defense of life or property in
        accordance with Alaska laws and regulations. JBER staff will immediately notify
        ADF&G officials following an emergency destruction of an animal. The meat or
        skin/skull of these animals will be salvaged and turned over to the State or its
        designee. Bear skulls and hides will be turned in to the state. Determinations to
        destroy individual animals will be made only by a JBER wildlife biologist, CLEOs,
        ADF&G or a licensed veterinarian.
        4.5.8.3. Conservation enforcement staff and/or law enforcement patrols, if available,
        will respond to reports of moose, bears and other potentially dangerous wildlife in
        developed areas of the base. If response time is 15 minutes or more, the conservation
        enforcement office may request law enforcement to respond until conservation units
        arrive.
673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012                                                                  13


             4.5.8.3.1. Wildlife incidents will be evaluated for action on a case by case basis,
             with CEANC staff being responsible for making the final decision.
             4.5.8.3.2. Wildlife which presents no immediate danger to life and property will
             be herded back to undeveloped portions of the base, where practical. Other
             options, including trapping, darting by ADF&G staff, and relocation will be
             considered for use. Animals which exhibit repeated aggressive tendencies or
             which present a threat to people will be destroyed in accordance with Lethal
             Dispatch Policy (see Attachment 3).
             4.5.8.3.3. CEANC will maintain wildlife control and dispersal equipment and
             supplies in sufficient quantities to perform year-round control operations.
     4.5.9. Field Exercises and On-Duty Recreational Activities (USARAK Regulation 350-2,
     Training, US Army Alaska Range Regulation). Military personnel are prohibited from
     hunting while in an ―on-duty‖ status. However, during bona fide survival training
     exercises, participants may take fish or small game per federal and State laws. No
     privately-owned firearms may be carried or used during on-duty status. Except for
     specifically organized and authorized transportation to and from established military
     recreation areas, military vehicles and aircraft will not be used for purposes directly or
     indirectly related to hunting, or fishing. These prohibitions do not apply to vehicles
     acquired from armed forces surplus property for use at recreation camps, operated by 673
     FSS. Such vehicles will be painted in an inconspicuous nonmilitary color and bear no
     identification as US Governmental property. All incidents involving the killing or
     wounding of any wild animal on JBER land, whether in defense of life or property (as
     defined by the State), during military training, or as the result of an accident, will be
     reported immediately to the 673 SFS and or CLEO.
     4.5.10. Report any incidents of government weapons discharges to 673 SFS Base
     Defense Operations Center (552-4444/3421).
  4.6. Exotic Species. No species of fish or wildlife foreign to JBER will be introduced,
  unless approved by the USF&WS and ADF&G.
     4.6.1. Possession of exotic pets will be in accordance with state and federal regulations.
     Pets will not be released into the local environment.
     4.6.2. No pets will be released or allowed to roam freely within the boundaries of JBER.
     Pets must be under the control of their owners at all times. CEANC staff may remove or
     destroy domestic animals from non-improved portions of the installation, particularly if
     they pose a threat to migratory birds or native species.
  4.7. Conservation Education. CEANC will conduct a wildlife education program for
  JBER personnel. The wildlife education center, Building 8481, is the centerpiece for wildlife
  education. Wildlife displays are maintained and augmented with new mounts as they are
  available. Tours of the wildlife displays will be conducted upon request. CEANC staff will
  be available to make wildlife presentations on JBER, upon request. The center will serve as
  a clearing house for fishing and hunting information, to include copies of JBER, federal, and
  state regulations. An introduction to Conservation safety and recreational programs will be
  provided at a JBER newcomers briefing.
 14                                                           673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012


   4.8. Inter-Agency Coordination:
      4.8.1. A formal cooperative agreement with the USF&WS and the ADF&G, in the form
      of the JBER INRMP, will be maintained for the cooperative management of fish and
      wildlife resources on JBER.
      4.8.2. CEANC will obtain permits from state and federal agencies for the salvage, receipt
      and possession of fish, amphibians, migratory birds, eagles and resident wildlife in
      support of BASH, Scientific or Education Programs and Public Safety.
5. Vegetation Management:
   5.1. Objectives:
      5.1.1. Forest lands will be managed with the principles of integrated natural resources
      and ecosystem management, outlined in the INRMP. Primary objectives will be to meet
      the requirements for troop training, mission, and manage forest lands to reduce forest fire
      potential while maintaining and improving wildlife habitat, biodiversity, and forest
      health.
      5.1.2. Secondary objectives will be to:
          5.1.2.1. Improve the quality of recreation areas.
          5.1.2.2. Conduct a sales program to dispose of forest products made available as the
          result of management activities in accordance 673 ABW/CC direction and INRMP
          requirements. Timber production will not be the primary objective of vegetation
          management on JBER, because of mission requirements and stand conditions.
          5.1.2.3. On withdrawn lands, BLM has exclusive jurisdiction over all vegetative
          resources. Removal of more than one acre of timber must be coordinated with BLM
          for proper removal and disposition of timber resources.
   5.2. Responsibilities:
      5.2.1. CEANC is responsible to the JBCE for the development of all plans and
      regulations concerning the vegetation management program. CEANC will coordinate
      vegetation management plans with the BLM.
      5.2.2. Conservation enforcement staff will provide enforcement service for the JBER
      forestry program.
      5.2.3. The JBER contracting office is responsible for the execution and administration of
      all commercial sales of timber removed from Air Force property, and service/supply
      contracts supporting the vegetation management program. BLM is the appropriate
      authority for commercial sales of timber removed from withdrawn public domain land. If
      necessary, CEANC may use the services of the Air Force Center for Environmental
      Excellence (AFCEE) Forestry Program to sell trees, as provided for in AFI 32-7064.
   5.3. Vegetation Management Plan. A plan covering all aspects of vegetation management
   on JBER will be prepared and maintained in the INRMP as a component of the JBGP in
   accordance with Air Force requirements.
   5.4. Accepted Management Practices. The objectives of the vegetation management
   program will be met through the application of sound science currently accepted by other
673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012                                                                   15


  agencies and the US Department of Agriculture (USDA) Forest Service and the BLM and
  other appropriate agencies. Selection of a particular practice will be determined by
  management and mission requirements outlined in the JBER INRMP.
  5.5. Forest Protection. Ecosystems will be protected from insect, disease, and wildfire fire
  damage.
     5.5.1. Disease and Insect Control:
         5.5.1.1. Control will be accomplished through the application of ecosystem
         management practices which will keep vegetation in a healthy, vigorous condition.
         5.5.1.2. If economically feasible, management efforts will focus on restoration of
         ecosystem health when conditions warrant.
         5.5.1.3. Insecticides will not be used as control agents, except where high value trees
         exist, such as mission essential areas, or in the event of catastrophic forest
         infestations. Application of all pesticides will meet all USAF, State and federal laws
         and regulations.
     5.5.2. Wildfire Suppression:
         5.5.2.1. The JBER Fire and Emergency Services Flight (CEF) will respond to and
         suppress all wildfires on JBER in accordance with the JBER Wild Land Fire
         Management Plan.
         5.5.2.2. The 773 CES heavy equipment will be made available for fire fighting, as
         required.
  5.6. Construction and Maintenance of Forest Access Roads. To the extent possible,
  existing roads will be used for managing JBER natural resources. If additional roads be
  required, the following restrictions will apply: Design standards will generally be the
  minimum level needed. Roads constructed as a result of management activities may be
  closed, gated, and rehabilitated depending on conservation needs at completion of the
  management activity.
  5.7. Green Belts. The area within 300 feet of all JBER lakes, ponds, and streams will be
  managed as buffer areas where minimal management occurs. Ecosystem restoration is
  allowed.
     5.7.1. Clear cuts are not authorized in green belt lands where the forest is in general good
     health. Selective cuts with artificial seeding or hand planting will be used as required to
     maintain the forest stands in these areas.
     5.7.2. Exceptions to the green belt policy may be granted for the development of
     recreation areas, road construction, or for other mission requirements.
  5.8. Forest Products Sales. When authorized, forest products will be sold by means of
  personal-use or commercial timber sales. CEANC will establish the cost for timber sales
  based on prevailing market value in consultation with Alaska Division of Forestry and the
  BLM. Wood removed from the installation without proper authorization will be treated as
  stolen property, with the responsible individuals subject to prosecution. Forest product
  harvesting will be coordinated in time and place to avoid conflict with protection of
 16                                                         673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012


   migratory bird nesting in accordance with the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (16 U.S.C. 703–
   712).
      5.8.1. Personal-Use Sales. Forest products located on Air Force acquired property may
      be sold for personal use such as Christmas trees, firewood, burls, and house logs in the
      absence of commercial markets. On withdrawn public domain lands, personal use of
      forest products will conform to BLM policy and guidance.
          5.8.1.1. CEANC will be responsible for personal use sales of all forest products from
          Air Force acquired land.
          5.8.1.2. A Wood Cutting Permit will be issued by CEANC at the JBER Wildlife
          Education Center for all personal use removal of timber products. This permit
          expires 30 days from date of issue. The date-validated permit must be produced on
          location when asked by conservation enforcement staff. Permits for wood resources
          from within JBER-Richardson also need a RAP.
          5.8.1.3. Proceeds from forest product sales will be deposited monthly, or upon
          reaching or exceeding $1,000, in the DoD Forest Reserve Account as managed by the
          AFCEE, if sales are authorized.
          5.8.1.4. Wood will be cut from areas designated by CEANC only. Taking wood
          from an unauthorized area is expressly prohibited.
          5.8.1.5. Forest products obtained for personal use may not be resold.
          5.8.1.6. Details of the personal use program will be publicized on the JBER website
          and recorded information line (552-2282) at the Wildlife Education Center.
          5.8.1.7. All wood cutters are required to sign a hold harmless agreement which each
          wood cutting permit obtained (see Attachment 4).
      5.8.2. Commercial Sales. The only products which may be sold for commercial use are
      firewood and saw logs. CEANC will initiate all commercial timber sales in accordance
      with the requirements of AFI 32-7064. Sales will not exceed one year from date of
      award to date of completion. The Natural Resources Manager/Forester will act as
      contract compliance officers for all commercial sales.
6. Outdoor Recreation Management:
   6.1. Objectives. JBER will implement and maintain an outdoor recreation management
   program for the benefit of JBER personnel, the public where allowed, and within mission
   constraints and resource capabilities. The following are the major program objectives:
      6.1.1. Provide JBER personnel with the greatest possible number of outdoor recreation
      opportunities consistent with mission requirements, safety, good stewardship and land
      management principles.
      6.1.2. Maintain and develop areas suitable for year-round recreational use.
      6.1.3. Protect, conserve and enhance existing recreational resources.
   6.2. Responsibilities:
673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012                                                                    17


     6.2.1. The JBCE is responsible for supporting JBER outdoor recreation development and
     maintenance. CEANC will provide environmental planning and natural resource
     management services, and enforcement of federal and state natural and cultural resource
     laws, Air Force and JBER policies.
     6.2.2. The 673 FSS/CC is responsible for operating and managing the various
     recreational facilities; specifically, paintball courses, ball fields, golf courses, ski
     facilities, lodges, marinas, and similar urban recreational facilities. The 673 FSS serves
     as the principle point of contract for all recreational clubs on the installation and will
     coordinate with the JBCE and CEANC to ensure recreational facility developments in
     natural resource areas conform to the JBGP and the INRMP.
  6.3. Management Plans. The JBER INRMP will include outdoor recreation management
  on undeveloped portions of JBER.
  6.4. JBER Recreational Access Policy. All persons wishing to recreate on JBER training
  land outside the main cantonment areas, as indicated by the recreational area map, will
  adhere to the JBER recreational access policy and permit procedures. Access and permit
  procedures are the same for all recreational pursuits on JBER, and for all recreational users
  including active duty, retirees and DoD civilian employees, except as otherwise noted in this
  regulation. In accordance with public laws and the JBER INRMP, permits public use of
  military land for recreation. This is accomplished through the recreational access program.
  The JBER recreational access policy is intended to support forces protection requirements,
  optimize public safety and minimize conflict with military training, while providing a full
  range of compatible outdoor recreation activities. The recreational access program
  authorizes personnel to be armed with a shotgun, rifle, or side arm; provided it is carried
  openly for personal defense against wildlife in conjunction with authorized activities in the
  recreation areas on JBER-Richardson. This is only authorized on the U.S. Army training
  areas within JBER-Richardson where access is control by Army Range Control and posted
  on the JBER Recreational Access System. When encountered by Law Enforcement or
  Security Personnel they are required to indentify that they are armed. Personnel recreating
  on JBER-Elmendorf are not authorized to carry personal weapons.
     6.4.1. Recreation activities. Activities requiring a JBER RAP include fishing, hunting,
     hiking, jogging, biking, boating, picnicking, harvesting wood resources, mushroom, plant
     and berry picking, snow machining, riding all-terrain vehicles (ATV), horseback riding
     and dog sled mushing, snowshoeing, skiing off trails maintained by 673 FSS, or other
     activities that enter into undeveloped areas or training areas on JBER.
     6.4.2. JBER training land consists of numerous separate training areas. Security levels
     and access controls may differ for each training area (TA). Persons entering JBER
     training lands to recreate must first obtain a RAP, and check-in to the JBER recreational
     access system. All persons who desire to travel by any mode through JBER training
     areas must also obtain a RAP and use the recreational access system. Persons not
     recreating and remaining in the cantonment areas or on Arctic Valley Road do not need a
     RAP or to call the recreational access system, unless specifically directed to do so.
         6.4.2.1. JBER Recreational Access System. CEANC will work with 673 SFS and
         Range Control to establish and maintain an electronic system that provides multiple
         methods of access, instruction for use, identifies time and areas to recreate, identifies
18                                                         673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012


        areas closed to access, remotely accepts access user fees and prints all necessary
        permits. The system will allow remote check-in/check-out for recreational users once
        the original RAP is secured. The system will provide CEANC with levels of use and
        harvest and provides 673 SFS and conservation enforcement staff general location of
        users. Initial access to the system will be located at both JBER visitor centers or
        online.
        6.4.2.2. Recreational users, after properly checking-in, may enter or pass thru a
        training area that is designated as a recreational area and is indicated as being open
        during the time of intended use. All users must have their pass and personal
        identification in possession at all times. Users may enter such areas, using approved
        motorized and non-motorized modes of conveyance, in strict compliance with all
        pertinent state, federal, and JBER rules and regulations. The RAP is not a valid
        credential for installation access. RAP users must otherwise be entitled to installation
        access in accordance with installation access policy.
     6.4.3. Areas Open to Recreation. A list of areas that are open to recreation, for a
     designated time period, is provided by Range Control and CEANC through the JBER
     Recreational Access System. Range Control determines which training areas will be
     open to recreation and provides this information to the Recreational Access System.
     6.4.4. Permanently Closed and Off-limits Areas. Range Control is responsible for
     delineating permanently closed and off-limits training areas. Additional Off limits areas
     are designated by the 673 ABW/CC. All recreational users of JBER land are responsible
     for knowing the boundaries of permanently closed and off-limits areas and avoiding these
     areas.
        6.4.4.1. Closed/Off-Limits Areas, north of the Glenn Highway.
            6.4.4.1.1. Ammunition Storage Areas A and B.
            6.4.4.1.2. Six-Mile Munitions and Hillside Munitions areas.
            6.4.4.1.3. Arctic NBC Training Site.
            6.4.4.1.4. Elmendorf and Bryant Army Airfields.
            6.4.4.1.5. Eagle River Flats Impact Area (including a 300 meter buffer zone,
            training areas (TA) 414, 415, 416, and portions of TAs 403, 406, and 410).
            6.4.4.1.6. The 381IS Radar facility and surrounding 300 meter buffer unless on
            improved roads.
            6.4.4.1.7. Antenna fields as posted.
            6.4.4.1.8. All ranges and surrounding buffer zones.
            6.4.4.1.9. All drop zones (DZ).
            6.4.4.1.10. Explosive ordnance disposal (EOD)/Demolition ranges.
            6.4.4.1.11. Landfill and Disposal Areas.
            6.4.4.1.12. Forward operating base (FOB).
            6.4.4.1.13. Operating gravel pits.
673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012                                                                  19


            6.4.4.1.14. Camp Madbull training area.
        6.4.4.2. Closed/Off-Limits Areas, south of Glenn Highway.
            6.4.4.2.1. All ranges and surrounding buffer zones.
            6.4.4.2.2. Site Summit area (TAs 420, 421,422, and a portion of 423 and 426
            Biathlon Range).
            6.4.4.2.3. All DZs.
     6.4.5. Individuals may not enter any of the areas indicated as closed or restricted (or not
     specifically mentioned as being open) on the JBER recreational access system or any
     other closed area, as indicated by placard, blockade, verbal warning, red flag, or other
     means of communication. Under No Circumstances Will Anyone Move Into Or
     Through A Closed Area.
     6.4.6. Fees. In accordance with AFI 32-7064, CEANC may charge a fee for issuance of
     permits for hunting, fishing, trapping, woodcutting, and outdoor recreation on lands
     controlled by JBER, if authorized by INRMP and 673 ABW/CC. The fee structure will
     be identified in the JBER INRMP. Fee changes will be adopted through the annual
     review of the JBER INRMP and approved by the 673 ABW/CC.
     6.4.7. Proceeds from all permit sales will be properly safeguarded and deposited into the
     proper reimbursable account established by AFCEE. Local permit fee collections will be
     deposited in a designated local bank and the deposit receipt and DD Form 1131, Cash
     Collection Voucher, will be provided to 673 CPTS/FMF for disbursement. Serial
     numbers of all permits will be entered on the DD Form 1131 to document sales
     transactions.
  6.5. Restricted Access Areas:
     6.5.1. A RAP is required to recreate in restricted access areas. (see paragraph 6.4 this
     instruction):
        6.5.1.1. Use of off-road vehicles (ORV), to include ATVs and snow machines of all
        types.
        6.5.1.2. Performance of boat engine maintenance run checks on Six-Mile Lake.
        6.5.1.3. Camping by individuals and groups outside of 673 FSS established sites.
        6.5.1.4. Use of dog sleds outside of cantonment areas.
        6.5.1.5. Activities listed under paragraph 6.4.1, this instruction, but not offered in
        restricted access areas through the JBER Recreational Access System.
  6.6. JBER Trail System:
     6.6.1. CEANC will develop and coordinate maintenance of trails for year-round
     recreational use.
     6.6.2. ORV Use. The regulations governing the use of ORVs on JBER will be published
     in installation vehicle traffic policy. Use of snow machines, motorcycles, three/four
     wheelers and other ATVs, utility vehicles (UTV), and ORVs, are permitted on the
20                                                         673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012


     installation, but individuals must complete a specified safety orientation class as a
     prerequisite to obtaining a RAP prior to operating machines on JBER.
        6.6.2.1. ORVs with a Gross Vehicle Weight of 1,500 pounds or less are authorized
        on designated trails and locations only. For further details on JBER snowmachine
        traffic laws refer to installation vehicle traffic policy. Persons entering JBER for
        recreational use of ORVs must transport (not ride) them to the authorized ORV use
        area.
        6.6.2.2. Violations of operating rules may result in a one year recreational barment
        (see Attachment 5), the loss of the RAP and the loss of ORV use privileges on the
        installation for one year.
     6.6.3. Hiking-Cross Country Skiing. All trails not designated exclusively for other uses
     will be open to skiing in winter and year-round hiking.
     6.6.4. Dog sled mushing and horseback riding are authorized only on marked trails.
     6.6.5. Non-commercial berry and mushroom picking is authorized on JBER except in
     controlled or restricted areas; commercial berry or mushroom picking is not authorized.
     However, mushroom and berry picking in areas specifically closed to recreation, off-
     limits, and areas closed by range control is prohibited.
     6.6.6. Specific Prohibitions for Trail Use:
        6.6.6.1. Users of snow machines, ATVs, dog mushers and horseback riders must stay
        on marked trails.
        6.6.6.2. Motorized vehicles over 1,500 pounds are prohibited from driving off any
        posted or regularly maintained road surface, except as specifically authorized by
        CEANC. Contractors requiring access to remote areas will coordinate with CEANC.
        6.6.6.3. Horseback riding or the use of horses may be permitted in the ORV areas, at
        the discretion of the CEANC. Horses may be used to traverse TA 426 via the Arctic
        to Indian (Ship Creek Valley) trail. Horses in training area (TA) 426 may not be tied
        or taken off of the Ship Creek Valley trail. Horses must be in full compliance with all
        applicable rules, regulations and policies. Any activity that creates damage to the
        surface soil layer, ruts, subsidence or erosion is prohibited. Authorized areas for
        horseback riding are multi-use areas, and riders must be aware of other recreational
        users.
  6.7. Water Sports and Activities:
     6.7.1. JBER lakes open to fishing are also open to boating with a RAP.
     6.7.2. Boating. Both motorized and non-motorized boating is permitted. Motorized
     boats must be registered with the State in accordance with state regulations.
        6.7.2.1. Gas-powered motors are permitted only on Lower Six-Mile and Clunie Lake.
        Gas-powered motors will not exceed 10 horsepower.
        6.7.2.2. Larger motors may be operated for maintenance checks only while on the
        trailer at the boat launch at the northwest corner of Lower Six-Mile Lake.
673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012                                                                   21


         6.7.2.3. Boating on Lower Six-Mile Lake is restricted to the area of the lake outside
         of the designated floatplane landing zone, as marked by buoys. The area between the
         landing zone and the floatplane docks also is off limits to boating.
         6.7.2.4. Electric trolling motors may be used on all lakes open to boating.
     6.7.3. Non-motorized boating is allowed on Eagle River from the JBER boundary down
     river to the Route Bravo Bridge.
     6.7.4. Safety Restrictions. Boating will be performed safely at all times.
         6.7.4.1. Boats and boaters must satisfy US Coast Guard (USCG) safety and boating
         requirements (USCG phone, 907-244-6082).
         6.7.4.2. All occupants in or on watercraft, regardless of age, will wear a USCG
         approved Type I, II, or III Personal Floatation Device while on JBER waters.
         6.7.4.3. Operators of motorized boats must meet State laws for operation of
         motorized vehicles. No individual may participate in boating on JBER lakes or
         waterways when impaired by alcohol or drugs.
         6.7.4.4. Boaters will be considerate of individuals who are fishing, and watch for
         other boating traffic on the water.
     6.7.5. Boaters may not closely approach loons or nesting waterfowl, or enter areas
     identified as restricted due to loon nests.
     6.7.6. Boating of any kind on any river or stream except for Eagle River upstream of
     Bravo Bridge is prohibited. Those water sport activities not specifically addressed are
     prohibited.
  6.8. Picnicking. Picnicking facilities may be constructed and maintained at the access
  points to JBER lakes which are open to fishing and along Ship Creek, as appropriate.
  Additional facilities will be constructed as needed, within funding limitations. All plans will
  be reviewed and approved by CEANC. The following rules apply to the use of picnic areas:
     6.8.1. Use will be on a first-come, first-serve basis for all size of user groups.
     6.8.2. Fires are not allowed, outside of 773 CES/CEF approved grills or barbeque (BBQ)
     pits provided at sites.
     6.8.3. Vehicles must be parked in designated areas only. Parking on grassed areas is
     prohibited.
     6.8.4. Pets must be leashed.
     6.8.5. Camping in picnic areas is prohibited.
     6.8.6. Littering is prohibited. All trash and food must be deposited only in bear resistant
     cans provided on site or removed by users.
  6.9. Camping:
     6.9.1. Overnight camping is not permitted on JBER except in established campgrounds
     (family camp (FAMCAMP), Black Spruce, Snowhawk Cabin and Otter Lake).
22                                                          673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012


     6.9.2. Camping permits for non-profit organizations will be evaluated based on the
     availability of the resources and impact on the mission.
     6.9.3. Mission training activities may camp in areas designated by the JBCE.
  6.10. Prohibited Activities:
     6.10.1. Recreational activities involving removal of minerals (including gold panning,
     dredging, and mining of any kind) or fossils.
     6.10.2. Any form of recreational activities from 2300 to 0600, except within the
     Cantonment Areas, Restricted Recreational Access Area (see paragraph 6.4, this
     instruction), Otter Lake, and 673 FSS authorized camping and recreational use areas.
     6.10.3. Hang gliding, ballooning, para-gliding, bungee-jumping, rappelling.
     6.10.4. Commercial recreational activities, unless approved by the 673 ABW/CC.
     6.10.5. Building structures on JBER land without specific approval. Unauthorized
     structures will be removed. This includes but is not limited to hunting camps, tree stands,
     hunt towers, cabins and other shelters that are not removed after the specific hunting
     season for which they were erected. There will be no year round shelters established,
     except those provided by the military as survival shelters. Steel nails, screws and bolts
     will not be used on any tree unless immediately removed at completion of the activity.
     6.10.6. Displaying signs, unless required by ADF&G regulations or, without CEANC
     approval.
     6.10.7. No geocaching unless approved by the 673 ABW Commander.
     6.10.8. Tampering with unexploded ordnance. If ordnance or suspected ordnance is
     found, call 911 or contact Range Control or Security Forces immediately. Under No
     Circumstances Will Such Ordnance Be Touched Or In Any Way Disturbed By
     Unauthorized Personnel.
     6.10.9. Paint Ball usage other than 673 FSS authorized areas.
     6.10.10. Blocking or impeding access to training lands. Erecting camps or barricades on
     main trails or otherwise attempting to keep other recreational users out of or off of JBER
     land is not allowed. There is no ―ownership‖ or claim to an area for any recreational
     activity. JBER training land, when open, is available for everyone‘s recreational use
     within the restrictions of this instruction.
     6.10.11. Launching any boat into Knik Arm from the shores of JBER, unless authorized
     by 673 ABW/CC or in response to an emergency or public safety incident.
     6.10.12. Possession or use of fireworks is not authorized on JBER lands.
     6.10.13. Recreational swimming, at any time of the year, in any river, stream or lake.
     6.10.14. Littering is prohibited.   All trash will be packed out or deposited in bear
     resistant trash receptacles.
7. Land Management:
673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012                                                                23


  7.1. Objectives. JBER lands will be managed in such a way as to protect and conserve
  water and soil resources, and maintain a landscape development program within mission
  constraints.
     7.1.1. Aurora Housing is responsible for the care and improvement of lawns, gardens,
     trees and shrubs in accordance with the terms of their lease.
     7.1.2. Units and organizations are responsible for their assigned areas around buildings
     and facilities.
     7.1.3. All other land areas are the responsibility of the 673 CES/CC.
         7.1.3.1. CEANC will conduct, coordinate and ensure compliance of land
         management activities on unimproved lands.
         7.1.3.2. The 773 CES Operations Flight will provide land management plan input
         and conduct land management activities on improved and semi-improved lands in
         accordance with 3WGI 91-212.
  7.2. Land Management Plan. CEANC will include a land management plan within the
  INRMP. This plan will be maintained as a segment of the JBGP and will be reviewed
  annually. Areas of the installation may be restricted based on Land Use Controls or Military
  Munitions Response Program. Personnel needing access to these areas should coordinate
  with CEANR. A listing of these sites is available in the JBGP.
  7.3. Grounds/Landscape Development and Maintenance:
     7.3.1. Improved and semi-improved grounds will be planted and maintained with a grass
     cover where mission requirements allow in accordance with 3WGI 91-212.
     7.3.2. Ornamental plantings of trees and shrubs will be accomplished in accordance with
     the Landscape Development Plan as directed by 673 ABW/CC, or his/her designee, using
     locally adapted species. Planting berry or fruit producing trees and shrubs is prohibited
     within the BASH BEZ in accordance with 3WGI 91-212.
         7.3.2.1. Landscaping requests will be made on AF Form 332, Work Request, through
         773 CES Customer Service for units and organizations.
         7.3.2.2. Nursery plants and shrubs may be made available by 773 CES/CEO as funds
         are available.
     7.3.3. Unimproved grounds will be maintained in forest cover through the use of
     appropriate forest management practices or in shrub habitat as indicated in 3WGI 91-212.
     7.3.4. The 773 CES/CEO and CEANC will meet at least once annually before April to
     coordinate vegetation and landscape management activities to be conducted during the
     summer season.
  7.4. Soil and Water Conservation. The following restrictions apply to the protection of
  soil and water resources:
     7.4.1. No soil disturbances deeper than two and one half inches will take place without a
     673 ABW Form 3, Base Civil Engineer Work Clearance Request (Dig Permit). Dig
     permits outside the cantonment area require the installation cultural resource manager or
24                                                           673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012


     designated dig permit representative approval to ensure no archaeological sites are
     disturbed.
     7.4.2. Streams and lakes will be kept free of all unnatural debris and litter which
     adversely impacts the aquatic ecosystem. Stream bank vegetation will be maintained to
     stabilize stream banks and prevent erosion as prescribed by CEANC in consultation with
     ADF&G.
     7.4.3. Disturbance of stream beds and lake banks is prohibited, except to improve fish
     habitat or to perform such work required to stabilize stream banks for erosion control as
     approved by CEANC in consultation with the Corps of Engineers (COE), ADF&G, and
     NMFS.
     7.4.4. Discharging solid or liquid wastes is prohibited.
     7.4.5. Channeling, discharging, or diverting surface drainage into any stream, lake, or
     wetland is prohibited, except as authorized by USACE permit.
     7.4.6. Septic tank drain fields must be located so as to prevent leaching into streams,
     lakes, and wetlands in accordance with 18 Alaska Administrative Code 72.020.
     7.4.7. Gravel extraction must be addressed in the Joint Base General Plan (JBGP) and
     include reclamation plans that are initiated within one year of pit abandonment.
  7.5. Inter-Agency Coordination. A formal cooperative agreement with BLM for land
  management is required. However, the following agencies will also be consulted as required
  in the management of natural resources as applicable:
     7.5.1. State of Alaska:
         7.5.1.1. Department of Natural Resources.
         7.5.1.2. Department of Environmental Conservation.
         7.5.1.3. Department of Fish and Game.
     7.5.2. Federal Government:
         7.5.2.1. US Army Corps of Engineers.
         7.5.2.2. Environmental Protection Agency.
         7.5.2.3. Natural Resources Conservation Service.
         7.5.2.4. National Park Service.
         7.5.2.5. USDA Wildlife Service.
         7.5.2.6. US Fish and Wildlife Service.
         7.5.2.7. US Forest Service.
         7.5.2.8. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Agency, National Marine Fisheries
         Service.
  7.6. Cultural Resources on JBER Lands. Cultural resources include archaeological sites,
  structures, ruins or landscapes that have local or national historical or cultural significance.
  These include, but are not limited to, homesteader, native and WWII/Cold War properties.
673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012                                                                    25


       7.6.1. Discovery of Human Remains. All personnel, to include recreational users, who
       discover archaeological materials, human remains, or any such cultural resources will
       immediately cease any disturbance of the resource and the surrounding area and report
       such findings to the Cultural Resources Manager (CRM) or CEANC enforcement staff.
       In the case of human remains, the CRM will in turn contact the Air Force Office of
       Special Investigation (OSI) at 552-2256. All activities in the area will cease until that
       time when the CRM and OSI provides clearance. The disturbance or removal of cultural
       resources without the approval and direction of the CRM and the appropriate permits can
       be in violation of the Archaeological Resources Protection Act, the Native American
       Graves Protection and Repatriation Act, the American Indian Religious Freedom Act,
       related laws, regulations, and executive orders. Civil and criminal penalties are provided
       for in the above mentioned acts and regulations.
       7.6.2. Buildings: Building alterations (interior and exterior) and the demolition of
       historic-eligible properties identified by Section 106, National Historic Preservation Act
       require the installation cultural resource manager approval. This includes construction
       projects in the immediate vicinity that would detract from the appearance of the historic-
       eligible buildings. A listing of buildings can be obtained from the CRM or a listing in the
       integrated cultural resources management plan (ICRMP).
       7.6.3. Archaeological Sites. Alteration or removal of items from archaeological sites
       requires the approval of the installation CRM.
8. Information Collections. No information collections are required by this publication.




                                            BRIAN P. DUFFY, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
 26                                                      673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 4715.03, Natural Resources Conservation Program, 14 February 2011.
AFI 31-207, Arming & Use of Force by Air Force Personnel, 29 January 2009.
AFI 32-7064, Integrated Natural Resources Management, 17 September 2004 .
AFI 32-7065, Cultural Resources Management Program, 1 June 2004.
AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality, 20 July 1994.
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008.
3WGI 91-212, Bird and Wildlife Aircraft Strike Hazard (BASH) Program, 9 May 2012.
USARAK Regulation 350-2, Training, U.S. Army Alaska Range Regulation, 15 July 2002.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 332, Work Request
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher
DD form 1408, Armed Forces Traffic Ticket
673 ABW Form 3, Base Civil Engineer Work Clearance Request (Dig Permit).

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADF&G—- Alaska Department of Fish and Game.
AFCEE—- Air Force Center for Environmental Excellence.
AFRIMS—- Air Force Records Information management System.
ATV—- All-Terrain Vehicles.
BASH—- Bird Aircraft Strike Hazard program.
BBQ—Barbeque.
BEZ—- Bird Exclusion Zones.
BLM—- Bureau of Land Management.
CLEO—- Conservation Law Enforcement Officers.
COE—- Corps of Engineers.
DAF—- Department of the Air Force.
DoD—- Department of Defense.
DZ—- Drop Zones.
FOB—- Forward Operating Base.
673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012                              27


EOD—- Explosive Ordnance Disposal.
FAMCAMP—- Family Camp.
GIS—Geographic Information Systems.
ICRMP—- Integrated Cultural Resources Management Plan.
INRMP—- Integrated Natural Resources Management Plan.
JBCE—- Joint Base Civil Engineer.
JBER—- Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson.
JBGP—- Joint Base General Plan.
MCA—- Military Conservation Agents.
MOU—- Memorandum of Understanding.
NBC—- Nuclear, Biological, and Chemical.
NMFS—- National Marine Fisheries Service.
NRV—- Natural Resources Volunteers.
OPR—- Office of Primary Responsibility.
ORV—- Off-Road Vehicles.
OSI—- Office of Special Investigation.
RA—- Records Administrator.
RDS—- Records Disposition Schedule.
TA—-Training Area.
USARAK—- US Army Alaska.
USC—- United States Code.
UCMJ—- Uniform Code of Military Justice.
USCG—- U.S. Coast Guard.
USDA—- U.S. Department of Agriculture.
USFWS—U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
UTV—- Utility Vehicles.
WEZ—- Waterfowl Exclusion Zones.
 28                                               673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012


                                   Attachment 2
                                   JBER MAPS

Figure A2.1. Cantonment Area Map
673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012                      29


Figure A2.2. Training and Restricted Areas Map
 30                                                            673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012


                                        Attachment 3
                     THE LETHAL DISPATCH OF WILDLIFE ON JBER

A3.1. Applicability. This policy applies to all personnel on JBER, excluding authorized BASH
activities permitted by ADFG and USFWS, legal hunting, other agencies with concurrent
jurisdiction, and persons authorized by ADFG special/depredation permits.
A3.2. Purpose. The purpose of this policy is to delineate the approval procedures for the
dispatch of nuisance, aggressive and/or injured wildlife.
A3.3. Driver. Living with Wildlife Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) (FWS70181-9-
K235) as signed by Elmendorf and Fort Richardson installation commanders in 2000. The MOU
is supported by the Comprehensive Wildlife Management Plan (April 2000) and identifies
response priorities:
   A3.3.1. Ensure public safety (avoid human injuries and/or deaths).
   A3.3.2. Minimize damage to private property or pets (although property owners are expected
   to take reasonable precautions to protect their property and avoid attracting wildlife.
   A3.3.3. Minimize adverse effects to wildlife populations.
   A3.3.4. Use humane methods during response or control actions.
   A3.3.5. Inform the community about the situation and response that just occurred in order to
   help educate residents and visitors how to avoid these situations in the future. NOTE:
   Education to prevent these situations in the first place is perhaps the highest priority.
A3.4. Definitions:
   A3.4.1. Defense of Life and Property (DLP). DLP incidents are those involving wildlife
   that constitutes imminent danger to humans or property as regulated by Title 5 Alaska
   Administrative Code 92.410.
   A3.4.2. Aggressive, and/or Nuisance Wildlife. These categories of wildlife are those that
   have, after consultation with ADFG or JBER wildlife biologist met the criteria as defined in
   ―Chapter 5: Wildlife Population Management and Conflict Response Actions‖ of the Living
   with Wildlife Comprehensive Wildlife Management Plan (April 2000).
   A3.4.3. Nuisance Bear (or Canid). A nuisance bear is one that is repeatedly seen in a
   residential or developed area, and may occasionally be seen feeding on non-natural but
   available food sources (pet food, trash, or bird feed intentionally or unintentionally left by
   humans for bears to scavenge). In general, nuisance bears are habituated (unafraid) of
   humans.
   A3.4.4. Aggressive Bear (Or Canid). An aggressive bear is one that either: (1) acts
   aggressive toward humans or pets for no apparent reason (when it is not defending a cub or
   food source; ); (2) kills or attempts to kill livestock; (3) deliberately approaches humans or
   dogs in a predatory manner; (4) repeatedly attempts to break into structures (for example,
   sheds, houses, vehicles) that contain food or garbage; or (5) has become chronically attracted
   to human environments and has become a problem and threat to humans. A bear that is
   protecting a natural food source, territory, or cubs is behaving defensively and is not
   automatically presumed to be aggressive.
673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012                                                                      31


   A3.4.5. Nuisance Moose. A nuisance moose is one whose behavior prevents human access
   to homes, businesses, or other structures, or behavior that results in property damage (eating
   gardens, ornamentals, and so forth).
   A3.4.6. Aggressive Moose. An aggressive moose is one whose behavior appears intended
   to intimidate or harm a human or pet. This may include kicking, stomping, bluff charging,
   charging, rearing on hind legs, displaying ―overly defensive behavior,‖ or making ―deliberate
   approaches.‖
   A3.4.7. Injured. This category of wildlife, for purposes of this policy, describes wild
   animals injured, but alive, that:
      A3.4.7.1. Are prostrate or disabled in two or more limbs and unable to depart the scene;
      A3.4.7.2. Are bleeding profusely from human caused wounds and are likely to bleed out
      (excludes animals wounded by hunters or predators in undeveloped areas of JBER).
      NOTE: Air Force dispatching a hunter wounded animal requires animal to be turned
      over to the State.
      A3.4.7.3. Display a compound fracture (bone protruding) above the first joint;
      A3.4.7.4. Display an injury that will likely cause the animal to starve to death, or
      A3.4.7.5. Display incapacitating lethargy from a wound or an unknown cause.
A3.5. Policy:
   A3.5.1. A DLP situation. If an officer is faced with a DLP situation involving a distressed
   and aggressive animal that time does not permit obtaining the 673 CEG/CC‘s authority to
   dispatch the animal, the officer will carefully consider the risks associated with the discharge
   of a firearm in comparison to the risks being posed by the animal before taking action.
   Nothing in this policy prohibits an officer from exercising the necessary discretion to take
   immediate action to protect him/her or others from physical harm or injury.
   A3.5.2. Upon the receipt of a report or upon the discovery of an aggressive, nuisance, or
   injured animal the desk sergeant and/or patrol officer on-scene will make contact with the
   senior conservation officer/on-call officer/or JBER wildlife biologist. The patrol officer on
   site will take no action other than to monitor the activities of the animal pending arrival of a
   conservation officer or biologist to the scene. Pending their arrival, the on-scene officer shall
   ensure all non-essential personnel are removed from the vicinity of the animal. Upon arrival,
   the conservation officer or biologist will assess the local conditions and the behavior of the
   animal and if time permits contact JBER and/or ADFG wildlife biologist to determine the
   best course of action in dealing with the animal.
   A3.5.3. Injured animals caused by human actions in categories listed in Attachment 3,
   paragraphs A3.7.1-3, will be dispatched promptly and humanely by a senior conservation
   agent or patrol officer trained specifically in dispatching wildlife or as directed by the
   biologist after notifying the desk sergeant and ensuring a safe discharge as described in
   Attachment 3, paragraph A3.5.5. Notification to AK State Troopers and JBER and/or
   ADFG wildlife biologists will follow immediately.
   A3.5.4. Injured animals listed in categories Attachment 3, paragraphs A3.4.7.4-5, that after
   consultation with ADFG or JBER wildlife biologists and/or base veterinarian, it‘s determined
 32                                                            673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012


   that the most humane approach to alleviate suffering is to dispatch the animal, approval
   procedures listed in Attachment 3, paragraph A3.5.5 will be initiated.
   A3.5.5. If it‘s determined the appropriate course of action is the lethal dispatch of the
   animal, the conservation officer will, if time permits, contact the 673 CES/CC who will, in
   turn, contact 673 CEG/CC for permission to conduct the dispatch. The 673 CEG/CC will
   notify the ABW/CC or ABW/CV if the event is within the cantonment area and time allows.
   The authority to dispatch an animal, except under paragraph A3.5.1, Attachment 3 (DLP
   incident) or paragraph A3.5.3, Attachment 3 (severe injury lethal dispatch), may not be
   delegated. Before dispatching the animal officers shall, when the situation permits, make
   notification to residents or employees living or working within the impacted area to alert
   them to the impending actions. The officer will ensure a safe direction to discharge the
   firearm and safety of all personnel nearby.
A3.6. Progressive Actions in addressing nuisance wildlife after assessing the situation and
location:
   A3.6.1. Determine to allow animal remain in area and educate local residents/workers.
   A3.6.2. Determine to move animal from area to safe distance.
       A3.6.2.1. Voice/hand clapping.
       A3.6.2.2. Lights/siren/horn/rattle can.
       A3.6.2.3. Inert pepper ball/pepper ball/bear spray.
       A3.6.2.4. Cracker shell/rubber slug (870 shotgun).
       A3.6.2.5. Trap/relocate in coordination with ADFG wildlife biologist.
       A3.6.2.6. Tranquillize/relocate by ADFG wildlife biologist.
   A3.6.3. Determine to dispatch as recommended and approved by ADFG wildlife biologist.
A3.7. Dispatching Technique:
   A3.7.1. The officer must consider the down range hazards posed by discharging a round as
   well as the likelihood of successfully dispatching the animal with the weapon at hand. The
   wounding of an animal may pose additional suffering and more severe hazards.
   A3.7.2. Dispatching an animal the size of a black bear or larger will be at close range by 12
   gauge shotgun slug. Wolf-coyote-lynx etc may be dispatched with buckshot. Handguns are
   strongly discouraged for dispatching wildlife.
   A3.7.3. If at all possible the first shot will be a broadside shot to the chest cavity behind the
   front leg, ¼ of body up from sternum. Once on the ground follow up immediately with a
   shot to the brain just in front of the ear. Be aware of potential deflection of concrete, rock or
   asphalt under the animal.
A3.8. Notifications:
   A3.8.1. Conservation officers will make timely notification to the desk sergeant who will
   record the action in the blotter and notify the JBER Command Post and MSG/CC.
   A3.8.2. Conservation officers/ JBER wildlife biologists will make timely notification to AK
   State Troopers and ADF&G wildlife biologists.
673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012                                                                   33


   A3.8.3. Conservation officers will remain on site to ensure the dispatched animal is properly
   salvaged and /or disposed in a safe location. Notification to biologists through the
   completion of a Wildlife Response Form will include:
      A3.8.3.1. Species of animal:
      A3.8.3.2. Location of accident/incident.
      A3.8.3.3. Cause of death/injury.
      A3.8.3.4. Time of death/injury.
      A3.8.3.5. Sex of the animal.
      A3.8.3.6. Any associated circumstances.
      A3.8.3.7. Disposal action taken, including disposal location of animal or parts.
A3.9. After Action Report (AAR):
   A3.9.1. The officer dispatching the animal will produce an AAR to be included with the
   Wildlife Response Form.
   A3.9.2. The AAR will describe the steps taken in making the determination to dispatch, the
   consulting biologist, approval authority if required, and timing from notification to death of
   animal and previous steps taken to disperse the animal and reliable nearby witnesses.
   A3.9.3. The AAR and Wildlife Response Form will be made available to the 673 CES/CC
   and 673 CEG/CC within 2 working days.
 34                                                              673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012


                                           Attachment 4
                              HOLD HARMLESS AGREEMENT

Figure A4.1. Hold Harmless Agreement

AGREEMENT

I, ________________________________, in exchange for my participation in

_____________________________________________________ (Event)

to be held at Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson, Alaska, on ________________ (Date), hereby
release from liability and agree to hold harmless and indemnify the United States Air Force, its
officers, agents, employees, and non-appropriated fund instrumentalities, from and against any
and all suits, claims, demands or actions, liabilities, judgments, costs, and attorneys‘ fees arising
out of, or in any manner predicated upon personal injury, death or property damage resulting
from, related to, caused by or arising out of participation in said event or any activity conducted
in relation thereto, including damages to the property of the United States Air Force, or of third
parties.

I understand that the area I am being allowed to enter is used for military training. I understand
that in allowing me to enter areas of JBER, the Department of the Air Force is not representing
such area free of man-made hazards. As a consequence of extensive use for military training, I
am likely to encounter related hazards such as excavated foxholes, pits, barbed wire,
communications wire and unexploded munitions. I understand that my safety requires that I
remain vigilant.

Additionally, I recognize and understand there are additional inherent risks associated with my
particular activity, to include personal injury, personal property damage and even death. I
understand that said event could involve falling trees, dangerous tools, including chainsaws,
motor vehicles and other items and activities that have a high probability of causing harm. I also
recognize that the acts of other individuals, through negligence, recklessness or otherwise, could
cause personal injury, property damage or even death. I acknowledge that I am voluntarily
participating in said event with a full understanding and appreciation of these potential dangers.


_______________________________________
(Signature)

_______________________________________
(Printed Name)
_______________________________________
(Date)
673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012                                                                             35


                                              Attachment 5
                                        BARMENT POLICY

Figure A5.1. Barment Policy
                                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                            (when filled out)


The memorandum is provided to any individual cited for violation of recreational permit
requirements on JBER property. For Official Use Only applications apply as directed in AFI 33-
332, paragraph 2.2.3.

673 SFS                                                                              Date: __________

MEMORANDUM FOR:

____________________________________________________________________________
Full Name

____________________________________________________________________________
(Mailing address for civilians) (Unit of Assignment for Military)

____________________________________________________________________________
(City, State and Zip Code)

____________________________________________________________________________
(SSN or Drivers License Number and State)


SUBJECT: Violation of Installation Recreational/Access Policies


1. Based upon my authority as the Joint Base Elmendorf Richardson (JBER) Installation
Commander, this memorandum is to serve as formal notice that you are barred from recreating
on JBER for which a recreational access permit is required. This conditional barment is effective
immediately for one year from the date of issuance if prior a notice has been served to the above
named in the form of a military citation (DD Form 1408, Armed Forces Traffic Ticket).
               “The information herein is For Official Use Only (FOUO) which must be protected
              under the Freedom of Information Act of 1996 and Privacy Act of 1974, as amended.
               Unauthorized disclosure or misuse of this PERSONAL INFORMATION may result
                                      in criminal and/or civil penalties.”
 36                                                                    673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012


                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                             (when filled out)



2. This action is being initiated against you for:


       {    } Failure to obtain a recreational access permit (RAP) prior to recreating on
              JBER lands or failure to sign into the RAP system before recreating
              (second offense)
       {    } Recreating in a closed area on JBER lands (firing ranges, drop zones, training areas
              closed to recreation by Range Control)
       {    } Hunting/Fishing/Trapping Violation (AK Statute or JBER regulation)
       {    } Not wearing a helmet or required PPE while operating a snowmobile or ORV
       {    } Operating an ORVoutside of a designated areas or in violation ORV operating
              requirements.
       {    } Violation of 673 ABWI 32-7001 or Alaska boating statue, safety requirements
              concerning the wearing of a Coast guard approved Personal Floatation Devices.


3. For this reason, it has been determined it is in the best interest of this command and military
community to bar you from recreating on JBER property.


       a. Title 18, United State Code, Section 1382 provides:
       ― Whoever, within the jurisdiction of the United States goes upon any Military, Naval, or
coast Guard reservation, Post, Fort Arsenal, Yard, Station or Installation for any purpose
prohibited by law or lawful regulation‖;
                                                      or
―Whoever re-enters or is found within such Reservation, Post, Fort, Arsenal, Yard, Station, or
Installation after having been removed there from or ordered not to reenter by an officer or
person in command or charge thereof shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than
6 month or both.‖


                “The information herein is For Official Use Only (FOUO) which must be protected
               under the Freedom of Information Act of 1996 and Privacy Act of 1974, as amended.
               Unauthorized disclosure or misuse of this PERSONAL INFORMATION may result
673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012                                                                         37

                                        in criminal and/or civil penalties.”

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                              (when filled out)


       b. Title 18, United States Code, section 3571 provides that the amount of the fine is not
more than $5,000.

4. Should any compelling reason exist which you believe would be sufficient to justify a
modification or termination of this order, you may submit your request in writing to the 673 Air
Base Wing Commander, ATTN Commander, 673 Air Base Wing, 10471 20th Street, JBER,
Alaska 99506.

5. You are further informed that, should you be found recreating within the limits of JBER, in
contravention of this order, you will be subject to apprehension by Military/Security Police for
prompt delivery to the appropriate authorities.



                                                              BRIAN P. DUFFY, Colonel, USAF
                                                              Commander

I acknowledge receipt of this memorandum.
                (Printed Name)




                (Signature   / Date)

_____________________________________________,


______________________________________________________________

(SFS/Conservation Enforcement officer, print name) (Signature)



                “The information herein is For Official Use Only (FOUO) which must be protected
                under the Freedom of Information Act of 1996 and Privacy Act of 1974, as amended.
                Unauthorized disclosure or misuse of this PERSONAL INFORMATION may result
                                        in criminal and/or civil penalties.”
38   673ABWI32-7001 25 JULY 2012
