BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             673D AIR BASE WING INSTRUCTION
673D AIR BASE WING (PACAF)                                                     90-203

                                                                       15 SEPTEMBER 2011

                                                                          Special Management

                                                         673ABW EXERCISE EVALUATION
                                                                      TEAM PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no release restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 673 ABW/XPI                                                     Certified by: 673 ABW/CS
                                                                           (Mr. Don Weckhorst)
                                                                                        Pages: 9


This instruction implements AFPD 90-2, Inspector General – The Inspection System, and is used
in conjunction with AFIs 90-201 Inspector General Activities, and PACAF Supplement 1,
Inspector General Activities, and 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program
Planning and Operations. It establishes the 673 ABW procedures for members of the Exercise
Evaluation Team. This instruction applies to all 673 ABW units, agencies and permanently
assigned tenant units at Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson (JBER). It is not intended to replace
or supersede joint or Higher Headquarters (HHQ) guidance. If there is a conflict between this
instruction and guidance from a higher command, please notify 673 ABW Exercise and
Inspections (673 ABW/XPI) office. Compliance with this instruction cannot be waived. This
publication does not apply to the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units, Air National
Guard (ANG) or Civil Air Patrol (CAP) units and members. Units are authorized to reproduce
or extract any portion necessary for planning and operational purposes. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the office of primary responsibility (OPR) using
the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route the AF Form 847 through
the appropriate chain of command. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and
supporting information.

1. Purpose. The key to readiness is training and demonstrated performance during exercise
scenarios that provide feedback to commanders on the health of their training programs. The
 2                                                                               673ABWI90-203


exercise evaluation team (EET) plays a vital role in planning and conducting exercise scenarios
developed and designed by 673 ABW/XPI, which tests and measures the capabilities of an
organization to perform their wartime tasks and mission duties.
2. Exercise Evaluation Team (EET):
     2.1. The Chief of Inspections and Exercises (673 ABW/XPI) is appointed to serve as the
     Installation EET Chief, responsible for managing the EET program.
        2.1.1. Group EET Chiefs. Group commanders will appoint a group EET Chief. Group
        EET Chiefs will meet with the Chief of Inspections and Exercises at least 75 days prior to
        Start of Exercise (STARTEX) to ensure all exercise objectives are established and are
        properly coordinated.
        2.1.2. EET Members. Unit/Squadron Commanders, and/or Staff Agency
        Chiefs/Directors will appoint EET members, in writing, to 673 ABW/XPI. These
        appointment letters will be forwarded to respective Group EET Chief and then to 673
        ABW/XPI. A template for the appointment letter is available to current EET Chiefs on
        the 673 ABW Portal (see Attachment 2).           The 673 ABW/XPI will maintain a
        consolidated EET roster.
        2.1.3. Organizationally, EET members will work for their respective Group EET Chiefs
        and the Installation EET Chief during exercises. Each EET member will meet with their
        respective Commanders or Staff Agency Chiefs to identify any exercise objectives.
            2.1.3.1. The following criteria must be met prior to an individual serving as an EET
            member:
                2.1.3.1.1. Appointment letter to 673 ABW/XPI.
                2.1.3.1.2. A minimum of 12 months time on station remaining from initial
                appointment.
                2.1.3.1.3. Secret or higher security clearance.
     2.2. EET Training. EET members appointed must have a thorough knowledge of all
     applicable guidance, which governs the areas they are responsible for evaluating. Group
     EET Chief’s will ensure EET members are current in all job related training in addition to the
     EET orientation provided by 673 ABW/XPI.
2.3. EET orientation training includes:
        2.3.1. Complete the EET Course, AF Emergency Response Operations (AERO)
        Introduction Course, or AF Emergency Response Operations Command and Control
        Course as prescribed in AFI 10-2501, Table 6.1. These are computer-based training
        (CBT) modules located on the Advanced Distance Learning Service (ADLS) website
        (https://golearn.csd.disa.mil/kc/login/login.asp).
        2.3.2. Register for EET initial training with the 673                   ABW/      XPI    at
        https://elmendorf.eim.pacaf.af.mil/673ABW/XPI/default.aspx.
        2.3.3. Upon completion of all EET orientation training, EET members are required to
        provide 673 ABW/XPI a copy of their training certificates.
673ABWI90-203                                                                                  3


   2.4. Trusted Agent (TA). TAs are subject matter experts outside the EET who need to be
   given exercise close-hold information to assist with exercise planning and/or execution. TAs
   will not divulge information to unauthorized personnel, to include commanders and Wing
   Staff Agency chiefs. TA information will not be sent via e-mail or reproduced without the
   express consent of 673 ABW/XPI Chief. Only 673 ABW/XPI EET personnel are authorized
   to release TA information outside EET channels. All TAs must be recommended by
   Commanders, and should not be part of the target training audience. TAs will sign a non-
   disclosure agreement.
3. Exercise Requirements and Scheduling:
   3.1. The 673 ABW/XPI will ensure all Air Force inspection requirements of AFIs 90-201,
   10-2501, and 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, are met as prescribed.
   3.2. The 673 ABW/XPI will develop and make the exercise schedule available to Joint Base
   Elmendorf-Richardson (JBER) personnel. The entire exercise schedule will be published
   annually and released no later than three months prior to the beginning of each calendar year
   (CY).
   3.3. EET members will ensure they advise the EET Chief of any exercise requirements
   prescribed by instructions or directives within their functional area requiring base-wide
   participation and oversight.
4. Exercise Planning:
   4.1. A top priority of every exercise is to validate corrective actions, which were
   implemented to correct findings from previous inspector general (IG) inspections or
   installation exercises. EET members will review the list of previous findings for their unit
   and ensure those items are specifically re-evaluated.
   4.2. EET members will be prepared to report on all findings to the EET Chief and identify if
   a discrepancy re-occurred or should be recommended for closure (if a previous finding).
   4.3. EET members will meet with their commanders at least 90 prior to every exercise to
   identify specific unit objectives. These objectives will be presented to the EET Chief for
   inclusion into the exercise scenario.
5. Scenario Development:
   5.1. The EET Chief will coordinate inputs from required organizations (for example, Intel,
   Anti-Terrorism/Force Protection, and so forth) as necessary to provide background
   information and establish realistic, locally based conditions for the exercise environment.
   This information will be provided through exercise message traffic, briefings, exercise
   special instructions (SPINS) or any other means, which disseminates the information to wing
   personnel.
      5.1.1. Initial exercise planning meetings will be held at least 60 days prior to start of
      exercise (STARTEX), when conditions permit.
      5.1.2. Exercise letters of instructions (LOI’s) will be provided to wing personnel at least
      one week prior to STARTEX.
   5.2. Exercise injects will be developed to drive participants to meet pre-identified exercise
   objectives. EET members can contact 673 ABW/XPI for the approved inject format.
 4                                                                               673ABWI90-203


     5.3. A Master schedule of events listing (MSEL) will be developed and distributed by 673
     ABW/XPI to all applicable EET members. The MSEL will incorporate all required injects,
     assign which EET OPR is responsible for issuing the inject, and provide an estimated
     timeline, and expected outcome. The OPR is responsible for making on the spot corrections
     and feedback, if applicable, evaluating performance in accordance with objectives and
     providing specific feedback on a daily basis to the EET Chief.
6. Exercise Evaluation:
     6.1. EET members will wear EET badges and reflective vests at all times and will maintain a
     non-confrontational and professional demeanor at all times.
     6.2. Military and deployable civilian EET members will wear the same protective equipment
     as all exercise players. However, they are authorized to delay donning equipment in order to
     evaluate exercise participants performance.
     6.3. EET Chief will provide SFS/CC an exercise EAL prior to STARTEX. EET members
     displaying EET badge will be afforded entry/exit into all areas necessary for evaluation (that
     is, freedom of movement), barring any real-world security concerns, regardless of current
     exercise force protection condition (FPCON) or shelter-in-place restrictions.
     6.4. EET members will be knowledgeable of standard simulations and deviations as
     prescribed in AFI 90-201, in addition to the most recent simulation and deviation request
     submitted and approved by HHQ inspection teams. Any additional simulation or deviation
     must be requested and approved in writing by the EET Chief or 673 ABW/CC. All 3 WG
     simulations, once approved by 3 WG/CC, will be routed through 673 ABW/XPI for staffing
     to HHQ.
7. Documentation:
     7.1. EET members will document exercise results using the template provided by 673 ABW/
     XPI, and provide feedback to the EET Chief by the suspense date (see Attachment 3). All
     fields of the template will be filled out. EET members will provide finding descriptions,
     detailed accounts of the event such that the OPR assigned to remedy the discrepancy can
     fully comprehend the issue to be resolved.
     7.2. Basic responsibility for problem solving and the corrective action process resides at the
     lowest appropriate command level. In accordance with AFI 90-201/PACAF Sup 1, problem
     solving should be applied through the AF 8-step problem-solving model as outlined in the
     Air Force Smart Operations for the 21st Century (AFSO21) Playbook. All Critical
     deficiencies require root-cause analysis to be submitted as part of the resolution process.
     Selected significant deficiencies will require root-cause analysis be included in the reply as
     determined by the 673 ABW/XPI and annotated on the report.
     7.3. EET Group Chiefs will provide feedback to Group Commanders on a daily basis.
     Likewise, Squadron EET representatives will provide regular feedback to the respective
     Commanders.
     7.4. The EET Chief will compile unit results into a wing briefing and present the results to
     the 673 ABW/CC and all other inspected Commanders. This briefing may take the form of a
     “hot wash” which will present the exercise scenario, its objectives, and any
     findings/observations validated during the wing level exercise, to include recommendations
673ABWI90-203                                                                                  5


  for closure of previous findings and identifying any findings still left open. Findings will be
  assigned to Commanders or Wing Staff Agency Chiefs.
  7.5. The 673 ABW/XPI will track findings to closure by identifying corrective actions taken
  and their success in minimizing any recurring discrepancies (as re-evaluated by EET
  members during subsequent exercises).
  7.6. Commanders will address their discrepancies. All corrective actions will focus on
  curtailing the root cause of the discrepancy, and thus be specific and sustainable in order to
  identify permanent solutions. All corrective actions taken will be documented in the
  “Corrective Actions Taken” field in a format conducive for HHQ reporting.
  7.7. The EET Chief/Wing Historian will maintain the MSEL and wing brief for historical
  purposes.




                                           ROBERT D. EVANS, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
 6                                                                     673ABWI90-203


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 90-2, Inspector General – The Inspection System, 26 April 2006.
AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management Program Planning and Operations, 24 January
2007.
AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities, 17 June 2009.
AFI 90-201_PACAFSUP 1, Inspector General Activities, 07 July 2010.
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADLS—- Advanced Distance Learning Service.
AERO—- AF Emergency Response Operations.
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command.
AFRIMS—- Air Force Records Information Management System.
ANG—Air National Guard.
CAP—Civil Air Patrol.
CBT—Computer-based Training.
CY—Calendar Year.
DoD—Department of Defense.
EET—Exercise Evaluation Team.
ECC—- Emergency Communications Center.
FPCON—Force Protection Condition.
HHQ—Higher Headquarters.
ICC—- Installation Control Center.
JBER—Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson.
LOI—- letters of instructions.
MSEL—- Master Schedule of Events Listing.
OPR—- Office of Primary Responsibility.
RDS—- Records Disposition Schedule.
SPINS—- Special Instructions.
673ABWI90-203                       7


STARTEX—-Start of Exercise.
TA—- Trusted Agent.
WMD—- Weapon of Mass Destruction.
 8                                                                             673ABWI90-203


                                          Attachment 2
                                EET APPOINTMENT LETTER

Figure A2.1. EET Appointment Letter

MEMORANDUM FOR 673 ABW/XPI                                                    Date

FROM:

SUBJECT: XXX Group EET Appointment Letter

1. The following individuals are appointed EET squadron/group members for the XXX Group:

RANK      NAME         GROUP       UNIT      PHONE CLEARANCE                  DEROS
Col       Doe, John     MSG        673FSS/CC 552-1212  S                      14-Jul-15

2. I certify each of the above listed individuals are fully qualified to assist 673 ABW/XPI in
devising scenarios to assess the readiness of the XXX Group in accordance with Air Force and
673 ABW guidelines and instructions. Furthermore, each individual possesses the highest level
of integrity and experience needed to execute requirements in this sensitive role as a trusted
agent.

3. In addition, the appointed individuals are authorized to submit written recommendations for
XXX Group as well as suggested corrective actions that may arise following an exercise to the
EET Team Chief as requested. All EET members have received EET initial training and
functional EET training in their area of expertise. EET chiefs understand all reported findings
and discrepancies require validation by their respective commanders prior to submission to
exercise reports.

4. This letter supersedes all previous letters on the same subject.




                                                     JOHN Q. DOE, COL, USAF
                                                      Commander, XXX
673ABWI90-203                                                                                    9


                                        Attachment 3
                              EXERCISE RESULTS LETTER

Figure A3.1. Exercise Results Letter

MEMORANDUM FOR 673 ABW/CC                                                      8 Oct XX

FROM: 673 ABW XPI
      10441 Kuter Ave Suite 310
      JBER, AK 99506

SUBJECT: Emergency Management Exercise (EME) XX-X

1. PURPOSE AND SCOPE: 673 ABW/XPI and 3 WG/XPI conducted a full scale EME
evaluation of JBER organizations and tenant units. The purpose of the exercise was to evaluate
JBER’s ability to respond to the terrorist use of a Weapon of Mass Destruction (WMD) on
JBER.

2. SCENARIO: On X October 20XX, 673 ABW/XPI and 3 WG/XPI conducted a full scale
EME on JBER, Alaska. The exercise involved a simulated terrorist threat.

3. EXERCISE OBJECTIVES:

3.1. Evaluate Installation Control Center (ICC)/Emergency Operations Center (EOC) notification
system and overall command and control (C2) of the installation.

3.2. Evaluate execution of appropriate CEMP 10-2 checklists.

3.3. Evaluate Threat Working Group recommendations and installation wide implementation of
any exercise FPCON or RAM increases.

4. PARTICIPANTS: For this exercise, the following were tasked: 673 ABW, 3 WG, USARAK
and tenant participants were tasked.
4.1. Incident Commander

4.2. First Responders (Fire, Security Forces, Medical) and follow-on Emergency Responder

4.3. Installation Control Center (ICC), Emergency Communications Center (ECC)

5. RESULTS: The wing was rated SATISFACTORY for the Exercise


                                            DAVID M. HUDSON, GS-13, DAF
                                            Chief, Inspections and Exercises
