BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            673D AIR BASE WING INSTRUCTION
673D AIR BASE WING (PACAF)                                                    34-101

                                                                                3 APRIL 2013

                                                                                      Services

                                                                              ICE PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no release restrictions on this publication

OPR: 673 ABW/CCO                                                    Certified by: 673 ABW/CV
                                                                      (COL William P. Huber)
                                                                                       Pages: 5


This publication implements AFPD 34-1, Air Force Services, and is used in conjunction with
Interactive Customer Evaluation (ICE) policies. It provides guidance to all 673 ABW personnel
on the implementation, responsibilities and maintenance of ICE. It applies to an ICE Service
Provider Manager (SPM) and all personnel assigned to and/or under the operational control of
673 ABW, but does not apply to the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve units and
members. Compliance with this instruction cannot be waived. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the office of primary responsibility (OPR), using AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route the AF Forms 847 through the
appropriate chain of command. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). See Attachment 1 for Glossary, References
and Supporting Information.

1. ICE Program
   1.1. System. The ICE system is a web-based application used to collect and report customer
   feedback. By determining customer satisfaction levels of services provided by Department
   of Defense (DoD) facilities, obtaining suggestions for improvement of services, and
   identifying issues affecting customer service, this interactive customer comment card system
   enables Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson (JBER) to facilitate relationships within its
   customer base. The ICE system allows installation stakeholders the opportunity to submit
   online comment cards, and provides SPMs the ability to collect customer satisfaction data in
   a timely manner, and in a standardized format. Supervisors are provided the tools to take
   immediate remedial actions, if necessary. The ICE system is a convenient and efficient
 2                                                              673ABWI34-101 3 APRIL 2013


     means available to access service information, express opinions, and receive feedback on
     program and service improvements. It is available from any computer that has Internet
     access.
     1.2. Manual Cards. Electronic ICE cards are preferred; however, hard copy ICE cards will
     also be made available at all service delivery points for those preferring to leave written
     feedback. Hard copy cards should mirror automated versions and must include the six
     mandatory questions DoD requires. Commanders/Chiefs of organizations may add
     additional questions at their discretion, yet should keep the number of questions to a
     minimum, focusing on key organizational measures.
     1.3. Customer Feedback. The ICE system is a component of JBER’s overall customer
     relationship, management and feedback system. It is instrumental in communicating
     perceptions and achieving continuous improvement in support of JBER’s management
     strategies, and providing for the well-being of the community. The intent of ICE is to
     facilitate the SPMs’ ability to track customer feedback and improve customer service.
2. Responsibilities
     2.1. Squadron Commanders and Wing Staff Agency (WSA) Chiefs. Squadron Commanders
     and WSA Chiefs will appoint an SPM to be responsible for managing online comments, and
     the collection and input of hard copy comment cards into ICE for the services their respective
     organization provides.
        2.1.1. Ensure all service areas have an identified ICE comment box and comment cards
        for customer use.
        2.1.2. Ensure SPMs are using ICE and place the link to their comment card in their e-
        mail signature block.
        2.1.3. Ensure all SPMs complete ICE training.
        2.1.4. Discuss ICE activity during regular staff meetings.
        2.1.5. Explore the feasibility of establishing an ICE incentive award program, e.g.,
        granting an employee 4 hours time off, presenting them with a group coin, or an internal
        certificate. The 673 ABW currently recognizes exceptional providers once a month and
        presents a certificate at the Community Action Council (CAC). Recipients include one
        individual award and one team award. However, organizations may also recognize
        employees for a job well done.
        2.1.6. Forward SPM appointment memos to the Customer Service Officer (CSO) and
        ensure the CSO is notified of SPM changes for prompt update of ICE accounts.
        2.1.7. Ensure SPMs observe the 72-hour (3 business days) working requirement for
        response to customers and annotate the follow-up in ICE.
        2.1.8. Use ICE reports to identify necessary changes in customer service and/or
        operational processes.
        2.1.9. Submit better business practices through the CSO.
673ABWI34-101 3 APRIL 2013                                                                  3


     2.1.10. Use the template provided by the CSO to reproduce ICE comment cards and
     maintain comment card boxes in areas where personal computers (PCs) are not cost
     effective or otherwise impractical.
     2.1.11. Ensure SPMs return hard copy comment cards to the CSO within 7 business
     days.
  2.2. SPMs. SPMs will monitor e-mails daily to ensure customer comment responses are
  completed within a 72-hour period (3 business days) for comments requiring responses.
  Response data must be entered in the customer follow-up section of the system's ICE
  manager tool.
     2.2.1. Address areas that may not require a customer response, yet may affect customer
     satisfaction if unresolved.
     2.2.2. Ensure questions or event comments added to the service provider information
     areas are sufficient enough in context and grammatically correct to obtain the desired
     results.
     2.2.3. Ensure additional questions are kept to a minimum, allowing customers to submit
     information in a timely manner.
     2.2.4. Ensure service provider data is accurate and current.
     2.2.5. Promote the ICE program to provide a better quality of service to customers.
     2.2.6. Ensure an ICE box is established, and maintain a sufficient amount of hard copy
     ICE customer comment cards, making them available to customers when a PC is not
     available. Return hard copy comment cards to the CSO within 7 business days.
     2.2.7. Use ICE as the main customer feedback mechanism for gathering customer
     feedback, versus dissemination of surveys generated internally.
  2.3. CSO. The CSO will monitor ICE sites for errors, outdated information and consistency
  of service provider data.
     2.3.1. Add and train new service providers and SPMs, as required.
     2.3.2. Troubleshoot user issues.
     2.3.3. Forward unresolved site issues to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, Quality
     Management Office, ATTN: ICE Site Administrator, for resolution.
     2.3.4. Prepare reports on installation/community service providers to assist in
     maintaining quality levels of service.
     2.3.5. Brief statistics monthly at the 673 ABW staff meeting.
     2.3.6. Use ICE information as an additional tool to assess delivery and quality of
     services.
     2.3.7. Promote the use of installation ICE sites to improve quality of service and timely
     response to JBER customers.
 4                                                            673ABWI34-101 3 APRIL 2013


       2.3.8. Conduct customer service training for services requesting assistance in increasing
       their ICE satisfaction rates.
3. Information Collections. No information collections are required by this publication.




                                            BRIAN P. DUFFY, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
673ABWI34-101 3 APRIL 2013                                   5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 34-1, Air Force Services, 2 November 2012.
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System.
CSO—Customer Service Officer.
DoD—Department of Defense.
ICE—Interactive Customer Evaluation.
JBER—Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson.
OPR—Office Of Primary Responsibility.
PC—Personal Computer.
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule.
SPM—Service Provider Managers.
WSA—Wing Staff Agency.
