BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           70TH INTELLIGENCE SURVEILLANCE
70TH INTELLIGENCE SURVEILLANCE                             AND RECONNAISSANCE WING
AND RECONNAISSANCE WING                                           INSTRUCTION 14-106

                                                                                   8 JUNE 2011

                                                                                     Intelligence

                                                         COMMAND LANGUAGE PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 70 ISRW/70 OSS                                                    Certified by: 70 ISRW/CC
                                                                         (Col John D. Bansemer)
                                                                                          Pages: 7


This instruction implements 70th Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance Wing Policy for
the Command Language Program (CLP). It establishes policies and procedures for the
management of unit CLPs conducted to accomplish foreign language refresher, remediation,
sustainment and enhancement. This instruction applies to all units with designated foreign
language authorizations (1N3X1 or 1A8XXX) subordinate to the 70th ISRW. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
Additionally, if your publication generates a report(s), alert readers in a statement and cite all
applicable Reports Control Numbers in accordance with AFI 33-324, The Information
Collections And Reports Management Program; Controlling Internal, Public, And Interagency
Air Force Information Collections.

1. Introduction. The CLP is a total Cryptologic Language Analyst (CLA) management
program that includes identification and accountability of CLA assets and language training
management of CLAs. A CLP is designed to increase the proficiencies of CLAs performing
duties for the Air Force. Air Force personnel with linguistic skills, who are expected to speak,
comprehend, read or write in a foreign language must be able to function independently,
 2                                                              70ISRWI14-106 8 JUNE 2011


competently and professionally. CLPs must provide a full range of training opportunities
ranging from remedial to advanced levels to include both global and cryptologic training.
2. Purpose.
     2.1. Provide guidance and oversight to the CLP.
     2.2. Ensure all personnel subject to this instruction adhere to applicable guidance and
     maintain proficiency according to established standards.
3. Duties and Responsibilities:
     3.1. Wing Command Language Program Manager(s) (CLPM) will:
        3.1.1. Be appointed, in writing, by the Wing Commander or Vice Commander
        3.1.2. Serve as the 70 ISRW CLP authority for language training and testing issues.
        Serve as focal point between Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
        Agency/A3TT Office of Force Development and Training (AF ISR Agency/A3TT) and
        subordinate groups/squadrons concerning CLA training and proficiency testing.
        3.1.3. Provide oversight to subordinate units to ensure compliance with all CLA training
        and testing requirements IAW regulations, guidance and most current CLP checklist.
        3.1.4. Conduct staff assistance visits (SAVs) on subordinate units’ CLP as required;
        provide feedback (SAV reports) to units. Serve as approval authority for CLP Action
        Plan Updates (APU) submitted by subordinate units. Provide assistance to unit CLPMs
        as required.
        3.1.5. Gather, validate, consolidate and prioritize annual and ad-hoc funding
        requirements from subordinate unit CLPMs for language training as directed by AF ISR
        Agency/A3TT. Forward data to AF ISR Agency/A3TT.
        3.1.6. Disseminate/collect taskers set forth by AF ISR Agency/A3TT and 70 ISRW/CC
        to subordinate unit CLPMs as required.
        3.1.7. Gather, validate, and consolidate all monthly, quarterly and annual reports from
        subordinate unit CLPMs. Forward data to AF ISR Agency/A3TT as directed.
        3.1.8. Maintain wing CLP continuity book IAW current 70 ISRW Continuity Book
        Minimum Requirements Checklist.
     3.2. Unit Commanders will:
        3.2.1. Ensure compliance with this instruction.
        3.2.2. In units with six or more linguists, create and assume overall accountability for
        unit CLP.
        3.2.3. Appoint, in writing, primary and alternate CLP Managers (CLPMs).
        3.2.4. Ensure CLPM(s) have the necessary resources to successfully accomplish mission.
        3.2.5. Establish a Unit Language Council to monitor the health and address issues/needs
        of all unit CLAs IAW DLIFLC Pam 350-9, Guidelines, Policies and Procedures for DoD
        Command Language Programs. At a minimum, members of the council include the
        commander, director of operations, training officer(s) and unit CLPM.
70ISRWI14-106 8 JUNE 2011                                                                    3


     3.2.6. Ensure CLA assets are utilized in accordance with regulations and utilization
     policy memorandums, and/or ensure appropriate waiver requests are submitted for those
     CLAs working outside their AFSC IAW AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel
     (Officer and Enlisted).
     3.2.7. Balance mission and manning to ensure CLAs are afforded opportunities for
     language training.
     3.2.8. Review annual language-training funding requests before CLPM submission to
     higher headquarters (HHQ).
     3.2.9. Make recommendations on CLAs nominated for follow-on or additional language
     training.
     3.2.10. Publish unit operating instructions (OI) and/or policy for any unit-specific CLP
     procedures and policies.
     3.2.11. With assistance from unit CLPM, interview members who do not meet minimum
     language proficiency standards (L2/R2) and who have been entered into Stage I/II
     remedial training to determine reason for failure to meet standards. If member is still
     sub-proficient after completion of Stage II remedial, conduct a secondary interview to
     determine appropriate action (remedial waiver or process for cross-training/separation).
  3.3. Unit CLPMs will:
     3.3.1. Comply with this instruction.
     3.3.2. Be appointed, in writing, by the unit commander or deputy.
     3.3.3. Be a linguist in the grade of E-5 (select) or above.
     3.3.4. Attend formal CLPM training course and any available Air Force-specific CLPM
     training courses/seminars as approved by unit commander.
     3.3.5. Serve as resident authority on CLA utilization, training, testing and proficiency
     issues. Provide expertise to unit leadership, when required. Communicate guidance,
     regulations and policies to assigned CLAs to ensure understanding and compliance.
     3.3.6. Maintain CLP continuity book IAW current 70 ISRW Continuity Book Minimum
     Requirements Checklist.
     3.3.7. Gather, validate, consolidate and prioritize annual, quarterly and ad-hoc language-
     training requirements for unit. Obtain unit coordination before submitting to HHQ.
     3.3.8. Gather, validate and consolidate quarterly and annual reports of training
     accomplished and expenditures. Forward reports to wing CLPM.
     3.3.9. Work to organize, implement and optimize language-training opportunities and
     materials (if needed) for unit personnel IAW guidance. Ensure each assigned CLA,
     including those awaiting clearances, receives Significant Language Training Events
     (SLTEs) IAW guidance in current 1N3X1 or 1A8XXX Career Field Education and
     Training Plan (CFETP) (as applicable).
     3.3.10. Input, edit and maintain accurate CLA data in AF ISR Agency/A3TT Language
     and Culture Learning Center Database. Update DLPT information, personal information
4                                                             70ISRWI14-106 8 JUNE 2011


       and MCCEP enrollment in the CHANDELIER (NSA) database. Upon CLA departure,
       ensure CLA training and proficiency historical data is forwarded to gaining unit (if
       applicable).
       3.3.11. Ensure all assigned CLAs are enrolled in the Military Cryptologic Continuing
       Education Program (MCCEP). MCCEP provides additional training opportunities and
       guidance to CLAs throughout their career.
       3.3.12. Report trends, statistics and other linguist information to unit leadership, as
       required. Regularly schedule and chair Unit Language Council Meetings to discuss CLA
       issues.
       3.3.13. Ensure CLAs (1N3X1, 1A8XXX), to include those awaiting clearances, take the
       Defense Language Proficiency Test (DLPT) (or equivalent, if DLPT unavailable)
       annually for all languages for which they hold the AFSC and for all languages for which
       the DoD has paid for initial language acquisition IAW AFI 36-2605, Air Force Military
       Personnel Testing System, Attachment 10 and 1N3X1 or 1A8XXX CFETP.
       3.3.14. Submit DLPT waivers, as necessary, for CLAs who attend a SLTE and plan to
       test within 6 months of previous DLPT.
       3.3.15. Field and forward all Foreign Language Proficiency Bonus (FLPB) issues to
       appropriate OPR.
       3.3.16. Meet all weekly, monthly, quarterly, annual and ad-hoc CLP suspenses to
       unit/group/wing and/or AF ISR AGENCY/A3TT.
       3.3.17. Manage Stage I and Stage II remedial program IAW guidance in most current
       1N3X1, 1A8XXX CFETP (as applicable), and/or policy memos. Ensure all sub-
       proficient CLAs DLPT bi-annually. Work with leadership to ensure remedial waivers are
       submitted, as necessary.
       3.3.18. Track CLA utilization in unit. Work with unit leadership to ensure utilization
       waivers are submitted as necessary.
       3.3.19. Conduct annual self-inspections using most recent AF ISR Agency Inspection
       Checklist 90-CLA. Document findings and completed actions in continuity book.
       Provide APUs to inspecting authority for all SAV findings.
    3.4. Individual Cryptologic Language Analysts will:
       3.4.1. Comply with this instruction.
       3.4.2. Take personal responsibility for his/her own language career and language
       proficiency. This includes (but is not limited to):
          3.4.2.1. Requesting/taking annual proficiency tests IAW regulations.
          3.4.2.2. Requesting/attending regular formal       refresher,   maintenance   and/or
          enhancement language training IAW regulations.
          3.4.2.3. Conducting/documenting regular self-study to maintain and/or improve
          language proficiency.
70ISRWI14-106 8 JUNE 2011                                                       5


        3.4.2.4. Providing feedback to the unit CLPM and/or the unit commander on
        problems inhibiting individual’s linguistic excellence.




                                    JOHN D. BANSEMER, Colonel, USAF
                                    Commander
 6                                                           70ISRWI14-106 8 JUNE 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DLIFLC Pam 351-1, Evaluation Guidelines for DoD Command Language Programs
AFJI 14-107, Management of the Defense Foreign Language Program
AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel
AFI 36-2201, Developing, Managing, and Conducting Training
AFI 36-2605, Air Force Personnel Testing System
AFI 33-324, The Information Collections And Reports Management Program; Controlling
Internal, Public, And Interagency Air Force Information Collections
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AF ISR AGENCY/A3TI—Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
Agency/A3TI
CFETP—Career Field Education and Training Plan
CLA—Cryptologic Language Analyst
CLP—Command Language Program
CLPM—Command Language Program Manager
DLPT—Defense Language Proficiency Test
FLPB—Foreign Language Proficiency Bonus
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
ILTP—Individual Language Training Plan
MCCEP—Military Cryptologic Continuing Education Program
OI—Operating Instruction
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
70ISRWI14-106 8 JUNE 2011                                                                  7


SLTE—Significant Language Training Event

Terms
Command Language Program (CLP)—Each unit with six or more 1N3XXX and/or 1A8XXX
personnel assigned will establish a CLP. Units with fewer than six 1N3XXX and/or 1A8XXX
personnel need not establish a formal CLP but still must comply with requirements outlined in
the 1N3/1A8 Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). All references to language
proficiency and testing imply Defense Language Proficiency Test (DLPT).
