BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              75 AIR BASE WING AIR BASE WING
75 AIR BASE WING                                    INSTRUCTION 33-301 HILL AIR FORCE
                                                                                 BASE

                                                                              15 JANUARY 2009
                                                              Communications and Information

                                                  STAFFING DOCUMENTS THROUGH THE
                                                            WING COMMAND SECTION

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or orderingon the e-
               Publishing website at www.epublishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

                                                                      Certified by: 75 ABW/CCE
OPR: 75 ABW/CCE
                                                                                 (Geoffrey Roche)
Supersedes:   75ABWI33-301, 22 August 2005                                               Pages: 6



This instruction provides procedures for processing various documents through the wing
command section. It addresses performance reports, decorations, various coordination forms,
and correspondence. This instruction outlines mandatory coordination procedures to include
offices that must coordinate. It prescribes 75th Air Base Wing (75 ABW) Form 4, Performance
Report and, Decoration Coordination. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction outlines mandatory coordination procedures to include offices that must
coordinate.
1. Introduction.
   1.1. Performance Reports. This instruction will not repeat what is formally covered in AFI
   36-2406, Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems. Procedures for moving reports from the
   unit to the wing are in the performance report section. It will describe the routing and quality
   force forms required.
   1.2. Decorations. This instruction will not repeat what is formally covered in AFI 36-2803,
   The Air Force Awards and Decorations Program. It will describe the proper coordination
   procedures and forms required.
2                                                           75ABWI33-301 15 JANUARY 2009


     1.3. Correspondence. Coordination procedures and required forms will be addressed in this
     section of the instruction. It will not speak of developing correspondence as that activity is
     governed by AFMAN 33-326, Preparing Official Communications, and AFH 33-337,
     Tongue and Quill.
     1.4. Approved Reference Materials.
        1.4.1. The wing will recognize the reference materials listed in Table 1 as the standards
        to be followed when preparing and reviewing performance reports, promotion forms, and
        decorations.

Table 1. Approved Reference Materials.
1.     AFI 36-2406, Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems
2.     AFI 36-2803, The Air Force Awards and Decorations Program
3.     AFH 33-327, The Tongue and Quill
4.     AFMAN 33-326, Preparing Official Communications
        1.4.2. Standardizing the approved materials ensures that all raters, preparation officials,
        and reviewers are operating from the same baseline when preparing and flowing
        correspondence. The sources in Table 1 combine to provide near complete guidance on
        the mechanics to be followed when preparing documents covered in this instruction. If an
        item is listed as appropriate or acceptable in any of the sources, then it will be held as
        valid by the reviewing chain.
2. Performance Reports.
     2.1. Required items. When processing enlisted and officer performance reports (PR),
     include the items addressed in paragraphs 2.1.2 through 2.1.3. These are in addition to the
     obvious items: Enlisted Performance Report (EPR)/Officer Performance Report (OPR), the
     report on individual personnel (RIP), push note, etc. DO NOT SEND OLD DRAFTS
     UNLESS THE WING MARKED THEM.
        2.1.1. Send electronically through an email.
        2.1.2. Attach coordination chain/sheet to email. It records coordination from unit, to the
        group, then to the wing. If coordination is missing when it arrives at 75 ABW/CCA, it
        will be returned to the submitting group.
        2.1.3. If the information on a PR differs from the RIP, update the personnel system and
        print a new RIP showing the change was successful.
        2.1.4. For all Officer PR’s going to the OO-ALC for signature, include last three OPR’s ,
        Single Unit Retrieval Format (SURF), and “Eyes Only” note from the Group
        Commander.
     2.2. Timeliness. Timeliness of PRs is an important issue in the wing. Group executive
     officers, squadron section commanders, secretaries, commander support staff personnel, and
     reporting officials should be aware of the required timeline. Reports are due to the wing no
     later than the closeout date.
     2.3. Logbook. All PRs will be logged in and out by the 75 ABW/CCA. At no time will 75
     ABW/CCA be bypassed. If a PR is not logged in by the 75 ABW/CCA, the wing cannot
75ABWI33-301 15 JANUARY 2009                                                                    3


   maintain control of the program. The wing maintains a database of PRs processed over time.
   Units may view the status of PRs on the wing logbook by visiting the web site at
   https://hillnet.hill.af.mil/hafb/alc/75abw/cmd/.
   2.4. Final Actions. 75 ABW/CCA will review reports that are signed by the wing
   commander and will take these final steps as necessary.
      2.4.1. After the report has been signed by 75 ABW/CC, it will then be forwarded by 75
      ABW/CCA to the group or the staff agency for member’s acknowledgement. After the
      member signs, the unit will forward to the MPF for processing.
      2.4.2. If the report requires a squadron or group commander's signature (perhaps they
      were not available during a reprint), and if the unit coordinates with the 75 ABW/CCE,
      the wing will review the content of the PR and return the report to the appropriate
      squadron or group for signatures. It will be signed by the wing commander once the
      preceding signatures have been made. It will then be forwarded to group or staff agency
      for member’s acknowledgement. After the member signs, the unit will forward to the
      MPF for processing.
      2.4.3. Reports going to OO-ALC will be forwarded by the 75 ABW/CCE. Reports
      returned from OO-ALC will be received by 75 ABW/CCE to forward to the group or
      staff agency for member’s acknowledgement. After the member signs, the unit will
      forward to the MPF for processing.
   2.5. Follow-Up. Units may follow-up on the status of their reports by visiting the logbook on
   the Hillnet (https://hillnet.hill.af.mil/hafb/alc/75abw/cmd/). Units and groups should not
   contact OO-ALC to determine the status of reports. If such status is needed, check the
   wing logbook first, then request a call be made by the 75 ABW/CCE to the OO-ALC for
   status.
3. Decorations.
   3.1. Required Items. The following items are mandatory. Decoration packages not meeting
   these standards will be returned without action.
      3.1.1. Send electronically through an email to 75 ABW/CCA.
      3.1.2. Attach coordination chain/sheet to email. It records coordination from unit, to the
      group, then to the wing. If coordination is missing when it arrives at 75 ABW/CCA, it
      will be returned to the submitting group.
      3.1.3. Other decorations given during the current decorations award period.
      3.1.4. DECOR 6-Recommendation for Decoration Printout (RDP). This document must
      be filled in and signed as appropriate. If the decoration is to be presented prior to a
      member's departure, include a presentation date. If the member will be departing, or has
      already departed, then provide a complete mailing address.
      3.1.5. Citation. Should be submitted in text box format. When editing and quality
      review is complete, the wing command section will print the citation on the proper form.
   3.2. Timeliness. Units must plan ahead, particularly for decorations to be awarded for
   retirement or prior to a member’s departure. The longer you wait, the higher the risk of it not
   being completed when you need it.
4                                                             75ABWI33-301 15 JANUARY 2009


    3.3. Logbook. The wing maintains a database of decorations processed over time. Units
    may view decorations on the wing logbook by visiting the web site at
    https://hillnet.hill.af.mil/hafb/alc/75abw/cmd/.
    3.4. Final Actions. The 75 ABW/CCA will send all approved decorations to the MPF. The
    completed decoration will then be forwarded to the proper destination.
       3.4.1. If the member has already departed, then the decoration will be forwarded to the
       complete mailing address.
       3.4.2. If there is no mailing address, it will be returned to the unit for final action.
4. Correspondence.
    4.1. Routing. When sending items to the wing commander or the vice commander ensure
    the appropriate offices have coordinated on it. Normally work that flows to the wing falls into
    one of two categories: Mission/Support-Related and Personnel-Related.
       4.1.1. Mission/Support-Related Items.
           4.1.1.1. Squadrons and Group Agencies. Normally, these items are routed through
           the section chief/officer-in-charge (OIC), the squadron commander, and the group
           commander. Each of those levels may require additional routing/coordination.
           4.1.1.2. Wing Staff Agencies. Ensure these items are signed off by the agency
           chief/commander.
       4.1.2. Personnel-Related Items. All organizations (including wing staff agencies) must
       route these items through the section chief/OIC, the first sergeant (for enlisted issues), the
       unit commander, the group superintendent (for enlisted issues) and the group
       commander.
    4.2. Required Items. All routing and coordination must be documented electronically.
       4.2.1. For all hard copy correspondence (there is a regulation against sending it
       electronically) use a standard blue two-pocket folder.
           4.2.1.1. AF Form 1768. Use this form especially when there is a need to explain the
           contents of the package. It also adds a degree of formality to correspondence. Fill in
           the form completely and attach to the front of the folder. For electronic Staff
           Summary refer to the AFH 33-337 Tongue and Quill page 222.
    4.3. Logbook.          75 ABW/CCA will maintain a correspondence logbook
    (https://hillnet.hill.af.mil/hafb/alc/75abw/cmd/) to aid in tracking items in the command
    section.
    4.4. Follow-Up. Units may view correspondence on the wing logbook by visiting the web
    site at https://hillnet.hill.af.mil/hafb/alc/75abw/cmd/.

5. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.

5.1. Prescribed Forms.
75 ABW Form 4, Performance Report/Decoration Coordination Sheet
5.2. Adopted Forms
75ABWI33-301 15 JANUARY 2009                                         5


AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet




                                    LINDA R. MEDLER, Colonel, USAF
                                    Commander, 75th Air Base Wing
6                                                      75ABWI33-301 15 JANUARY 2009


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
AFI 36-2406, Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems
AFI 36-2803, The Air Force Awards and Decorations Program
AFMAN 33-326, Preparing Official Communications
AFH 33-337, Tongue and Quill

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CCA—Administrative Assistant to the Installation Commander
CCE—Executive Officer to the Installation Commander
EPR—Enlisted Performance Report
MPF—Military Personnel Flight
OIC—Officer in Charge
OO—ALC—Ogden Air Logistics Center
OPR—Officer Performance Report
PR—Performance Report
RDP—Recommendation for Decoration Printout
RIP—Report on Individual Personnel
ABW/CC—75th Air Base Wing Commander

TERMS
Mission/Support-Related Items—Work that is not personnel specific, but deals with the
mission and the support functions for the mission.
Personnel-Related Items—These are items that related directly to people. Examples include:
letters of appreciation, requests for retirement, discharge packages, etc.
