BY ORDER OF THE COMMAND                           78 AIR BASE WING INSTRUCTION 90-201
78 AIR BASE WING
                                                                               8 AUGUST 2014

                                                                           Special Management

                                                              THE AIR FORCE INSPECTION
                                                                          SYSTEM (AFIS)


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 78 ABW/IGI                                                        Certified by: 78 ABW/IG
                                                                              (Col Jeffrey Glass)
                                                                                        Pages: 15
Supersedes:   78 ABWI 90-201,
              21 March 2013


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-2, Inspector General, The
Inspection System, Headquarters United States Air Force Program Action Directive (PAD) 13-
01, Implementation of the Secretary of the United States Air Force Direction to Implement a New
Air Force Inspection System, Air Force Instruction (AFI) 90-201, Special Management, The Air
Force Inspection System, and Air Force Instruction 90-201 AFMC Supplement, Special
Management, The Air Force Inspection System. It provides guidance and procedures for
implementing the requirements established by the new Air Force Inspection System and the
Commander’s Inspection Program and for establishing, conducting, documenting and reporting
unit-level self-assessments for all 78 ABW organizations. Unless specifically outlined in any 78
ABW host-tenant support agreement (HTSA) or memorandum of understanding (MOU), this
publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC), the National Guard Bureau
(NGB), Air Combat Command (ACC), or Air Force Space Command (AFSPC) units. Refer
recommended changes and questions concerning this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Unless otherwise noted, the 78th Air Base Wing Commander is the waiver authority to policies
contained in this Instruction, and will be processed IAW AFI 33-360. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed in accordance with the Air Force
Records                 Disposition                Schedule                located             at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.
 2                                                        78ABWI90-201 8 AUGUST 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication was substantially revised and must be reviewed in its entirety.
78ABWI90-201 8 AUGUST 2014                                                                       3



                                           Chapter 1

                    GENERAL GUIDANCE AND RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1. Purpose. The purpose of this instruction is to outline and prescribe the duties,
responsibilities, and requirements needed to deploy, implement, and maintain a highly effective
wing-level Air Force Inspection System (AFIS) program.
   1.1.1. AFIS seeks to:
       1.1.1.1. Enable and strengthen commander’s effectiveness and efficiency.
       1.1.1.2. Motivate and promote military discipline and improve unit performance and
       management excellence up and down the chain of command.
       1.1.1.3. Identify issues interfering with effectiveness, efficiency, compliance, discipline,
       readiness, performance, surety and management excellence.
   1.1.2. AFIS is also focused on assessing and reporting on a unit’s readiness, economy,
   efficiency, effectiveness and state of discipline to execute assigned missions. AFIS provides
   commanders at all levels an independent assessment of a unit’s:
       1.1.2.1. Compliance with established directives and ability to execute its assigned
       mission, leadership effectiveness, management performance, and aspects of unit culture
       and command climate.
       1.1.2.2. Ability to find, report and fix deficiencies, prevent fraud and minimize waste and
       abuse.
   1.1.3. The 78th Air Base Wing will seek to achieve the primary objectives of AFIS through
   the establishment of a viable and mission-focused Commander’s Inspection Program (CCIP).
   A validated and trusted CCIP is the cornerstone of AFIS. The CCIP will inspect wing-wide
   and subordinate unit effectiveness and assess cross-unit programs as directed by the wing
   commander.
1.2. Objectives. A significant objective of AFIS and the CCIP is to create and incentivize a
culture of continuous improvement in the wing where identifying and fixing problems is valued
more highly than how things look. The CCIP also seeks to improve effectiveness, compliance,
readiness, discipline and surety in AF wings. The three essential elements of the 78 ABW’s
CCIP consist of the wing inspection program, unit self-assessment program, and the
commander’s inspection management board.
   1.2.1. Wing Inspection Program. A wing inspection program, managed and executed by the
   wing IG, through the 78 ABW/IGI Chief of Inspections, with support from subject matter
   experts (SMEs) who serve as inspection team members, will inspect the performance of
   wing-wide performance and programs. When appropriate, the 78 ABW/CC may approve
   waivers for team members that do not meet the minimum rank/grade requirements
   established in AFI 90-201. All CCIP inspections officially begin with the unit in-brief by the
   IG team chief.
   1.2.2. Unit Self-Assessment Program (USAP). The USAP is a commander’s tool used to
   internally assess the health and overall effectiveness of a unit’s programs and processes. It
 4                                                           78ABWI90-201 8 AUGUST 2014


     complements internal and external assessments and helps ensure compliance with public law,
     DoD and AF policy, as well as, other performance, regulatory or statutory requirements.
     Self-assessments are an essential organizational tool with basic responsibility for problem
     solving and corrective action plans residing at the lowest possible levels of command. The
     USAP is considered the premier avenue from which airmen are sensors and actors of positive
     change.
     1.2.3. Commander’s Inspection Management Board (CIMB). The CIMB will review AF,
     MAJCOM, CCIP, and USAP critical and significant deficiencies and associated root causes
     and corrective action plans. The CIMB will also review upcoming CCIP events and topics
     related to the compliance effectiveness of the wing.
     1.2.4. Command Unit Effectiveness Inspections (UEI). The UEI is a years-long, continual
     inspection of the unit’s effectiveness, and is intended to help the wing commander
     understand areas of greatest risk from undetected non-compliance (see Chapter 4, AFI 90-
     201).
1.3. Responsibilities. The ultimate responsibility for detecting non-compliance rests with the
wing commander, subordinate commanders and supervisors. As it relates to compliance,
commanders ensure, functional area managers (FAMs) and program managers enable, and the
office of the inspector general verifies and validates.
     1.3.1. 78 ABW Commanders, Directors, Staff Agency Chiefs, and Supervisors will ensure:
        1.3.1.1. Assigned personnel understand the priority and importance of the CCIP.
        1.3.1.2. USAP Managers are properly trained and appointed in writing.
        1.3.1.3. Unit subject matter experts and program managers chosen for wing inspection
        team duties possess the technical expertise, professionalism, and high moral character
        needed to represent the wing.
        1.3.1.4. Personnel actively support and complete all required unit self-assessments at
        least semi-annually (NLT 30 Jun and 30 Dec of each year).
        1.3.1.5. Known or recently discovered program and process deficiencies are documented
        and entered into the Management Internal Control Toolset (MICT) as soon as practical.
        1.3.1.6. Tracked observations are routinely monitored to ensure currency and are closed
        in a timely manner.
        1.3.1.7. Unit-generated self-assessment checklists are properly titled, managed and
        published in MICT IAW AFI 90-201, para 5.7.
        1.3.1.8. Installation/IG is notified whenever a change in a wing inspection team
        member’s status occurs that may warrant their removal from the team.
        1.3.1.9. Organizational inspection and assessment requirements are integrated and
        synchronized with the wing’s CCIP inspection calendar to the maximum extent possible
        to help reduce the inspection footprint on RAFB units.
        1.3.1.10. Airmen understand that honest and accurate reporting is valued and expected.
        1.3.1.11. Provide the wing’s CCIP inspection team chief with a unit in-brief, for all
        vertical unit inspections, based on or packaged by the four major graded areas (AFI 90-
78ABWI90-201 8 AUGUST 2014                                                                    5


     201, para 2.3 and AFI 1-2, “Commanders Responsibilities”). The requirement for a unit
     in-brief is optional and will be provided at the discretion of the inspected unit
     commander/director.
  1.3.2. Inspector General. The 78 ABW or Installation/IG will:
     1.3.2.1. Serve as the wing’s CCIP Director and as a member and administrator of the
     CIMB.
     1.3.2.2. Certify in writing and administer the IG oath to all inspection team members.
     1.3.2.3. Notify the 78 ABW/CC of deficiencies that require external or HHQ assistance.
     1.3.2.4. Designate in writing 78 ABW Inspection Division (IGI) staff members and
     Wing Inspection Team (WIT) inspectors authorized to conduct over-the-shoulder
     assessments of WIT members.
     1.3.2.5. Ensure the 78 ABW/CC publishes an annual Commander’s Inspection Report
     (CCIR).
  1.3.3. 78 ABW/IGI Director of Inspections/WIT Team Chief will:
     1.3.3.1. Provide the 78 ABW/CC with the wing’s annual inspection plan for approval.
     The inspection plan should include at least one no-notice wing and one no-notice spot
     inspection annually.
     1.3.3.2. Develop, plan, and execute wing inspections to provide the wing commander
     with an independent assessment of unit (vertical) and wing (horizontal) programs.
     1.3.3.3. Ensure CCIP inspection reports are entered, consolidated, validated, and
     published in the Inspector General’s Evaluation Management System (IGEMS).
     1.3.3.4. Facilitate, through the 78 ABW Inspection Compliance Branch (IGIC), the
     CIMB process for the wing. Utilize the CIMB to help verify and validate the
     effectiveness of the wing’s SAP.
     1.3.3.5. Develop and manage a CCIP dashboard for the ABW/CC, utilizing MICT and
     the wing’s virtual CCIP dashboard.
     1.3.3.6. Ensure DoD and AF By Law programs are inspected at least annually.
     1.3.3.7. Periodically liaise with installation mission partner IGIs to ensure base CCIP
     requirements are identified, established, and addressed.
     1.3.3.8. Ensure superior performers and teams, WIT inspectors, and/or other outstanding
     inspection or exercise performances are recognized appropriately (coin, certificate of
     recognition, letter of appreciation, or equivalent) by the wing commander, vice
     commander, and/or the inspector general, at the appropriate forum.
     1.3.3.9. Determine when an inspection team member should be removed from the WIT.
     The IGI will notify the appropriate commander, director, or staff agency chief before this
     action has been taken.
     1.3.3.10. Ensure WIT members receive recurring inspector-related training at least every
     four years.
6                                                            78ABWI90-201 8 AUGUST 2014


       1.3.3.11. Determine when to conduct program assessments of unit-level MICT
       administrators, USAP managers, wing program managers, and/or checklist assessors.
       The 78 ABW/CC and IG may also direct these inspections/assessments at any time.
    1.3.4. 78 ABW/IGI Superintendent will:
       1.3.4.1. Track and properly maintain WIT training documents and certifications.
       1.3.4.2. Along with 78 ABW/IGIC, coordinate formal report requirements with the
       inspection team chief.
       1.3.4.3. Along with 78 ABW Inspection Planning Branch (IGIP), serve as liaison
       between IGI and wing/outside organizations for inspection coordination.
       1.3.4.4. Track, document, and ensure benchmarked programs and superior performers
       identified during inspections are properly recognized in published reports and/or at the
       wing’s CIMBs when appropriate.
    1.3.5. 78 ABW/IGIP Planning Branch will:
       1.3.5.1. Plan and publish the wing’s annual inspection/exercise plan.
       1.3.5.2. Plan all inspection requirements for exercise and formal inspections.
       1.3.5.3. Review, at least annually, the installation’s exercise operating instruction for
       currency and accuracy and other wing plans as required.
       1.3.5.4. Manage the installation’s exercise program. Develop realistic, relevant exercise
       scenarios and scenario objectives. Conduct pre-inspection meetings to finalize and/or de-
       conflict exercise schedules and objectives and publish exercise special instructions when
       required.
       1.3.5.5. Integrate and synchronize wing assessment and other inspection requirements
       into the CCIP inspection schedule to maximum extent possible.
       1.3.5.6. Conduct exercise and inspection hot wash/lessons learned sessions to solicit
       inspection feedback.
       1.3.5.7. Publish and maintain a vertical unit inspection planning guide to assist IGI and
       the unit to be inspected with all inspection preparation and planning requirements.
       1.3.5.8. Oversee the wing’s gatekeeper process.
    1.3.6. 78 ABW/IGIC Compliance Branch will:
       1.3.6.1. Administer and provide oversight of the USAP program for the wing.
       1.3.6.2. Serve as liaison with HHQ MICT lead managers and identify, consolidate and
       provide software issues and suggestions for program improvements.
       1.3.6.3. Plan, schedule and conduct USAP manager meetings, as required, prior to the
       CIMB to review and discuss open observations.
       1.3.6.4. Plan, schedule and manage the wing’s monthly CIMBs. IGIC, or the IGI, will
       also record and file meeting minutes for these events.
       1.3.6.5. Close all deficiencies (IGEMS) “approved for closure” at the CIMB, as soon as
       practicable following monthly board meetings.
78ABWI90-201 8 AUGUST 2014                                                                    7


     1.3.6.6. Identify any program or process trends and share with the wing’s USAP
     managers. When appropriate, brief trends and lessons learned at the CIMB.
     1.3.6.7. Create, publish, and brief wing self-assessment program metrics at monthly
     CIMBs and/or recurring USAP manager meetings.
     1.3.6.8. Ensure wing self-assessment checklists (SACs) for locally developed
     instructions are current and properly published.
     1.3.6.9. Provide MICT training to subordinate units, commanders, administrators, or
     checklist assessors upon request.
  1.3.7. 78 ABW Wing Inspection Team (WIT) Members will:
     1.3.7.1. Complete required training within 6 months of appointment to the WIT.
     Minimum WIT training requirements include the AFIA or 78 ABW WIT CCIP course,
     an over-the-shoulder assessment of the individual conducting an inspection, and any
     other course or class as determined by the 78 ABW/IGI Director of Inspections.
     Additionally, primary inspection team members should be proficient in the use of MICT
     and IGEMS.
     1.3.7.2. Attain and maintain the necessary technical expertise and inspection skills
     needed to conduct accurate and effective program assessments.
     1.3.7.3. Be recommended for inspection duties by their organizational
     commander/director, certified in writing, administered the IG oath by the wing inspector
     general, and appointed to the WIT by the 78 ABW/CC.
     1.3.7.4. Conduct honest, accurate, and consistent assessments of organizational and
     program compliance effectiveness. Ensure all identified deficiencies, to include those
     previously identified by the unit or other inspection teams, are included in the inspection
     report.
  1.3.8. 78 ABW USAP Manager Will:
     1.3.8.1. Act as the overall MICT management authority for the wing, subordinate
     agencies, and installation mission partners.
     1.3.8.2. Develop appropriate metrics and reporting tools utilizing MICT to help validate
     the effectiveness of the wing’s USAP.
     1.3.8.3. Ensure locally published self-assessment checklists (SACs) comply with
     requirements established in AFI 90-201.
     1.3.8.4. Monitor organizations to ensure semi-annual self-assessments are accomplished.
     1.3.8.5. Provide USAPs and the CIMB with monthly program updates.
     1.3.8.6. Assist and advise RAFB USAP managers and conduct training when requested.
     Provide units with current MICT training materials.
     1.3.8.7. Conduct monthly USAP manager meetings as required.
     1.3.8.8. Assign USAP managers and administrators organizational permissions when
     required.
     1.3.8.9. Ensure group USAP managers are trained and appointed in writing.
8                                                         78ABWI90-201 8 AUGUST 2014


    1.3.9. Group, Squadron, and Wing Staff Agency USAP Managers/Administrators will
    ensure:
       1.3.9.1. USAP managers are properly trained, appointed in writing and assigned
       administrative permissions as required.
       1.3.9.2. Functional area/program manager SACs are reviewed and current prior to each
       self-assessment cycle.
       1.3.9.3. Monitor changes to HHQ SACs at all times and notify personnel of updates
       affecting unit programs.
       1.3.9.4. Organizational self-assessments are completed when required.     Periodically
       monitor deficiencies to ensure documented observations are current.
       1.3.9.5. Critical and significant deficiencies are validated by leadership prior to
       presentation at monthly CIMBs.
       1.3.9.6. USAP and MICT training is provided to unit personnel when required.
       1.3.9.7. Locally generated SACs are up-to-date and published in MICT. Notify 78
       ABW/IGIC and/or the appropriate MAJCOM checklist POC whenever locally prescribed
       or HHQ checklists have not been published in the toolset.
       1.3.9.8. Notify the 78 ABW USAP manager of any program management checklists that
       need to be assessed across the wing or installation.
       1.3.9.9. Ensure the appropriate unit personnel have IGEMS access and/or permissions
       needed to adequately document, track, and close inspection deficiencies.
    1.3.10. 78 ABW Personnel will:
       1.3.10.1. Assist organizational leadership in evaluating unit compliance by conducting
       honest and accurate self-assessments.
       1.3.10.2. Ensure identified observations, are provided to individuals with access to
       MICT. All observations should be entered into MICT as soon as possible, regardless of
       established self-inspection cycles.
       1.3.10.3. Strive to close all open deficiencies (IGEMS), and observations (MICT) in a
       timely manner.
       1.3.10.4. Always conduct honest, accurate, and sufficiently detailed internal self-
       assessments.
78ABWI90-201 8 AUGUST 2014                                                                    9


                                          Chapter 2

                       COMMANDER’S INSPECTION PROGRAM

2.1. Commander’s Inspection Program (CCIP). The most critical piece of the new Air Force
Inspection Program is the CCIP. The CCIP has been designed to give commanders and unit
personnel the right information at the right time to assess risk, identify areas of improvement,
determine root causes and precisely focus limited resources. For the CCIP to be successful, the
organizational culture must change to one focused on daily mission readiness and continuous
improvement. Airmen must be empowered to identify and resolve unit deficiencies.
Commanders must support problem resolution efforts and strive to provide resources, when
available, to help with problem resolution. Finally, the wing inspection team must conduct
accurate, open, and honest assessment of organizational performance.
   2.1.1. Wing Inspection Team (WIT). The WIT seeks to replace the reliance on external
   inspections with a trusted and verified wing inspection program. The team supports
   commanders by providing an agile system with built-in options to adjust inspection timing,
   scope, and methods for each unique situation.
       2.1.1.1. While WIT members are not assigned to the IG office, they are detailed out of
       their work centers to augment the IG team as an additional duty. Additionally, while
       officially performing inspection duties, WITs become part of the core IG inspection team.
       IG duty is a position of high public trust and personnel selected as WIT members must
       possess attributes of the highest professional standard and moral character. They must
       also demonstrate adherence to the Air Force core values and should be recognized as
       experts in their fields.
       2.1.1.2. Inspection team members will be responsible for validating and verifying
       organizational USAP and other inspection, assessment, or staff assistance results. All
       deficiencies will be captured in a formal report that is prepared and published in IGEMS.
   2.1.2. Unit Vertical Inspections. Scheduled organizational or unit inspections will be
   published in the wing’s annual inspection schedule. Units assigned to the 78 ABW will be
   inspected every 24 months. All vertical inspections are prior notice inspections (NLT 6
   months prior notification).
   2.1.3. Wing-Wide Horizontal Inspections. Conducted routinely as determined by the wing
   commander and published in the wing inspection calendar. Horizontal or “base-wide
   program” inspections will be scheduled and conducted either notice or no-notice (NLT 48
   hours prior). Horizontal inspections conducted by the WIT are documented and published in
   IGEMS. In some instances, horizontal assessments will be conducted by the wing’s MICT
   program manager. In these instances, assessment results are provided to the appropriate
   program manager for documentation in MICT.
   2.1.4. By-Law Inspections. By Law inspections prescribed in AFI 90-201 will be conducted
   at least annually during the month of January. By-Law inspections will be conducted by
   WIT members and will involve as many RAFB mission partner organizations as possible.
   2.1.5. Installation Team Robins (TR) Exercises. Installation exercises will be planned and
   conducted IAW the wing’s approved inspection calendar. At a minimum, all the exercise
10                                                         78ABWI90-201 8 AUGUST 2014


  requirements established in AFI 90-201 will be assessed annually. 78 ABW/IGIP will serve
  as OPR for all installation exercise planning requirements. For planning purposes, base
  exercises are considered horizontal inspections. Whenever possible, base mission partner
  requirements will be included in TR exercise objectives and scenarios.
  2.1.6. Unit Self-Assessment Program (USAP). As a management tool, USAPs help facilitate
  an environment of openness, compliance, and positive continuous self-improvement. The
  results of self-assessments are crucial in detecting program and process deficiencies where
  improvements are needed. The key to a successful USAP is the active and engaged
  involvement of the organization’s personnel and leadership where every airman is a sensor
  and is empowered and encouraged to provide honest, accurate, fair and objective assessments
  of the unit’s performance and overall operating effectiveness. All assigned 78 ABW units
  will utilize the MICT as the command’s standardized USAP management tool to the
  maximum extent possible. The USAP is also established to ensure:
     2.1.6.1. A culture of compliance and sustainment is established through the active
     involvement and engagement of personnel at every level of command.
     2.1.6.2. Unit compliance with all applicable DoD, AF and MAJCOM directives.
     2.1.6.3. Senior leadership and supervisors are aware and engaged in resolving known
     organizational deficiencies.
     2.1.6.4. MICT Business Rules:
         2.1.6.4.1. FOUO, PII, sensitive and/or classified information will not be entered into
         MICT.
         2.1.6.4.2. Self-assessment deficiencies maintained in MICT will be reviewed
         periodically to ensure currency until closed by the appropriate authority.
         2.1.6.4.3. Program management business rules and procedures will be discussed,
         reviewed, and adjusted as required at USAP manager meetings hosted by 78
         ABW/IGIC.
         2.1.6.4.4. MICT administrators will establish applicable business rules, as needed, to
         support the organizational commanders or directors specific program requirements.
  2.1.7. Commander’s Inspection Management Board (CIMB). The wing’s CIMB will meet
  every month. The focus of the CIMB is to help reduce the risk of undetected non-
  compliance, manage the risk from known areas of non-compliance, and to ensure the wing
  inspection plan meets the commander’s requirements. The 78 ABW/CC (Vice Commander
  in his/her absence), the installation IG, and all group commanders/directors are mandatory
  members of the CIMB.             Additionally, all wing staff agency chiefs, squadron
  commanders/equivalents, and organizational self-assessment program managers are highly
  encouraged to attend. Monthly 78 ABW CIMBs will:
     2.1.7.1. Identify areas where there may be risk of undetected non-compliance.
     2.1.7.2. Review root causes and corrective action plans for all significant and critical
     deficiencies and observations.
     2.1.7.3. Discuss WIT and USAP results as well as any applicable lessons learned.
78ABWI90-201 8 AUGUST 2014                                                                    11


     2.1.7.4. Review objectives or plans for upcoming inspection events.
     2.1.7.5. Discuss MICT performance measures and other CCIP dashboard-related metrics
     as required.
     2.1.7.6. Recognize outstanding CCIP performers and performances.
  2.1.8. Deficiency Types.
     2.1.8.1. Minor. A minor deficiency (observation) is a validated deficiency that has
     negligible mission impact or does not necessarily disrupt mission accomplishment, but
     requires corrective action. The next higher commanders will manage and approve these
     closures. (i.e. squadron for flights, group for squadrons, wing for groups). Personnel
     should attempt to resolve and close all minor deficiencies within 90 days.
     2.1.8.2. Significant. A significant deficiency (observation), regardless of the source, is a
     validated deficiency that has or could have negative mission impact. All significant
     deficiencies will be presented to the CIMB for 78 ABW/CC approved closure only after a
     root cause is identified and a corrective action plan established.
     2.1.8.3. Critical. A critical deficiency (observation), regardless of the source, is a
     validated deficiency that results in, or could result in, widespread negative mission
     impact or failure. As with significant deficiencies, all critical deficiencies will be
     presented to the CIMB for 78 ABW/CC approved closure only after a root cause is
     identified and a corrective action plan established.
  2.1.9. IGEMS Deficiencies. Inspection identified deficiencies placed in IGEMs will be
  updated monthly as needed to ensure currency. For deficiencies identified by the wing’s
  CCIP, the rated unit must close deficiencies IAW AFI 90-201, para 2.20.9.1.
     2.1.9.1. 78 ABW/IGIC will monitor and track to closure critical and significant
     deficiencies once they have been routed through and approved for closure at the wing's
     CIMB. All minor deficiencies will be approved and closed by the next higher level of
     command. For wing staff agencies, minor deficiencies will be closed by the 78 ABW/CV
     or Director of Staff (DS).
     2.1.9.2. Corrective action OPR POCs will assign "deficiency cause codes" IAW Attach 7
     of AFI 90-201.
     2.1.9.3. Deficiencies (critical and significant) not requiring long-term solutions should be
     closed within 9 months.
     2.1.9.4. OPRs should strive to close all MINOR deficiencies within 90 days of the date
     of the inspection report.
     2.1.9.5. Problem solving should be applied through the AF eight-step problem-solving
     model as outlined in the AFSO21 Playbook and to assist in identifying root causes and
     solutions to deficiencies. Include enough detail in each reply to enable CIMB members
     to recommend closing or keeping the deficiency open for additional action. Before
     briefing requested closure of critical and significant deficiencies to the CIMB, a formal
     root cause analysis (RCA) must be completed. If corrective actions have not yet been
     completed, briefly describe the current status or plan of action to resolve the deficiency.
 12                                                           78ABWI90-201 8 AUGUST 2014


       Responses to all critical and significant deficiencies defined in the final report should be
       presented to the 78 ABW's CIMB NLT 45 days after the final report is published.
       2.1.9.6. MAJCOM inspection deficiencies will also be managed and processed IAW AFI
       90-201, para 2.20.9.1; however, unlike local CCIP reports, inspected units will provide
       corrective action plans to MAJCOM IGs, through 78 ABW/IGIC, NLT 45 days after the
       final inspection report is published.
2.2. Command Interest Item (CII) and Special Interest Item (SII). CIIs and SIIs will be
assessed and reported as required by AFI 90-201. IGI will ensure CII/SIIs are assessed during
applicable wing inspections.
2.3. Authorities.
   2.3.1. Commander’s Authority to Inspect. All commanders appointed by G-series orders are
   expected to assess their organizations. Commanders will inspect to improve unit
   performance, military discipline, readiness, efficiency, effectiveness and quality of life for
   Airmen.
   2.3.2. The Installation Inspector General’s Office will monitor unit performance and serve as
   the wing’s OPR and focal point for ensuring compliance with this instruction.




                                             CHRISTOPHER D. HILL, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
78ABWI90-201 8 AUGUST 2014                                                          13


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System
AFI 90-201, AFMC Supplement, The Air Force Inspection System
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABW—Air Base Wing
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFIS—Air Force Inspection System
AFMC—Air Force Material Command
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSO21—Air Force Smart Operations for the 21st Century (Also called Lean at RAFB)
CAP—Corrective Action Plan
CC—Commander
CCIP—Commanders Inspection Program
CI—Compliance Inspection
CII—Commander Interest Item
CVO—Compliance Office
DOD—Department of Defense
FAM—Functional Area Manager
FM—Financial Management
FOUO—For Official Use Only
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
IG—Inspector General
IGEMS—Inspector General Evaluation Management System
MAJCOM—Major Command
MICT—Management Internal Control Toolset
NGB—National Guard Bureau
OCR—Office of Collateral Responsibility
 14                                                           78ABWI90-201 8 AUGUST 2014


OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PII—Personally Identifiable Information
SAC—Self-Assessment Checklist
USAP—Self-Assessment Program
SII—Special Interest Item
SIP—Self Inspection Program
WIT—Wing Inspection Team

Terms
8-Step Problem Solving Process— A standardized procedure for systematically addressing and
resolving difficult issues and situations; the 8-Step Problem Solving Process can be found at the
following website: https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-TR-
AF-43.
Cause Codes— A set of codes from AFI 90-201 and MICT used by the IG to help establish the
likely reason for a deficiency to have occurred. These are usually determined by managers and
not Inspectors or Reviewers and are not strictly the same as Root Causes in the classic sense.
Command Interest Item (CII)— Provides command-level visibility into the extent, impact, and
status of specific known or suspected problems. It is also a means to gather data to evaluate the
status of specific programs and conditions in the field requiring MAJCOM attention.
Compliance Inspection (CI)— Inspections conducted to assess areas mandated by law as well
as mission areas that are critical or important to the health and performance of organizations;
failure to comply with the established directives in these areas could result in legal liabilities,
penalties, or mission impact.
Critical Deficiency— Any deficiency that results in, or could result in, widespread negative
mission impact or failure. Regarding nuclear inspections, a critical deficiency results in, or
meets the criteria for an “UNSATISFACTORY” condition as described in paragraph C-2.b. in
CJCSI 3263.05.
Deficiency— If an inspection notes that compliance with a line item is “No,” then this is
considered to be an area of noncompliance, or a deficiency. A validated inspection deficiency,
finding, inadequacy or observation.
Flight— Flights are the next step below squadrons.
Fraud— Any intentional deception designed to unlawfully deprive the Air Force of something
of value or to secure from the Air Force for an individual a benefit, privilege, allowance or
consideration to which he or she is not entitled. Such practices include, but are not limited to:
Functional Area Manager— A person who manages particular Self-Assessment Checklists for
a specialty in the MAJCOM.
Group— Groups are the next step below wings. For the purposes of this program, CEG, MDG,
MSG, SC, and WSA (Wing Staff Agencies) are treated as the five groups within 78 ABW.
78ABWI90-201 8 AUGUST 2014                                                                  15


MICT— Management Internal Control Toolset. Utilized for AFMC Checklist and Self-
Assessment documentation and can be found via the AF Portal.
Minor Deficiency— A validated deficiency that has negligible mission impact or does not
necessarily disrupt mission accomplishment, but requires corrective action.
Repeat Deficiency— Any and every recorded deficiency from previous like-inspections. A
deficiency resulting from failure to comply with the same guidance that has been noted on a
previous inspection (including deficiencies from any limited or no-notice inspections) of the
same installation/unit.
Significant Deficiency— A validated deficiency that has or could have negative mission impact.
Regarding nuclear inspections, a significant deficiency will have, or is likely to have a major
negative effect on the nuclear weapons mission of the activity but is not defined as an
“UNSATISFACTORY” condition as defined in CJCSI 3263.05.
Squadron/Division— Squadrons are the next step below groups. Divisions are equal to
squadrons in the wing organizational chart. If only "squadron" is stated, then divisions are
considered to be included by default.
Special Interest Item (SII)— An area of focus for management; used to gather data and assess
the status of specific programs and conditions in the field.
