BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                                                 7 AF INSTRUCTION 65-101
7TH AIR FORCE                                                                       1 FEBRUARY 2005
                                                                 Certified Current 17 FEBRUARY 2012
                                                                                Financial Management

                                                             TIME AND ATTENDANCE REPORTING




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 51 CPTS/FMFC (Mr. Ko, Sung)                                               Certified by: 51 CPTS/CC
                                                                                (Lt Col Lori A. Wortman)
Supersedes 7 AFI 65-101, 5 July 2002                                                            Pages: 11
                                                                                           Distribution: F

This instruction establishes standardized Time and Attendance (T&A) Reporting for appropriated fund
Korean National (KN) civilian employees of the USAF in Korea and it implements AFPD 65-1, Manage-
ment of Financial Services. It applies to all units and tenant organizations under Seventh Air Force,
Korea, employing KN civilian personnel paid by the 51st Comptroller Squadron (51 CPTS), Civilian Pay
Section (FMFC).

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision reflects changes due to the Appropriated Fund KN civilian pay section implementing the
International Civilian Pay System (ICPS). The 607 AFS/FNP was realigned to the 51 CPTS/FMFC by
special order GS-04-030. The Korean Local National Pay System (KLNPS) was converted to ICPS,
requiring daily update rather than biweekly. Paragraph 3.3. introduces new and/or revised posting sym-
bols, and paragraphs 3.1.13., 3.3.19. thru 3.3.42. have been added. New or revised material is indicated by
an bar (|).


1. Delegation of Authority.
   1.1. 51 CPTS/FMFC Responsibilities:
       1.1.1. The 51 CPTS/FMFC will establish controls to ensure accurate and timely receipt of T&A
       report (7 AF IMT 34(EF), Korean National Time and Attendance Report). The T&A report
       will be used to certify and disburse payroll payments to KN employees.
       1.1.2. Issue instructions for the preparation and certification of T&A report.
       1.1.3. Review postings to T&A report and contact supervisors or timekeepers to correct any defi-
       ciencies.
2                                                                     7AFI65-101 1 FEBRUARY 2005


       1.1.4. Establish and maintain a training plan for newly assigned timekeepers within 60 days
       arrival in Korea and provide remedial training in those cases where additional training is war-
       ranted.
       1.1.5. Advise and assist operating supervisors in T&A recording procedures and certification of
       T&A report requirements.
       1.1.6. Establish a quality examination program per schedule and 51 CPTS/FMFC reviews of time-
       keeper operations.
           1.1.6.1. The review will cover the following items and should be supplemented by items of
           base or command interest:
               1.1.6.1.1. T&A report is certified by authorized officials.
               1.1.6.1.2. Timekeeper procedures in this regulation are adhered to.
               1.1.6.1.3. Supporting documentation; OPM Form 71, Request for Leave or Approved
               Absence and AF IMT 428, Request for Overtime, Holiday Premium Pay, and Com-
               pensatory Time, are being maintained by the supervisor.
               1.1.6.1.4. The results of the review are reviewed by the Chief of Civilian Pay and dis-
               cussed with the Civilian Pay Section (FMFC). The Chief of Civilian Pay will take appro-
               priate action to resolve problems and discrepancies. The specific findings will be furnished
               to the timekeeper responsible for the forms reviewed. Civilian pay will also advise time-
               keepers of any error trends discovered during the review.
           1.1.6.2. Corrective techniques could include, but are not limited to:
               1.1.6.2.1. Conducting group-training sessions for all timekeepers serviced by the payroll
               office.
               1.1.6.2.2. Documenting the problem areas in a letter to the managers of the organizations
               audited.
               1.1.6.2.3. Sending a summary of the problems and recommended corrective measures to
               all timekeepers serviced by the civilian pay section.
               1.1.6.2.4. Discussing these problems in the initial timekeeper training provided to all new
               timekeepers.
    1.2. 8 CPTF/FMF Responsibilities. The Kunsan FMF is responsible for administering the tasks out-
    lined in this instruction for all serviced unit and tenant organizations.
    1.3. Organizational Responsibilities:
       1.3.1. The wing commander designates the organizational level (branch, division, and directorate)
       to review certified T&A report and leave applications before they are sent to 51 CPTS/FMFC.
       1.3.2. Individuals at the organizational review level are responsible for the following:
           1.3.2.1. Validating the T&A report and leave forms for authorized signatures and complete-
           ness of entries. Supporting documentation must be maintained within the organization.
           1.3.2.2. Checking and ensuring the overtime, holiday work and extended workweek shown on
           the T&A a report was approved by an authorized official.
7AFI65-101 1 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                            3


         1.3.2.3. Keeping records associated with T&A report, leave, and overtime for six years and
         three months after the end of the pay period.
  1.4. Supervisors’ Responsibilities:
     1.4.1. Certification of a T&A report is an authorization for the expenditure of government funds.
     Supervisors of KN employees and/or their officially named assistants are authorized to certify
     T&A report provided they have been officially designated by their organizations and the letter of
     designation is maintained on file within their organization. Unless otherwise authorized by
     instruction, supervisors may not certify their own T&A report.
     1.4.2. The supervisor may assign checking of daily attendance and posting of the T&A report to a
     subordinate. Assignment of these duties to a timekeeper does not relieve the supervisor of the
     responsibility for the accuracy of the forms, which he/she certifies. The supervisor spot-checks
     attendance by personal observation and reviews and initials corrections on the T&A report. If the
     supervisor has an employee assigned to full-time training, the supervisor ensures the employee’s
     T&A report is posted for any leave which employee takes in conjunction with an absence for train-
     ing purposes (training is done on official duty time).
         1.4.2.1. Normally, timekeeping responsibilities should not be assigned to individuals who
         cannot observe the employees’ attendance and absence each day.
         1.4.2.2. Supervisors must ensure by personal observation that exceptions to the employees’
         normal tour of duty are posted daily to the T&A report. Do not use locally devised forms to
         obtain data for later posting to T&A report.
         1.4.2.3. An alternate timekeeper should be appointed to maintain daily T&A reporting during
         absence of the prime timekeeper.
         1.4.2.4. Leave approval is a supervisory responsibility. Supervisors of KN employees will
         approve or disapprove requests for annual or sick leave submitted by their employees.
         1.4.2.5. Supervisors must maintain the OPM Form 71 and medical certificates for six years
         and three months after the end of the pay period before destroying.
  1.5. Timekeepers’ Responsibilities:
     1.5.1. All employees appointed as timekeepers for T&A report is responsible for:
         1.5.1.1. Recording all manners of exceptions to the employee’s attendance and leave to indi-
         vidual T&A report on a daily basis. Posting to T&A report should be verified through personal
         observation of employees serviced.
         1.5.1.2. Ensuring that employees either initial the T&A report for leave used or sign an OPM
         Form 71. If an OPM Form 71 is used, annotate the remarks section of the T&A report with the
         words “OPM Form 71 was received” or “ OPM Form 71 will be obtained.”
         1.5.1.3. Ensuring that all postings for overtime and holiday premium have been approved and
         corrections on the T&A report has been initialed before the T&A report is presented to the cer-
         tifying officer for signature.
  1.6. Approval of Overtime, Holiday Work, and Compensatory Time.
     1.6.1. Approval authority is vested with:
4                                                                     7AFI65-101 1 FEBRUARY 2005


          1.6.1.1. 7 AF/CV for personnel assigned to 7 AF Headquarters.
          1.6.1.2. 51 FW/CC or individuals designated for personnel assigned to Osan AB.
          1.6.1.3. 8 FW/CC or individuals designated for personnel assigned to Kunsan AB.
          1.6.1.4. The tenant unit commanders and/or their designated representative for personnel paid
          from funds received through their respective funding channels.
       1.6.2. The commander or deputy commander of the organizations listed above will designate
       those personnel in writing who are authorized to approve overtime and holiday work requests.
       Copies of the letters will be maintained by the issuing office.

2. Preparation of Requests and Reports:
    2.1. Request for Leave or Approved Absence.
       2.1.1. Request for leave or approved absence will be made by the employee on an OPM Form 71.
       The OPM Form 71 will be used in lieu of initials on the T&A report for the following:
          2.1.1.1. Where distance of employees from their supervisors or timekeepers make it impracti-
          cal to have employees initial the T&A report.
          2.1.1.2. Annual leave in excess of three consecutive workdays.
          2.1.1.3. Sick leave in excess of three consecutive workdays and sick leave requiring a medical
          certificate must include the printed doctor’s name and address.
          2.1.1.4. Sick leave extending into another pay period.
          2.1.1.5. Annual leave extending into another pay period.
          2.1.1.6. Annual or sick leave approved after the end of a pay period.
          2.1.1.7. Substitution of sick leave for annual leave or substitution of leave with pay for leave
          without pay.
          2.1.1.8. Extended leave without pay.
          2.1.1.9. When the OPM Form 71 is submitted; the supervisor annotates the remarks section of
          the T&A report with “OPM Form 71 was received” or “OPM Form 71 will be obtained.”
       2.1.2. The completed OPM Form 71 will be maintained by the supervisor. The certifying official
       or supervisor retains the OPM Form 71 for a period of one year following the end of the year for
       which the OPM Form 71 pertains, and then forwards the OPM Form 71 to the Records Staging
       Area for an additional five years and three months. Medical certificates are also maintained for the
       same time period.
    2.2. AF IMT 428:
       2.2.1. Use AF IMT 428 to request advance approval for overtime and holiday premium pay. In an
       emergency, overtime approval may be obtained after performance (AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily
       Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observances).
       2.2.2. The requesting supervisor prepares AF IMT 428 and forwards it to the respective Civilian
       Personnel Flight for regulatory compliance. In turn, 51 MSS/DPC or 8 MSS/DPC forwards the AF
       IMT 428 to the respective civilian pay budget analyst, 51 CPTS/FMA, or 8 CPTF/FMA, who val-
7AFI65-101 1 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                               5


       idates funds are available. Once funds are validated, it is submitted to the Accounting Liaison
       Office (ALO) for certification. After certification, the AF IMT 428 is forwarded it to the official
       authorized to approve overtime, holiday premium pay, and compensatory time.
       2.2.3. The approving official returns the approved AF IMT 428 to the requesting supervisor.
       2.2.4. The supervisor keeps the approved AF IMT 428 through the end of the pay period to which
       it pertains to support entries on the employee’s T&A report.
       2.2.5. The supervisor will destroy the approved AF IMT 428 for six years and three months after
       the end of the pay period to support entries on employee’s T&A report. The supervisor ensures
       that overtime and holiday premium hours posted on T&A report is supported by, and do not
       exceed the hours authorized on the approved AF IMT 428. The timekeeper records overtime and
       holiday premium on the T&A report. The supervisor’s certification on the T&A report attests that
       the approved work was actually performed and serves as a basis for payment. An annotation must
       be made in the Remarks Section that an “AF IMT 428 was approved.”
   2.3. Requests for Establishing Tours of Duty for Korean Employees. Supervisors must establish all
   specific tour of duties for their KN employees. Those duties should be coordinated with the servicing
   Civilian Personnel Office (CPO). (Reference USFKR 690-1, Regulations Procedures-Korean Nation-
   als, Chapter 6)

3. Preparation of 7 AF IMT 34. T&A report will be generated by the system. The 51 CPTS/FMFC
sends individual T&A report for current employees to reach organizational timekeepers before the begin-
ning of the pay period. For new employees, timekeepers may use a blank T&A report to record a new
employee’s hours until they receive the preprinted T&A report from 51 CPTS/FMFC. T&A report will at
no time pertain to more than one organizational unit comprised of those personnel that the certifying offi-
cial can effectively supervise and that the timekeepers can observe in the performance of daily duties.
Duplicate or work copies of T&A report will not be used. All entries will be printed in ink or may be
typed. The timekeepers will personally check T&A report and post each attendance and/or absence daily
using black or blue ink or felt tip pen.
   3.1. Identification Data:
       3.1.1. Pay period number. 1 to 26 or 27 for years with 27 pay periods (preprinted).
       3.1.2. Pay period dates. Beginning date and ending date of the pay period (preprinted).
       3.1.3. Pay block. Number assigned by the 51 CPTS/FMFC (preprinted).
       3.1.4. Payroll office. Korean National Payroll Office (preprinted). This is the payroll office to
       which the timekeeper will submit the completed T&A report.
       3.1.5. Employing activity. Assigned organization code (preprinted).
       3.1.6. Office symbol. Assigned office symbol (preprinted).
       3.1.7. Timekeeper code. Assigned timekeeper number (preprinted).
       3.1.8. Timekeeper name. Name of timekeeper (preprinted). If timekeeper has changed,
       strikethrough the preprinted timekeeper name and print the new timekeeper’s name in remarks
       section.
6                                                                     7AFI65-101 1 FEBRUARY 2005


       3.1.9. Timekeeper duty phone. Phone number for the timekeeper (preprinted). If timekeeper has
       changed, strikethrough the preprinted timekeeper phone number and print the new timekeeper’s
       phone number in remarks section.
       3.1.10. Employee number. The number was assigned by the CPO. Each timesheet has the capabil-
       ity to handle three individual employees (preprinted). New employees may be added on a blank
       sheet or at the bottom of the last T&A report if there is a blank record.
       3.1.11. Employee name. Each T&A report has the capability to handle three individual employees
       (preprinted). New employees may be added on a blank sheet or at the bottom of the last T&A
       report if there is a blank record. If employee’s name has changed, strikethrough the preprinted
       name and print the employee’s new name after the preprinted name in this block.
       3.1.12. Hour type. Work or Absence hour type codes (scheduled work hour type codes will only
       be preprinted if the employee’s work schedule has been established in the system). If changes to a
       preprinted code needs to be made, strikethrough the preprinted hour type code and print the new
       hour type code below the preprinted hour type code.
       3.1.13. Duty hours. The normal hours that the employee is scheduled to work. (i.e., scheduled
       duty hours will only be preprinted if the employee’s work schedule has been established in the sys-
       tem). Timekeepers must indicate, in these blocks, the employee’s daily tour of duty for a new
       employee when no hours are preprinted -or- identify correct days/hours when changes to the pre-
       printed days/hours are required. In remarks section, print days of the week and hours of the day the
       employee is required to work (i.e., Mon-Fri, 0800-1700). Additionally, indicate the employee’s
       eating period if it is taken between 2200-0600.
    3.2. Legend. Directory and description of all the available posting symbols to be used to complete the
    T&A report.
    3.3. Updates:
       3.3.1. “RG” Regular hours of work. The timekeeper verifies that the employee was physically
       present on duty for the regularly scheduled hours per day. Leave the number of hours worked (pre-
       printed) on line with “RG.” For new employees the timekeeper will need to print the hour type
       code “RG” and include the number of scheduled daily duty hours in each applicable daily block.
       3.3.2. “SB” Standby. Enter the number of standby hours on line with “SB” if applicable. For new
       employees the timekeeper will need to print the hour type code “SB” and include the applicable
       number of hours in each applicable daily block.
       3.3.3. “RT” Travel status. If an employee is on approved travel status, enter the number of regular
       scheduled hours (preprinted) on line with “RT.” Enter the actual number of hours employee was
       TDY with “RT.” TDY hours will be reported, instead of “RG” hours (for example: when an
       employee is scheduled to work Mon-Fri 8 hours a day and is TDY Mon-Thurs - the timekeeper
       will report “RG” with 8 hours on Fri and “RT” with 8 hours on Mon-Thurs).
       3.3.4. “HW” Holiday worked. If an employee works on a Korean holiday, change from “LH” to
       “HW.” Enter the words “AF IMT 428 was approved” in the remarks section of the T&A report.
       3.3.5. “RR” Representational. The union president and representatives are authorized to use the
       limited amount of representational hours (Reference: Labor Management Agreement between
       USFK and USFK Korean Employees Union). Enter the actual number of hours employee spent
7AFI65-101 1 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                                   7


     working on union business during their workday on line with “RR” (quarter hours are reported as
     .25, .50 or .75). Representational hours will be reported in addition to, not instead of, “RG” hours
     for the workday (for example: when an employee is scheduled to work 8 hours and spends 4 hours
     and 45 minutes of the workday on union business – the timekeeper will report “RG” with 8 hours
     and “RR” with 4.75 hours). Representational hours will be used for reporting purposes only. An
     OPM Form 71 must be supported for the representational hours.
     3.3.6. “ND” Night differential. Enter the number of hours worked (quarter hours are reported as
     .25, .50 or .75) between the hours of 2200-0600 on line with “ND”. Night Differential hours will
     be reported in addition to, not instead of, “RG” hours for the workday (for example: when an
     employee is scheduled to work 8 hours and 4 hours and 45 minutes of the workday fall between
     the hours of 2200-0600 the timekeeper will report “RG” with 8 hours and “ND” with 4.75 hours).
     In the remarks section, enter the employee’s eating period if taken between the hours of
     2200-0600. If no eating period is taken between these hours, enter a statement to this effect in the
     remarks section of the T&A report.
     3.3.7. “OT” Overtime worked. Enter the number of hours overtime worked (quarter hours are
     reported as .25, .50 or .75) on line with “OT” and the words “AF IMT 428 was approved” in the
     remarks section of the T&A report.
     3.3.8. “OW” Weekly Overtime. Enter the number of hours of work that do not exceed the over-
     time threshold for any day but do exceed the overtime threshold for a workweek.
     3.3.9. “CE” Compensatory time earned. Enter the number of hours compensatory time earned
     (quarter hours are reported as .25, .50 or .75) on line with “CE” and the words “AF IMT 428 was
     approved” in the remarks section of the T&A report.
     3.3.10. “OB” Call back overtime 1. Use this code, if the firefighters were not required to report to
     the fire or to another location to provide emergency coverage. Enter the actual hours worked
     (quarter hours are reported as .25, .50 or .75). If the actual hours worked are less than one hour, the
     minimum of one hour will be paid. Enter the number of hours for overtime worked on line with
     “OB” and the words “AF IMT 428 was approved” in the remarks section of the T&A report.
     3.3.11. “OC” Call back overtime 2. Use this code for any employee required to return to duty
     location for overtime or for firefighters, if the firefighters were required to report to the fire or to
     another location to provide emergency coverage. Enter the actual hours worked (quarter hours are
     reported as .25, .50 or .75). If the actual hours worked are less than two hours, the minimum of two
     hours will be paid. Enter the number of hours for overtime worked on line with “OC” and the
     words “AF IMT 428 was approved” in the remarks section of the T&A report.
     3.3.12. “CB” Call back compensatory time 1. Use this code, if the firefighters were not required
     to report to the fire or to another location to provide emergency coverage. Enter the actual hours
     worked (quarter hours are reported as .25, .50 or .75). If the actual hours worked are less than one
     hour, the minimum of one hour will be earned. Enter the number of hours for compensatory time
     worked on line with “CB” and the words “AF IMT 428 was approved” in the remarks section of
     the T&A report.
     3.3.13. “CC” Call back compensatory time 2. Use this code for any employee required to return
     to duty location for overtime or for firefighters, if the firefighters were required to report to the fire
     or to another location to provide emergency coverage. Enter the actual hours worked (quarter
     hours are reported as .25, .50 or .75). If the actual hours worked are less than two hours, the mini-
8                                                                       7AFI65-101 1 FEBRUARY 2005


       mum of two hours will be earned. Enter the number of hours for compensatory time worked on
       line with “CC” and the words “AF IMT 428 was approved” in the remarks section of the T&A
       report.
       3.3.14. “HB” Call back holiday 1. Use this code, if the firefighters were not required to report to
       the fire or to another location to provide emergency coverage. Enter the actual hours worked
       (quarter hours are reported as .25, .50 or .75). If the actual hours worked are less than one hour, the
       minimum of one hour of holiday worked will be paid. Enter the number of hours for holiday
       worked on line with “HB” and the words “AF IMT 428 was approved” in the remarks section of
       the T&A report.
       3.3.15. “HC” Call back holiday 2. Use this code for any employee required to return to duty loca-
       tion for holiday work or for firefighters, if the firefighters were required to report to the fire or to
       another location to provide emergency coverage. Enter the actual hours worked (quarter hours are
       reported as .25, .50 or .75). If the actual hours worked are less than two hours, the minimum of two
       hours of holiday will be paid. Enter the number of hours for holiday worked on line with “HC” and
       the words “AF IMT 428 was approved” in the remarks section of the T&A report.
       3.3.16. “RX” Date of death. The supervisor must ensure the employee’s date of death is reported
       on correct day with applicable hours. Work/leave hours may or may not be reported on the day of
       death depending on employee’s time of death (i.e., before, during or after duty hours). “RX” hours
       may or may not be zero depending on time of death. Enter the applicable hours on line with “RX.”
For example:
1. Employee died prior to duty hours for the day; the timekeeper would report “RX” with 8 hours.
2. Employee died during duty hours after working 4 hours; the timekeeper would report “RG” with 4
hours and “RX” with 4 hours.
3. Employee died after duty hours after working 8 hours; the timekeeper would report “RG” with 8 hours
and “RX” with 0 hours.
       3.3.17. “RS” Date of separation. Separations are effective at end of day. On scheduled workdays,
       hours of work/leave will be reported on the day of separation. “RS” will always be reported with
       zero hours on line with “RS” to identify the date of separation. Enter the type of separation for
       employee in the remarks section of the T&A report.
For example:
On date of separation the employee worked 4 hours and took 4 hours annual leave; the timekeeper would
report “RG” - 4 hours; “LA” - 4 hours and “RS” - 0 hours.
       3.3.18. “SN” Standby – not worked. If the firefighters took leave the full or partial day, the “SN”
       will be reported with leave to complete daily work requirement. Enter applicable number of hours
       on line with “SN.”
       3.3.19. “LH” Holiday taken. If an employee didn’t work on a Korean holiday, leave the regular
       scheduled hours on line with “LH” (preprinted).
       3.3.20. “LA” Annual leave. Enter the number of hours of annual leave taken on line with “LA.” If
       the amount of annual leave taken was less than a full scheduled day, show inclusive times on the
       next line. If the OPM Form 71 supports annual leave in excess of three consecutive workdays,
7AFI65-101 1 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                             9


     enter “OPM Form 71 was received” in the remarks section of the T&A report. The last line is for
     the employees’ initials, which are required, if entry is not supported by an OPM Form 71.
     3.3.21. “LF” Forced leave. Enter the number of hours of forced leave on line with “LF” and anno-
     tate approved information for forced leave in the remarks section of the T&A report.
     3.3.22. “LB” Advanced annual leave. Retirees reappointed may be granted a reasonable amount
     of advanced annual leave (Reference: USFKR 690-1, paragraph 7-5k). Enter the number of hours
     of advanced annual leave used on line with “LB” and annotate approved information for advanced
     annual leave in the remarks section of the T&A report.
     3.3.23. “LS” Sick leave. Enter the number of hours of sick leave taken on line with “LS.” If the
     amount of sick leave taken was less than a full scheduled day, show inclusive times on next line.
     If an OPM Form 71 supports sick leave in excess of three consecutive workdays and/or sick leave
     requiring a doctor’s certificate, enter “OPM Form 71 and doctor’s certificate were received” in the
     remarks section of the T&A report. The last line is for the employee’s initials, which are required,
     if entry is not supported by an OPM Form 71.
     3.3.24. “LG” Advanced sick leave. Excused absences due to medical observation approved
     through the commander’s channel (Reference: USFKR 690-1, paragraph 7-6g). Enter the number
     of advanced sick leave hours used on line with “LG.” Identify the number of advanced sick leave
     hours authorized in the remarks section. Excused absences for medical observation of an approved
     advanced sick leave must be supported by an OPM Form 71. Therefore, enter “OPM Form 71 was
     received” in the remarks section of the T&A report.
     3.3.25. “LT” Time off award. Enter the number of time off award hours used on line with “LT”
     and annotate approved information for time off award in the remarks section of the T&A report.
     3.3.26. “CT” Compensatory time taken. Enter the number of hours of compensatory time taken on
     line with “CT” and the employee’s initial on the last line.
     3.3.27. “FM” Marriage. Enter the number of hours of marriage on line with “FM” and annotate
     approved information for marriage in the remarks section of the T&A report.
     3.3.28. “FD” Death family. Enter the number of hours of death family (members in a direct line)
     on line with “FD” and annotate approved information for death family in the remarks section of
     the T&A report.
     3.3.29. “FE” Death relative. Enter the number of hours of death relative (members in other than a
     direct line) on line with “FE” and annotate approved information for death relative in the remarks
     section of the T&A report.
     3.3.30. “FG” Parent’s 60th birthday. Enter the number of hours of parent’s 60th birthday on line
     with “FG” and annotate approved information for parent’s 60th birthday.
     3.3.31. “LN” Administrative leave. This is for periods of administrative leave when the installa-
     tion may be closed at the order of the installation commander because of emergency conditions.
     Written approval will be received from the commander. Enter the number hours of administrative
     leave on line with “LN” and annotate approved information for administrative leave in the
     remarks section of the T&A report.
     3.3.32. “LM” Maternity leave. The employee will submit the request for maternity leave (OPM
     Form 71) to the supervisor and will furnish a doctor’s certificate indicating the approximate date
10                                                                       7AFI65-101 1 FEBRUARY 2005


        of delivery and, upon return to duty, will furnish a doctor’s certificate establishing the date of birth
        of the child. Enter the number of hours of maternity leave taken on line with “LM” and annotate
        “OPM Form 71 was received” in the remarks section of the T&A report.
        3.3.33. “LK” Voting. Employees who want to vote in governmental elections at communities
        where they maintain voting residence may be excused without charge to leave for a maximum of
        full scheduled hours. Enter the number of hours of voting leave taken on line with “LK” and anno-
        tate information for voting in the remarks section of the T&A report.
        3.3.34. “KC” Absent without leave (AWOL). This symbol indicates an absence that was not
        approved by the supervisor. Enter the number of hours of absence on line with “KC.”
        3.3.35. “KA” Leave without pay (LWOP). This is approved leave granted by the supervisor, when
        an employee does not have annual and/or sick leave to cover an absence. Leave without pay over
        three consecutive workdays must be supported by an OPM Form 71. Enter the number of hours
        leave without pay on line with “KA”. Have the employee’s initial on the last line, or enter “OPM
        Form 71 was received” in the remarks section of the T&A report.
        3.3.36. “KB” Suspension. This symbol indicates an enforced absence from work for disciplinary
        reason. Enter the number of hours absent, due to suspension on line with “KB.”
        3.3.37. “KM” Maternity leave without pay (MWOP). This is excused absences to observe mater-
        nity leave without pay (Reference: USFKR 690-1, 7-7b (1)). The employee will submit the
        request for maternity leave without pay to the supervisor and will furnish a doctor’s certificate.
        Enter the number of hours of maternity leave without pay on line with “KM.”
        3.3.38. “KE” Furlough. The commander may authorize the furlough action, due to budget con-
        straints. If an employee receives a furlough action, he/she can stay on the roll for three months.
        Enter number of hours of furlough on line with “KE.”
        3.3.39. “EOD” Entered on duty. Enter information concerning “EOD” in the remarks section of
        the T&A report to indicate the first day of duty for a new employee or an employee transferring
        into the jurisdiction of the timekeeper.
        3.3.40. Remarks. Timekeeper should annotate and initial any pertinent information concerning
        employee’s leave, pay status, change of timekeeper or supervisor, etc., on the T&A report.
        3.3.41. Certifying officer’s name & rank. Enter name and rank of the certifying officials that have
        been designated by the squadron commander.
        3.3.42. All figures will be extended by the appointed timekeeper and certified by the certifying
        official, prior to forwarding T&A report to 51 CPTS/FMFC.
        3.3.43. Type or enter, in ink, all entries, as well as, the printed name, grade, title, and phone num-
        ber of the certifying officer.

4. Certification and Submission of 7AF IMT 34. After the T&A report has been certified and
reviewed by the responsible official at the appropriate organization level, forward it to the 51 CPTS/
FMFC, no later than 1200 on the Monday following the close of the pay period.
     4.1. Supervisor's Checklist. Supervisors are responsible for the accuracy of the T&A report that they
     certify. Before certifying, the supervisor must review the T&A report, utilizing the checklist.
7AFI65-101 1 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                           11


   4.2. Resubmission of T&A report due to errors. T&A report cannot be altered, once they have been
   certified and submitted to the 51 CPTS/FMFC. If an error is discovered, after the T&A report has sub-
   mitted, the timekeeper must prepare a corrected T&A report. The corrected T&A report must be anno-
   tated “corrected” in the remarks section and must be certified using the standard procedures for T&A
   certification.

5. Form Prescribed. 7 AF IMT 34 (EF), Korean National Time and Attendance Report.



                                              GARRY R. TREXLER, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                              Commander
