BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                     89 AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCION 90-101
                                                                                           25 APRIL 1997

                                                                                         Command Policy

                                                                      PRESIDENTIAL PILOT OFFICE



NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.

OPR: 89 AW/CC (Brig Gen Lichte)                               Certified by: 89 AW/CC (Brig Gen Lichte)
                                                                                              Pages: 3
                                                                                       Distribution: F

This document clarifies and alters the command and operational relationship and support responsibilities
between the 89th Airlift Wing (89 AW), White House Military Office, and the Presidential Pilot Office. It
outlines the organizational structure and personnel requirements of the Presidential Pilot Office. The Pres-
idential Pilot Office will be provided the same day-to-day support as all units assigned to the 89 AW. This
document addresses only the unique requirements of the Presidential Pilot Office.

1. Terms Explained:
   1.1. PPO. Presidential Pilot Office.
   1.2. WHMO. White House Military Office.
   1.3. Augmentee. An individual assigned to another 89 AW unit and performs duties in PPO when
   requested by the Chief, PPO.
   1.4. CVAM. Special Air Missions Office of the Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force.

2. Mission. The mission of the PPO is to provide safe, comfortable and reliable air transportation for the
President of the United States. The air transportation of the President is the 89 AW's highest priority mis-
sion.

3. Command:
   3.1. The PPO is a subordinate unit under the 89 AW. The 89 AW Commander has command and
   administrative authority over the PPO and is the senior rater for all personnel assigned to the PPO,
   with the exception of the Chief, PPO, whose senior rater will be the Director, WHMO.
   3.2. The Chief, PPO will be placed on G-series orders and will be responsible for all personnel per-
   manently assigned to the PPO.
   3.3. The Director, WHMO has complete and undisturbed operational control (OPCON) of PPO. The
   Director will task PPO directly to conduct worldwide airlift missions in specially configured aircraft
   assigned to the 89AW.
2                                                                            89AWI90-101 25 April 1997


    3.4. The Chief, PPO is responsible for the operations and maintenance of Presidential aircraft and
    vested with the authority to manage same. The Chief, PPO shares responsibility for security with the
    installation chief of security police, who manages security forces.

4. Personnel:
    4.1. The Chief, PPO serves at the pleasure of the President. The Chief will normally serve a 4-year
    term after which replacement candidates will be identified by the 89 AW Commander, nominated to
    the Air Force Chief of Staff, and forwarded to the Director, WHMO, who will select the new Chief,
    PPO.
    4.2. Permanently assigned PPO personnel will include aircrews, maintenance, supply, operations
    resource management, services, first sergeant, and orderly room personnel.
    4.3. The Chief, PPO will select all personnel assigned to the PPO, including augmentees.
    4.4. Aircrew augmentees will be assigned to the 89th Operations Group (89 OG). They will be made
    available to maintain currency/proficiency and to supplement the PPO as determined by the Chief,
    PPO.
    4.5. Security police augmentees will be assigned to the 89th Security Police Squadron (89 SPS). They
    will be made available to supplement the PPO as determined by the Chief, PPO.
    4.6. Logistics augmentees will be assigned to the 89th Logistics Group (89 LG). They will be made
    available to supplement the PPO as determined by the Chief, PPO.

5. Support:
    5.1. The 89 AW will provide aircraft and assets in direct support of PPO missions. The Chief, PPO
    may designate qualification levels and crew complements or select specific crewmembers for Presi-
    dential/ Presidential support missions.
    5.2. The 89 AW will direct all media and public affairs requests concerning the VC-25A and Presi-
    dential missions to the Chief, PPO.
    5.3. The 89 OG will administer all aspects of the aircrew standardization/evaluation program.
    5.4. The 89 LG will provide dedicated secure fuel trucks and other logistics assets as required to sup-
    port PPO missions.
    5.5. The 89th Operational Support Squadron will provide dedicated weather support for all Presiden-
    tial missions. Two highly experienced weather forecasters whose primary duty is weather support will
    be identified and be on call for en route briefings, weather updates, and hazardous weather watch prior
    to and during each Presidential aircraft flight.
    5.6. Consistent with Air Force and DoD guidance, the Chief, PPO and installation chief of security
    police will, in coordination, determine minimum security requirements for the PPO support facility
    and aircraft assigned to the Presidential fleet. The Chief, PPO has approval authority for issuing
    restricted area badges and unescorted entry lists for Presidential aircraft and facilities. The 89 AW/CC,
    89 AW/CV, and 89 AW/CCC will have unescorted entry access into the PPO support facility.
89AWI90-101 25 April 1997                                                                                 3


   5.7. The 89 SPS administers the Yankee White clearance program. Unit commanders will manage
   assigned Yankee White slots to ensure sufficient highly qualified personnel are available to perform
   support and augmentee duties for PPO.

6. Evaluation and Assessment. The 89 AW/CC will direct annually, an administrative, safety, and opera-
tional assessment to ensure that PPO meets all appropriate Air Force standards.



                                                       ARTHUR J. LICHTE, Brig Gen, USAF
                                                       Commander
