BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       8TH FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION 10-104
8TH FIGHTER WING
                                                                                   12 MAY 2011

                                                                                      Operations

                                                  MISSION DIRECTIVE FOR 8TH MISSION
                                                        SUPPORT GROUP (8 MSG) UNITS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 8 MSG/CCE                                                          Certified by: 8 MSG/CC
                                                                   (Colonel Richard S. Palmieri)
Supersedes:    8FWI10-104, 8 April 2008                                                 Pages: 9


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-1, Mission Directives. This
instruction establishes the missions, organization, responsibilities, and command relationships of
the 8th Mission Support Group and its subordinate units, i.e., 8th Force Support Squadron (FSS),
8th Civil Engineer Squadron (8 CES), 8th Security Forces Squadron (8 SFS), 8th Logistics
Readiness Squadron (8 LRS) and 8th Communications Squadron (8 CS). It applies to all
personnel assigned, attached, or associated units with Kunsan Air Base, Republic of Korea.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route AF Form 847s from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms
managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/ The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial
product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision updates office symbols such as the conversion of MSS/SVS to FSS and updates in
the CS and SFS Mission Statements. New or revised material is indicated by an asterisk (*).
1. Mission. To support and defend the 8th Fighter Wing (8 FW) and Kunsan Air Base (AB)
through effective employment of combat-ready forces and logistics, personnel, communications,
services, engineering and security support.
 2                                                                   8FWI10-104 12 MAY 2011


2. Command. The Commander, 8th Mission Support Group is responsible to the Commander,
8th Fighter Wing.
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. The 8th Mission Support Group Commander (8 MSG/CC):
        3.1.1. Provides a rapid-response combat readiness capability in support of higher
        headquarters tasking and directives in accordance with (IAW) governing guidance,
        instructions, regulations, and laws.
        3.1.2. Provides force protection to the 8 FW and Kunsan AB community IAW governing
        guidance, instructions, regulations, and laws.
        3.1.3. Provides a computer-communications, airfield systems, and information
        management capability in support of the 8 FW and Kunsan AB community IAW
        governing guidance, instructions, regulations and laws.
        3.1.4. Provides infrastructure maintenance and new construction capability to the 8 FW
        and Kunsan AB community. Effectively executes construction, maintenance and
        contractor quality assurance programs, ensuring compliance with Air Force, Pacific Air
        Forces, Wing and local regulations/codes.
        3.1.5. Provides personnel management and human resources training to the 8 FW and
        Kunsan AB community IAW governing guidance, instructions, regulations, and laws.
        3.1.6. Provides quality of life services to the 8 FW and Kunsan AB community IAW
        governing guidance, instructions, regulations, and laws.
        3.1.7. Provides AF services combat support to the 8 FW and Kunsan AB community
        IAW governing guidance, instructions, regulations, and laws.
        3.1.8. Provides logistics plans, fuels, supply and transportation support to the 8 FW and
        Kunsan AB community IAW governing guidance, instructions, regulations, and laws.
4. The 8th Civil Engineer Squadron Commander (8 CES/CC):
     4.1. Mission. Provide emergency air base repair, AF unit and weapon system bed down,
     unit security and base denial, operation and maintenance of AF facilities and installations,
     aircraft rescue and facility fire suppression, and construction management. Renders safe, and
     disposes of, explosive ordnance and monitors and protects resources subject to
     unconventional, conventional, nuclear, biological, and chemical attack. Conducts operations
     to protect personnel and environmental resources through hazard reduction and containment.
     Performs rapid runway and spall damage repair to meet mission requirements.
     4.2. Command. The 8 CES/CC is responsible to the 8 MSG/CC.
     4.3. Responsibilities.
        4.3.1. The 8 CES/CC:
            4.3.1.1. Provides contract surveillance for facility maintenance, refuse collection and
            disposal, grounds maintenance, and other contracts IAW the AF Quality Assurance
            Surveillance Program. Ensures all contractors comply with the spirit and intent of
            published contractual documents.
8FWI10-104 12 MAY 2011                                                                       3


         4.3.1.2. Provides timely and effective technical expertise, design guidance, and
         surveillance of all Kunsan AB construction programs IAW AFI 32-1023, Design and
         Construction Standards and Execution of Facility Construction Projects, and other
         applicable instructions, guides, and major command standards.
         4.3.1.3. Provides maintenance, repair, and construction of AF real property and Real
         Property Installed Equipment (RPIE) through the effective and timely execution of
         in-house work.
         4.3.1.4. Provides cost-effective dormitory furniture and appliance management IAW
         AFI 32-6001, Family Housing Management, and AFI 32-6005, Unaccompanied
         Housing Management.
         4.3.1.5. Maintains the Base General Plan as a blueprint for long-range planning,
         development, and facility improvement. Accomplishes a comprehensive update
         every two years IAW AFI 32-7062, Air Force Comprehensive Planning, and local
         planning initiatives.
         4.3.1.6. Provides real property management for base facilities through the execution
         of real property acquisition, management, and disposition IAW applicable AF
         guidance, instructions, regulations, and laws. Provides efficient base resource
         management within budgetary constraints through a balance of contract and in-house
         work.
         4.3.1.7. Provides Fire Emergency Services to the 8 FW and Kunsan AB community
         IAW response criteria contained in DODI 6055.6, DOD Fire and Emergency Services
         Program and AFI 32-2001, The Fire Protection Operations and Fire Prevention
         Program.
         4.3.1.8. Provides Explosive Ordnance Disposal Services to the 8 FW, Kunsan AB
         community, and peacetime support to Deagu, Kwangju, and Kimhae Air Bases, and
         Sacheon Magnum (USFK Area IV). Assist the U.S. Secret Service and Department
         of State in support of presidential and foreign head-of-state visits. Support Joint
         POW/MIA Accounting Command (JPAC) on recovery/repatriation missions.
         Provides range support for USFK at Chik-do Range; performs munitions destruct
         operations at Pilsung Range.
         4.3.1.9. Provides general/specialized Emergency Management all-hazards Threat
         Response training and contingency/peacetime response services to the 8 FW and
         Kunsan AB community IAW AFI 10-2501, Emergency Management Program
         Planning and Operations, and 8 FW Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan
         10-2.
         4.3.1.10. Provides asset management capabilities for the installation’s real property,
         including the management of energy, environmental, and unaccompanied housing
         programs.
         4.3.1.11. Provides an array of Geographical Information System-based tools through
         the Geo-Integration Office to facilitate planning and execution of contingency and
         peacetime activities.
5. The 8th Communications Squadron (8 CS/CC):
 4                                                                  8FWI10-104 12 MAY 2011


     5.1. Mission. To provide constant combat ready communications, information, and
     navigational aids systems and services to the Wolf Pack's warriors and aircraft
     5.2. Command. The 8 CS/CC is responsible to the 8 MSG/CC.
     5.3. Responsibilities.
        5.3.1. The 8 CS/CC:
            5.3.1.1. Maintains air traffic control, landing, navigational, and meteorological
            systems in support of the U.S. Forces Korea (USFK), the Republic of Korea, the 8
            FW, and the wartime follow-on forces’ flying operations. Sustains acceptable system
            in-service rates IAW equipment technical orders, AF instructions, and major
            command standards.
            5.3.1.2. Manages and maintains personal computer systems, reliable command and
            control systems, long haul and local data services, secure voice, telephone services,
            switching, and network systems in support of USFK, the Republic of Korea, the 8
            FW, and Kunsan AB associate units IAW equipment technical orders, AF
            Instructions, Major Command and Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA)
            standards.
            5.3.1.3. Provides information assurance/information protection for the 8 FW and
            Kunsan AB associate units IAW applicable AF 33-series instructions and direction
            from AF Cyber Command, AF Network Operations Center, and the 561st Network
            Operations Squadron.
            5.3.1.4. Provides information management services IAW established local, Major
            Command, and AF directives.
            5.3.1.5. Provides official and unofficial postal services to the 8 FW and tenant units
            IAW AF, Department of Defense (DOD) and United States Postal Service directives.
6. The 8th Logistics Readiness Squadron (8 LRS/CC):
     6.1. Mission. Deliver focused, full spectrum logistics support to the 8 FW in peacetime and
     combat operations.
     6.2. Command. The 8 LRS/CC is responsible to the 8 MSG/CC.
     6.3. Responsibilities.
        6.3.1. The 8 LRS/CC:
            6.3.1.1. Provides transportation services to include movement of distinguished
            visitors, transient personnel, and base personnel through scheduled bus service or U-
            Drive It fleet. Performs preventive and complete maintenance on assigned vehicle
            fleet. Manages vehicle fleet and oversees licensing and vehicle control program.
            6.3.1.2. Provides parts and supplies to all 8 FW customers through Standard Base
            Supply System. Maintains equipment accounts and tracks document control.
            Resolves maintenance/ supply problems, maintains Consumable/In-Place Readiness
            Spares Packages and operates the Aircraft Parts Store.
8FWI10-104 12 MAY 2011                                                                         5


          6.3.1.3. Provides petroleum, oil and lubricant service to 8 FW aircraft and vehicles
          for both daily use and in support of Operations Plan (OPLAN) execution.
          6.3.1.4. Assesses, coordinates and maintains In-garrison Expeditionary Support Plan
          (IGESP), Installation Deployment/Reception Plan (ID/RP) and support agreements.
          Monitors Time-Phased Force and Deployment Data (TPFDD) as well as coordinates
          for all deployments and receptions. Manages WRM program, to include oversight of
          WRM vehicle maintenance contract. Provides the wing with a single in/out
          processing point for individual protective equipment. Oversees training for wing
          mobility functions including cargo preparation/pallet build-up, ramp coordinator and
          Base Cargo Reception Team courses.
7. The 8th Force Support Squadron (8 FSS/CC):
   7.1. Mission. Provide proactive, customer-oriented support to civilian and military
   personnel of the Wolf Pack while improving its war fighting capabilities through programs
   that promote professional development, education, training, family support, fitness, esprit de
   corps and quality of life.
   7.2. Command. The 8 FSS/CC is responsible to the 8 MSG/CC.
   7.3. Responsibilities.
      7.3.1. The 8 FSS/CC:
      7.3.2. Provides personnel accountability systems and programs IAW higher headquarters
      directives and tasking. Maintains accurate duty status information in support of OPLAN
      execution and the wing focal point for casualty notification to higher headquarters.
      7.3.3. Provides for all processing actions in support of military personnel and their
      management at the local level.
      7.3.4. Assesses, develops, provides and maintains education and training programs that
      foster individual professional and personal development.
      7.3.5. Assesses, develops, provides and maintains programs to address the individual and
      family situational needs of the 8 FW. Ensures ability to evacuate all noncombatants once
      directed by USFK.
      7.3.6. Provides a structured environment to transition first duty station Airmen from a
      training to mission-oriented environment while reinforcing the military lessons first-term
      Airmen learn and experience in Basic Military Training (BMT) and technical training.
      Provides professional development to noncommissioned and senior noncommissioned
      officers through timely developmental courses.
      7.3.7. Advises commanders at every echelon on civilian personnel management.
      Conducts training/orientation for supervisors, management officials and employees.
      7.3.8. Serves as the consumer affairs representative for all services provided to personnel
      assigned to Kunsan AB by the Defense Commissary Agency (DECA) and the Army Air
      Force Exchange Service (AAFES).
 6                                                                  8FWI10-104 12 MAY 2011


        7.3.9. Provides food service support to the 8 FW and Kunsan AB community using
        fixed-base assets that provide a level of service required by governing AF Services
        directives while meeting the demands imposed by the Base Support Plan.
        7.3.10. Provides Lodging Service support to the 8 FW and Kunsan AB community using
        fixed-base assets that provide a level of service required by governing Air Force Services
        directives while meeting the demands imposed by the Base Support Plan.
        7.3.11. Manages the operation of mortuary services in support of the 8 FW and Kunsan
        AB community during peacetime and war and as requested by the U.S. Embassy in Korea
        relative to the processing of U.S. citizens.
        7.3.12. Provides recreational services to the 8 FW and Kunsan AB community.
        Effectively manages AF-directed recreation programs utilizing established Korean
        theater, rest, and recreation resources.
        7.3.13. Provides fitness support to the 8 FW and Kunsan AB community through the
        effective implementation and management of intramural sports programs that promote
        active lifestyles, multiply combat effectiveness and improve quality of life.
        7.3.14. Provides organizational article/equipment laundry support to the 8 FW and
        Kunsan AB community.
8. The 8th Security Forces Squadron (8 SFS/CC):
     8.1. Mission. To defend the base using Integrated Defense in order to sustain 8 FW air
     operations during peacetime and war.
     8.2. Command. The 8 SFS/CC is responsible to the 8 MSG/CC.
     8.3. Responsibilities.
        8.3.1. The 8 SFS/CC:
            8.3.1.1. Provides a secure environment by conducting Law Enforcement, Security,
            and Force Protection/Anti-Terrorism operations that meet all peacetime and combat
            employment requirements under any physical, military, or civil condition, as the
            wing’s primary liaison with the Korean National Police on issues of mutual concern.
            8.3.1.2. Protects air operation activities by providing a mobile, rapidly deployable,
            and sustainable air base defense force that meets all peacetime and combat
            employment requirements under any physical, military, or civil condition.
            8.3.1.3. Provide Pass and Identification and privately owned vehicle registration
            support to wing personnel in accordance with applicable AF and USFK instructions.
            8.3.1.4. Manages the wing's Installation Security/Electronic Security Systems and
            Resource Protection Program.
            8.3.1.5. Provide Combat Arms Training and Maintenance support to 8 FW agencies
            and personnel.
8FWI10-104 12 MAY 2011                                                                          7




9. Direct Communications. The 8 MSG/CC and all squadron commanders are authorized
direct communications with agencies assigned to, or supported by the 8 FW. Direct
communications are also authorized with Seventh Air Force (7 AF) and Pacific Air Forces
(PACAF) counterparts and other like functional units that are part of organizations lateral to the
8 FW.




                                             JOHN L. DOLAN, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
 8                                                              8FWI10-104 12 MAY 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-1, Mission Directives, 21 Jun 2002
AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations, 24
Jan 2007
AFI 32-1023, Design and Construction Standards and Execution of Facility Construction
Projects, 21 Apr 2010
AFI 32-2001, The Fire Protection Operations and Fire Prevention Program, 9 Sep 2008
AFI 32-6001, Family Housing Management, 21 Aug 2006
AFI 32-6005, Unaccompanied Housing Management, 9 Oct 2008
AFI 32-7062, Air Force Comprehensive Planning, 1 Oct 1997
DODI 6055.6, DOD Fire and Emergency Services Program, 21 Dec 2006

Abbreviations and Acronyns:
AAFES—Army Air Force Exchange Service
AB—Air Base
AF—Air Force
BMT—Basic Military Training
DECA—Defense Commissary Agency
DISA—Defense Information Systems Agency
DOD—Department of Defense
FW—Fighter Wing
IAW—In Accordance With
ID—Installation Deployment
JPAC—Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command
IGESP—In-garrison Expeditionary Support Plan
MIA—Missing in Action
OPLAN—Operations Plan
PACAF—Pacific Air Forces
POW—Prisoner of War
RP—Reception Plan
RPIE—Real Property Installed Equipment
8FWI10-104 12 MAY 2011                        9


TPFDD—Time-Phased Force and Deployment Data
USFK—U.S. Forces Korea
WRM—War Reserve Material
