BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                              8TH FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION 23-301
8TH FIGHTER WING                                                                    8 SEPTEMBER 2008
                                                                         Certified Current 2 August 2011
                                                                                   Material Management

                                                                             ENERGY MANAGEMENT




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 8 CES/CEA                                                                  Certified by: 8 MSG/CC
                                                                              (Colonel Robert A. Nuanes)
Supersedes 8FWI23-301, 30 April 2004                                                            Pages: 6

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 23-3, Energy Management. It establishes
responsibilities and procedures outlining Energy Management policies for Kunsan Air Base, Korea. It
applies to all assigned, attached or associated units to the 8th Fighter Wing, Kunsan Air Base, Republic of
Korea.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
It is revised throughout to clarify the organization and functions of the Energy Management Steering
Group (EMSG), Energy Management Working Group (EMWG), and Base Energy Manager. New or
revised material is indicated by a bar ( | ).


1. Objectives.
   1.1. To provide proper Energy Management at Kunsan AB consistent with the 30 percent energy
   intensity reduction goal mandated for all government facilities by Presidential Executive Order
   13423, Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy, and Transportation Management, in an envi-
   ronment of decreasing operational funds.
   1.2. All organization commanders, both assigned and tenants, are ultimately responsible for meeting
   Kunsan AB energy conservation goals and for implementing energy related directives.

2. Organization and Responsibilities.
   2.1. 8th Fighter Wing Commander (8 FW/CC) will establish energy management programs, iden-
   tify requirements, and execute the program to comply with this instruction. Policy and guidance for
   Energy Conservation Program are covered in paragraph 3.1.
2                                                                  8FWI23-301 8 SEPTEMBER 2008


    2.2. Energy Management Steering Group (EMSG). The EMSG will be the focal point for
    energy-related matters. The EMSG will be chaired by 8 FW/CC or designee and consists of the group
    commanders and senior representatives of selected squadrons. The EMSG will meet at least
    semi-annually, or at the discretion of the chairman.
    2.3. The Energy Management Working Group (EMWG) will execute the policies and objectives
    of the EMSG. The EMWG will be chaired by the Base Energy Manager (BEM) and consist of repre-
    sentatives of all 8th Fighter Wing squadrons, tenant units, and dormitory managers. To minimize any
    administrative burden and optimize the discharge of its mission, the group will meet at the discretion
    of the BEM.
    2.4. 8th Operations Group Commander (8 OG/CC) will manage this program for aircraft opera-
    tions.
    2.5. 8th Maintenance Group Commander (8 MXG/CC) will manage this program for mainte-
    nance operations.
    2.6. 8th Medical Group Commander (8 MDG/CC) will manage this program for medical opera-
    tions.
    2.7. 8th Logistics Readiness Squadron Commander (8 LRS/CC) will manage this program for
    vehicle operations.
    2.8. 8th Civil Engineer Squadron Commander (8 CES/CC) will manage this program for installa-
    tion facilities.
       2.8.1. The BEM will be the 8 CES energy manager.
       2.8.2. 8 CES Asset Management Flight (8 CES/CEA) will manage and evaluate the impact of
       energy disruptions on the 8 FW’s mission and facilities and take actions to eliminate them.

3. Energy Management Steering Group (EMSG).
    3.1. The 8 FW/CC or designee will chair the EMSG. The EMSG will consist of, but not limited to;
    the commanders of the 8th Operations Group (8 OG), 8th Maintenance Group (8 MXG), 8th Mission
    Support Group (8 MSG), 8th Medical Group (8 MDG), and senior representatives of the 8th Civil
    Engineer Squadron (8 CES), 8th Logistics Readiness Squadron (8 LRS), 8th Comptroller Squadron (8
    CPTS), United States Army Contracting Command Korea (USACCK), and 8 LRS Fuels Management
    Flight (8 LRS/LGRF).
    3.2. The BEM will serve as the EMSG secretary.
    3.3. The BEM will prepare the agenda for the EMSG. The meeting agenda is designed to inform
    the 8 FW/CC of the status of conservation efforts and the progress being made toward established
    goals. The agenda shall include, but not be limited to the following items:
       3.3.1. Total energy costs and BTU consumption.
       3.3.2. Progress toward achieving energy goals.
       3.3.3. Reasons for not meeting established goals, if any.
       3.3.4. Status of major ongoing energy-related projects.
       3.3.5. Status of utilities funds and expected energy cost savings.
8FWI23-301 8 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                               3


      3.3.6. Proposed energy projects.
      3.3.7. Any reports due to higher command levels for the upcoming quarter.
   3.4. The EMSG has the following three primary functions:
      3.4.1. Be used as a “sounding board” to determine the best methods of conservation and imple-
      mentation for Kunsan AB before policy and/or project decisions are made.
      3.4.2. Coordinate energy activities among the base groups and squadrons as well as develop over-
      all base policies to attain the energy-saving goals as mandated by the US Air Force and/or higher
      leadership.
      3.4.3. Make suggestions to the chairperson on major policy and budget decisions, while allowing
      the BEM to make minor operational decisions.

4. Energy Management Working Group.
   4.1. The BEM and the EMWG will implement all matters pertaining to energy conservation as
   directed by the EMSG.
   4.2. The chairperson of the EMWG will be the BEM and its members will act as prescribed below or
   as designated by the EMSG.
   4.3. The members of the EMWG are representatives from the 8th Operations Support Squadron (8
   OSS), 35th Fighter Squadron (35 FS), 80th Fighter Squadron (80 FS), 8th Maintenance Squadron (8
   MXS), 8th Aircraft Maintenance Squadron (8 AMXS), 8th Maintenance Operations Squadron (8
   MXOS), 8 LRS, 8 CES, 8 CS, 8th Force Support Squadron (8 FSS), 8th Security Forces Squadron (8
   SFS), 8th Medical Operations Squadron (8 MDOS), 8th Medical Support Squadron (8 MDSS), dorm
   manager representative appointed by 8 CES/CEA, 8 FW group facility managers, the DECA manager,
   the AAFES manager, a US Army Air Defense Artillery Battery representative, and a ROKAF repre-
   sentative.
   4.4. The EMWG will meet at the discretion of the chairperson. The scope of responsibilities of the
   EMWG include:
      4.4.1. Disseminate, implement, and enforce energy policies within their group.
      4.4.2. Direct, train, and monitor facility managers on energy conservation at the facility level.
      4.4.3. Keep the group commanders informed of energy matters.
      4.4.4. Discuss energy-saving initiatives for approval at the EMSG level.
      4.4.5. Work with the energy manager to improve energy efficiency in their functional areas.
   4.5. The BEM will use the EMWG to expedite the coordination/implementation of programs/ideas/
   policies. The EMWG will advise the energy manager on the point of contacts within their respective
   squadrons.
   4.6. The BEM and the EMWG will ensure the 8 FW/CC’s policies are implemented in the base’s pro-
   cesses where energy savings may be realized, initiate approved projects, and provide recommenda-
   tions to the EMSG as to the best practices for energy conservation.

5. Facility Managers.
4                                                                   8FWI23-301 8 SEPTEMBER 2008


    5.1. Facility Managers are appointed by each Squadron Commander and shall be responsible for
    energy conservation duties at the facility level as per the direction of the BEM and/or the EMSG.
    5.2. The Facility Managers will use the policies and guidelines published by the BEM found in oper-
    ating instructions, policy letters, or directives of the EMSG for managing their respective energy con-
    servation efforts.

6. Base Energy Manager.
    6.1. Energy conservation policy is outlined in AFPD 23-3 and Air Force Energy Procedures Memo-
    randum (AFEPPM) 04-1, Air Force Energy Management Plan. The BEM will maintain complete files
    of applicable energy policies, regulations, and instructions as they are issued so that this instruction
    may be updated to cite them.
    6.2. The BEM will coordinate and orchestrate the base energy conservation program in a manner such
    that the base adheres to federally mandated energy conservation policy and USAF guidance and direc-
    tives.
    6.3. The BEM will assist commanders, squadrons, associated units, and any other sub-organizations
    on all matters concerning energy conservation and awareness, fuel management, and the use of alter-
    native fuel sources.
       6.3.1. The BEM should be familiar with and advocate the conservation measures applicable to
       energy-using equipment, devices, buildings, or vehicles assigned to the Kunsan Air Base.
       6.3.2. The BEM will evaluate energy conservation requirements, summarize all energy-related
       statistical data for progress reporting and planning purposes, and initiate energy-awareness pro-
       grams.
       6.3.3. The BEM will educate all members of the installation on energy-related issues and initiate
       actions to conserve energy.
       6.3.4. The BEM will develop energy-saving projects encompassing new construction and renova-
       tions to existing infrastructure.
       6.3.5. The BEM will use a project review system to ensure the optimal mixture of energy saving
       technologies is built into new and old facilities.
       6.3.6. The BEM will look for sources of energy partnering with energy providers, technology
       firms, or other entities both inside and outside of the Republic of Korea.
    6.4. The BEM, in support of the energy savings program, will be responsible for executing the fol-
    lowing four main categories of program management. Note: Each item below is provided with some
    examples of the tasks normally executed in support of each management category.
       6.4.1. Planning and Organization: Prepare the Kunsan AB Energy Plan, review and monitor
       energy-use trends and patterns, and track progress toward meeting DOD energy goals.
       6.4.2. Budgeting and Project Programming: Assist in preparing the installation energy budget,
       request funds for energy projects, and calculate avoided energy costs.
       6.4.3. Program Management: Implement Energy Savings Performance Contracts (ESPC) and
       other energy saving construction projects, establish and promote an energy awareness program,
       and monitor preventive maintenance programs.
8FWI23-301 8 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                    5


     6.4.4. Administrative: Prepare Defense Utility Energy Reporting System (DUERS) reports, par-
     ticipate in utilities contract negotiations, and review and evaluate energy suggestions.



                                          JAMES B. BEARDEN, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
6                                                             8FWI23-301 8 SEPTEMBER 2008


                                          Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 23-3, Energy Management
AFEPPM 04-1, Air Force Energy Management Plan
Executive Order 13423, Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy, and Transportation Management

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Service
BEM—Base Energy Manager
BTU—British Thermal Unit
DECA—Defense Commissary Agency
DOD—Department of Defense
DUERS—Defense Utility Energy Reporting System
EMSG—Energy Management Steering Group
EMWG—Energy Management Working Group
ESPC—Energy Savings Performance Contracts
ROKAF—Republic of Korea Air Force
