BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              8TH FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION
8TH FIGHTER WING                                                              36-2502

                                                                           8 NOVEMBER 2012

                                                                                      Personnel

                                                                  SENIOR AIRMAN BELOW-
                                                                  THE-ZONE PROCEDURES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading of ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions or this publication


OPR: 8 FW/CCCE                                                          Certified by: 8 FW/CCC
                                                                                        Pages: 18




This instruction implements AFPD 36-25, Military Promotion and Demotion, AFI 36-2502,
Enlisted Promotion/Demotion Programs and MPFM 06-57, Senior Airman (SrA) Below-the-
Zone (BTZ) Promotion Program. This instruction establishes policy and procedure governing
the SrA BTZ process. This instruction applies to all units and staff agencies operating on
Kunsan Air Base. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route the AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System      (AFRIMS)       Records      Disposition     Schedule      (RDS)       located      at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                                                         8FWI36-2502 8 NOVEMBER 2012


        1.        Roles and Responsibilities: ....................................................................................               2
        2.        Eligibility: ..............................................................................................................    2
        3.        Quotas: ...................................................................................................................    3
        4.        Large Unit Selection Procedure: ............................................................................                   3
        5.        CBB and Face-to-Face Evaluation Procedures: .....................................................                              3
        6.        MPS Promotion Responsibilities: ..........................................................................                     4
        7.        Unit Responsibilities: .............................................................................................           5
        8.        Selection Process: ..................................................................................................          5

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                   7

Attachment 2—BOARD MEMBER SCORE SHEET                                                                                                            8

Attachment 3—BOARD RECORDER TALLY SHEET EXAMPLE                                                                                                  9

Attachment 4—AF-IMT1206 NOMINATION EXAMPLE                                                                                                      10

Attachment 5—GUIDE FOR BTZ PROMOTION BOARDS                                                                                                     11

Attachment 6—BOARD PRESIDENT CHECKLIST                                                                                                          14

Attachment 7—PREPARING FOR THE BOARD                                                                                                            15

Attachment 8—MEETING THE BOARD                                                                                                                  17


1. Roles and Responsibilities:
     1.1. The 8th Fighter Wing Commander (8 FW/CC) is the convening authority for the SrA
     BTZ promotion process. The 8 FW/CC formally approves/disapproves selection board
     recommendations and may elect not to issue the full quota of promotions.
     1.2. The 8th Fighter Wing Command Chief Master Sergeant (8 FW/CCC) provides program
     direction and guidance; to include coordination on all correspondence/information on the
     program.
        1.2.1. Approves the Military Personnel Section’s (MPS) proposed BTZ board time and
        date.
        1.2.2. Selects individuals to serve on the board NLT two weeks prior to the board date.
2. Eligibility:
     2.1. A1Cs candidates must meet minimum requirements IAW AFI 36-2502.
     2.2. The immediate commander must recommend A1Cs for promotion who are fully
     qualified for promotion BTZ. Qualifications includes 36 months time in service (TIS) and 20
     months time in grade (TIG), or 28 months TIG; whichever occurs first. A1Cs must also
     possess a 3 skill level. If selected, promotion to SrA BTZ is 6 months prior to the otherwise
     fully qualified promotion date.
8FWI36-2502 8 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                          3


3. Quotas:
   3.1. The MPS determines the base-wide quota distribution by means of a 15 percent
   selection rate each cycle. The Force Support Squadron Commander (FSS/CC) approves
   distribution. For supplemental BTZ promotion to SrA, the FSS/CC has approval authority
   for those not previously considered.
4. Large Unit Selection Procedure:
   4.1. Large units (defined as having seven or more eligible A1Cs) will receive quotas and
   make selections at unit level. Large units will establish procedures that ensure that the SrA
   BTZ board is fair, equitable and provides timely promotion consideration. Once selections
   are made, large unit commanders underline the selectee(s) name, sign, date and return the
   BTZ eligibility listing to the MPS no later than the day of the Central Base Board (CBB).
   Unit commanders must also provide a memorandum to MPS indicating their selects, non-
   selects and alternates NLT the day of the CBB.
   4.2. Large units may nominate any or all eligible A1Cs from their unit for consideration to
   the CBB. This decision should be rendered NLT the fifth day of the third month of each
   quarter. If this option is selected, that unit will relinquish selection authority and all quotas to
   the CBB.
   4.3. Consider all individuals meeting TIS and TIG requirements; to include airmen TDY, on
   leave, or those having a projected reassignment with a report not later than date (RNLTD)
   subsequent to the first processing month. Commanders review qualifications and decide
   whether to forward the member’s name to the SrA BTZ board for consideration.
5. CBB and Face-to-Face Evaluation Procedures:
   5.1. Small units (defined as having six or less eligible A1Cs) will nominate to the CBB.
   Units may send any or all eligible airmen from their unit to meet a CBB. Eligible airman
   from across the installation, regardless of MAJCOM or unit affiliation, will compete at the
   CBB unless the unit they are assigned to has seven or more eligible as stated above.
   5.2. The CBB and Face-to-Face Evaluation will be held the third week of the third month
   (i.e. March, June, September and December) with coordination through the 8th Fighter Wing
   Command Chief’s Executive Assistant (8 FW/CCCE).
   5.3. The CBB will use a standard score sheet (Attachment 2) to evaluate and grade the
   following categories: Leadership and Job Performance in Primary Duty, Significant Self
   Improvement, Base and Community Involvement, Military Bearing, Dress and Appearance
   and Communication Skills.
   5.4. The CBB will be comprised of the following: Board President (8 FW/CCC or
   designee), and a CMSgt or CMSgt select from each group. If there is not a CMSgt or CMSgt
   select available, then a SMSgt will be utilized.
   5.5. Each member of the board will score and rank order each record. Significant
   differences in board member scores will be evaluated and resolved by the board president.
   However, no member will be required to alter any score they have given in any record unless
   it violates scoring rules. The board recorder will combine the rankings of each nominee.
   Selectees (according to how many promotions are available) will be determined by using
 4                                                             8FWI36-2502 8 NOVEMBER 2012


     rank order scoring. If a tie exists, add the rank order score of the president to determine final
     selectees.
     5.6. The CBB President will ensure fair and equal consideration of each nominee.
     5.7. All eligible members will meet a face-to-face evaluation unless unavailable due to
     TDY/deployment or scheduled leave. All absences must be pre-excused/pre-approved by the
     8 FW/CCC. Members unable to meet the board will be given the average board score tallied
     from those who met the board. The CBB will include the face-to-face board results in the
     final scoring if at least half of those eligible are available to meet the face-to-face board. See
     Attachment 5, Guide for Below-the-Zone Promotion Board for preparation of the CBB
     Face-to-Face Evaluation.
6. MPS Promotion Responsibilities:
     6.1. Act as the overall office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for the Kunsan AB BTZ
     Program and serve as the CBB Recorder.
     6.2. No later than the second week of each quarter coordinate with the 8 FW/CCC on the
     number of promotion quotas available, which units will receive their own promotion quotas
     and the proposed CBB members along with date, time and location the board is to convene.
     6.3. Distribute BTZ unit eligibility rosters and notify squadrons of the number of promotion
     quotas to be considered by the CBB two months prior to the board convening.
     6.4. Collect eligibility rosters, SURFs, copies of all decoration citations, current AFFMS
     print-outs and AF IMT 1206s, Nomination for Award, from squadrons.
     6.5. Identify date, time and location of the BTZ face-to-face evaluation.
     6.6. Suspense small units to forward completed nomination packages on each nominee to the
     MPS no later than the first Friday of the third month (i.e. March, June, September and
     December). Submissions beyond the MPS suspense date will not be provided to the CBB.
     6.7. Large units must provide selectee names no later than the day of the CBB within
     prescribed time set forth.
     6.8. Prepare a nomination folder on each nominee to include a SURF, copies of all
     decoration citations, current AFFMS print-out and AF IMT 1206, as prescribed in paragraph
     7.3. Accomplishments used on the AF IMT 1206 may come from any period, beginning the
     day the Airman entered active duty to present.
     6.9. Prepare score sheets IAW Attachment 2 for each board member to use along with
     summary sheet for the board president’s use.
     6.10. Coordinate changes as necessary with the 8 FW/CCC and nominating units.
     6.11. Prepare a report based on the findings of the CBB. The report should contain a list of
     board members, board recorder and order of merit (identifying total score and select/non-
     select status). This ensures alternates are identified in the event the selectee(s) become
     ineligible for promotion. The report should be signed by the board president.
     6.12. Provide the list of nominees to 8 FW/JA for a records check in the Automated Military
     Justice Analysis and Management System (AMJAMS). 8 FW/JA will provide the results to 8
8FWI36-2502 8 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                      5


   FW/CCC within one duty day of receipt. The fact that an Airman has a record in AMJAMS
   does not automatically disqualify them for BTZ promotion.
   6.13. Coordinated the report through 8 FW/CC for approval.
   6.14. Project BTZ promotions as soon as possible in the Military Personnel Data System.
   6.15. Destroy nomination folders when no longer needed.
   6.16. Brief unit commanders on removal and withhold policies and procedures. If a BTZ
   selectee is removed and the first alternate selectee’s DOR is past due, they will receive the
   original BTZ DOR and an effective date of unit commander’s approval. The MPS will assist
   the Airman in applying for a retroactive promotion effective date to HQ AFPC/DPSOE
   according to AFI 36-2502.
7. Unit Responsibilities:
   7.1. Units will consider all individuals meeting TIS and TIG requirements, even if they are
   TDY or on leave. For a member who is projected or may have already departed your unit,
   you may still be required to consider them for BTZ promotion. If the RNLTD is the first day
   of the first processing month (i.e. January, April, July or October) or later, then they must be
   considered by the losing unit.
   7.2. All individuals appearing on Parts 1 and 2 of the eligibility listing must be considered.
   Squadron commanders or designee will use the unit eligibility list to identify nominees for
   BTZ promotion consideration. An appropriate evaluation process should be established to
   determine unit nominees by reviewing the airmen’s EPR(s) (if applicable), personnel
   information file (PIF), supervisor or first sergeant recommendation, etc.
   7.3. AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award, is prepared for each nominee (Attachment 4).
   The nomination will be no more than 18 lines in length, including sub-bullets and headings.
   The AF IMT 1206 will contain the following headings: Leadership and Job Performance in
   Primary Duty, Significant Self Improvement, and Base or Community Involvement. The AF
   IMT 1206 will cover accomplishments that occurred between the entry on active duty and the
   board cutoff date. The board will also consider any decoration citations, current AFFMS
   print-out and the SURF. No other written information can be used for consideration. Submit
   all documents to the MPS. *Directed by HAF reports are no longer required or authorized.
   7.4. The unit commander will notify MPS Promotions no later than the promotion effective
   date of BTZ selects who possess negative quality indicators, i.e. 2 or less EPR rating, current
   fitness assessment and unfavorable information file (UIF).
8. Selection Process:
   8.1. The board president and board members will administer the BTZ Face-to-Face
   Evaluation (see Attachment 5).
   8.2. Selection is based on the ―whole person‖ concept by scoring the AF IMT 1206 using
   Attachment 2. All scores will be used by board members to provide a rank order of merit; 1
   thru XX to the board president with 1 being the best, 2 being the second best and so forth.
   Individual board members must break their own ties to develop a clear order of merit.
6                                                       8FWI36-2502 8 NOVEMBER 2012


    8.3. The board recorder will complete the Board Recorder Tally Sheet (Attachment 3) and
    provide it to the board president along with the completed and signed Board Member Score
    Sheets to prepare the board report.




                                          JOHN W. PEARSE, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
8FWI36-2502 8 NOVEMBER 2012                                                         7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-25, Military Promotion and Demotion, 21 Jun 1993
AFI 36-2502, Airman Promotion Program, 31 Dec 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AFPAM 36-2241, Professional Development Guide, 1 Oct 2011
MPFM 06-57, Senior Airman (SrA) Below-the-Zone (BTZ) Promotion Program, 18 Aug 06
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF IMT 1206, Nomination of Award

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AMJAMS—Automated Military Justice Analysis and Management System
BTZ—Below the Zone
CBB—Central Base Board
CMSAF—Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force
CSAF—Chief of Staff, United States
MPS—Military Personnel Section
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PIF—Personnel Information File
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RNLTD—Report Not Later Than Date
TIS—Time in Service
TIG—Time in Grade
PIF—Personnel Information File
UIF—Unfavorable Information Folder
 8                                               8FWI36-2502 8 NOVEMBER 2012


                                  Attachment 2
                        BOARD MEMBER SCORE SHEET

Figure A2.1. Board Member Score Sheet
8FWI36-2502 8 NOVEMBER 2012                            9


                                   Attachment 3
                  BOARD RECORDER TALLY SHEET EXAMPLE

Figure A3.1. Board Recorder Tally Sheet Example
 10                                              8FWI36-2502 8 NOVEMBER 2012


                                  Attachment 4
                     AF-IMT1206 NOMINATION EXAMPLE

Figure A4.1. AF IMT 1206 Nomination Example
8FWI36-2502 8 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                    11


                                          Attachment 5
                         GUIDE FOR BTZ PROMOTION BOARDS

A5.1. Selection: Selection is based on a combination of the AF IMT 1206 (80 points) and the
face-to-face interview (20 points). When required, the board president will facilitate open
discussion to resolve any disparities that could skew the scoring process. Resolution is required
when the ranking order is inconsistent with a winner based on total points (i.e. A1C Jones has the
most total points but two of the three board members have another nominee ranked as their
number 1).
   A5.1.1. AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award: Effective evaluation of the AF IMT 1206
   requires a detailed thought process; it’s challenging to review nomination packages and
   determine who is the ―Best of the Best.‖ Each board member must remember it’s not the
   writer; it’s the accomplishment of the nominee which makes the difference. Strong emphasis
   must be on initiative, achievement and impact, not writing style. When evaluating an AF
   IMT 1206, the individual’s write-up cannot exceed 18 lines (including the 3 category
   headings). Attachment 4 contains the recommended distribution of lines. The total possible
   points that can be awarded are 80. There are only three approved categories (listed below)
   that will be scored. Additionally, nomination submissions in excess of the 18-line limit will
   not be scored beyond the 18 lines. Each line will be evaluated on its own merit as it relates
   within the respective category. Using whole or half point increments, board members have
   the opportunity to award maximum points to each section. They cannot award points beyond
   the maximum points allocated for each category and all ties are broken using the Board
   President’s scoring.
Heading                                                                        Point Value
Leadership and Job Performance in Primary Duty                                 1 – 60
Significant Self-Improvement                                                   1 – 10
Base and Community Involvement                                                 1 – 10
       A5.1.1.1. Nomination Headings: Leadership and Job Performance in Primary Duty.
       The individual’s primary duty accomplishments are the most important element of the
       nomination package. This is the most difficult section to score because everyone does an
       outstanding job in his or her area of expertise. Below are guidelines to assist board
       members in differentiating the impact on the mission and leadership role.
       Innovative methods/programs developed, designed, implemented and impact
       Process Improvement – cost savings, percentage improved or reduced
       Superior leadership or training skills
       Quantification and qualification of results
       Key additional duties with significant impact
       Wing working group or committee chair/member
       Higher HQ, service unique or DoD involvement
       Unit/Wing/Group/command-level and higher awards (both individual and unit; deployed
       or home station)
12                                                       8FWI36-2502 8 NOVEMBER 2012


     A5.1.1.2. Significant Self Improvement: The primary focus of this section is the
     individual’s professional and personal development and how it benefits the Air Force.
     The key factors to this category are individual commitment level and personal sacrifice.
     You can judge this by answering the following questions. How much time was involved?
     How much effort was expended? Was the achievement done on duty or during off-duty
     time?
     Off-duty Education (in-residence, on-line, correspondence classes, etc.)
     Upgrade Training (5-level completion, CDC progress, formal training courses, etc.)
     Advanced career field or Air Force Specialty training
     Readiness training
     Conference or symposiums related to job or career field/specialty (how nominee used
     information to improve process, mission impact, etc.)
     A5.1.1.3. Base and Community Involvement: This section rounds out the whole
     person concept. Unit and base activities/support should be weighed more heavily on
     community involvement because they directly impact Kunsan AB and the surrounding
     community. Again, the individual’s commitment level and personal sacrifice are the key
     factors in evaluating this section. How much time and effort was involved? What was
     the amount of time committed to the achievement and the frequency? Did the member
     participate or lead the effort?
     Involvement in professional organizations
     Key leadership position on executive council coupled by the achievement or results
     Color/Honor Guard and sustained participation
     Leadership position or role in community
     Special Olympics, Boy Scouts, Big Brother/Sister, etc. (Number of hours and frequency)
     Coaching sporting teams (squadron intramural teams, adult or youth programs, etc.)
     Participating in major community ceremonies such as unit member retirement,
     POW/MIA vigil, retreat, marched in community parade while in uniform (i.e. Veteran’s
     Day, Fourth of July, and Liberation Day)
     Base Sponsored Programs
     Quarterly/Annual Awards Committee
  A5.1.2. Face-to-face Interview: The primary purpose of the face-to-face interview is to
  evaluate nominees’ dress and appearance, military bearing, oral expression and articulation
  of responses. This is a very subjective area for board members to evaluate and you must
  baseline your judgment against military standards. Since this section of the nominative
  process has limited points available, the use of whole or half point increments are permitted.
  The total possible points that can be awarded are 20.
8FWI36-2502 8 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                     13


Category                                                                          Point Value
Military Bearing                                                                  1–5
Dress and Appearance                                                              1–5
Communication Skills                                                              1 – 10
       A5.1.2.1. Dress and Appearance: Uniform: cleaned, pressed and proper fitting.
Accouterments: properly placed on the uniform.
Jewelry: not more than three rings, correct earrings, no visible necklace, etc.
Decorations: ribbons in proper order, clean/serviceable condition.
Hair: appropriate style, length, color, approved ornamentation.
       A5.1.2.2. Military Bearing: Room entry: appropriate facing movements
Reporting: appropriate introduction
Posture
       A5.1.2.3. Communication Skills:
Demonstrates ability to clearly organize and express thoughts
Pronunciation/Annunciation
Eye contact: direct and impartial
Speech: appropriate rate, pitch and volume
Non-verbal: appropriate use of facial expressions and gestures
A5.2. Face-to-face Interview Board Guidelines: The board president is responsible for
contacting the board members to provide instruction in regard to preparing board questions. The
board president will task each of the board members with a specific category (see below for
categories). Board members are to prepare three questions (two primary and one alternate) for
their respective board category. Questions will be opinionated, thought provoking and designed
to assess the nominee’s ability to organize thoughts and articulate a response. Questions will
come from some or all of the following areas:
   A5.2.1. Current Events. General knowledge of current AF news or world events and their
   opinions regarding them (for example: Operation ENDURING FREEDOM, Overseas
   Contingency Operations, Iran, Korea, CSAFs 5 priorities, CMSAF Viewpoints, etc.).
   Current Events will only cover the time period within one week of the scheduled board date.
   A5.2.2. Airman Heritage. Reference AFPAM 36-2241, Professional Development Guide.
   A5.2.3. Customs and Courtesies. Reference AFPAM 36-2241, Professional Development
   Guide.
   A5.2.4. Individual Accomplishments.
Prepare questions to evaluate the nominee’s knowledge, involvement and impact on his/her
personal and/or unit's success/accomplishments--how his/her accomplishments/leadership
impacted the successes of their unit (this is an excellent opportunity to gather background
information on the nominee). Use the nominee’s AF IMT 1206 for this.
   A5.2.5. Enlisted     Force     Structure,   General      and     Specific                Airman
   Responsibilities. Reference AFPAM 36-2241, Professional Development Guide.
 14                                                         8FWI36-2502 8 NOVEMBER 2012


                                          Attachment 6
                             BOARD PRESIDENT CHECKLIST

Figure A6.1. Board President Checklist
Pre-Board                                                                     Yes   No
Check room set up
Ensure greeter/board recorder are present
Introduce yourself to the board members and each other
Discuss board procedures and review questions

Conducting the Board
Welcome, congratulate and put nominee at ease
Introduce yourself as board president, then your board members by rank,
name and unit
Explain proceedings to nominee, define questions (2 each/opinionated)
Encourage nominee to start by telling the board about themselves (career,
family, short/long-term goals, etc.)

Begin board questions

Completing the Board
Ask the nominee if they have any questions they would like to re-address or
closing comments they wish to make to the board members
Have nominee recite the Airman’s Creed
Instruct the nominee not to discuss the questions or board process with
anyone as it may compromise the process and give others an unfair
advantage
Offer closing congratulations
Dismiss nominee

Post-Board
Score nominees
Gather all score sheets and surplus documents
Instruct board members to not discuss results until official release by the
8th Fighter Wing Commander
Ensure room is left in neat and orderly manner
Provide final score sheet to 8th Fighter Wing Command Chief
8FWI36-2502 8 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                   15


                                          Attachment 7
                              PREPARING FOR THE BOARD

A7.1. As the saying goes, ―First impressions are lasting impressions.‖ All boards allow points
for dress, appearance, and military bearing. If you study and master the tips below, you will
greatly increase your chances for success.

Table A7.1. Preparing for the Board
                                                                                       Yes   No
Memorize: Airman’s Creed. Review: Study AFPAM 36-2241, Professional
Development Guide, Current Edition, chapters that cover Enlisted History and
Military Customs, Courtesies. The PDG is available on line. Current events are a
must. Review current month’s Airman Magazine, AF Portal Homepage and the
Air Force Times. Current event questions are usually compiled one week before
the board meets. Gather the majority of your information during that time frame.
Be prepared to answer scenario based questions on how you would react/respond
in handling specific leadership situations (based on your rank and level of
responsibility). Questions will be designed to give your opinion but you must
know some information about topics.
Write down your goals, aspirations and extracurricular activities (practice
expressing them verbally). Example: ―I have just finished my career development
course and I’m awaiting my 5-skill level. I’m enrolled in the Community College
of the Air Force and currently possess 24 credit hours.
My goal is to receive my associate’s degree within two years.‖ Board members
are judging (and scoring) how you express yourself.
Write down your hobbies and a brief synopsis of your career (and remember
them). This is often an icebreaker question and gives you a chance to talk about
yourself.
Study a copy of the narrative that accompanied your nomination. Board members
often ask you to expound on information they find in the write up.
Know your current chain of command.
Females: Wear slacks and low quarters or low heeled pumps. It’s easier to get the
length right on slacks than skirts, and it’s less likely to change when you sit and
stand. Lower heels make it easier to make facing movements.
Practice facing movements in the same shoes you will be wearing when you meet
the board. Determine the location of the board and practice on the same type floor
covering (i.e. carpet, linoleum, etc.). If possible, do a pre-visit to the area/room
where the board will be held to familiarize yourself with your surroundings.
Ensure your shoes look good. If it is raining the day that your board meets, carry
your shoes in a plastic bag and change when you get there. Ensure the soles of
your shoes are free of dirt and dust. Use polish and/or edge dressing and ensure
you have a fresh coat on. Take a small piece of cloth or old nylon hose to wipe the
dust off your shoes.
If the weather is bad, carry your uniform in a plastic bag and change when you
arrive.
 16                                                     8FWI36-2502 8 NOVEMBER 2012


Remember to always get your service dress dry cleaned as a set--never do your
trousers/skirt and coat separately. This will prevent uneven fading.
Ensure your collar brass and ribbons are pristine.
Ensure ribbons are in the proper order and any you wear are updated in the
Personnel Data System/VMPF.
Use masking tape to remove lint from your service dress coat.
Males: Consider wearing shirt garters. Droopy socks and a baggy shirt do not
convey the image of a winner.
Do not have anything in your pockets except your ID card--no keys, change, etc.
If meeting the board in a short sleeve shirt, clean your name tag with wax to
remove scratches.
Males: Get a haircut within a few days before meeting the board.
Females: Ensure bangs are off your eyebrows and hair does not extend below the
bottom of your collar. Don’t even make it close—board members should not have
to look twice to see if you’re in compliance.
8FWI36-2502 8 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                          17


                                            Attachment 8
                                     MEETING THE BOARD

Figure A8.1. Meeting the Board

1. Be early. Stand while you wait--do not sit down. If possible, carry your uniform to the
   board and change just before you meet the board.
2. When you arrive, there will be an official greeter, probably standing outside the meeting
   room. They should inform you who is on the board, what the reporting instructions are, and
   any other special instructions—if not, ASK!
3. Do not take your hat or purse into the room.
4. If you are instructed to knock before entering, knock only once and firmly.
5. When you open the door, take a good look at the room. Look for the chair you will be sitting
   in. March by the most direct route to position yourself in the front of the chair facing the
   board president. Do not stop and perform a facing movement, stop in place. Save the facing
   movement for your departure. Look directly at the president, salute (if it’s an officer) and
   say, ―Sir/Ma’am, Airman ___________ reports to the Senior Airman Below-the-Zone
   board.‖ The Board President will return your salute (if officer) and instruct you to be seated.
6. Back up until you feel the calves of your legs touch the chair. Do not look back or down.
   Don’t turn your back to the board members until you are departing.
7. Sit in the middle of the chair-not on neither the edge, nor all the way back.
8. Sit at attention and place your hands on your thighs. The idea is to be erect and alert, but not
   rigid. NEVER slouch or recline, even though the Board President may tell you to relax.
9. Do not cross your legs. Place one foot slightly in front of the other.
10. Smile and establish rapport with the board.
11. When answering questions, do not turn your body--turn your head toward the person asking
    the question and then pan the board members when giving your answer. Good eye contact
    with all the board members is very important.
12. The first questions are usually relaxing icebreakers, such as, ―Where are you from?‖ or
    ―Where do you work?‖
13. After being asked a question, repeat the question if appropriate and preface your answer with
    'Sir/Ma'am.' Try to give more than the basic answer—the board members are looking for
    evidence that you can articulate and think on your feet.
14. If you do not understand a question, ask the board member to repeat it. If you do not know
    the answer at that point, ask to return to the question later. If you know part of the answer,
    getting partial credit is better than none at all. Lastly, if you flat don't know, simply tell the
    board you are unable to answer the question at this time.
 18                                                          8FWI36-2502 8 NOVEMBER 2012


15. When answering opinion type questions, give a thoughtfully considered one. Tell the board
    members whether or not your opinion is in line with current policy. Most importantly,
    defend your position with logic, fact and personal experience, not emotion. Be tactful, don’t
    crusade, and don’t apologize.
16. If the board asks you if you have any comments, thank them for their time and add any other
    comments that may be appropriate.
17. When you are finished, the president will say ―Airman ____________, you are dismissed.‖
   a. Answer, 'Thank you Sir/Ma'am'.
   b. Push down on your thighs with your hands, stand up, and look directly at the president.
   c. Salute (if an officer) and wait for the salute to be returned. If the president is enlisted,
      nod your head once.
   d. Perform the appropriate facing movement to put you in direct line with the door. Exit the
      room smartly, marching with coordinated arm swing.

                                             Summary
Be yourself. The board wants to know you. You must believe you are worthy of the award
being presented—and you are a WINNER. Someone else believed it; otherwise they would not
have taken the time to nominate you.
