BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              8TH FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION
8TH FIGHTER WING                                                              10-105

                                                                          21 NOVEMBER 2012

                                                                                     Operations

                                                                MISSION DIRECTIVES FOR
                                                              8TH MEDICAL GROUP UNITS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 8 MDG/SGA                                                          Certified by: 8 MDG/CC
                                                                       (Colonel Jill R. Scheckel)
Supersedes:   8 FWI 10-105,                                                              Pages: 4
              1 February 2011


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-1, Mission Directives. This
instruction establishes the mission, organization, responsibilities and command relationships of
the 8th Medical Group and its squadrons. It applies to all personnel assigned, attached or
associated units to the 8th Fighter Wing (8 FW), Kunsan Air Base, Korea. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route the AF Forms 847
from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity or
service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

8 MDG's minor changes to previous 10-105 include: spelling out the "EMEDS" acronym in
paragraph number one, adding "s" in paragraph number 3.2, and updating the abbreviations and
acronym listing.
1. Mission. The mission of the 8th Medical Group (8 MDG) is to enhance the combat capability
of the 8 FW during any level of threat through provision of a full spectrum of medical care and
 2                                                           8FWI10-105 21 NOVEMBER 2012


preventive health. All 8 MDG members maintain readiness proficiency by intense wartime
training. During contingencies, the 8 MDG coordinates all base medical activities and expands
as required to a bedded facility; integrates and incorporates Time-Phased Force Deployment
Data List (TPFDDL) medical augmentees into an Expeditionary Medical Support (EMEDS) + 25
facility, an Air Transportable Clinic (ATC), a Contingency Aeromedical Staging Facility
(CASF), and six medical/surgical expansion packages, creating a third echelon hospital known as
the 8th Expeditionary Medical Group.
2. Command. The Commander, 8th Medical Group (8 MDG/CC) is responsible to the
Commander, 8th Fighter Wing (8 FW/CC).
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. The 8 MDG/CC:
        3.1.1. Is accountable for all operational and contingency activities of the 8 MDG with
        regard to the execution of its war and peacetime missions.
        3.1.2. Ensures the quality and provision of base medical, dental and aerospace medicine
        programs.
        3.1.3. Provides medical advice to the 8 FW/CC regarding public and environmental
        health issues, recommendations to committees on ways to protect and safeguard the
        health of the Kunsan AB community and an active health promotions outreach program.
        3.1.4. Develops the medical chapter of all base plans; including emergency war plans,
        defense plans, integration of deployed forces plans and disaster control plans; exercises
        operational control over base medical personnel and resources in coordination with local
        civilian medical agencies during disaster and civil defense survival activities.
        3.1.5. Provides medical service as required in accordance with established Support
        Agreements.
        3.1.6. Serves as chief executive officer and local representative of the Governing Body
        for purposes of the Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care, Inc.
        (AAAHC).
        3.1.7. Establishes the Executive Committee to function as a Governing Body for the 8
        MDG.
     3.2. The 8th Medical Operations and 8th Medical Support Squadron Commanders:
        3.2.1. Provide for the morale, welfare, safety and discipline of all assigned personnel.
        3.2.2. Report to the 8 MDG/CC and are responsible for operational and military
        command and control of each squadron.
        3.2.3. Maintain and improve service-line operational command and control, support
        senior group and 8 FW leadership and foster military professional development.
        3.2.4. Serve as Executive Committee members, interact with other 8 FW units to support
        mission requirements, interact and collaborate with other medical squadrons to improve
        organizational performance and management of personnel and resources.
8FWI10-105 21 NOVEMBER 2012                                                               3


4. Direct Communications. The 8 MDG/CC and all squadron commanders are authorized
direct communications with agencies assigned to, or supported by the 8 FW. Direct
communications are also authorized with 7th Air Force (7 AF), United States Forces Korea
(USFK), and Pacific Air Forces (PACAF) counterparts and other like functional units that are
part of organizations lateral to the 8 FW.




                                          JOHN W. PEARSE, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
 4                                                    8FWI10-105 21 NOVEMBER 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-1, Mission Directives, 21 Jun 2002
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAAHC—Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care
AB—Air Base
AF—Air Force
ATC—Air Transportable Clinic
CASF—Contingency Aeromedical Staging Facility
EMEDS—Expeditionary Medical Support
FW—Fighter Wing
MDG—Medical Group
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PACAF—Pacific Air Forces
TPFDDL—Time-Phased Force Deployment Data List
USFK—United States Forces Korea
