BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      8TH FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION 21-142
8TH FIGHTER WING
                                                                                  2 JULY 2009
                                                                 Certified Current 28 July 2011
                                                                                  Maintenance

                                                   LOCAL MANUFACTURE PROCEDURES



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 8 MXS/MXMF                                                         Certified by: 8 MXG/CC
                                                                       (Colonel Harry A. Truhn)
Supersedes:   8 FWI 21-142, 11 March 2002                                               Pages: 5



This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space
Maintenance and AFPD 23-1, Materiel Management Policy and Procedures. This instruction
establishes local manufacture procedures and identifies specific responsibilities for the
requesting and fabricating activities, designates approval authorities, documentation and routing
requirements. It applies to all personnel assigned, attached, and associated units to the 8th
Fighter Wing, Kunsan Air Base, Republic of Korea. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF IMT 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847’s from the field through
appropriate chain of command. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual, AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Changed the Local Manufacture Manager section to read 8th LRS Customer Service Center
(CSC) Responsibilities and deleted six part folder requirements and deleted flow charts.
1. Objective: Establish local manufacture procedures and guidelines for 8 FW and participating
associate units. These guidelines apply to officer, enlisted, and GS/KGS civilian personnel.
2. General Responsibilities. All commanders will ensure compliance with this instruction and
supply guidance as required to maintain proper integrity and eliminate abuse. Other
responsibilities are as follows.
2                                                                     8FWI21-142 2 JULY 2009


    2.1. The Fabrication Flight Chief is the final local manufacture approval authority for:
       2.1.1. Stock listed items coded JBD (local manufacture authorized).
       2.1.2. Non-stock listed items to be made per technical order specification.
    2.2. Local manufacture of locally designed tools or equipment must be reviewed by 8th
    Maintenance Group, Quality Assurance (8 MXG/QA) and approved by the 8 MXG or 8 OG
    Commander. If local manufactured tools or equipment are designated in technical orders or
    equipment drawings, use the criteria in paragraphs 3.1 to determine the approval authority.
    Records will be maintained in accordance with (IAW) CAFI 21-101, Chapter 11. For further
    details refer to the 8 MXG/QA approved “Local Manufactured Tool Handbook”.
    2.3. Local manufacture of munitions-related equipment must be processed and approved
    IAW CAFI 21-101, Chapter 11.
    2.4. The DD Form 1348-6, DOD Single Line Item Requisition System Document, AF Form
    2005, Issue/Turn-In Request, or AF Form 601, Equipment Action Request, must be signed by
    the appropriate approval authority for items identified in paragraphs 3.1.1 through 3.3.
3. The Requesting Activity:
    3.1. Ensure the item requiring local manufacture is source coded JBD, local manufacture,
    and cannot be ordered through normal supply channels. Use 8 FW Form 25, Local
    Manufacture Request, to coordinate and track local manufacture. If the item required is not
    source coded JBD and is needed immediately for a MICAP requirement, the requestor will
    coordinate with the proper approval authority (i.e., depot engineers, Support Center Pacific,
    Kadena AFB for authorization to manufacture the item.). Regardless of whether local
    manufacture is approved, the item will immediately be placed on order to prevent recurring
    manufacture of procurable assets. The supply document number associated with this order
    will be required when processing the local manufacture.
    3.2. Gather all pertinent technical data, drawings, samples, and supporting documents and
    contact the Local Manufacturing Activity to determine if the part can be locally
    manufactured. Drawing may not be required if sample is provided. If it can be
    manufactured, all data will be brought to the 8 LRS CSC.
    3.3. During the hours of the CSC closure, i.e., non-duty hours, weekends, and holidays, route
    all required items mentioned in paragraph 4.2. directly to the manufacturing activity. The
    manufacturing activity will, in turn, hand carry all the data to the 8 LRS CSC on the first
    available duty day.
    3.4. Check status of local manufacture by contacting the Local Manufacture Activity
    (LMA).
4. 8 LRS Customer Service Center (CSC) Responsibilities:
    4.1. Assist requesting activities in obtaining the required documents (documentation needs to
    be corrected) and processing all related supply transactions as outlined in AFMAN 23-110,
    Volume 2, USAF Supply Manual, and PACAFI 23-203. Priority of all local manufactures
    will be six unless a higher priority can be justified.
    4.2. Verify item is coded as local manufacture (JBD) and non-procurable through normal
    supply channels.
8FWI21-142 2 JULY 2009                                                                           3


   4.3. Ensure DD Form 1348-6, AF Form 2005, or AF Form 601 are signed by the appropriate
   approval authority.
   4.4. Generate and utilize a nine-position control number for tracking local manufactures
   through the approval process.
       4.4.1. The first two positions are characters identifying the fabricating activity. The next
       four positions are numeric and identify the Julian date of the request. The last three
       positions are numeric and indicate the actual number of the local manufacture for the
       specific shop (EXAMPLE:             MT8201047 indicates a Metals Technology local
       manufacture, processed on the 201st day of 2008, and it is the 47th local manufacture
       request for that work center for that year).
   4.5. Develop and maintain a system to assist in tracking the local manufacture through the
   approval process.
   4.6. Forward the local manufacture package to the appropriate activity and document this
   transaction in the tracking system.
   4.7. Coordinate weekly status updates with manufacturing shops for local manufacture
   backorders.
   4.8. Keep and file documents on all submitted local manufactures for a period of at least one
   year. Those local manufactures identified as recurring will be kept for a period of time to be
   determined by the 8 LRS CSC.
5. The Local Manufacturing Activity:
   5.1. Consult with the requester concerning possibilities of local manufacture, assist in the
   design of the item, determine material specifications if not already designated in technical
   data or like specifications, and determine proper quantity of materials needed. Refer the
   requester to the 8 LRS CSC if manufacture is possible.
   5.2. Develop and maintain a log of all local manufacture transactions that pass through the
   shop.
   5.3. Route paperwork through the appropriate Fabrication Flight Chief or 8 MXS Production
   Superintendent (8 MXS/MXM), and document this transaction in the tracking system. The
   DD Form 1348-6, AF Form 2005, or AF Form 601 must be signed by the appropriate
   approval authority as designated in paragraph 3.1.
   5.4. Once all paperwork has been approved and materials/consumables received, completion
   of the item will be based upon the priority requested. Items with the same priority will be
   accomplished in the order they were received unless otherwise instructed by the 8 MXS
   Maintenance Operations Officer or Maintenance Superintendent (8 MXS/MXM).
   5.5. Upon completion, provide the requestor with pick-up instructions.
       5.5.1. If the item is needed to fulfill a MICAP requirement, the request will be processed
       IAW AFMAN 23-110, Volume 2, Part 2, Chapter 11.
6. Local Manufacture of Aircraft Components and Hardware: All aircraft components,
assemblies, and hardware requiring local manufacture or modification must be identified in the
4                                                                    8FWI21-142 2 JULY 2009


applicable technical order or approved by depot authority, in which case a message, blueprint, or
drawing must be made available prior to establishing a work request with the 8 LRS CSC.
    6.1. Aircraft screws, bolts, and other externally threaded hardware cannot be locally
    manufactured or repaired in any manner. The part must be replaced with another of identical
    specifications.
7. Local Manufacture of Items Not Requiring Base Supply Processing:
    7.1. Local manufacture of JBD items needed to satisfy internal maintenance requirements
    such as shims, nonstandard size (repair) bushings, spacers, and small local manufacture
    projects, can be accomplished without routing local manufacture documents through supply
    as long as the manufacture is directed by technical data, depot guidance, or as a general
    repair to be accomplished by the fabricating activity. Initiate 8 FW Form 25 for
    coodination/approval of request. These requests must be approved by the appropiate
    approval authority. The following steps will be taken for local manufactures meeting these
    criteria:
       7.1.1. Appropriate technical data, blueprints, sample (as required), and other information
       will be obtained from the requestor and utilized to guide procurement of materials and
       dictate manufacturing specifications.
       7.1.2. The requestor will load a job in CAMS, if one is not already established, and
       create a Work Center Event (WCE) for the local manufacture.
       7.1.3. The requestor will order all required materials on their work center account on an
       six priority unless a higher priority can be justified.
           7.1.3.1. Materials will be ordered against (mark for) the aircraft tail number for on-
           equipment maintenance.
           7.1.3.2. Materials will be ordered against (mark for) the LRU document number for
           off-equipment maintenance.
           7.1.3.3. Materials will be ordered against (mark for) the shop for non-aircraft related
           maintenance.
       7.1.4. Upon completion of the local manufacture, the manufacturer will close the WCE
       in CAMS.
       7.1.5. If the manufacturing activity suspects a local manufacture will be a recurring
       requirement, they will inform the 8 LRS CSC to indefinitely maintain manufacturing
       documents, including prints and drawings, until the requirement no longer exists.

8. Prescribed Forms.

8 FW Form 25, Local Manufacture Request.




                                             JERRY D. HARRIS, JR., Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
8FWI21-142 2 JULY 2009                                                         5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance
AFPD 23-1, Materiel Management Policy and Procedures
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management
CAFI 21-101, Supplement 1, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management
AFMAN 23-110, Volume 2, Part 2, Chapter 11, Customer Requirements
AFMAN 23-110, Volume 2, Part 13, Standard Base Supply Customer Procedures
PACAFI 23-203, Combat Oriented Supply Organization (COSO) and Maintenance Supply
Support (MSS) Procedures

Abbreviations
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
CAMS—Core Automated Maintenance System
CSC—Customer Service Center
GS/KGS—General Service/Korean General Service
LMA—Local Manufacture Activity
MICAP—Mission Capability
USAF—United States Air Force
WCE—Work Center Event
