BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               8TH FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION
8TH FIGHTER WING                                                               32-2001

                                                                          25 SEPTEMBER 2013

                                                                               Civil Engineering

                                                              FIRE PREVENTION PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 8 CES/CEF                                                            Certified by: 8 FW/CC
                                                                      (Colonel S. Clinton Hinote)
Supersedes:    8FWI32-2001, 10 July 2008                                                Pages: 30


This instruction implements AFPD 32-20, Fire Emergency Services and Department of Defense
Instruction (DoDI) 6055.06, DoD Fire and Emergency Services (F&ES) Program, Department
of Labor – Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), Code of Federal
Regulations (CFR), and National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standards as Air Force
policy unless otherwise directed in DoD or Air Force instructions. It establishes responsibilities
and procedures for the Fire Protection and Prevention Program. It provides guidance and
authority for establishing and conducting an effective, aggressive, and integrated Fire Protection
and Prevention Program to prevent loss of life, real property, material, and aerospace vehicles.
This instruction applies to all personnel assigned, attached, visiting, or on temporary duty, and
associated units to the 8th Fighter Wing, Kunsan Air Base, Korea. Failure to comply with this
publication in its entirety is punishable as a violation of Article 92, Uniform Code of Military
Justice (UCMJ). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office
of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route the AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                                                   8FWI32-2001 25 SEPTEMBER 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This complete revision reflects current standards and instructions outlined in AFI 32-2001, The
Fire Protection Operations and Fire Prevention Program. This document is substantially
revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision refers to the Air Force-adopted NFPA
consensus standards throughout the text. It incorporates changes from the inclusion of AFI 91-
203, which superseded all Air Force Occupational Safety and Health (AFOSH) standards, AFI
32-10141, AFI 91-202, and the rescinding of AFI 91-301. Finally, this document adheres to the
AFI 40-102, Medical Command, Tobacco Use in the Air Force, policy governing tobacco use on
Air Force installations.

        1.     Policies ...................................................................................................................    2
        2.     Responsibilities ......................................................................................................         3
        3.     General Requirements ............................................................................................               7

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                21

Attachment 2—SAMPLE LETTER, FIRE REPORTING AND EVACUATION
             PROCEDURES                                                                                                                       24

Attachment 3—PUBLIC ASSEMBLY AND RECREATIONAL FACILITY CLOSING
             CHECKLIST (USE AF FORM 2519, ALL PURPOSE CHECKLIST)                                                                              25

Attachment 4—REQUIREMENTS FOR DEFENSIVE FIGHTING POSITIONS (DFP)
             SPACE HEATERS                                                                                                                    26

Attachment 5—SAMPLE LETTER, REQUEST FOR FLAMMABLE/COMBUSTIBLE
             STORAGE LOCKER APPROVAL                                                                                                          27

Attachment 6—SAMPLE LETTER, CONTROLLED BURN PERMIT                                                                                            28

Attachment 7—SAMPLE LETTER, BON FIRE AUTHORIZATION                                                                                            29


1. Policies
     1.1. Standards. It is the policy of the Department of Defense (DOD) and the Air Force
     (AF) to comply with instructions, directives, and standards of the National Fire Protection
     Association (NFPA), Underwriters Laboratories (UL), National Bureau of Standards, AF
     Occupational Safety and Health (AFOSH), Occupational Safety and Health Administration
     (OSHA), and the Facility Code. Hazardous conditions for which no criteria have been
     developed are safely minimized or corrected by the Authority Having Jurisdiction.
        1.1.1. Objectives. The objective of the fire protection and prevention program at
        Kunsan AB is the preservation of life and property. Professional firefighters and reliable
        vehicles alone will not ensure a successful fire protection and prevention program. Only
        through the cooperation of organizations down to each individual will this objective
        succeed.
8FWI32-2001 25 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                    3


       1.1.2. Enforcement. Commanders, functional managers, facility managers and
       supervisors will emphasize compliance with instruction at appropriate briefings.
       Commanders are responsible for appropriate action for willful misconduct or negligence
       involving fire protection equipment, policies, or loss to government property.
2. Responsibilities
   2.1. The 8th Mission Support Group Commander (8 MSG/CC): Fire protection of
   resources under the jurisdiction of Kunsan AB and will exercise primary responsibility
   through the 8th Civil Engineer Squadron (8 CES). The 8th MSG/CC implements directives
   of higher headquarters to control fire safety conditions.
   2.2. Unit Commanders: Unit Commanders are responsible for overall fire safety within
   their unit. Unit Commanders will:
       2.2.1. Appoint a Facility Manager (FM) and alternate for each building, facility, or area
       within a facility under his or her jurisdiction.
       2.2.2. Conduct periodic reviews of the fire safety programs.
       2.2.3. Ensure all newly assigned personnel, both military and civilian, receive unit fire
       prevention and extinguisher training within 30 days of assignment.
       2.2.4. Develop an operating instruction for each facility under their jurisdiction for
       personnel to follow when fire is discovered. Instruction shall cover fire reporting,
       personnel evacuation, first-aid firefighting using fire extinguishers, closing doors, etc .
       Depending on type of activity, instructions also include such items as emergency removal
       of aircraft from hangars, protection of high value and critical items, fuel handling
       procedures, and the safe handling of classified material.
       2.2.5. Initiate appropriate administrative or disciplinary action against personnel who
       willfully damage or tamper with fire protection systems and devices, initiate false reports
       (telephonic or electronic), or fail to comply with the fire prevention policies or practices
       through misconduct, disregard for fire directives, or negligence.
       2.2.6. Ensure suspense dates are met with corrective actions documented on the AF
       Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report.
   2.3. The Base Fire Marshal (8 CES/CC) will: Assists the 8 MSG/CC in discharging fire
   protection responsibilities IAW AFI 32-2001.
   2.4. Base Fire Chief (8 CES/CEF): Serves as the Fire and Emergency Services Flight
   Chief and is responsible to the 8 CES/CC for establishing and managing the fire protection
   and prevention program. Through the Assistant Chief for Fire Prevention, the Fire
   Prevention Section develops and administers the installation fire protection and prevention
   program. The Senior Fire Official (SFO) at the scene is in charge of all firefighting and
   rescue operations. Persons outside the fire protection organization will not give orders that
   could interfere with the firefighters. Unauthorized personnel are restricted from the area
   during such emergencies. The SFO has authority at the scene of an emergency to
   commandeer available military vehicles, equipment, materials, and personnel considered
   necessary to promptly control and extinguish fires or to rescue personnel.
4                                                        8FWI32-2001 25 SEPTEMBER 2013


    2.5. Fire Prevention Section: Responsible for conducting fire inspections, fire safety
    training, engineering design reviews, (to the extent of fire protection operational design
    reviews only), and fire extinguisher maintenance services. This section also monitors and
    assists in reviewing fire hazard reports and the Fire Safety Deficiency (FSD) correction
    program. This paragraph ensures procedures are followed to report hazards and deficiencies
    IAW AFI 32-2001 Fire Emergency Services Program and AFI 91-203 Air Force
    Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction and AFI 32-10141 Planning and
    Programming Fire Deficiency Corrections.
    2.6. Facility Managers: Facility Managers are responsible to the unit commander for the
    fire-safe conditions of the facilities under their control. In addition to the requirements in
    AFPAM 32-1125V1, Working In The Operations Management Field, Facility Managers
    will:
       2.6.1. Ensure sound fire prevention procedures are established and enforced in each
       activity or facility under their jurisdiction. Additionally, they are responsible for
       initiating corrective action for fire hazards and fire safety deficiencies.
       2.6.2. Must receive fire prevention orientation for newly appointed facility managers,
       who will in turn provide training to military and civilian personnel within 30 days of
       reporting for work. Supervisors will document this training on the AF Form 55,
       Employee Safety and Health Record. Supervisors of US civilians or Korean-National
       employees shall contact the Fire Prevention Section for their training or AF Form 1085,
       Fire Protection Training. Report all discrepancies either via telephone or on AF Form
       332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, to 8th Civil Engineer Squadron Customer
       Service for corrective action.
       2.6.3. Conduct monthly inspections of their respected areas to check all but not limited
       to:
           2.6.3.1. Fire extinguishers serviceability, placement and attached inspection card.
           2.6.3.2. Operation of emergency lighting, exit lights (shall be tested for no less than
           30 seconds once a month, and no less than 1 ½ hours once per year) to ensure proper
           operating condition.
           2.6.3.3. Check fire doors (including panic hardware) and emergency exits
           (illuminated) for proper working condition.
           2.6.3.4. Annotate inspection results in the facility fire prevention folder. Notify the
           fire prevention section of unserviceable extinguishers and/or damage to installed fire
           suppression systems.
           2.6.3.5. Ensure “Emergency 911” labels are attached to every phone.
           2.6.3.6. Ensure all assigned personnel receive training on fire reporting/evacuation
           procedures for their work areas.
           2.6.3.7. Ensure a closing inspection is conducted once per duty day to ensure the
           facility or area is left in a fire safe manner.
           2.6.3.8. Ensure that their facility has properly marked/identified designated
           smoking/tobacco area and correct type butt cans (if applicable).
8FWI32-2001 25 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                  5


         2.6.3.9. Provide access to all areas for fire prevention inspectors during fire
         prevention visits.
     2.6.4. Maintain a master facility key in the Knox-box located on the outside of their
     facility (if applicable) for fire department emergency use.
     2.6.5. Maintain a six-part fire prevention folder containing:
         2.6.5.1. Section 1– Current copy of 8 FWI 32-2001.
         2.6.5.2. Section 2– Current copy of letter, Fire Reporting and Evacuation
         Procedures. (See Attachment 2)
         2.6.5.3. Section 3– Letter of assignment of facility manager and alternate. Any fire
         prevention training documented on either the AF Form 55 or AF Form 1085.
         2.6.5.4. Section 4– Copies of AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report, from
         previous inspections.
         2.6.5.5. Section 5– Record of monthly fire extinguisher and exit/emergency lights
         checks.
         2.6.5.6. Section 6– Copies of all open AF Forms 332, Base Civil Engineer Work
         Request, Letters of Request for Flammable/Combustible Storage Locker Approval
         (See Attachment 4), and Facility Explosive License Approval.
  2.7. Public Assembly/Recreational Facilities & Commercial Food Service Facilities. For
  the purpose and application of this instruction, places of public assembly include, but are not
  limited to Loring Club, Unit Lounges, MWR Recreational Facilities, Commissary, Chapel,
  Sonlight Inn, Dining Facilities, Theater, Restaurants, AAFES Facilities, Fitness Center,
  Bowling Center, and the Golf Course Club House. Facility managers will:
     2.7.1. Conduct a daily closing inspection of their assigned facility using the preprinted
     AF Form 2519, All Purpose Checklist, titled “Public Assembly and Recreational Facility
     Closing Checklist.” (See Attachment 3)
     2.7.2. Notify the Fire Prevention Office prior to any major social events where
     temporary or unusual decorations are involved. Fire Prevention Office personnel will
     conduct an inspection prior to the event.
     2.7.3. Occupant load information is posted. Every room constituting an assembly
     occupancy and not having fixed seats shall have the occupant load of the room posted in
     a conspicuous location near the main exit from the room. The number of persons
     permitted in a public assembly facilities at any time will be limited to the number that can
     safely evacuate in the event of an emergency. NFPA Standard 101, Life Safety Code,
     provides guidance for determining the maximum number of occupants per building.
     Contact the Fire Prevention Section for specific guidance.
     2.7.4. Cooking Equipment. Follow and enforce procedures to ensure installed grease
     filters and exposed surfaces of kitchen range hoods are thoroughly cleaned on a daily
     basis to prevent grease accumulation (Maintain documentation). Spare filters are
     required in kitchen areas that operate continuously.
         2.7.4.1. All filters will be of approved fire-rated type.
6                                                        8FWI32-2001 25 SEPTEMBER 2013


           2.7.4.2. Exhaust systems over cooking equipment shall continuously operate while
           cooking equipment is in use. If the exhaust fan motor is shut down or removed,
           kitchen equipment served by the exhaust system may not be used until the system is
           restored to full operational service.
       2.7.5. Areas, other than dwelling units, that are provided with residential-type range-top
       cooking surfaces must be equipped with an approved residential range-top extinguishing
       system. The range-top extinguishing system must be connected to the building fire alarm
       system to sound a general building fire alarm and must disconnect power to the cooking
       equipment. Exceptions: are possible under certain conditions and will be reviewed on a
       case by case basis due to Kunsan’s war time mission and some Ability to Survive and
       Operate (ATSO) requirements.
       2.7.6. Deep-fat fryer thermostats must be tested, calibrated, and if necessary, repaired
       annually (IAW AFI 91-203, chap. 6, Fire Protection and Prevention, and NFPA 96
       Standard for Ventilation Control & Fire Protection of Commercial Cooking Operations)
       by the appropriate Civil Engineer electrician or contractor. Certification must be affixed
       to the unit. Documentation of the test must be provided to the user and the Fire
       Prevention Section.
       2.7.7. Portable or temporary cooking equipment (that produces grease or oil laden vapors
       such as donut machines or portable deep fat fryers) used in commercial and/or military
       dining facilities will be located beneath installed chemical fire extinguishing systems.
       2.7.8. All commercial food service facility managers will maintain a six-part fire
       prevention folder for each facility under their jurisdiction. Information will be
       maintained for two calendar years. Each folder will contain:
           2.7.8.1. Section 1 – Current copy of 8 FWI 32-2001.
           2.7.8.2. Section 2 – Current copy of letter, Fire Reporting and Evacuation
           Procedures. (See Attachment 2)
           2.7.8.3. Section 3 – List of all trained employees by name and date they received
           their initial fire prevention training and record of any other fire prevention training
           received. The training may be documented on either an AF Form 55 or AF Form
           1085.
           2.7.8.4. Section 4 – Copies of AF Form 1487 and any other documentation
           concerning fire prevention actions and requirements.
           2.7.8.5. Section 5 – Record of daily exhaust hood and cleaning by employees.
           Record of preprinted AF Form 2519, Public Assembly and Recreational Facility
           Closing Checklist (See Attachment 3) and record of monthly fire extinguisher and
           exit/emergency lighting checks.
           2.7.8.6. Section 6 – Deep-fat fryer calibration certifications. Record of exhaust hood
           and duct cleaning by contractor. All open AF Form 332 and Flammable/Combustible
           Storage Locker Approval Letters. (See Attachment 4)
    2.8. U. S. Army Contracting Command Korea (USACCK) & Korean Contracting
    Agency (KCA). The Fire Prevention Section representative will attend all pre-construction
    and performance conferences on all construction or service contracts for Kunsan AB. This
8FWI32-2001 25 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                   7


   applies to all contracts administered by the US Army Corps of Engineers or the USACCK.
   Project engineers will notify Fire Prevention Section of all pre-design, reconstruction and
   pre-performance conferences, board reviews, and modifications of projects. Each contract
   will contain a specific section on fire prevention. All contractors, subcontractors, and
   concessionaires are given a signed handout brochure covering their fire prevention
   responsibilities while working at Kunsan AB.
3. General Requirements
   3.1. Fire Reporting and Evacuation Procedures. All fires or suspected fires at Kunsan
   AB will be reported whether or not damage has actually occurred. The following method
   will be used to report fires and initiate fire evacuation procedures:
      3.1.1. Manually activate a fire alarm pull station.
      3.1.2. Use public address system, or shout “FIRE, FIRE, FIRE.”
      3.1.3. Dial ‘911’ or if calling from a cell phone: 063-470-0911
      3.1.4. Once in a safe location or another building and provide the following information:
          3.1.4.1. The building number and location of the fire.
          3.1.4.2. What is burning (building, grass, gasoline and etc.).
          3.1.4.3. Your name and telephone number.
          3.1.4.4. Do not hang up until instructed to do so by the fire alarm communications
          systems dispatcher.
      3.1.5. If the fire is small, an attempt may be made to extinguish the fire by using the
      appropriate type of fire extinguishers. If the fire seems large, or the occupants feel
      threatened, exit the area call 911 and stand by to direct firefighters to the correct area.
      3.1.6. Upon hearing the fire alarm signal, whether verbal or by automatic devices, all
      occupants will immediately evacuate the facility, disregarding personal belongings.
      Safeguard classified material as conditions permit. Facility managers shall designate a
      meeting place at least 75 feet away from the facility. Personnel shall meet at this location
      for accountability. Report any missing or possibly missing personnel to the first fire unit
      to arrive on scene.
      3.1.7. During wartime the “911” system at Kunsan AB will be utilized to report any
      wing exercise fires (i.e. ORE/ORI), all exercise inputs will be reported through each Unit
      Control Center (UCC) and then reported to the Emergency Operation Center (EOC). The
      EOC in turn will contact the base fire department.
      3.1.8. Facility managers and supervisors are responsible to coordinate with the Fire
      Prevention Section to conduct fire evacuation drills as outlined. Conduct semi-annual
      evacuation drills on all dormitories, explosive storage areas, POL areas, and places of
      public assembly. All other areas will have evacuation drills at least annually.
   3.2. Yielding for Emergency Vehicle Response. When a vehicle with a siren or flashing
   lights approaches, pull your vehicle to the right side of the road and stop. Use extreme
   caution before proceeding as follow-on units may be close behind. Do not follow
8                                                        8FWI32-2001 25 SEPTEMBER 2013


    firefighting vehicles to an emergency. Do not enter any street or area in which fire apparatus
    or equipment has been positioned, or where fire hose has been laid from hydrants or vehicles.
    3.3. Inspection Process. The primary responsibility for fire prevention and compliance with
    recommendations of the fire inspector rests with the unit commander of the unit visited.
       3.3.1. The primary or alternate facility manager, or a designated person appointed by the
       facility manager, will accompany the fire inspector. The person accompanying the fire
       inspector should have access to all areas of the facility.
       3.3.2. The fire inspector will annotate fire hazards and fire safety deficiencies on the AF
       Form 1487. The facility manager will be given the original copy of the completed report
       for corrective action. The fire inspector will assign a suspense date for the completed AF
       Form 1487 to be returned to the Fire Prevention Section.
       3.3.3. The facility manager or supervisor of the unit visited will brief the functional
       manger and take action to correct hazards and deficiencies noted on the AF Form 1487,
       or submit work orders to correct the items that are beyond their capability. Fire detection
       and suppression system work orders will be accomplished by the Fire Prevention Section.
       Corrective actions taken and/or work order numbers will be annotated on the back of the
       AF Form 1487. Once this has been completed, the facility manager will ensure the AF
       Form 1487 is signed by the functional manager/squadron commander and place a
       photocopy of the signed AF Form 1487 in the building six-part facility folder and
       forward the original copy to Fire Prevention Section by the suspense date.
       3.3.4. Risk Assessment Codes (RAC) and Fire Safety Deficiency Codes (FSD) will be
       assigned by the fire inspector for fire hazards and deficiencies IAW AFI 32-10141,
       Planning And Programming Fire Safety Deficiency Correction Projects and AFI 91-203,
       Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction.
       3.3.5. All items assigned a RAC 1, 2, or 3 that cannot be corrected within 30 days will be
       entered into the base Hazard Abatement Program. Functional managers are required to
       prepare and submit the AF Form 3, Hazard Abatement Plan, to the 8th Fighter Wing,
       Safety Office (8 FW/SE). In coordination with the organization having oversight
       responsibility for the identified hazard (fire protection, bioenvironmental, safety)
       supervisors or facility managers post the AF Form 1118, Notice of Hazard, in the
       immediate area.
    3.4. Fire Protection and Alarm Systems. Personnel must activate fire alarm systems
    and/or fire extinguishing systems to warn building occupants whenever a fire is discovered.
       3.4.1. Fire systems are installed for the protection of life and property and will not be
       tampered with. Unauthorized tampering or reporting of a false fire or emergency alarm is
       a punishable crime under Articles 92 and 108 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice
       (UCMJ).
       3.4.2. Fire suppression system components and equipment (i.e., risers, fire alarm pull
       stations, and detectors) located in facilities will not be obstructed to hamper visibility,
       operation, or accessibility.
       3.4.3. Sprinkler heads and piping shall not be used as supports, attachments, or hangers
       for unassociated equipment and material.
8FWI32-2001 25 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                 9


     3.4.4. Painting and coating sprinkler heads are prohibited.
  3.5. Fire Extinguishers. Flightline personnel are responsible for the daily and monthly
  visual inspection and proper placement of 150-lb Halon flightline extinguishers prior to
  starting any type of aircraft operation. All flightline extinguishers found to be damaged, low
  on pressure, or due annual inspection will be taken to the flightline extinguisher
  serviceable/unserviceable holding areas located in the green and red ‘Ready’ boxes on the
  apparatus apron of the Fire Department (Building 2815) for service.
     3.5.1. The PAE Fire Extinguisher contractor will perform required inspections of all 150-
     Halon extinguishers.
         3.5.1.1. Additionally, the contractor will perform 6 year service testing and 12 year
         hydrostatic testing on all extinguishers.
     3.5.2. The using agency will be responsible for loss or damage to fire extinguishers when
     assigned to their facility or area of responsibility.
     3.5.3. The using organization is responsible for buying all new/replacement hand-held
     fire extinguishers. Contact the Fire Prevention Section for specific ordering and
     mounting guidance.
     3.5.4. Hand-held fire extinguishers will be used for the purpose of fighting small fires
     only.
     3.5.5. Do not block or obscure from sight hand-held fire extinguishers.
     3.5.6. Facility managers will inspect hand-held fire extinguishers monthly and annotate
     inspection on the attached extinguisher tag and keep a record in their fire prevention
     folder.    For extinguishers that require service, contact the Fire Prevention
     Section/extinguisher contractor who is responsible for any extinguisher repairs and/or
     damage for the 8 FW.
     3.5.7. Immediately inform the Fire Prevention Section of any fire extinguishers that were
     negligently discharged.
  3.6. Mechanical Buildings/Rooms. Mechanical buildings/rooms, electrical switch, and
  Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning (HVAC) buildings/rooms shall not be used for
  storage and shall be locked at all times.
  3.7. General Housekeeping. All areas will be kept free of unnecessary accumulation of
  flammable or combustible materials.
     3.7.1. Trash will be removed from all areas on a daily basis.
     3.7.2. Cleaning rags, contaminated trash, oily rags, and steel wool will be kept in
     separate metal containers with self-closing lids and contents stenciled on the containers.
     3.7.3. Oil or paint-covered clothing will be stored in a well-vented metal locker.
     3.7.4. All large trees and decorative vegetation will be trimmed to prevent direct contact
     with incoming utility services.
     3.7.5. Janitor closets are not to be used for general-purpose storage. Each closet will
     present a neat and clean appearance.
10                                                       8FWI32-2001 25 SEPTEMBER 2013


     3.7.6. No storage is allowed in stairwells, under stairs, or stairwell enclosures.
  3.8. Heating and Cooking Appliances/Equipment. IAW AFI 91-203, portable cooking
  appliances that use grease or oil (such as donut machines and portable deep-fat fryers) are
  prohibited in dormitory rooms, billeting, or other base facilities not equipped with an
  authorized cooking area. Other portable cooking appliances (such as rice cookers, Foreman-
  type grills, hot plates, etc.) are authorized, but will be unplugged immediately after use.
  Facilities and dormitories equipped with authorized cooking areas will have an installed hood
  and filter system.
     3.8.1. Never leave cooking unattended at any time.
     3.8.2. Clothes dryers will be vented to the outside of facility and kept free of lint
     accumulation.
     3.8.3. Barbecue grills and open or enclosed flame pits will not be operated within 10 feet
     of a building or 50 feet from flammable storage.
     3.8.4. Space heaters will be Underwriters Laboratories (UL) approved and must be
     equipped with a safety trip (tip-over switch) and also have an overheat protection device
     (automatic thermostat control) installed
         3.8.4.1. Space heaters will plug directly into a wall receptacle. Do not plug space
         heaters into multiple outlet strips. Do not use an extension cord with an electric space
         heater.
     3.8.5. Maintain a 36 inch minimum distance or IAW manufacturer‘s recommendations
     between any heat producing appliance and combustibles. Note: The more restrictive
     guidance will apply.
     3.8.6. Heat-producing equipment that utilizes flammable liquids is prohibited in any base
     facility.  Bunkers, Defensive Fighting Positions (DFP) and ventilated vehicle
     maintenance facilities (bays) may use kerosene-style heaters, provided the requirements
     of Attachment 5 are complied with. All heaters will be exhausted outside.
  3.9. Smoking. Smoking, striking matches or using mechanical lighters is not permitted
  within 50 feet of hangars, aircraft, repair docks, paint shops, Liquid Oxygen (LOX) carts,
  refueling vehicles, flammable storage cabinets, or flammable storage buildings.
  Additionally, smoking is not permitted within 100 feet of compressed gas cylinder storage
  areas, fuel pump houses, dispensing areas or munitions storage and handling areas, or other
  similar hazardous locations.
     3.9.1. For all other buildings, smoking will not be permitted within 50 feet from main
     entrances or in areas designated IAW AFI 40-102, Tobacco Use in the Air Force.
     3.9.2. All smoking material will be disposed of in noncombustible cans with self-closing
     lids (clearly labeled, butt cans).
         3.9.2.1. Only cigarette butts and smoking material will be in smoking can.
         3.9.2.2. Contents of butt cans will be thoroughly soaked with water before emptying
         into exterior waste collection points.
8FWI32-2001 25 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                 11


     3.9.3. Smoking is prohibited in all facilities to include dormitories & bus stops on
     Kunsan AB. Designated locations will be identified IAW AFI 40-102 as “Designated
     Tobacco Area,” and as such, all occupants will comply with the standards.
         3.9.3.1. No smoking of cigarettes, pipes, cigars are allowed in any part of the
         building. These areas include doorways, walkways, and stairwells.
         3.9.3.2. DTAs(Designated Tobacco Areas) are only allowed in areas that have been
         approved by designated officials. Smoking/DTA locations are determined by the Base
         Civil Engineer, 8 MDG/CC & 8 FW/CC
         3.9.3.3. These restrictions apply to all guests including Korean employees.
  3.10. Controlled Burning. Open fires (bonfires, controlled burning, etc.) are not permitted
  unless approved by the Fire Prevention Section. Contact fire department prevention section
  to obtain an request authorization letter or see attachment 6 or 7 of this instruction. Once a
  letter has been issued it will remina in affect till the end of the requestors tour.
     3.10.1. Approved open fires will not be located closer than 50 feet from any structure
     and constantly supervised by a competent person until material is totally extinguished.
     Fire extinguishers or fire hose (if available by fire department) must be at burn site (see
     atch 6).
     3.10.2. An after inspection of any burn is required by the SFO/or designate after the fire
     is out. Contact 782-4471 for the inspection.
     3.10.3. Incense and candles are not permitted in government facilities, except at the Base
     Chapel for religious services.
  3.11. Use and Storage of Flammable/Combustible Liquids & Compressed Gases. Do
  not co-mingle empty or full drums, cylinders, and other containers used for storage of
  flammable liquids or gases in the same storage areas. Store these items in locations
  specifically constructed IAW DODR 4145-19-1, Storage and Materials Handling. Store
  incompatible materials separately.
     3.11.1. Storage of flammable and combustible liquids must be in NFPA-approved
     flammable storage cabinets or in flammable storage rooms meeting the construction
     requirements of AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction and
     NFPA Standard 30, Flammable and Combustible Liquid Code.                                 All
     flammable/combustible storage cabinets must be listed/approved for the specific class of
     storage. Not more than 120 gallons of Class I, Class II, and Class IIIA liquids may be
     stored in a storage cabinet. The combined total of Class I and Class II liquids may not
     exceed 60 gallons per storage cabinet. Not more than three such cabinets (120 gallons
     each) may be located in a single fire area except in an industrial area. Additional cabinets
     may be located in the same fire area of an industrial area if the additional cabinet, or
     group of more than three (120 gallons each) cabinets, is separated from other cabinets or
     group of cabinets by at least 100 feet. NOTE: The limit of three cabinets in a single area
     can be increased where smaller cabinets are used. However, the maximum amount of
     flammable storage cannot exceed that which could be stored in three 120-gallon capacity
     cabinets, (360 gallons total). Please refer to AFI 91-203, chapter 22.5.3 (Storage
     Cabinets) and Table 22.1- 22.10 for a list of acceptable allowances.
12                                                      8FWI32-2001 25 SEPTEMBER 2013


     3.11.2. Incidental storage of flammable and combustible liquids is authorized in
     industrial areas only and must be approved by the Fire Prevention Section. A maximum
     of five days’ supply may be stored in a metal cabinet. The five-day supply may consist of
     no more than one gallon of Class I, or ten gallons of Class II and Class III liquids, not to
     exceed ten total gallons per cabinet.
     3.11.3. Cabinets storing flammables shall be conspicuously labeled ―FLAMMABLE -
     KEEP FIRE AWAY.‖ For additional guidance, refer to paragraph 22.5.3 and 29 CFR
     1910.106, Flammable and Combustible Liquids.
     3.11.4. Small quantities of flammable/combustible office cleaning materials can be
     stored in offices and/or supply rooms without being in storage cabinets.
     3.11.5. The use of any flammable liquid (flashpoint of 100 degrees F or less) for
     cleaning purposes is prohibited.     Only cleaning products approved by 8
     CES/Environmental Management will be used.
         3.11.5.1. Cleaning solvent tanks will be of metal construction, equipped with a
         hinged cover and counterbalanced by a chain with a fusible link to ensure closing in
         the event of fire.
     3.11.6. All compressed gas cylinders will be in an up-right position and securely
     anchored (chained and bracketed). If not in use, the head safety cap will be securely
     threaded into place.
     3.11.7. Acetylene cylinders must be transported and stored in the upright position with
     the valve safety cap in place.
     3.11.8. In areas where liquid oxygen is used or stored, areas will be kept free of oil,
     grease, or other combustibles. Do not store or use LOX containers on asphalt surfaces.
     3.11.9. When leaks or spills are detected while servicing aircraft, immediately stop
     operations. Report all spills to base Fire Department via “911.” Evacuate all personnel
     and deny entry into the area.
     3.11.10. Store and transport flammable liquids in approved safety containers only. All
     containers will be clearly labeled identifying contents.
     3.11.11. Clearly mark all drums and tanks containing flammable/combustible liquids as
     to the contents and provide a static ground cable. Storage areas must be at least 50 feet
     from any building or structure.
     3.11.12. Conex-type boxes and/or sheds will             not   be used for storage of
     flammable/combustible liquids.
  3.12. Electrical Installation, Equipment, and Appliances. Installation, adjustments, or
  alterations of electrical wiring or installed appliances will be accomplished by 8 CES
  electricians, authorized contractors, or licensed electricians designated by the 8 CES.
  Unauthorized wiring may be removed at the expense of the occupant, as determined by the 8
  CES.
     3.12.1. Electrical cords, extension cords, and plugs will not be spliced, taped, draped
     over nails or metal objects, through windows or doors, under rugs, in the path of travel, or
     in such a way as to cause damage to wiring.
8FWI32-2001 25 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                  13


     3.12.2. Extension cords will not be used in lieu of fixed permanent wiring.
         3.12.2.1. Extension cords and power strips will not be used to energize refrigerators
         or heat-producing appliances (coffee pots, irons, space heaters and microwaves).
         3.12.2.2. Power strips or surge protectors will not be daisy chained to each other.
     3.12.3. Explosion-proof electrical equipment will be used in hazardous locations as
     defined by NFPA Standard 70, National Electric Code.
     3.12.4. At the end of each work day, turn off all electrical devices and appliances except
     those required for refrigeration, memory loss prevention, or deemed mission essential.
     3.12.5. Report all electrical problems to the 8 CES Customer Service Section for
     necessary repair (782-5318).
     3.12.6. Mark electrical panels and circuit control boxes to identify the area or circuit
     controlled. Circuit breakers will not be taped in the open position or wired together in
     any manner.
     3.12.7. Do not use combustibles or flammable shades, decorations, or materials on or
     above light bulbs.
     3.12.8. A clearance of at least 36” shall be maintained between fuse panels, breakers and
     combustible material.
     3.12.9. All switches, outlet receptacles, fuses, circuit breakers, and junction boxes must
     have suitable cover plates in good repair.
  3.13. Paint Spray Areas, Spray Rooms, and Spray Booths. Ground and bond all
  equipment used in spray-painting operations and booths to prevent buildup of static
  electricity.
     3.13.1. Automatic sprinklers will be protected from overspray residue. Polyethylene or
     cellophane bags having a thickness of 0.0003 inches or less or thin paper bags can be
     used.
     3.13.2. Sprinklers that have been painted shall be reported to the Fire Prevention Section
     so they can be replaced.
     3.13.3. Over-spray collector filters shall be inspected after each period of use and
     clogged filters shall be discarded and replaced.
     3.13.4. Cleaning will be conducted after each period of use. Scraping tools, if used, will
     be of the non-sparking type. Cleaning solvents will be limited to those with flash points
     at or above 100 degrees F.
  3.14. Vehicle Parking and Operation. Do not park vehicles in any fire lane or approach to
  any buildings that would obstruct or delay the response of fire fighting apparatus and/or hose
  line deployment.
     3.14.1. Approved signs or other approved notices shall be provided and maintained for
     fire station access roads to identify such roads, or prohibit the obstruction thereof, or
     both.
14                                                      8FWI32-2001 25 SEPTEMBER 2013


     3.14.2. Do not park or store Privately Owned Vehicles (POV) inside any government
     facility. EXCEPTION: AAFES Service Station. This provision can be waived verbally
     by the Fire Chief for emergency situations such as typhoons.
     3.14.3. Do not park or store government vehicles inside buildings or structures other than
     those specifically designated for that purpose. Any request to deviate for short periods
     must be approved (in writing) by the Assistant Chief of Fire Prevention Section and the 8
     FW/SEW.
     3.14.4. Vehicles will not be parked within 10 feet of fire hydrants in all directions.
  3.15. Welding, Cutting, Brazing, Soldering and Open Flame Torches. Obtain prior
  approval from the Fire Prevention Section before starting any operation in a location other
  than 8 CES/CEF approved welding shops. Review the welding and cutting checklist
  requirements at the work site to ensure all safety precautions have been taken, and that the
  AF Form 592, USAF Welding, Cutting, and Brazing Permit, has been issued by the Fire
  Prevention Section. Operations shall comply IAW AFI 91-203, Welding, Cutting and
  Brazing, and NFPA Standard 51b, Fire Prevention in Use of Cutting and Welding Process.
     3.15.1. The Fire Prevention Section (782-4471/4802) is POC for issuing an AF Form
     592.
     3.15.2. Contractor activities: All welding, cutting and brazing shall meet requirements
     of 29 CFR 1910.252, Welding, Cutting, and Brazing - General Requirements, which may
     also be used as a technical reference. The contracting officer shall determine the necessity
     for specific references to OSHA standards, Air Force fire, safety and health standards,
     and other guidance as necessary in the contract. In locations where the adherence of
     OSHA requirements is not feasible, contact the installation Ground Safety office or CE
     for guidance.
     3.15.3. Provide ventilation in shops or rooms where work is to be performed, but avoid
     strong drafts directed at the welding operation. Do not use oxygen to provide ventilation;
     this action shall accelerate combustion. Refer to AFI 90-821, Hazardous Communication,
     and Bio Environmental on proper ventilation requirements.
     3.15.4. DO NOT perform cutting and welding operations:
         3.15.4.1. Indoor areas not approved by the installation 8 CES/CEF, 8 SW/SEG and 8
         MDOS/SGOJ. This ensures fire, safety and health protection considerations shall be
         included in the selection of indoor welding, cutting and brazing operations.
         3.15.4.2. In buildings with inoperable installed sprinkler systems, unless other means
         of fire detection, reporting and extinguishing have been approved by the Fire
         Prevention Section.
         3.15.4.3. In explosive atmospheres or where explosive atmospheres may develop.
         3.15.4.4. Within 50 feet of flammable liquids.
         3.15.4.5. When unable to comply with the above requirements; interim procedures
         must be established through the installation 8 CES/CEF, 8 SW/SEG and 8
         MDOS/SGOJ.
8FWI32-2001 25 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                 15


     3.15.5. Personnel will ensure all combustible material and vegetation within 35 feet of
     the operation have been removed or protected. The proper class of fire extinguisher must
     be available near the operation.
     3.15.6. Where removal of combustibles is impractical, a suitable fire-resistive shield or
     welding blanket will be placed between the combustibles and the welding operation. A
     fire watch or stand-by vehicle may be required, as determined by the Fire Prevention
     Section.
     3.15.7. Before welding or cutting on flammable liquid tanks, cylinders, or containers,
     that previously contained flammable liquids, thoroughly wash, steam, and fill them with
     water or purge them with nitrogen. To ensure an explosive mixture does not exist, a test
     sample will be taken of the area or tank by using a flammable/explosive gas detector.
     3.15.8. Welding, cutting, flame, or spark-producing equipment is not permitted in pits,
     tanks, tunnels, basements, or other below grade areas until after atmosphere testing and
     monitoring equipment indicates the area is safe. 8 FW/SE and Fire Prevention Section
     must issue a welding permit. Prior to issuing a welding permit, confined space entry
     requires an evaluation from the Confined Space Program Team (CSPT) IAW AFI 91-203
     and a valid AF Form 1024, Confined Space Entry Permit approved.
     3.15.9. Aircraft welding and cutting operations are accomplished IAW AFI 91-203,
     NFPA Standard 410, Aircraft Maintenance, and NFPA Standard 51b. When aircraft
     parts require welding, they will be removed from the aircraft (when possible) and welded
     in the appropriate Welding Shop. When removal is not possible an AF Form 592 is
     required and a Fire department stand-by vehicle will be in place before work starts.
     3.15.10. When any welding and cutting operation has been completed, the area will be
     thoroughly checked to ensure the work area, adjacent areas, concealed spaces and
     exposures are fire safe.
  3.16. Asphalt and Tar Kettles. The provisions of this section apply to any type of
  equipment used for pre-heating or heating tar, asphalt, pitch, or similar substances for roofs,
  floors, pipes, or similar objects.
     3.16.1. A letter of approval is required from the Fire Prevention Section prior to setting
     up any tar kettle operations.
     3.16.2. Operating kettles will not be set up inside or on the roof of any structure.
     3.16.3. The kettle will be set up and operated in a marked controlled area.
     3.16.4. At least (2) 20:BC rated (minimum) fire extinguishers shall be provided and
     maintained within 25 feet of the operating kettle.
     3.16.5. Do not place kettles within 10 ft of exits or means of egress.
     3.16.6. Liquid petroleum gas (LPG) containers, hose, regulators, and burners used with
     kettles shall conform to the specifications of NFPA Standard 58, Standard for the Storage
     and Handling of Liquefied Petroleum Gases. Regulators are required on all cylinders in
     use.
     3.16.7. All kettles will have an approved working visible temperature gauge that
     indicates the temperature of the material being heated.
16                                                       8FWI32-2001 25 SEPTEMBER 2013


  3.17. Shops, Hangars, Warehouses, and Storage Areas. Store supplies, equipment, or
  materials in such a manner as not to block exits, interfere with firefighting operations, block
  accessibility or visibility of fire extinguishers. Storage shall provide adequate aisle space for
  access to controls of automatic fire suppression equipment.
     3.17.1. Ensure fire doors remain closed, except where controlled by magnetic closing
     devices. Fire doors must remain unblocked. The Fire Prevention Section must approve
     blocked doors.
     3.17.2. Supervisory personnel of hangars, shops and warehouses will conduct
     inspections at the close of the workday (or shift change) to ensure a fire safe facility.
     Check to ensure all electrical appliances are turned off. Check all exterior doors to
     ensure that they are free from obstructions.
     3.17.3. Empty dust collection bags and other waste receptacles at the close of each
     workday.
     3.17.4. Keep a minimum of 18” clearance around and below light fixtures, sprinkler
     heads, and heat, smoke, fire detectors. For materials stacked 15 feet or higher, maintain
     at least 36” of clearance from sprinkler pipes, or heads and heat, smoke, and fire
     detectors. Storage above offices, rooms, etc. built inside hangars, warehouses, or other
     large facilities is prohibited. Do not store materials above open rafters or in
     attic/concealed spaces.
     3.17.5. Containers, drums, or other approved receptacles containing flammable liquids
     will be stored IAW paragraph 3.13 of this instruction.
     3.17.6. Machinery will not be serviced or fueled inside warehouses or within 50 feet of
     outdoor combustible storage.
  3.18. Exits, Exit Signs, and Emergency Lighting. Exit doors shall not be locked or
  blocked during occupancy, to include exercises and contingencies. Malfunctioning exit
  doors must be immediately reported to 8 CES Customer Service, extension 782-5318.
     3.18.1. Doors that are blocked will have a sign posted conspicuously on the opposite
     side, indicating “DOOR BLOCKED.”
     3.18.2. All personnel will ensure aisles, stairways, and passageways leading to exits are
     clear and unobstructed at all times.
     3.18.3. Exit signs and emergency lighting units must be operational for each emergency
     exit and passageway. The facility manager will replace burned out bulbs as needed. For
     emergency lighting or exit lights failing to operate, submit AF Form 332 to 8 CES
     Customer Service, extension 782-5318.
  3.19. Base Population Training. All flightline personnel and facility managers and their
  assistants are required to receive fire extinguisher training prior to assuming duties on the
  flightline or as facility managers.
     3.19.1. Fire Prevention training is available to any individual, group, organization, or
     Korean National employee. Training may be obtained by contacting the Fire Prevention
     Section at 782-4471.
8FWI32-2001 25 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                  17


  3.20. Building Modifications. Prior to performing or starting any facility projects or
  modifications, submit an AF Form 332 to request and obtain approval. Coordination from 8
  CES/CEF, 8 SW/SEG and 8 MDOS/SGOJ must be obtained on all AF Forms 332 (except
  key or sign requests) before submittal to 8 CES Customer Service.
     3.20.1. Modifications that do not conform to NFPA standards or other applicable
     directives will not be approved. Any self-help construction not meeting these
     requirements must be removed by the responsible person(s) or organization.
     3.20.2. Class “C” rated finishing materials will not be installed in any facility on Kunsan
     AB. Existing facilities containing Class “C” rated finishing materials and/or combustible
     interior finish will be upgraded during facility renovations.
  3.21. Fire Hydrants and Water Mains. Approval for use of base fire hydrants must be
  obtained from the 8 CES Infrastructure Superintendent (8 CES/CEOI) and 8 CES/CEF.
     3.21.1. Do not turn off water mains, sprinkler systems, or fire hydrants without prior
     approval from the Fire Prevention Section. Approved closures of listed systems are
     identified with the DD Form 1104, Closed Valve Warning Tag.
     3.21.2. Do not block fire hydrants at any time. Facility managers will ensure no
     obstacles block or conceal fire hydrants. Do not block or obstruct access to fire hydrants
     by the installation of concertina wire, revetment walls, or Bit burg barriers.
  3.22. Blocking Fire Lanes and Equipment. Fire lanes shall not be obstructed in any
  manner, including by the parking of vehicles. When it becomes necessary to block any
  street, road, or fire lane, the responsible organization will notify the Fire Prevention Section
  in advance with the date, time, and length of the blockage.
     3.22.1. Approved signs or other approved notices shall be provided and maintained for
     Fire Prevention Section access roads to identify such roads.
  3.23. Penetrations (Holes) in Floors, Walls, Ceilings.
     3.23.1. Penetrations in walls, ceilings, missing ceiling tiles, spaces around pipes, vent
     shafts, conduit, etc., shall be filled with a material capable of maintaining the resistance
     and integrity of the wall or ceiling to prevent the spread of fire.
     3.23.2. Facility managers will replace missing ceiling tiles, repair holes where feasible
     and submit AF Form 332 for items requiring repair beyond the facility manager’s
     capabilities.
  3.24. Decorative and Seasonal Materials. All curtains, drapes, decorations, and floor
  coverings will be of fire resistant material or treated with an approved flame retardant.
  Materials shall have an approved flameproof label attached or a certification attesting the
  material to be flame resistant to UL specifications.
     3.24.1. All decorations in places of public assembly, dormitories, billeting, recreational,
     and administration facilities will be approved by the Fire Prevention Section before
     installation. Highly combustible materials such as hay, straw, cornstalks, or dried floral
     arrangements are prohibited.
     3.24.2. Christmas trees will not be placed in any way that restricts evacuation routes or
     blocks exits, fire extinguishers, or fire protection equipment. Artificial Christmas trees
18                                                     8FWI32-2001 25 SEPTEMBER 2013


     and wreaths will be of the fire retardant UL approved type. Display of fresh-cut trees
     must be coordinated with the Fire Prevention Section. Fresh-cut trees are not permitted
     in living quarters.
     3.24.3. Christmas lights will not be secured with staples, tacks, or nails. Small lights
     bearing an approval seal are authorized for artificial trees. Lights are not authorized for
     use on fresh cut trees.
     3.24.4. Do not hang or attach decorations to sprinkler heads, or fire detectors. Do not
     obscure the view of pull stations, emergency lights, or exit lights.
     3.24.5. Do not cover smoke or heat detectors.
     3.24.6. Ensure all electric decorations are unplugged nightly.
  3.25. Simulators, Flares, or Smoke Producing Munitions. Flares, gyro jets, ground burst
  simulators, smoke grenades, explosives, and other similar devices shall be used in
  conjunction with official duties, such as wing exercises or contingencies only.
     3.25.1. Motor vehicles transporting flares, gyrojets, ground burst simulators, smoke
     grenades, explosives and other similar devices and components shall be placarded and
     equipped with the appropriate fire extinguisher IAW Department of Transportation
     Directives (DOT).
     3.25.2. The standards listed below apply to the use of ground burst simulators and
     smoke-producing munitions during exercises and training:
         3.25.2.1. Only USAF stock-listed items are authorized for use.
         3.25.2.2. Only trained personnel can prepare and activate these devices. Personnel
         will be equipped with a minimum of two fire extinguishers (Rated 2A; 10 B, C),
         leather gloves, and a metal container for disposal of spent munitions.
         3.25.2.3. Do not detonate ground burst simulators within 125 feet of personnel or
         vehicles.
         3.25.2.4. .   Maintain at least 50 feet of space between simulator and hardened
         facilities.
         3.25.2.5. Maintain minimum of 200 feet space between simulator and bulk POL
         storage.
         3.25.2.6. Maintain minimum of 200 feet of space between simulator and any aircraft
         in open areas.
         3.25.2.7. Maintain minimum of 200 feet of space between simulator and explosives
         operating locations, holding areas, open storage, or butler type storage facilities.
         3.25.2.8. Maintain minimum of 50 feet of space between simulator and above ground
         magazines of block, brick, or concrete construction and from earth covered
         magazines.
  3.26. Trip Flares All personnel working or involved in set-up or take-down of trip flares
  will be equipped with a minimum of two water-type fire extinguishers. For these types of
8FWI32-2001 25 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                 19


  munitions, call “911” if a fire is ignited. Personnel on the scene should try to extinguish the
  fire. All extinguishers must be reserviced prior to starting any other trip flare operation.
  3.27. Pyrotechnics and Fireworks. Consumer fireworks are not authorized for use or
  possession on Kunsan AB. Examples include but are not limited to: roman candles, sky
  rockets, mines, shells, firecrackers, sparklers, black powder munitions etc.
     3.27.1. Commercial fireworks shows will be conducted by qualified explosives-handling
     personnel or licensed contractors, however, fire extinguishers must be provided by the
     operator or contractor. Contact Fire Prevention for further guidance.
     3.27.2. Smoking areas will not be within 50 feet of any area where fireworks or other
     pyrotechnic materials are present.
         3.27.2.1. Request for commercial displays of fireworks must be coordinated through
         the 8th Fighter Wing Commander (8 FW/CC), 8 FW Safety (8 FW/SE), 8th
         Operations Support Squadron, Airfield Operations Flight (8 OSS/OSA), and the Fire
         Prevention Section.
         3.27.2.2. The Fire Prevention Section must receive a drawing showing the discharge
         site, fireworks fallout area, and spectator area. The areas selected must be inspected
         and jointly approved by the Fire Prevention Section and 8 FW/SE.
  3.28. Wolf Pack Park/Tent City Fire Prevention. Fire prevention practices for Wolf Pack
  Park/tent city operations will be briefed to all arriving unit personnel using these areas by 8
  CES/CEF personnel:
     3.28.1. In the event of fire take the following actions:
     3.28.2. Attempt to extinguish small fires with a fire extinguisher.
         3.28.2.1. Evacuate all personnel from the area.
         3.28.2.2. Shout “FIRE, FIRE, FIRE.”
         3.28.2.3. Go to the nearest telephone and report the fire to the fire department.
     3.28.3. HOUSEKEEPING:
         3.28.3.1. Keep exit ways open and aisles clear to ensure all personnel can quickly
         exit the Sea Hut or tent in the event of a fire or an emergency.
         3.28.3.2. Munitions will not be stored inside personnel Sea huts or tents for any
         reason.
     3.28.4. HEATERS:
         3.28.4.1. Turn temperature down at night to reduce the possibility of fire from the
         smoke stack.
         3.28.4.2. The heater will never be left unattended while operating.
         3.28.4.3. Do not store cans of fuel inside the Sea Hut or tent. Extra fuel cans are
         stored at least three feet from all Sea Huts or tents.
     3.28.5. Cooking inside Sea Huts or tents is prohibited unless it is specifically designed
     for that purpose.
20                                                     8FWI32-2001 25 SEPTEMBER 2013


     3.28.6. Smoking is not permitted inside Sea Huts or tents and must be IAW paragraph
     3.9 of this instruction.
     3.28.7. Partitions (hanging separators). All curtains, drapes, decorations, and floor
     coverings will be of fire resistant material or treated with an approved flame retardant.
     Materials shall have an approved flameproof label attached or a certification attesting the
     material to be flame resistant to UL specifications.




                                          S. CLINTON HINOTE, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
8FWI32-2001 25 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                            21


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 32-20, Fire Emergency Services, 5 August 2003
AFI 32-10141, Planning, Programming Fire/Safety Deficiency Correction Projects, 3 Mar 2012
AFI 32-2001, The Fire Protection Operations and Fire Prevention Program, 9 September 2006
AFI 40-102, Tobacco Use in the Air Force, 26 March 2012
AFI 90-821, Hazardous Communication , 20 October 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 4 June 2012
AFMAN 91-201 Explosives safety Standards, 17 November 2008
AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 20 March 2012
AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction, 15 June 2012
AFPAM 32-1125V1, Working In The Operations Management Field, 2 Feb 2010
29 CFR 1910.106, Flammable and Combustible Liquids, 2012 Edition
29 CFR 1910.252, Welding, Cutting, and Brazing - General Requirements, 2012 Edition
DoDI 6055.06, DoD Fire and Emergency Services (F&ES) Program, 21 Dec 2006
DODR 4145-19-1, Storage and Materials Handling, 13 August 2009
T.O. 11A-1-46, Fire Fighting Guidance, Transportation and Storage, November 2008
NFPA Standard 30, Flammable and Combustible Liquid Code, 2008 edition
NFPA Standard 51b, Fire Prevention in Use of Cutting and Welding Process, 2009 edition
NFPA Standard 58, Storage and Handling of Liquefied Petroleum Gases, 2008 edition
NFPA Standard 70, National Electric Code. 2008 edition
NFPA Standard 96, Ventilation Control & Fire Protection of Commercial Cooking Operations,
2008 edition
NFPA Standard 101, Life Safety Code, 2009 edition
NFPA Standard 410, Aircraft Maintenance, 2010 edition
Adopted Forms
AF Form 3, Hazard Abatement Plan
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record
AF Forms 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF Form 592, USAF Welding, Cutting, and Brazing Permit
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
 22                                                  8FWI32-2001 25 SEPTEMBER 2013


AF Form 1024, Confined Space Entry Permit
AF Form 1085, Fire Protection Training
AF Form 1118, Notice of Hazard
AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report
AF Form 2519, All Purpose Checklists
DD Form 1104, Closed Valve Warning Tag

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army Air Force Exchange Store
AFOSH—AF Occupational Safety and Health
ATSO—Ability to Survive and Operate
CSPT—Confined Space Program Team
DFP—Defensive Fighting Positions
DOD—Department of Defense
DOT—Department of Transportation Directives
DTA—--Designated Tobacco Areas
EOC—Emergency Operation Center
FM—Facility Manager
FSD—Fire Safety Deficiency
HVAC—Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning
IAW—In Accordance With
KCA—Korean Commercial Air
LOX—Liquid Oxygen
LPG—Liquid Petroleum Gas
NFPA—National Fire Protection Association
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
POL—Petroleum Oil Lubrication
POV—Privately Owned Vehicles
RAC—Risk Assessment Codes
SFO—Senior Fire Official
UCC—Unit Control Center
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
UL—Underwriters Laboratories
8FWI32-2001 25 SEPTEMBER 2013                         23


USACCK—United States Army Contracting Command Korea
USAF—United States Air Force
 24                                                        8FWI32-2001 25 SEPTEMBER 2013


                                           Attachment 2
      SAMPLE LETTER, FIRE REPORTING AND EVACUATION PROCEDURES

Figure A2.1. Sample Letter, Fire Reporting And Evacuation Procedures
MEMORANDUM FOR ALL PERSONNEL
FROM: 8 CES/CEF
SUBJECT: Fire Reporting and Evacuation Procedures

1. This Fire Reporting and Evacuation Procedure is required IAW 8 FWI 32-2001, Fire
Protection and Prevention Program. This Procedure applies to all permanently assigned
military, TDY, Personnel, and all Korean-National employees.

2. Fire Reporting Procedures:
   a. Upon discovery of fire, activate installed fire alarm system or shout “FIRE, FIRE, FIRE.”
   b. Dial “911” from a safe location.
   c. Give name, building number, location of fire, and type of fire (if known).
   d. Do not hang up until told to do so by the “911” dispatcher.
   e. If possible attempt to extinguish the fire using an available fire extinguisher.
   f. If you cannot extinguish the fire, immediately leave the fire area and the facility.

3. Evacuation Procedures:
   a. All personnel will be familiar with the nearest emergency exit in their area.
   b. The person reporting the fire will meet arriving fire units and direct them to the location
      of the fire.
   c. All personnel will meet at a pre-designated assembly point at least 75 feet from the
      building.
   d. Conduct a head count to ensure all personnel are accounted for.
   e. Render first aid/buddy care to any injured personnel until relieved by qualified personnel.

4. This Instruction shall be posted on all bulletin boards and filed in the facility manager folder.



                                                      XXXX X. XXXXX, Rank, USAF
                                                      Fire Chief
8FWI32-2001 25 SEPTEMBER 2013                                   25


                                Attachment 3
  PUBLIC ASSEMBLY AND RECREATIONAL FACILITY CLOSING CHECKLIST
             (USE AF FORM 2519, ALL PURPOSE CHECKLIST)
 26                                                      8FWI32-2001 25 SEPTEMBER 2013


                                         Attachment 4
      REQUIREMENTS FOR DEFENSIVE FIGHTING POSITIONS (DFP) SPACE
                             HEATERS

A4.1. Requirements for Use of Fuel-Powered Space Heaters in DFP’s NOT Attached to
Facilities:
   A4.1.1. Only self-contained units with ‘Built-in Fuel Supply’ using kerosene or diesel can be
   used in DFPs.
   A4.1.2. Only one heating unit per DFP.
   A4.1.3. Unit must be kept clear of all combustible materials.
   A4.1.4. Units will only be fueled outside of DFP, and after having been allowed to cool for
   at least ten minutes.
   A4.1.5. All spare fuel containers will be stored in a flammable storage locker.
   A4.1.6. DFP will not be sealed with any materials that would restrict the flow of air.
   A4.1.7. At least one multi-purpose dry chemical fire extinguisher will be positioned for
   immediate use by personnel in DFP.
   A4.1.8. All fires or fuel spills will immediately be called into the Fire Department via 911.
   A4.1.9. At least one person in the DFP will remain awake while heater is operating.
   A4.1.10. The heater will be turned off when DFP is not occupied.
   A4.1.11. The heater will be placed on a metal panel, concrete slab, or sandy area.
   A4.1.12. Heaters will be kept 100 feet away from any fueling operation, or fuel storage
   location. Heaters will be kept 25 feet away from any munitions storage area.
   A4.1.13. Heaters will not be used within 100 ft of aircraft, or inside aircraft shelters or
   hangars.
   A4.1.14. Each organization must provide a map to 8 CES/CEF indicating location of heaters.
   A4.1.15. This attachment must be posted adjacent to each heater.
8FWI32-2001 25 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                      27


                                           Attachment 5
    SAMPLE LETTER, REQUEST FOR FLAMMABLE/COMBUSTIBLE STORAGE
                         LOCKER APPROVAL

Figure A5.1. Sample Letter, Request for Flammable/Combustible Storage Locker
Approval
MEMORANDUM FOR 8 CES/CEF
FROM: 8 XXX/XX (Your Unit)
SUBJECT: Request for a Flammable/Combustible Storage Locker Approval

1. Request permission to place (up to three) flammable storage locker(s) in (Building and Room
No., or geographical location). See attachment for complete list of flammable/combustible
materials and quantities to be stored and location drawing of locker placement in facility.
(Attach complete listing and location drawing prior to sending to 8 CES/CEF for coordination)

2. All cabinets must meet construction standards IAW AFI 91-203 and NFPA Standard 30 and
will be marked “FLAMMABLE—KEEP FIRE AWAY”.

3. No combustibles (i.e., wood, paper and cardboard) shall be stored in flammable storage
lockers.

4. A copy of updated inventory listings must be forwarded to the Fire Prevention Section
whenever there is a significant change in types or quantities of flammable/combustible liquids
stored.

5. If these rules are not adhered to the license will be revoked.


                                                              XXX X. XXXX, Rank, USAF
                                                              Flight Commander

2 Attachments
1. List of Flammable/Combustible Materials
2. Drawing of Proposed Locker Location

1st Ind, 8 CES/CEF
MEMORANDUM FOR 8 XXX/XX (Originating Unit)
Approval/Disapproval


                                                              XXX X. XXXX, Rank, USAF
                                                              Assistant Chief of Fire Prevention
 28                                                       8FWI32-2001 25 SEPTEMBER 2013


                                          Attachment 6
                   SAMPLE LETTER, CONTROLLED BURN PERMIT

Figure A6.1. Sample Letter, Controlled Burn Permit
MEMORANDUM FOR 8 CES/CEF                                                                  Date

FROM: (Your Office Symbol)
SUBJECT: Request for Controlled Burn Permit

1. The 8 XXXXX Squadron would like to have a controlled burn permit for our unit to be held
at _________________________ (specific location) on ______________ (specific date).

2. We have reviewed the attached training document and fully understand the requirements to
maintain situational awareness during the fire.

3. I, (Rank, Name) have been assigned/delegated as our operation supervisor. I will be
responsible for overseeing fire safety and will ensure all precautions are observed to ensure a
safe burn. I understand these duties include: coordinating with the Fire Prevention Section to
determine all burn requirements, soaking down the area prior to starting, conducting a post-
operations check which includes soaking down the area again to ensure complete
extinguishment.

4. If there are any questions, please contact me at 782-XXXX.


                                                           FIRST LAST NAME, Rank, USAF
                                                           Burn Permit Requester
                                                           8th XXXX Squadron


                                                           FIRST LAST NAME, Rank, USAF
                                                           Burn Operation Supervisor
                                                           8th XXXX Squadron

Attachment
1. Controlled Burn Training Document


To: 8 CES/CEF
Approved/Disapproved


                                                          FIRST LAST NAME, Rank, USAF
                                                          Assistant Chief of Fire Prevention
8FWI32-2001 25 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                     29


                                         Attachment 7
                    SAMPLE LETTER, BON FIRE AUTHORIZATION

Figure A7.1. Sample Letter, Bon Fire Authorization
                                                                                     Date
MEMORANDUM FOR 8 CES/CEF
FROM: (Your Office Symbol)
SUBJECT: Request for Bon Fire Authorization

1. The 8 XXXXX Squadron would like to have a controlled burn permit for our unit’s bonfire to
be held at _________________________ (specific location) on ______________ (specific date).

2. We will have an operation supervisor who will not consume alcoholic beverages so as to
maintain positive control over the fire.

3. I, (Rank, Name) have been assigned as our operation supervisor. I will be responsible for
overseeing fire safety and will ensure all precautions are observed to ensure a safe burn. I
understand these duties include: coordinating with the Fire Prevention Section to determine all
burn requirements, soaking down the area prior to starting, conducting a post-operations check
which includes soaking down the area again to ensure complete extinguishment.

4. If there are any questions, please contact me at 782-XXXX.


                                                        FIRST LAST NAME, Rank, USAF
                                                        Bonfire Operation Supervisor
                                                        8th XXXX Squadron

1st Ind, 8 XXX/XX
MEMORANDUM FOR 8 CES/CEFP
Recommend Approval/Disapproval

                                                        FIRST LAST NAME, Rank, USAF
                                                        Commander
 30                                                8FWI32-2001 25 SEPTEMBER 2013


2nd Ind, 8 CES/CEFP, XXXXX, Request For Controlled Burn Permit
MEMORANDUM FOR 8 CES/CEFP
Recommend Approval/Disapproval


                                                 FIRST LAST NAME, Rank, USAF
                                                 Assistant Chief of Fire Prevention


3rd Ind, 8 CES/CEF
MEMORANDUM FOR 8 CES/CC
Recommend Approval/Disapproval

                                                 FIRST LAST NAME, Rank, USAF
                                                 Fire Chief

4th Ind, 8 CES/CC
MEMORANDUM FOR 8 XXX/XX (Originating Unit)
Approval/Disapproval


                                                 FIRST LAST NAME, Rank, USAF
                                                 Commander
                                                 Fire Marshal
