BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                                8TH FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION 90-101
8TH FIGHTER WING                                                                         29 MARCH 2005
                                                                       Certified Current, 12 October 2011
                                                                                         Command Policy

                                                          DISTINGUISHED VISITORS SCHEDULING,
                                                                      EVENTS, AND ACTIVITIES



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 8 FW/CCP (1st Lt Diane Maye)                                                   Certified by: 8 FW/CV
                                                                               (Colonel William R. Becker)
Supersedes 8 FWI 90-101, 11 July 2001                                                               Pages: 6
                                                                                             Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 90-1, Policy Formulation, and its provisions apply to all units located
on Kunsan Air Base, Korea. This instruction establishes procedures for scheduling events and activities
requiring support for distinguished visitors to the 8th Fighter Wing, Kunsan AB, Korea. It describes how
the Kunsan AB Schedule of Events is developed and maintained.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This instruction has been updated to reflect the current personnel in the 8th Fighter Wing. It redefines the
procedures, responsibilities and duties for all distinguished visitor visits. New or revised material is indi-
cated by an bar (|).


1. Policies and Procedures.
   1.1. Notification and Coordination.
       1.1.1. To ensure effective use of base facilities and to avoid conflicts in scheduled events, any
       Kunsan organization, associate unit or assigned individual who wishes to request approval for an
       activity requiring protocol support will complete an 8 FW IMT 1, Distinguished Visitors Schedul-
       ing, Events, and Activities Worksheet. This form will be used as a starting point for each Distin-
       guished Visitor (DV) visit to be approved by the 8th Fighter Wing Vice Commander (8 FW/CV)
       or designate.
       1.1.2. Notify the Vice Commander 8th Fighter Wing (8 FW/CV) of visits by staff assistance
       teams, inspectors, and evaluators, regardless of numerical composition of the group, but not tran-
       sient air crews.
2                                                                        8FWI90-101 29 MARCH 2005


       1.1.3. Notify the 8 FW Protocol Office (8 FW/CCP) of any visits by an officer grade O-6 and
       above (DV Code 7, active duty or retired) or any activities/visits involving the 8 FW/CC or 8 FW/
       CV.
    1.2. Distinguished Visitors (DV).
       1.2.1. DVs to Kunsan AB are of command interest and must receive every consideration to ensure
       visit requirements are managed in a courteous and professional manner. Every effort will be made
       to host DVs to Kunsan AB in a manner commensurate with their rank and status. This includes
       DVs visiting for formal inspections such as ORIs or UCIs. Kunsan will support them in accor-
       dance with (IAW) 8 FWI 90-201, 8 FW Inspector General Inspection Activities.
       1.2.2. Any office having knowledge of a proposed visit of distinguished persons will notify 8 FW/
       CCP immediately. 8 FW/CCP will, in turn, advise the 8 FW/CC and/or 8 FW/CV of such visits.
       1.2.3. Foreign visitors of equal status to US Forces (unless otherwise advised by Headquarters
       USAF International Affairs (SAF/IA)) will be considered DVs.
    1.3. Greeter Duties for Military Arrivals.
       1.3.1. The unique mission and location of Kunsan AB results in steady numbers of DVs traveling
       to or through Kunsan AB. All grade O-6 and above (active duty or retired) will be greeted upon
       arrival and departure by a colonel or colonel selectee, and extended courtesies commensurate with
       their rank. The 8 FW/CC or his designated representative will greet general officers. This does
       not include DVs arriving via POV or GOV. DVs arriving via the front gate will be met by the
       POC at pre-designated location (Lodging, Bldg XXX, etc.), not necessarily by the designated
       greeting officer.
       1.3.2. Greeting officers will be available from the week of he start date indicated, to the following
       week for the purpose of greeting short/no-notice DVs.
       1.3.3. The greeting officer must obtain a substitute eligible colonel when unable to perform duties
       on the scheduled date and time.
       1.3.4. Keep 8 FW/CP advised of location and phone number at all times during tour of duty. Dur-
       ing non-duty hours, plan your activities to ensure availability and minimize response time.
       1.3.5. Wearing of duty uniform: During non-duty hours, appropriate civilian dress may be worn.
       During duty hours, a uniform must be worn.
       1.3.6. In many instances, arrival/departure officials will be designated specifically for certain vis-
       itors and will be reflected in the visitor’s itinerary, which is prepared by the OPR and/or 8 FW/
       CCP
       1.3.7. 8 FW/CP will provide via Land Mobile Radio (LMR) an estimated time of DV arrival as
       soon as one is available. 8 FW/CP will use all available means to track arrival of the DV. As a
       minimum, a ten-minute call and a ten-mile-out call will be passed via LMR.
       1.3.8. Should a DV arrive/depart unannounced, 8th Operations Support Squadron, Airfield Oper-
       ations Flight Commander (8 OSS/OSA) will immediately notify 8 FW/CP, who will, in turn,
       notify 8 FW/CCP and the greeting officer. In this case, 8 OSS/OSA personnel will greet the visi-
       tor and attend to his or her needs until the greeting officer verifies that all appropriate courtesies
       have been rendered.
8FWI90-101 29 MARCH 2005                                                                               3


2. Responsibilities.
   2.1. No formal commitment will be made by an individual or organization for a visit to Kunsan AB
   that will use 8 FW resources and/or facilities without the approval of 8 FW/CV or designated individ-
   ual.
   2.2. The 8 FW/CC is the final approval authority on all visits, events and activities.
   2.3. The 8 FW/CV is responsible for:
       2.3.1. Determining whether 8 FW resources will meet the requirements of a requested visit or
       event and approving/disapproving their use.
       2.3.2. Initiating efforts to reconcile conflicts on the Schedule of Events.
   2.4. The 8 FW/CCP will:
       2.4.1. Provide policy and counsel on protocol.
       2.4.2. Advise the 8 FW/CC of activities for visitors.
       2.4.3. Serve as financial manager for the commander’s official representation fund and the special
       morale and welfare fund.
       2.4.4. Maintain liaison with Department of Defense (DoD), Department of State, appropriate ser-
       vice agencies, and other agencies regarding visits of DVs by using 8 FW IMT 4, Distinguished
       Visitor Checklist. This IMT will be for each DV visit to Kunsan AB and will ensure visit require-
       ments are managed in a courteous and professional manner.
       2.4.5. Arrange and confirm lodging, transportation, and dining requirements for DVs to include
       any specific requirements (i.e., cell phones, dietary restrictions, etc.).
       2.4.6. Advise the greeter of scheduled arrivals each Friday for the upcoming week.
       2.4.7. Provide informational brochures when appropriate (welcome packets, maps, etc.).
       2.4.8. Reserve appropriate facilities for required 8 FW/CC social functions, issue invitations and
       receive responses.
       2.4.9. Receive draft itinerary from POC. Prepare final itinerary. Distribute an itinerary to 8 FW/
       CC/CV/CCC/Group CCs, and all other individuals associated with visit.
       2.4.10. Arrive at 8 OSS/OSA with sufficient time to ensure all required support is available.
       2.4.11. Schedule all Wing Mission Briefings. Coordinate with 8th Operations Group (8 OG), 8th
       Security Forces Squadron (8 SFS), 8th Logistics Readiness Squadron (8 LRS) and 8th Civil Engi-
       neer Squadron (8 CES) for briefers.
   2.5. The OPR (Agency Acting as Host) will:
       2.5.1. Appoint a project officer.
       2.5.2. Notify 8 FW/CCP of all details concerning the visit.
       2.5.3. Provide a draft itinerary to 8 FW/CCP for all DV Code 7s or higher guests and biography.
       2.5.4. Arrange for briefing and facilities, briefing personnel (other than mission briefing),
       audio-visual equipment and operators, and other related media. Commanders and staff agencies
       will provide well-qualified, thoroughly rehearsed personnel to present briefings.
4                                                                        8FWI90-101 29 MARCH 2005


       2.5.5. Ensure that facility utilization and maintenance schedules do not conflict once coordination
       for a visit/event has been accomplished.
       2.5.6. Ensure security clearances of visitors are current and correct, if required.
       2.5.7. Coordinate with 8 FW/CCP on official social functions, reserve appropriate facilities, issue
       invitations, receive responses, and provide required logistical support for all activities.
       2.5.8. Meet DVs upon arrival.
    2.6. The Project Officer will:
       2.6.1. Complete 8 FW IMT 1, Distinguished Visitor Scheduling, Events, and Activities Worksheet,
       as required. This IMT must be coordinated through the appropriate group commanders and 8 FW/
       CCP who will forward it to 8 FW/CV for approval. Outside agencies and attachments will bypass
       group-level approval, but all other coordination must be accomplished.
       2.6.2. Assume any of the POC duties that may be delegated to him/her by the hosting agency to
       include preparation of draft itinerary, lodging arrangements, welcome package preparation, etc.
       2.6.3. Determine need for photographic and media coverage when necessary. Coordinate with the
       8th Communications Squadron, Graphics/Photo Lab for photograph support and 8 FW/PA for
       media coverage if required.
       2.6.4. If transportation is required, the Project Officer will complete the transportation request
       provided by 8 FW/CCP. Vehicle Dispatch, 8 LRS/LGRVO, will provide UDIs (You-Drive-It), but
       it not responsible for providing drivers for the duration of a DV’s visit. Only exceptional circum-
       stances will warrant a driver. This does not include picking up and dropping off DVs at off-base
       locations (Osan, Incehon, Gwanju, etc.). 8 FW/CCP will coordinate with 8 LRS/LGRVO if trans-
       portation is required for pick-up or drop-off of DV.

3. Forms Prescribed: 8 FWI IMT 1, Distinguished Visitor Scheduling, Events, and Activities Worksheet
and 8 FW IMT 4, Distinguished, Visitor Checklist.



                                                WILLIAM W. UHLE, JR., Colonel, USAF
                                                Commander
8FWI90-101 29 MARCH 2005                                                                             5


                                            Attachment 1

               GLOSSARY REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 90-1, Policy Formulation
8 FWI 90-201, 8 FW Inspector General Inspection Activities.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
DOD—Department of Defense
DV—Distinguished Visitor
GOV—Government Owned Vehicle
IAW—In Accordance With
LMR—Land Mobile Radio
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORI—Operational Readiness Inspection
POC—Point of Contact
POV—Privately Owned Vehicle
ROK—Republic of Korea
SAF/IA—Headquarters USAF International Affairs
UCI—Unit Compliance Inspection
UDI—You-Drive-It
US—United States
USAF—United States Air Force

Terms
Distinguished Visitor—Any visitor of DV Code 7 (military grade 0-6 or GS/GM-15s) equivalent or
above (active duty or retired), Wing Commanders, Chief Master Sergeants (CMSgt) of the Air Force
(active or retired), Medal of Honor recipients (active or retired), national or internationally known
personalities, foreign dignitaries, corporate vice presidents and above, and prominent government or
elected officials. However, depending on the nature of a visit, wing leadership may designate anyone to
receive the courtesies afforded DVs.
Official Visitors—Persons other than those listed above who are visiting Kunsan AB in an official
capacity.
Function, Event, or Activity—A major operational activity or other event of special interest to the 8
FW/CC that impacts Kunsan AB support facilities and base resources.
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)—The agency acting as host of any visit, event, or activity.
6                                                               8FWI90-101 29 MARCH 2005


Project Officer—The person appointed to the primary coordinator (single point of contact) for a
designated visit, event or activity.
