BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      8TH FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION 91-202
8TH FIGHTER WING
                                                                          5 DECEMBER 2012

                                                                                         Safety

                                                         MISHAP PREVENTION PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications is available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 8 FW/SE                                                              Certified by: 8FW/SE
                                                                 (Lt. Col Jeremy D. Quatacker)
Supersedes:   8FWI 91-202, 21 May 2010                                                 Pages: 21


This instruction establishes the Kunsan AB Safety Program, implements Air Force Policy
Directive 91-2, Safety Programs, Air Force Instruction (AFI) 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap
Prevention Program, AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, AFI 91-207, The US Air
Force Traffic Safety Program, AFI 90-801, Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health
Council (ESOH) Councils, Department of Defense (DoD) 6055.9-Std, DoD Ammunition and
Explosives Safety Standards and Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 91-201, Explosives Safety
Standard, as supplemented. It applies to all 8th Fighter Wing personnel. All host units and
tenant units, contractor agencies, and Munitions Storage Activities Gained by Negotiations of
USAF/ROKAF Memorandum (MAGNUM), will adhere to the guidance set forth in this
instruction. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route the AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System       (AFRIMS)       Records     Disposition     Schedule      (RDS)       located     at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially changed and must be completely reviewed. Section 1
added objectives and mission statements and changed the flow and organization of information.
 2                                                                                        8FWI91-202 5 DECEMBER 2012


Subsequent sections are now arranged by safety discipline (e.g., ground, flight, and weapons
safety) instead of by activity. The document doubled in size and now includes more specific
details and responsibilities of safety personnel.

        1.      General Safety: ......................................................................................................       2
        2.      Ground Safety ........................................................................................................       7
        3.      Flight Safety ...........................................................................................................    9
        4.      Weapons Safety .....................................................................................................        12

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              15

Attachment 2—SPOT INSPECTION LOG                                                                                                            21


1. General Safety:
     1.1. Objectives and Mission:
        1.1.1. Objective: The primary objective of the safety program is to help commanders
        preserve personnel, equipment, and resources while maintaining combat readiness and
        proficiency so that the Wolf Pack can “Take the Fight North!” at a moment’s notice.
        1.1.2. Mission: The primary mission of the safety program is to provide focused, world-
        class risk management and safety education, training, analysis, and advertising in order to
        create a safety-conscious culture among Airmen that emphasizes risk identification, risk
        assessment, risk acceptance at the appropriate level in the time allowed, and risk
        mitigation in order to accomplish the mission with minimal losses and at minimal cost.
        When mishaps do occur, 8 FW Safety will quickly and accurately determine errors and
        lessons-learned so that others can avoid making the same mistakes.
     1.2. Program Implementation:
        1.2.1. The Chief of Safety (8 FW/SE) will provide the management and technical
        assistance necessary to ensure all operations conducted by 8 FW activities are carried out
        safely without unnecessary risk to life and property. 8 FW/SE will provide overall
        surveillance for implementation of the safety program, which includes mishap
        investigation and reporting, safety education and training, safety inspections, hazard
        reporting, and dissemination of mishap prevention information.
        1.2.2. Commanders: For the purpose of this instruction, commanders are those
        individuals designated as commanders or directors of wing staff activities.
             1.2.2.1. Commanders and directors of 8 FW staff activities will ensure compliance
             with AFI 91-202, Mishap Prevention Program, as supplemented. This instruction
             outlines specific guidance applicable to the 8th Fighter Wing and, when combined
             with higher-headquarter guidance, establishes the minimum safety requirements for
             all personnel using 8 FW facilities or equipment. Command leadership is an essential
             ingredient in establishing a robust mishap prevention program. Subordinates must
             clearly understand the commander’s policy and emphasis placed on safety.
8FWI91-202 5 DECEMBER 2012                                                                   3


         1.2.2.2. Commanders of partner units will establish procedures, as required, to meet
         parent command directives and safety objectives as specified in current host-tenant
         agreements (AFI 25-201, Support Agreement Procedures). Partner Units include 25
         Transportation Battalion, AFOSI, AAFES, 1st BN, 2D ADA, Army Corps of
         Engineers, DECA, and CATO.
     1.2.3. Supervisors: Supervisors will ensure their subordinates receive and fully
     understand mishap prevention information. Supervisors should continually assess the
     behavior of personnel and should be aware of any changes in attitudes which could lead
     to a potential mishap. Supervisors will ensure personnel are fully qualified to complete
     assigned tasks; facilities are properly maintained; safety directives are adhered to; and
     hazards are promptly identified, reported, and corrected.
  1.3. Inspections:
     1.3.1. Annual Inspections: 8 FW/SE will publish an annual inspection schedule no later
     than 15 September for the upcoming FY. Specific dates will be coordinated with unit
     commanders at least 30 days prior to the planned inspection. As applicable, 8 FW/SE
     will simultaneously conduct flight, ground, and weapon safety inspection in order to
     minimize the impact on units.
         1.3.1.1. Inspection Finding Process:
         1.3.1.2. 8 FW/SE staff will write formal inspection reports, including findings and
         recommendations, and provide the final reports to the units within 15 calendar days
         after the inspection. 8 FW/SE will provide an out-brief to commanders within three
         days of completing the inspection. Unit Safety Representatives/Additional Duty
         Weapons Safety Representatives (USR/ADWSR) are responsible for both initial and
         follow-up actions for all findings not closed within 30 days of the inspection out-
         brief. The unit commander must endorse initial responses for annual inspections. A
         work order number does not justify closure of an open discrepancy. Completion of
         applicable work orders will close the finding. The unit will provide wing safety with
         a follow-up status every 30 days until the finding is closed. Wing safety will conduct
         follow-up inspections once the unit closes an item.
     1.3.2. Spot Inspections:
         1.3.2.1. Spot inspections are no-notice observations to assess the day-to-day safety
         and health of an organization, work center, facility, or operation.
         1.3.2.2. Perform spot inspections as required in accordance with (IAW) AFI 91-202.
         Ensure identified high interest items are inspected monthly IAW 8 FW/SE High
         Interest Item and Spot Inspection MFR. Keep at least a one-year history of spot
         inspection logs in program books. Attachment 2 of this publication meets all
         requirements for spot inspection documentation.
  1.4. High Interest Items: Each safety discipline will identify high interest items based on
  trends or problem areas noted during annual and spot inspections. Each year, a memorandum
  identifying the 8 FW/SE high interest items for each quarter will be signed by the Chief of
  Safety and forwarded to all units.
  1.5. Mishap Reporting Procedures:
4                                                           8FWI91-202 5 DECEMBER 2012


       1.5.1. A mishap is an unplanned occurrence, or series of occurrences, that results in
       damage or injury and meets Class A, B, C, D, or E event reporting criteria IAW AFI 91-
       204. Damage or injury includes: damage to DoD property (excluding normal wear-and-
       tear or aging); occupational illness to DoD military or civilian personnel; injury to DoD
       military personnel on- or off-duty; injury to on-duty DoD civilian personnel; damage to
       public or private property, or injury or illness to non-DoD personnel caused by Air Force
       operations.
       1.5.2. Unit commanders, USRs, ADWSRs, and squadron assigned flight safety officers
       (SAFSOs) are responsible for implementing and ensuring compliance with the 8 FW/SE
       mishap reporting procedures as outlined in the 8 FW USR Guide.
       1.5.3. All mishaps receive a preliminary internal investigation. Immediate notification of
       the mishap is critical. Mishap sites contain valuable information necessary for accurate
       investigation and the formulation of corrective actions. The first-line supervisor of the
       individual involved in the mishap will conduct the initial investigation and document it
       on PACAF Form 161, Ground Mishap Report Worksheet. For Air Force motor vehicle
       mishaps, the unit Vehicle Control Officer/Noncommissioned Officer (VCO), with the
       assistance of the USR, will conduct the initial investigation. The investigator will
       forward the completed PACAF Form 161 through the USR and commander to wing
       safety within five days of the mishap occurrence. Civilian personnel who are injured on
       the job will notify supervisors immediately. Supervisors will complete a CA-1, Federal
       Employee’s Notice of Traumatic Injury and Claim for Continuation of Pay Compensation
       and CA-16, Authorization for Examination and/or Treatment, for all civilian on-duty
       injuries in addition to the PACAF Form 161. All PACAF Forms 161 will be sent to the
       wing safety office electronically or hand carried. Wing safety will determine the extent
       of the investigation and reporting criteria once notified.
    1.6. Mishap Reporting Support:
       1.6.1. The 8th Medical Group (MDG) will provide AF Form 1488, Daily Log Patients
       Treated for Injuries, to wing safety weekly.
       1.6.2. The 8th Security Forces Squadron (SFS) will provide copies of applicable blotter
       entries from AF Form 1315, Accident Report, that involve injury or death resulting from
       a mishap, motor vehicle mishap (GMV/PMV), property damage as a result of a mishap,
       and any other mishaps as deemed appropriate by SFS. Reference AFI 91-202 paragraphs
       1.5.19 and 1.5.19.1 for more details and requirements.
       1.6.3. The 8th Civil Engineer Squadron (CES) will provide a cost assessment of damage
       to government property as a result of a mishap to wing safety.
       1.6.4. The Base Fire Department (CEF) will provide copies of DODFIRS, Fire Incident
       Reports, to wing safety when requested.
       1.6.5. The 8 FW Command Post (CP) will notify wing safety of the following:
          1.6.5.1. Activation of the Incident Control Center (ICC).
          1.6.5.2. On-duty accident/mishap involving injury to USAF personnel (civilian or
          military).
          1.6.5.3. Off-duty accident/mishap involving injury to US Armed Forces personnel.
8FWI91-202 5 DECEMBER 2012                                                                    5


         1.6.5.4. USAF property damage to facility, aircraft, vehicle, or equipment.
         1.6.5.5. Accidents/mishaps involving explosives handling or storing.
     1.6.6. The 8th Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS) will provide wing safety a cost
     estimate on all reported damage to Air Force motor vehicles.
  1.7. Unit Personnel In-processing:
     1.7.1. Commanders will include safety training on unit in-processing checklists.
     Examples of the unit’s in-processing checklists will be made available during annual
     inspections and no-notice spot inspections. At a minimum, the safety in-processing
     checklist will include items listed in the 8 FW USR Guide and Para. 1.7.8. of this
     instruction.
     1.7.2. Course II, Local Conditions Course: The course provides essential information to
     newcomers to enhance safety awareness of their new surroundings. The course will cover
     significant risk concerns and preventive measures for local weather, recreation, driving
     environment, and other frequent or severe injury-causing activities. The course will
     specifically address safety rules for operation of motorcycles, mopeds, motor scooters,
     and bicycles. All newly assigned military and Department of the Air Force (DAF) and
     Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF) civilian personnel (identified during in-processing) will
     schedule training as part of the Newcomers' Orientation Program. Personnel assigned in
     temporary duty (TDY) status for 30 calendar days or more must complete the course at
     the TDY unit and accomplish training at the beginning of the TDY. Personnel deployed
     or TDY regardless of the duration will receive a local driving conditions briefing prior to
     operating a vehicle.
     1.7.3. Course III, Traffic Safety Training: This is an intermediate traffic safety course
     and will be taught to all first-term Airmen (including officers) following Course II
     training, ideally during attendance at the installation First-Term Airman Center (FTAC).
     The course is designed to reaffirm and build on the driving and decision-making skills
     taught in Course I. Commanders must ensure first-assignment officers contact the wing
     ground safety office for scheduling.
     1.7.4. Motorcycle Riders: All motorcycle riders, including riders who do not have a
     motorcycle on station, will complete a Motorcycle Unit Safety Tracking Tool Worksheet
     (MUSTT). MUSTT worksheets and the Commander’s Initial Briefing Checklist will be
     submitted to the wing safety office after the newcomers’ orientation briefing. Any rider
     or potential rider that requests Motorcycle Safety Foundation (MSF) training must
     contact wing safety to schedule and coordinate training.
     1.7.5. Supervisor Safety Training (SST): The SST course provides supervisory
     personnel with a working knowledge of the basic responsibilities for providing and
     maintaining safe working conditions; recognition, reporting, and elimination of hazards;
     employee safety motivation; mishap investigation; and other required skills to implement
     the Air Force Occupational Safety and Health (AFOSH) program at the working level.
     Officers, enlisted, and civilian personnel are required to attend when first assigned to a
     supervisory position.
6                                                             8FWI91-202 5 DECEMBER 2012


       1.7.6. Unit Safety Representative Training (ground, weapons, and flight safety as
       applicable to a unit’s mission): Individuals assigned collateral duty safety responsibilities
       at the unit level must receive and document training from the wing safety staff within 30
       days after appointment. The unit is responsible for maintaining USR/ADWSR/SAFSO
       training records.
       1.7.7. Safety, Fire Protection, and Health On-The-Job Training: Supervisors must
       provide specialized safety, fire protection, and health on-the-job training to all Air Force
       personnel. Supervisors provide training to newly assigned individuals before they start
       work or whenever there is a change in equipment, procedures, and processes or safety,
       fire protection, and health requirements. Training will be documented on the AF Form
       55 or by other means approved by the wing ground safety office.
       1.7.8. Operational Risk Management (ORM): All ORM training is available through the
       Risk Management Information System (RMIS) web site (https://rmis.kirtland.af.mil).
       Minimum ORM training requirements are:
          1.7.8.1. The Fundamentals Course is the basic level of training consisting of an
          overview of the ORM process and accompanied by simplified workplace examples
          applicable to the employee’s job. All PACAF personnel will complete the
          Fundamentals Course within 60 days of assignment if they have not previously
          completed the course.
          1.7.8.2. The Essentials for Leaders Course includes a brief review of ORM
          fundamentals and provides intermediate-level training on ORM application. All
          supervisors will complete the Essentials for Leaders Course within six months of in-
          processing.
          1.7.8.3. The Applications and Integration Course is the highest level of training.
          Completion qualifies an individual to serve as an instructor, facilitator, or advisor for
          all organizational ORM activities and training. USRs and/or unit ORM advisors will
          complete this course within 30 days of being appointed.
          1.7.8.4. The Executive Overview Course is provided to senior executives at O-6/GS-
          15 and above—typically commanders, deputies, and branch chiefs. This training
          provides an understanding of the processes in use within their organizations, the
          benefits and limitations of current processes, and the opportunities afforded by
          enhanced risk management processes.
    1.8. Safety Program Management for Groups and the Wing Staff Agency (WSA):
       1.8.1. WSA will fall under 8th Comptroller Squadron’s (CPTS) safety program
       management. Wing safety will not be appointed as unit safety representatives due to
       conflicts of interest and higher-headquarters guidance.
       1.8.2. Operations Group (OG) will fall under the 8th Operation Support Squadron’s
       (OSS) safety program management.
       1.8.3. Maintenance Group (MXG) will fall under the 8th Maintenance Operation
       Squadron’s (MOS) safety program management.
       1.8.4. Mission Support Group (MSG) will fall under 8 FSS’s safety program
       management.
8FWI91-202 5 DECEMBER 2012                                                                     7


      1.8.5. MDG will maintain a safety program that includes all subordinate squadrons.
      1.8.6. The commander of a deployed/TDY unit at Kunsan for more than 30 days will
      appoint a safety representative and the representative will receive abbreviated training by
      the wing safety office.
   1.9. Government Purchase Card (GPC) Request Coordination: Prior to purchasing the
   following items, units must coordinate the 8 FW GPC request form with the 8 FW safety
   offices to ensure the request complies with all safety guidelines:
      1.9.1. Munitions.
      1.9.2. Personal protective equipment (PPE).
      1.9.3. Industry equipment.
      1.9.4. Low speed vehicles (ie. Gators, golf carts, etc).
2. Ground Safety
   2.1. Ground Safety Program Management:
      2.1.1. The Ground Safety Manager (GSM) manages the wing ground safety program for
      the wing commander. The guidelines for the ground safety program are outlined in AFI
      91-202. The main objective of ground safety is to assist commanders in preventing
      mishaps through education and awareness.
      2.1.2. Commanders will appoint a minimum of two USRs to serve as the unit’s primary
      points of contact for matters pertaining to safety, fire prevention, and health. USRs
      should be knowledgeable in the mission and activities of the unit. USRs will be non-
      commissioned officer (NCO), officer, or civilian equivalent with a minimum of 9 months
      retainability at the time of selection. Appointment letters will state USRs are responsible
      for USR, Unit ORM advisor, and unit motorcycle coordinator duties.
      2.1.3. USR Responsibilities:   The USR is responsible for managing the unit
      commander’s safety program and accomplishing the following duties:
         2.1.3.1. Conduct and document spot inspections of unit workplaces and operations.
         The USR is responsible for ensuring at least one spot inspection per month is
         completed for every organizational section. For some USRs, this means more than
         one spot inspection per month. Attachment 2 of this publication meets all
         requirements for spot inspection documentation.
             2.1.3.1.1. Ensure appropriate follow-up actions are conducted and documented
             every 30 days until findings are closed.
             2.1.3.1.2. USRs are authorized to delegate spot inspection duties to section safety
             representatives.
         2.1.3.2. Accompany wing safety during the annual safety inspection and assessment
         of his or her organization. USRs must track corrective actions on all open hazards
         and program deficiencies identified during wing safety’s annual inspection and spot
         inspections. It is the responsibility of the USR to provide a current status report,
         including estimated completion dates, to wing safety every 30 days until closed.
         USRs will coordinate the report with squadron commanders.
8                                                            8FWI91-202 5 DECEMBER 2012


           2.1.3.3. Serve as the unit’s ORM advisor. Complete ORM training listed above
           (1.7.8.)
           2.1.3.4. Serve as the unit motorcycle coordinator.
               2.1.3.4.1. Identify unit motorcycle riders, complete MUSTT worksheets, and
               forward information to the wing safety office.
               2.1.3.4.2. Ensure motorcycle riders are briefed by the unit commander.
               2.1.3.4.3. Refer to AFI 91-207, The US Air Force Traffic Safety Program and
               AFI 91-207, PACAF Sup 1 for further guidance.
           2.1.3.5. Maintain a ground safety program management book in accordance with the
           8 FW USR Guide.
           2.1.3.6. Monitor the hazard reporting program. Identified hazards should be
           corrected at the lowest possible level within the squadron. The USR and supervisors
           will ensure unit personnel are aware of their right to formally report hazards directly
           to wing safety via an AF Form 457.
           2.1.3.7. Identify a process to disseminate safety information to unit personnel.
           2.1.3.8. Maintain safety bulletin boards. The USR will post a safety bulletin board in
           each unit facility or major work center in a conspicuous location. If space limitations
           do not permit the use of a bulletin board dedicated only to safety information, post the
           material in segregated sections of other unit bulletin boards. The area will be neat
           and orderly and will contain only safety-related items. As a minimum, the USR will
           post items IAW the 8 FW USR Guide.
           2.1.3.9. Report all mishaps to wing safety immediately by telephone or e-mail.
           PACAF Forms 161 can be sent electronically to the 8 FW/SEG ground mishap
           reports inbox 8FW/SEG@kunsan.af.mil or they may be hand carried to the 8
           FW/SEG office. PACAF Forms 161 must be received within 5 days of the mishap
           and must be reviewed by the squadron commander.
           2.1.3.10. Attend the Quarterly USR Safety meeting. This meeting is the primary
           forum for providing USRs information on changes in safety policies and standards,
           discussing mishap prevention processes, and providing additional training.
           Attendance by USRs is mandatory and will be reviewed by wing safety during
           program assessments.
           2.1.3.11. Monitor job safety, fire prevention, and occupational health training. The
           USR will ensure supervisors conduct and document training on the AF Form 55,
           Employee Safety and Health Record.
           2.1.3.12. Perform a monthly review with the unit commander on the following
           topics: reportable mishaps and timely reporting of those mishaps, open inspections
           items (wing and squadron), open hazard reports, risk management integration, and
           current status of the AF Off-Duty High Risk Activities Program. The unit commander
           must document, date, and sign this review in order to document that all areas were
           covered IAW the 8 FW USR Guide.
    2.2. Local national unit safety representative:
8FWI91-202 5 DECEMBER 2012                                                                   9


       2.2.1. Will assist military USR for translation and continuity.
       2.2.2. Will attend USR meetings.
   2.3. Other Government Motor Vehicles of Conveyances (OGMVC): These are vehicles that
   do not meet the definition of GMVs, GVOs, ATVs, Motorcycles, or Low-Speed Vehicles,
   and are not in full compliance with Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards (FMVSS) and
   host-nation laws for highway-use vehicles. Typically, but not exclusively, these are utility
   carts, agricultural carts, golf carts, fleet golf cars, gators, speed modified golf carts,
   snowmobiles, and self balancing or similar standing human transportation devices. These
   vehicles are allowed on installation public-access roadways with the following requirements:
       2.3.1. Use of OGMVCs requires lesson plans and documentation of training.
       Manufacturer guidance will be considered when developing lesson plans. Vehicles will
       have seatbelts for all occupants. Passengers will not be allowed to ride in cargo areas.
          2.3.1.1. OGMVC will have rollover protection, turn signals, stop lamps, parking
          brake, and windshield.
          2.3.1.2. Operators will inspect the vehicle and document discrepancies.
          2.3.1.3. Vehicles will follow established rules of the road, flight line operating
          procedures, and will not utilize sidewalks.
          2.3.1.4. Vehicles not equipped with windshield wipers will not be used during
          inclement weather, including rain and snow.
          2.3.1.5. Vehicles with soft tops will not be operated during lightning warnings.
          2.3.1.6. Vehicles not equipped with headlights will not be operated during inclement
          weather or hours of darkness.
       2.3.2. Operators transporting explosives will possess an AF Form 483 issued by 8
       FW/SEW.
       2.3.3. Vehicles not in compliance with the above requirements will have an ORM
       assessment conducted. The ORM assessment will be endorsed by the unit commander
       and forwarded to the 8 FW/SEG for final approval.
3. Flight Safety
   3.1. General: Guidelines for flight safety are outlined in AFI 91-202, US Air Force Mishap
   Prevention Program. The 8 FW/SE will appoint a flight safety officer (FSO) and flight
   safety NCO (FSNCO). The 8 FW Flight Safety Officer manages the flight safety program
   for the wing commander. IAW AFI 91-202, the 80th Fighter Squadron (FS) and 35th FS will
   each have a squadron flight safety program. Although the squadron flight safety program
   belongs to the squadron commander, the squadron flight safety positions and activities
   specified in this section represent an extension of the wing flight safety program.
   3.2. Wing Flight Safety.
       3.2.1. FSO/FSNCO Key Duties: The FSO and FSNCO are responsible for annual
       assessments of all flight safety programs and will monitor flight-related facilities and
       operations as part of a continuous quality-improvement program IAW AFI 91-202, as
10                                                         8FWI91-202 5 DECEMBER 2012


     supplemented by PACAF. Wing flight safety provides guidance and oversight on the
     following flight safety programs:
     3.2.2. Midair Collision Avoidance (MACA) Program: The FSO works closely with
     squadron-assigned flight safety officers (SAFSOs) and other interested parties to
     establish a comprehensive MACA program. This program is designed to disseminate
     information on wing flight activities in an effort to foster local area understanding and
     reduce the potential for midair collisions. A MACA guide is published annually and
     coordinated by the 8 FW and 51 FW for distribution to the Korean Peninsula.
     3.2.3. Bird Aircraft Strike Hazard (BASH) Program: The BASH program minimizes the
     potential for bird strikes and wildlife hazards to aircraft. The 8th FW Bird Hazard
     Working Group (BHWG) provides a forum to discuss prevention plans and mishap
     trends. The Vice Wing Commander chairs the BHWG meeting to discuss and implement
     methods to minimize bird and wildlife hazards to aircraft. Techniques include
     environmental controls, bird dispersal, and operational procedure changes. The 8 FW
     OPlan 91-212, BASH Plan, contains taskings for base agencies and procedures for
     aircrew.
  3.3. Squadron Flight Safety:
     3.3.1. 80 FS/CC and 35 FS/CC will each appoint a SAFSO and additional-duty flight
     safety officer (ADFSO).
         3.3.1.1. The SAFSO reports directly to the squadron commander. It is highly
         desirable the SAFSO is a qualified instructor pilot. In addition to managing the
         squadron flight safety program, these individuals will be responsible for carrying out
         normal wing safety duties. SAFSOs will support the wing flight safety program
         through participation in wing taskings, activities, and regular interface with the wing
         FSO and FSNCO. During periods of wing FSO manning shortages, it may be
         necessary for the SAFSO to fill-in at wing safety.
         3.3.1.2. The ADFSO will assist in managing the unit’s internal safety program. The
         ADFSO should perform an equitable portion of the squadron’s flight safety duties
         since the SAFSO assists the wing FSO with the wing program.
         3.3.1.3. The following factors should be considered when selecting a SAFSO:
            3.3.1.3.1. Individual's job experience and knowledge of the unit's operations.
            3.3.1.3.2. Present workload of the individual. SAFSOs should not be assigned
            other duties that would detract from their abilities to manage the unit mishap
            prevention program.
            3.3.1.3.3. Completion of collateral training including mishap reporting and
            investigating, hazard reporting and abatement, inspection training, and job safety
            training requirements.
            3.3.1.3.4. Duty as a SAFSO, on occasion, may restrict an individual’s scheduling
            flexibility.
         3.3.1.4. SAFSOs and ADFSOs should contact wing safety for required training once
         appointed.
8FWI91-202 5 DECEMBER 2012                                                                   11


     3.3.2. Administer the unit safety program using AFI 91-202, as supplemented by
     PACAF and this instruction, as a guide and management tool.
     3.3.3. Forward all flight safety matters of significance, which cannot be corrected at the
     unit level, to 8 FW/SE through the unit commander.
     3.3.4. Document all safety briefs.
     3.3.5. Document all actions pertaining to safety reports and safety matters discussed with
     squadron members.
     3.3.6. Document spot inspections. Attachment 2 of this publication meets all
     requirements for spot inspection documentation. Ensure appropriate follow-up actions
     are conducted and documented every 30 days until findings are closed.
     3.3.7. Maintain a file of applicable safety subjects discussed or briefed with unit
     supervisors. This can include current safety "items of interest" identified to the squadron
     commander, wing FSO, or maintenance. Document when outside agencies, such as ATC
     or the flight surgeon, brief pilots at squadron flight safety meetings. Report any unusual
     occurrences or incidents to flight safety. Ensure the appropriate safety form is completed
     to preserve information. Be familiar with and brief local area hazards, environmental
     hazards, and seasonal hazards.
     3.3.8. Brief local area hazards to visiting units.
     3.3.9. Assist wing safety with inspections as requested and conduct unit self-inspections
     as required.
     3.3.10. Each squadron will perform 8 FW Flight Safety Duty Officer duties once per
     week. 8 FW/SEF creates the schedule.
     3.3.11. Ensure squadron safety reports are submitted to 8 FW/SEF.
     3.3.12. Provide nominations for safety awards IAW AFI 36-2833, as supplemented, and
     this instruction.
     3.3.13. Ensure a current file of applicable safety directives is available in the unit.
     Electronic access is acceptable.
     3.3.14. In the event of a Class A mishap, help the squadron commander and 8 FW/SEF
     complete required checklists contained in the 8 FW Mishap Response Plan or as directed
     by 8 FW/SE.
     3.3.15. Establish, conduct, and document a safety indoctrination program for new
     aircrew that includes ground and flight safety topics.
     3.3.16. The SAFSO and ADFSO will receive local training from the wing FSO within 30
     days of appointment. It is highly desirable for SAFSOs to be a graduate of the USAF
     AMIC/ASPM Course. The primary job of the SAFSO is to manage the squadron
     commander's flight safety program and assist 8 FW/SEF as required.
     3.3.17. The SAFSO, along with the ADFSO, will disseminate flight safety information to
     unit aircrew through squadron meetings, read files, and the use of safety bulletin boards.
     This information includes:
 12                                                          8FWI91-202 5 DECEMBER 2012


          3.3.17.1. Selected mishap reports
          3.3.17.2. Safety Cross tell
          3.3.17.3. Safety information that applies to the unit
      3.3.18. SAFSOs may, when requested by 8 FW/SE, investigate and report mishaps and
      flight hazards (Class C, Class E, HAPs, HATRs, etc.). The SAFSO forwards reports to 8
      FW/SE for review. 8 FW/SE will complete the final approval process and finalize the
      Air Force Safety Automated System (AFSAS) message.
      3.3.19. SAFSOs and ADFSOs must create and maintain a strong relationship with
      maintenance. The SAFSO should get to know flight line maintenance personnel and
      become knowledgeable of maintenance duties and responsibilities. Be aware of trends in
      unit aircraft and know what problems confront the maintainers.
      3.3.20. High interest items, policies, procedures, and general flight safety topics will be
      discussed in an open forum. SAFSOs and ADFSOs may be asked to contribute to the
      wing's quarterly flight safety meeting. Commanders should ensure maximum attendance
      by all aircrew at these meetings. Squadrons are encouraged to have their own flight
      safety meetings or, at a minimum, incorporate flight safety into commander's calls or
      other squadron meetings. Minutes from the quarterly flight safety meeting will be
      forwarded to the squadron SAFSO for review by aircrew unable to attend quarterly
      meetings and placed in the safety read file.
4. Weapons Safety
   4.1. Unit Commanders Responsibilities: Unit Commanders and their representatives are vital
   to the installation weapons safety program. Units that handle or store explosives will
   promote safety awareness to all personnel in their unit and implement an effective weapons
   safety program. Unit Commanders will:
      4.1.1. Implement an effective unit weapons safety program and incorporate ORM
      principles to the maximum extent.
      4.1.2. Establish procedures for identifying and correcting weapons safety deficiencies.
      Coordinate with 8 FW/SEW to validate corrective actions.
      4.1.3. Appoint in writing a primary and alternate Additional Duty Weapons Safety
      Representatives (ADWSR). The primary ADWSR will be an E-5 or above and possess at
      least a 5 skill-level.
      4.1.4. Ensure ADWSRs receive training within 30 days of appointment. Replacements
      for departing ADWSRs will be appointed no later than 30 days prior to the departure of
      active representatives. Outgoing ADWSR will notify 8 FW/SEW if this cannot be
      accomplished.
      4.1.5. Ensure personnel involved in explosives operations receive and document the
      required explosives safety training.
      4.1.6. Ensure units deployed to Kunsan AB comply with local weapons safety guidance
      and appoint a primary and alternate ADWSR if deployment is greater than 30 days.
8FWI91-202 5 DECEMBER 2012                                                                  13


     4.1.7. Appoint in writing a primary and alternate Nuclear Certified Equipment (NCE)
     monitor. The primary NCE monitor will be an E-5 or above, and possess at least a 5-skill
     level.
        4.1.7.1. Units with appointed ADWSRs will utilize them as the unit NCE monitors.
        4.1.7.2. Ensure NCE monitors receive training within 30 days of appointment.
        Replacements for departing MCE monitors will be appointed not later than 30 days
        prior to the departure of active representatives. Outgoing NCE monitor will notify 8
        FW/SEW if this cannot be accomplished.
  4.2. Additional Duty Weapons Safety Representative (ADWSR) Responsibilities: 8
  FW/SEW oversees the weapons safety programs for the wing. In accordance with this
  instruction, ADWSRs will establish a unit weapons safety program tailored to the unit
  mission. The ADWSR will:
     4.2.1. Serve as the focal point for the unit’s explosives safety issues.
     4.2.2. Function as the unit commander’s representative on all matters involving
     ammunition and explosives (A&E) safety concerns.
     4.2.3. Advise the unit commander as necessary on weapons-related issues, including any
     work-area hazards, inspection findings, and corrective actions taken.
     4.2.4. Disseminate safety related information, implement safety control measures, and
     coordinate unit weapons (explosives) related inquiries and requirements.
     4.2.5. Coordinate unit requests for exemptions, waivers, or deviations from explosives
     safety standards with 8 FW/SEW.
     4.2.6. Observe operations involving A&E to ensure personnel understand and comply
     with weapons safety standards.
     4.2.7. Review individual explosives safety training requirements to ensure personnel are
     qualified to handle explosives.
     4.2.8. Maintain a list of locally written weapons safety related checklists, instructions,
     and training plans. Forward all documents to 8 FW/SEW for initial and annual review
     and resubmit for additional review and approval when changes occur.
     4.2.9. Ensure unit-issued explosive facility licenses (AF Form 2047) are reviewed
     annually for continued requirements and applicability.
     4.2.10. Review the annual inspection report and ensure findings and discrepancies are
     corrected. In accordance with the annual inspection notification letter, findings are
     designated as “open” or “closed”. Provide updates on all “open” findings to 8 FW/SEW
     every 30 days until findings are resolved.
     4.2.11. Perform spot inspections as required IAW AFI 91-202. Ensure identified high-
     interest items are inspected monthly IAW 8 FW/SE High-Interest Item and Spot-
     Inspection MFR. As a minimum, keep a one-year history of spot inspection logs in the
     program book. Attachment 2 of this publication meets all requirements for spot
     inspection documentation. Unit commanders may increase the frequency of spot
     inspections at their discretion.
14                                                       8FWI91-202 5 DECEMBER 2012


     4.2.12. Attend quarterly ADWSR meeting hosted by 8 FW/SEW.
     4.2.13. Brief incoming squadron commanders on the Unit Weapons Safety Management
     Program within 45 days and document the briefing.
     4.2.14. Unit Weapons Safety Program Management Book: All ADWSRs will maintain a
     weapons safety program management book IAW the 8 FW Weapons User Guide.
  4.3. NCE Management: The NCE program is a vital part of the Air Force Nuclear Surety
  Program. 8 FW/SEW is the focal point for the wing’s NCE program. All 8 FW units
  assigned NCE will establish a NCE program. NCE monitors will:
     4.3.1. Function as the unit commander’s focal point on all matters involving NCE.
     4.3.2. Establish a master nuclear certification list (MNCL) account. Identify all unit
     NCE equipment and maintain a listing of all NCE assigned to the unit. Reference
     https://wwwmil.nwc.kirtland.af.mil/MNCL/index.cfm.
     4.3.3. Forward a unit NCE list to 8 FW/SEW semi-annually or when changes occur.
     4.3.4. Report NCE deficiencies via a DULL SWORD worksheet to 8 FW/SEW. See 8
     FW NCE Program Guide.
        4.3.4.1. Forward all DULL SWORD worksheets to 8 FW/SEW within 24 hours of
        discovering the discrepancy.
        4.3.4.2. Forward the DULL SWORD worksheet to the repairing organization.
        4.3.4.3. Notify 8 FW/SEW when the status of the deficiency changes.
     4.3.5. Perform a quarterly program survey and review of NCE listings against the MNCL
     and document findings and changes to NCE.
     4.3.6. Maintain a NCE program management book in accordance with the 8 FW NCE
     Program Guide.




                                         JOHN W. PEARSE, Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander
8FWI91-202 5 DECEMBER 2012                                                              15


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD91-2, Safety Programs, 28 September 1993
AFI 25-201, Support Agreements Procedures, 1 May 2005
AFI 36-2833/8 FW Sup 1, Safety Awards, 17 Mar 08
AFI 90-801, Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Councils, 25 Mar 2005
AFI 91-202, the US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 2 August 2011
AFI 91-202/PACAF Sup 1, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 9 Apr 1999
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 September 2008
AFI 91-207, The US Air Force Traffic Safety Program, 27 Oct 2011
AFI 91-207/PACAF Sup 1, USAF Traffic Safety Program, 10 Jul 08
AFI 91-221, Weapons Safety Standards, 18 June 2004
AFMAN 33- 363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards, 12 January 2011
DoD 6055.9-Std, DoD Ammunition and Explosives Safety Standards 29 February 2008
8FW OPlan 91-212, BASH Plan, April 2012
Adopted Forms:
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record
AF Form 457, USAF HAZARD Report
AF Form 483, Certificate of Competency
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1315, Accident Report
AF Form 1488, Daily Log Patients Treated for Injuries
AF Form 2047, Explosives Facility License
PACAF Form 161, Ground Mishap Report Worksheet
CA-1, Federal Employee’s Notice of Traumatic Injury and Claim for Continuation of Pay
Compensation and
CA-16, Authorization for Examination and/or Treatment

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army, Air Force, Exchange Service
ADA—Air Defense Artillery
 16                                                   8FWI91-202 5 DECEMBER 2012


ADFSO—Additional Duty Flight Safety Officer
ADWSR—Additional Duty Weapons Safety Representative
A & E—Ammunition & Explosives
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSAS—Air Force Safety Automated System
AMIC—Aviation Mishap Investigation Course
AMXS—Aircraft Maintenance Squadron
ASPM—Aviation Safety Program Management
ATC—Air Traffic Control
ATV—All Terrain Vehicles
BASH—Bird/Wildlife Aircraft Strike Hazard
BHWG—Bird/Wildlife Hazard Working Group
BN—Battalion
CAPA—Combat Aircraft Parking Area
CATO—Contract Air Terminal Operations
CC—Commander
CEF—Fire Department
CES—Civil Engineering Squadron
CP—Command Post
CPTS—Comptroller Squadron
CZ—Clear Zone
DAF—Department of the Air Force
DoD—Department of Defense
DODFIRS—DoD Fire Incident Reports
DeCA—Defense Commissary Agency
EED—Electro-Explosive Devices
EMR—Electromagnetic Radiation
8FWI91-202 5 DECEMBER 2012                     17


ES—Exposed Sites
ESP—Explosives Site Plan
FMVSS—Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
FS—Fighter Squadron
FSO—Flight Safety Officer
FSNCO—Flight Safety Non-Commissioned Officer
GSM—Ground Safety Manager
FW—Fighter Wing
GPC—Government Purchase Card
GMV—Government Motor Vehicle
GVO—Government Vehicle Other
HAMS—Holding Area for Munitions
HAS—Hardened Aircraft Shelter
HC/D—Hazard Class/Division
IAW—In Accordance With
ICC—Incident Control Center
LRS—Logistics Readiness Squadron
LSRN—Largest Single Round Number
MACA—Mid-Air Collision Avoidance
MCE—Maximum Credible Event
MDG—Medical Group
MEQ—Mission Essential Quantities
MFR—Memorandum for Record
MNCL—Master Nuclear Certification List
MSA—Munitions Storage Area
MSF—Motorcycle Safety Foundation
MOC—Maintenance Operations Control
MOS—Medical Operations Squadron
MUSTT—Motorcycle Unit Safety Tracking Tool
MXG—Maintenance Group
MXS—Maintenance Squadron
NAF—Non Appropriated Funds
 18                                                      8FWI91-202 5 DECEMBER 2012


NCE—Nuclear Certified Equipment
NEW—Net Explosive Weight
NEWQD—Net Explosive Weight Quantity Distance
OG—Operations Group
OGMVC—Other Government Motor Vehicles of Conveyances
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORM—Operational Risk Management
OSHA—Occupational Safety & Health Administration
OSS—Operations Support Squadron
PACAF—Pacific Air Force
PES—Potential Explosion Site
PGM—Precision-Guided Munitions
PMV—Privately Motor Vehicle
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
RAC—Risk Assessment Code
RMIS—Risk Management Information System
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAFSO—Squadron Assigned Flight Safety Officer
SE—Wing Safety
SEF—Flight Safety
SEG—Ground Safety
SEW—Weapons Safety
SST—Supervisor Safety Training
TDY—Temporary Duty
USR—Unit Safety Representative
VCO—Vehicle Control Officer/Non-Commissioned Officer
WSA—Wing Staff Agency

Terms
Class “A” Mishap—A mishap resulting in one or more of the following: Reportable damage of
$2,000,000 or more. A fatality or permanent total disability due to injury or occupational
illness. A permanent total disability results from an injury or occupational illness
whenever competent medical authority determines the injured person can no longer follow
any gainful occupation (e.g., individual is medically discharged, retired, or separated), or
8FWI91-202 5 DECEMBER 2012                                                                        19


competent medical authority determines the injured person is in a non—medically induced
coma (comatose). The loss of uses of both hands, both feet, both eyes, and any combination of
two of these body parts, in a single mishap is also a permanent total disability. Destruction of an
aircraft.
Class “B” Mishap—A mishap resulting in one or more of the following: Reportable damage of
$500,000 or more, but less than $2,000,000. Inpatient hospitalizations of three or more personnel
involved in a single mishap. A permanent partial is disability. A permanent partial disability is an
injury or occupational illness which, in the opinion of competent medical authority, results in
permanent impairment through loss of use of any part of the body. The loss of teeth, fingernails,
toenails, or the tips of toes are not considered permanent partial disabilities. Repairable inguinal
hernia, disfigurement, or sprains and strains that do not cause permanent limitation of motion are
also not considered permanent partial disabilities.
Class “C” Mishap—A mishap resulting in one or more of the following: Reportable damage of
$50,000 or more, but less than $500,000. An injury resulting in a lost workday case involving
eight hours or more away from work beyond the day or shift on which it occurred or an
occupational illness that causes loss of time from work at any time. For military personnel do not
count the day of injury or the day returned to duty.
Class “D” Mishap—Any mishap resulting in total cost of property damage is $20,000 or more,
but less than $50,000; or a recordable injury or illness not otherwise classified as a Class A, B, or
C mishap. These are cases where, because of injury or occupational illness, the employee only
works partial days, has restricted duties or was transferred to another job, required medical
treatment greater than first aid, or experienced loss of consciousness. In addition, a significant
injury (e.g. fractured/cracked bone, punctured eardrum) or occupational illness (e.g. occupational
cancer (mesothelioma), chronic irreversible disease (beryllium disease)) diagnosed by a
physician or other licensed health care professional must be reported even if it does not result in
death, days away from work, restricted work, job transfer, medical treatment greater than first
aid, or loss of consciousness.
Clear Zone (CZ)—The area designated around any potential explosion site that depicts the
distance to which blast overpressure and/or hazardous fragments are expected to affect exposed
sites.
Compensatory Actions— The measures taken to mitigate potential personnel injury and or
equipment as the result of an unintended explosion. These management actions compensate for
violations to criteria that establish safe separation distances, distances needed to separate
valuable resources from ammunition and explosives. For purposes of this instruction,
compensatory actions, management actions, and compensatory measures are interchangeable
terms.
DULL SWORD—A reporting flag-word identifying a nuclear weapon safety deficiency. This
includes mishaps not falling into the accident or incident categories, but meeting any of the
criteria in paragraph 1.4.5 of AFMAN 91-221
Electro-Explosive Device (EED)—An explosive or pyrotechnic component that initiates an
explosive, burning, electrical, or mechanical train and is activated by the application of electrical
energy.
 20                                                         8FWI91-202 5 DECEMBER 2012


Expanded-State—For the purpose of this instruction, expanded-state refers to those periods
when explosives quantities needed to support contingency or combat operations exceed those
limits established by approved steady-state explosive site plans (ESP).
Exposed Site (ES)—Any facility exposed to any potential explosion site. Exposed sites may be
explosive (e.g. a licensed facility or munitions storage magazine) or non-explosive (e.g. flight-
line kitchen or support building).
Largest Single Round Number (LSRN)—Equal to the largest single round NEWQD Hazard
Class/Division (HC/D) 1.2.3 item present.
Lost Time Injury—When a competent medical authority specifically orders time off from work
exceeding eight continuous hours beginning with the injured person’s next regularly scheduled
shift.
Maximum Credible Event (MCE)—The predicted maximum NEW that would simultaneously
be involved in a single detonation. All 1.2 items will have an assigned MCE that is listed in a
separate data field in the JHCS database. An item with an MCE of 75 lbs. means that a mass
detonation of 75 lbs. NEW can be expected.
Military Ammunition and Explosives—All national stock listed ammunition, demolition
material, solid rocket motors, cartridges, pyrotechnics, mines, bombs, grenades, warheads of all
types, explosive elements of ejection and aircrew egress systems, air-launched missiles,
explosive components of missile and space systems, and assembled kits and devices containing
explosive material.
Net Explosive Weight (NEW)—The amount of explosive contained in a particular item as listed
in the Joint Hazard Classification System (JHCS).
Net Explosives Weight for Quantity Distance (NEWQD)—The total quantity of High
explosive equivalency in a particular item or round to be used when applying quantity-distance
(Q-D) criteria or other standards. The NEWQD is equal to the NEW unless hazard classification
testing has shown that a lower weight is appropriate for Q-D purposes.
No Lost Time—When an injured person seeks professional medical attention and completes at
least a portion of their regularly scheduled shift.
On—Duty Injury—These mishaps occur during normal work activities. Going to the gym to
play sports or workout during lunch is not considered normal work activity. Mandatory
formations for the purpose of physical training are considered on-duty.
Off—Duty Injury—These apply only to military personnel and relate to those injuries that do
not meet the on-duty criteria.
Potential Explosion Site (PES)—Any facility authorized to contain ammunition and explosives.
Authorization is obtained through an approved explosive site plan, an approved explosive facility
license (AF IMT 2047), or an approved operational risk assessment.
Steady-State—For the purpose of this instruction, steady-state refers to day-to-day operations
when explosive quantities needed to support training sorties and increased readiness are equal to
or less than those limits established by approved steady-state explosive site plans.
8FWI91-202 5 DECEMBER 2012                                                                     21


                                        Attachment 2
                                 SPOT INSPECTION LOG

Figure A2.1. Spot Inspection Log
                                       Area
Date/Time   Inspector     Unit      Inspected     POC and Phone Number            Status
                                                                            Open      Closed
                        Reference                              Follow Up?      Discrepancy?
IAW:                                                           Y      N      Y          N
                                 Findings/Observations/Cause




                                      Corrective Actions




                                       Area
Date/Time   Inspector     Unit      Inspected     POC and Phone Number            Status
                                                                            Open      Closed
                        Reference                              Follow Up?      Discrepancy?
IAW:                                                           Y      N      Y          N
                                 Findings/Observations/Cause




                                      Corrective Actions
