BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                               8TH FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION 34-201
8TH FIGHTER WING                                                                   27 DECEMBER 2005
                                                                      Certified Current 8 September 2010
                                                                                                Services

                                                                          KUNSAN AIR BASE SEARCH
                                                                          AND RECOVERY PROGRAM



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 8 SVS/SVMX (MSgt Meshelle Dyer)                                             Certified by: 8 MSG/CC
                                                                        (Colonel Linda R. Urrutia-Varhall)
                                                                                                  Pages: 6
                                                                                           Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 34-2, Air Force Community Service Programs, and AFI 34-242, Mor-
tuary Affairs Program, para 1.11.2., in which the Mortuary Officer is directed to develop an implementa-
tion and execution plan for Search and Recovery operations, including the identification and handling of
remains in aircraft mishaps and disasters occurring on and off base. This instruction will list support
agencies including PACAF/SVX, HQ AFSVA/SVOM, base transportation, medical and disaster response
teams. It will also include team reporting and departure locations and whom the team reports to. This
instruction will identify transportation requirements, clothing requirements, equipment requirements,
safety and security procedures for personal property, facilities for holding, identifying, and examining
remains, provisions for temporary refrigeration and details stating how other agencies fit into the disaster
operation and coordination of the plan with appropriate agencies. It applies to all 8th Fighter Wing and
subordinate units assigned, attached, or supported by the 8th Fighter Wing, Kunsan Air Base, Korea.


1. Search and Recovery Operations.
   1.1. Overview. This instruction provides guidance and procedures for the effective management of
   Search and Recovery operations on and around Kunsan AB.
   1.2. Implementation. Search and Recovery operations will be implemented at the direction of the
   8th Fighter Wing (8 FW/CC) or 8th Mission Support Group (8 MSG/CC) in the event of the following
   reasons:
       1.2.1. Major Accident Response Exercise (MARE).
       1.2.2. Aircraft Mishap.
       1.2.3. Natural Disaster.
       1.2.4. As deemed necessary by the 8 FW/CC or 8 MSG/CC.
2                                                                  8FWI34-201 27 DECEMBER 2005


    1.3. Operations. Upon implementation of the Search and Recovery team, the following procedures
    will be followed.
       1.3.1. Notification. Upon implementation of the Search and Recovery team, the 8th Services
       Squadron, Unit Control Center (UCC), will activate and begin recall of the Search and Recovery
       team members. Duty sections should prepare to lose their people to the Search and Recovery team
       if any of the events listed in para 1.1.1 occur. Team members should report as soon as possible to
       the 8 SVS unit Conference Room in Building 755 unless otherwise directed. Team members will
       be advised on what kind of personal cold weather gear to bring and other items that may be
       needed. All actions relating to the Search and Recovery operation will be coordinated from the 8
       SVS UCC in conjunction with the Disaster Control Group (DCG).
       1.3.2. Equipment. Search and Recovery members should bring unit issued inclimate weather gear
       with them if it is required. Additionally, team members should maintain a basic toiletries kit in
       case they are called overnight. Every effort should be made to inform members if they will be
       away overnight. 8 SVS/SVMX maintains all equipment necessary for the search and recovery
       operation.
       1.3.3. Deployment. The installation Mortuary Officer or a designated representative will report to
       the DCG and proceed to the scene to make an initial assessment. Search and Recovery personnel
       will not be dispatched to the scene until the scene has been declared safe, the aircraft mishap
       investigation board clears them, and the On-Scene Commander gives permission.
       1.3.4. On-Scene Operations. The On-Scene Mortuary Officer will assume control of the search
       and recovery team upon arrival, and will direct all actions related to the search, recovery and
       movement of remains. The On-Scene Mortuary Officer will not begin SAR operations until the
       area has been declared safe. At the discretion of the On-Scene Mortuary Officer or On-Scene
       Commander, search and recovery actions will be suspended at the onset of darkness or any time
       weather conditions pose a threat to the safety of personnel. Personal property on-scene will be
       stored separately from human remains and secured by security forces if it is to be retained as evi-
       dence. The Mortuary Officer and/or the Summary Court Officer will take custody of personal
       property and effects before the items leave the scene. All other procedures will follow the direc-
       tions outlined in AFI 34-242.
       1.3.5. Termination. A halt to search and recovery operations will be called at the discretion of the
       On-Scene Commander. All documentation relating to the recovery shall be turned in to the 8th
       Services Squadron, Readiness/Training/Mortuary Affairs (8 SVS/SVMX) for consolidation,
       duplication, distribution, and filing. One copy shall be sent to both HQ AFSVA/SVOM and HQ
       PACAF/SVMX.
       1.3.6. Storage and Identification. HQ AFSVA/SVOM will be contacted to provide an ID team.
       The 8th Medical Group will be coordinated with to provide additional support and inspection of
       temporary facilities. The morgue will be activated for identification and examination. 8 SVS will
       provide a refrigeration truck for remains storage. If more storage is required, 8 SVS will request
       to contract a refrigerated trailer. USFK Mortuary will be contacted and given notification to pre-
       pare for an influx of human remains.

2. Responsibilities of Supporting Agencies. Below are the responsibilities and support requirements of
each affected agency.
8FWI34-201 27 DECEMBER 2005                                                                            3


  2.1. 8 FW/CC. Responsible for the administration and operation of all activities related to the Mortu-
  ary Affairs program on the installation. The 8 FW/CC will:
     2.1.1. Designate a Search and Recovery team of 26 members to function under the supervision of
     the installation Mortuary Officer as part of the base response force. Team members will be men-
     tally and physically fit to perform search and recovery duties, and have no other obligations to
     other disaster response teams.
     2.1.2. Make passenger manifest and other documentation available to the identification team in
     the event of an aircraft accident originating from the local airports when military personnel are
     involved, and aid the Mortuary Officer in obtaining such documentation for aircraft originating
     from another base.
     2.1.3. Provide, through all agencies under their control, any other resources required to support
     search and recovery, identification of remains, mass burial, and graves registration activities.
  2.2. 8 MSG/CC. Responsible to authorize and oversee search and recovery action as the On-Scene
  Commander at an accident site.
  2.3. 8th Services Squadron Commander (8 SVS/CC). Act on behalf of the Installation Com-
  mander and the 8 MSG/CC for the direction and administration of the Mortuary Affairs Program.
  This includes, but is not limited to, the search, recovery, identification, and disposition of remains.
  The 8 SVS/CC will:
     2.3.1. Ensure supplies and equipment are available for the initial support of mass casualty search
     and recovery operations.
     2.3.2. Ensure Search and Recovery team members are properly trained, equipped, and knowl-
     edgeable in their duties.
     2.3.3. Ensure all necessary food services and lodging support to response forces are available
     when required.
     2.3.4. Serve as the focal point for search and recovery operations.
  2.4. 8th Medical Group Commander (8 MDG/CC). Provide medical support in the following
  areas:
     2.4.1. Provide immunizations and vaccines for Search and Recovery team as required.
     2.4.2. Provide training in human anatomy, blood borne pathogens, and Critical Incident Stress
     Management (CISM) for team members.
     2.4.3. Provide death certificates that are necessary to complete mortuary case files.
     2.4.4. Provide medical assistance on-scene to any personnel for physical or emotional trauma.
     2.4.5. Provide CISM support to team members throughout operations and afterwards.
  2.5. 8th Communications Squadron Commander (8 CS/CC). Provide support in the following
  areas:
     2.5.1. Provide photographer and necessary equipment to record the search and recovery effort. In
     the event of search and recovery implementation, these personnel will respond with required
     equipment.
4                                                                    8FWI34-201 27 DECEMBER 2005


       2.5.2. Provide additional communications support in the form of hand-held radios as required.
    2.6. 8th Civil Engineer Squadron Commander (8 CES/CC). Provide support in the following
    areas:
       2.6.1. Provide General Purpose Medium or TEMPER tents to be used for Command and Control
       centers, storage, on-scene lodging, or other purposes.
       2.6.2. Provide lighting and electrical power to the site, as necessary, to provide for proper security
       of the scene during hours of darkness.
       2.6.3. Provide heavy equipment for removal of large pieces of debris or for clearing areas.
       2.6.4. Provide potable water for use on-scene during operations.
       2.6.5. Provide portable chemical toilets and necessary services for removal of waste products on
       an as needed basis.
       2.6.6. If necessary, assist in mass burials by providing required equipment, materials, and man-
       power to dig and mark graves.
    2.7. 8th Logistics Readiness Squadron Commander (8 LRS/CC). Provide all necessary vehicles
    and drivers required for transport of Search and Recovery team. As a minimum, requirements will
    consist of, but are not limited to, the following:
       2.7.1. Upon notification, provide forty-five passenger bus with driver to transport Search and
       Recovery team, equipment, or other agencies to and from the accident site.
       2.7.2. Provide a non-refrigerated, 32 foot van trailer with drivers to store and transport an undeter-
       mined amount of human remains in the event that refrigerated storage is unavailable.
       2.7.3. Provide maps of the best route to the disaster site.
    2.8. Army Contracting G Command Korea (USK CCK). Provide all contracting support with
    local businesses, as necessary.
    2.9. 8th Security Forces Squadron Commander (8 SFS/CC). Provide support for the following:
       2.9.1. Security for human remains at the disaster scene, personal property retained as evidence,
       and 24-hour coverage of disaster scene until transfer of responsibility is complete.
       2.9.2. Shall establish a cordon around the scene, all adjacent roadways or areas with an Entry
       Control Point and enforce entry procedures. No type of traffic should be permitted except as
       required by mission needs.
       2.9.3. Will coordinate with ROK law enforcement authorities to assist in the prohibition of pho-
       tography at off base incident/accident scenes if outside the cordon site.
    2.10. 8th Fighter Wing Chaplain (8 FW/HC). Provide support in the following areas:
       2.10.1. Provide emotional support and guidance for military personnel affected by the search,
       recovery, and mortuary processing operations while on-scene or following completion of opera-
       tions.
       2.10.2. Provide emotional support and guidance for families or other persons affected by the acci-
       dent.
8FWI34-201 27 DECEMBER 2005                                                                         5


     2.10.3. Coordinate a memorial service for the emotional well-being of all persons affected by the
     disaster.
  2.11. 8th Fighter Wing, Public Affairs (8 FW/PA). Provide support in the following areas:
     2.11.1. Provide an 8 FW/PA representative to ensure the release of information concerning the
     incident, the recovery, and the processing of remains is released in accordance with AFI 35-101,
     Section 7B, Crisis Procedures and Release of Information, and other applicable Public Affairs
     guidance.
     2.11.2. Requests for information from any person/group will be coordinated through On-Scene
     Mortuary Officer. Release of information for off-base incidents will occur after approval by the
     On-Scene Commander.
  2.12. 8th Fighter Wing, Safety (8 FW/SE). 8 FW/SE will be responsible for ensuring the safety of
  the disaster site and the Search and Recovery team members before and during the search.



                                            BRIAN T. BISHOP, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
6                                                         8FWI34-201 27 DECEMBER 2005


                                           Attachment 1

               GLOSSARY REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 34-2, Air Force Community Service Programs
AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program
AFI 35-101, Public Affairs Policies and Procedures

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CISM—Critical Incident Stress Management
DCG—Disaster Control Group
MARE—Major Accident Response Exercise
ROK—Republic of Korea
SAR—Search and Recovery
UCC—Unit Control Center
USFK—United States Forces Korea
