BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      8TH FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION 40-301
8TH FIGHTER WING
                                                                                1 MARCH 2012

                                                                             Medical Command

                                               FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAM (FAP) (PA)



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 8 MDOS/SGOW                                                       Certified by: 8 MDG/CC
                                                                  (Colonel Alvis W. Headen III)
Supersedes:   8FWI 40-301,                                                              Pages: 9
              14 December 2005


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 40-301, Family Advocacy, 30 November
2009. It establishes policies and procedures for the administration of the Family Advocacy
Program (FAP) at the 8th Fighter Wing, Kunsan Air Base, Republic of Korea. This instruction
applies to any incident occurring on or off base where active duty military members, or
Reserve/National Guard members on active duty orders (i.e., Air Force, Army, Navy, Marine
Corps) or their family members IAW Family Advocacy Program Network (FAPNET) criteria.
This instruction establishes the responsibilities and procedures to be followed by base personnel
and agencies for all allegations of child or spouse maltreatment. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route the AF Forms 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or
service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

This instruction requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy
Act of 1974. The authority to collect and maintain the records prescribed in this instruction is
found in 10 United States Code (USC) 8013 and 10 USC, Chapter 55. Privacy Act statements
required by AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 29 January 2004 are annotated on DD Form
2005, Privacy Act Statement - Health Care Records.
 2                                                               8FWI40-301 1 MARCH 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision updates
current FAP organizational structure to align with AFI 40-301. The Family Maltreatment Case
Management Team (FMCMT) board is changed to the Central Registry Board (CRB). The
Special Needs Coordination Program information has been removed.
1. Scope: The mission of the FAP is to support military readiness. The goal is to promote
family functioning by enhancing the health, welfare, and morale of the military family. Kunsan
AB is an unaccompanied tour. However, there are times when families choose to live off base,
visit, or on occasion, 8 FW Airmen marry non-US citizens residing in Korea.                  If
required/requested, the 8 FW FAP will collaborate with Family Advocacy programs across DoD
to support Kunsan personnel whose families are stationed in other locations.
2. Policies:
     2.1. It is Air Force (AF) Policy to prevent child and spouse maltreatment, as well as to
     identify and treat the abusers, the victims and the family.
     2.2. The Kunsan AB FAP will work together with 8 FW agencies to assist in providing
     necessary services to families experiencing family maltreatment.
     2.3. All military personnel or individuals affiliated with Kunsan AB, its organizations and
     tenants, including those who live in the civilian community, will report all identified
     incidents of suspected or known child or spouse maltreatment to the FAP. In the event of
     suspected or known maltreatment, non-sponsored families and/or families visiting will be
     reported to the FAP.
3. Assigned Responsibilities:
     3.1. Installation Commander.
        3.1.1. Responsible for implementation and management of the Kunsan AB FAP.
        3.1.2. Designates the 8th Medical Group Commander (8 MDG/CC) or 8th Medical
        Group Deputy Commander (8 MDG/CD) as administrator and monitor of the Kunsan AB
        FAP.
        3.1.3. Establishes the Family Advocacy Committee (FAC) chaired by the 8 MDG/CC or
        8 MDG/CD. As Community Integrated Action Board (CAIB) chair, ensures when FAC
        is subsumed as a CAIB subcommittee all FAC requirements are met.
        3.1.4. Serves as a member of the FAC or delegates this responsibility to the 8th Fighter
        Wing Vice Commander (8 FW/CV) or 8th Mission Support Group Commander (8
        MSG/CC).
        3.1.5. Promotes and ensures cooperation among installation organizations to build
        healthy, resilient communities in order to prevent and treat family maltreatment,
        including training provisions outlined in paragraph 5 of this instruction.
        3.1.6. Appoints the 8 FW/CV as the Central Registry Board (CRB) Chairperson and
        designates 8 MSG/CC as the alternate chairperson.
        3.1.7. Ensures FAO receives access to SFS blotter.
8FWI40-301 1 MARCH 2012                                                                      3


  3.2. Family Advocacy Committee (FAC).
     3.2.1. Provides base-level oversight of the FAP IAW AF guidelines.
     3.2.2. Composed of the installation commander (or designee); 8 MDG/CC or 8
     MDG/CD; FAO; Director, Airmen and Family Readiness Center (A&FRC); Staff Judge
     Advocate (8 FW/JA), or designee; 8th Security Forces Squadron Commander (8
     SFS/CC), or designee; Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI), Detachment
     613th Commander (or designee); 8 FW Chaplain (8 FW/HC); Wing Command Chief;
     Chief of Alcohol Drug Prevention and Treatment Program (ADAPT); Chief of Military
     Equal Opportunity (MEO) or designee. The FAC may add members at the discretion of
     the chairperson. The committee will meet at least semi-annually as permitted by
     AFMOA waiver and may be incorporated into the CAIB.
     3.2.3. Ensures installation directives are developed to implement the FAP.
     3.2.4. Ensures any waiver from AFMOA for situations unique to Kunsan is current. Due
     to Kunsan AB being a one year remote unaccompanied tour with almost complete annual
     turnover of personnel, the completion of the Family Advocacy Program Action Plan
     (FAPAP) is waived. The FAC is also required to meet only semi-annually.
  3.3. 8th Medical Group Commander (8 MDG/CC).
     3.3.1. Manages and monitors the Kunsan AB FAP as designated by the installation
     commander.
     3.3.2. Serves as chairperson for the Kunsan AB FAC, or designates the 8 MDG/CD.
     Ensures FAO has option to request FAC meeting separate from CAIB once per quarter.
     3.3.3. Ensures the FAC receives annual training on their roles and responsibilities.
     3.3.4. Approves nominations for membership on the FAC, Child Sexual Maltreatment
     Response Team (CSMRT), and High Risk for Violence Response Team (HRVRT).
     3.3.5. Serves as consultant to the CRB chair on Incident Status Determination Review
     (ISDR) cases.
     3.3.6. Establishes protocol for the medical identification, evaluation, and management of
     suspected child and spouse maltreatment cases.
     3.3.7. Ensures implementation of a program to train clinical medical staff on how to
     identify child and spouse maltreatment, and how to manage Family Advocacy cases.
     3.3.8. Directs medical personnel encountering cases of suspected child and spouse
     maltreatment, or special needs family members, to notify the FAO.
     3.3.9. The New Parent Support Program (NPSP) is waived under FAP Standard P-10
     stating, “if a Family Advocacy Nurse (FAN) is not assigned, the NPSP will not be
     implemented.” Kunsan is not required to implement the NPSP, but will assist family
     members’ needs for information/support, as requested.
     3.3.10. Appoints the FAO to the Kunsan AB Integrated Delivery System (IDS).
     3.3.11. Establishes procedures for 8 MDG/CC to be notified of deaths related to
     child/spouse maltreatment that occur on or off the installation. In all cases of sudden or
4                                                                8FWI40-301 1 MARCH 2012


       unexplained child death(s) on or off the installation, ensures the completion of an
       appropriate autopsy, notification to the AFOSI/Det 613, 8 SFS, and 8 FW/JA, and
       referral to the FAP for immediate assessment and supportive services.
       3.3.12. Ensures FAP has adequate office space, equipment, and operating supplies;
       implements environmental and safety standards, and ensures FAP has a personal security
       duress system, IAW Air Force Inspection Agency and AFI 31-101, The Air Force
       Installation Security Program (FOUO), 1 March 2003, and inspected by the 8 SFS
       Resource Protection Section. FAP is dual-hatted with the Mental Health Clinic and
       meets all facets accordingly.
    3.4. Family Advocacy Officer (FAO).
       3.4.1. Manages Kunsan AB FAP according to AF FAP guidance.
       3.4.2. Ensures the evaluation of all reported cases of child and spouse maltreatment in
       accordance with existing Air Force guidelines.
       3.4.3. Notifies and coordinates with the service member’s commander, 8 SFS, and
       AFOSI/Det 613 in all cases of suspected family maltreatment.
       3.4.4. Chairs the Kunsan AB CSMRT and HRVRT, and ensures timely evaluations and
       appropriate notifications are made to each appropriate agency for all referrals to the FAP.
       3.4.5. Serves as a member of the FAC.
       3.4.6. Ensures any waiver from AFMOA for situations unique to Kunsan is current.
       3.4.7. Serves as consultant on family maltreatment to installation units and agencies.
       Serves as consultant on all suspected child maltreatment in DoD sanctioned activities.
    3.5. There is no Family Advocacy Outreach Manager assigned to Kunsan. There is a waiver
    from AFMOA removing FAPAP approval and Outreach Prevention Automated Log (OPAL)
    entry of new and annual leader training. The FAO provides Leader Training, basic Family
    Violence Education to and Prevention Training, and a full range of public awareness
    activities to Wing Installation CCs, MSG/CCs, CCM, healthcare providers, JA, SFS, AFOSI,
    and AFRC. FAO will also ensure through OPAL or other means attendance and type of
    training is tracked.
    3.6. 8th Medical Group Clinical Personnel.
       3.6.1. Duty Hours: Notifies the FAO if a patient is a suspected victim of maltreatment, to
       include a visiting child or family member, and whether they are on or off base, IAW
       FAPNET criteria.
       3.6.2. After duty hours: The 8th Security Forces Control Center (8 SFS/SFCC) or
       Ambulance Services will contact the on-call Mental Health (MH) Clinic provider. The
       Ambulance Service/8 SFS Law Enforcement Desk will make appropriate notifications.
    3.7. 8th Security Forces Squadron (8 SFS).
       3.7.1. Dispatches on-duty personnel when child abuse or spouse maltreatment is reported
       on base, whether from visiting family members or non-sponsored members. The 8 SFS
       will notify the Korean National Police (KNP) for maltreatment incidents involving
8FWI40-301 1 MARCH 2012                                                                        5


     Korean Nationals, and when required, provide immediate intervention to prevent abuse
     from occurring or re-occurring.
     3.7.2. Obtains necessary information for reporting suspected or known child or spouse
     maltreatment and documents this as a desk blotter entry and an AF Form 3545, Incident
     Report. Provide a copy of AF Form 3545 to the FAP and the sponsor’s unit commander.
     The 8 SFS Reports and Analysis Section (8 SFS/S5R) will ensure a copy of the blotter
     and incident reports are available for review and photocopy by FAP personnel.
     3.7.3. Investigates applicable cases of family maltreatment according to AFI 31-206,
     Security Forces Investigations Programs, 16 September 2009. Notify AFOSI/Det 613 of
     incidents of serious bodily injury and all incidents of reported child sexual maltreatment.
     Ensures a photographer is utilized in cases where victim’s injuries should be depicted by
     photograph in order to complete 8 SFS investigations or ensures the KNP uses a camera
     to document any injuries accordingly.
     3.7.4. Notifies the sponsor’s Unit Commander and First Sergeant when Law
     Enforcement personnel have investigated or intervened in any cases of domestic violence.
     3.7.5. Notifies the FAO of all suspected incidents of child or spouse maltreatment. Unit
     commanders and First Sergeants will be contacted in cases of spouse maltreatment to
     assist in initial management.
     3.7.6. Serves, or designates a senior member to serve, on the FAC, CRB, and HRVRT.
     The FAO will provide annual family violence education and prevention training.
  3.8. AFOSI Detachment 613th Commander.
     3.8.1. Serves, or designates a senior representative to serve, on the FAC, CRB, CSMRT,
     and HRVRT.
     3.8.2. Ensures all staff receive training on the identification and reporting procedures for
     suspected family maltreatment and child/spouse maltreatment issues when hired, and
     annually thereafter.
     3.8.3. Reports all allegations/suspicions of family maltreatment to the FAP.
     3.8.4. Indexes appropriate suspected child maltreatment cases, opening criminal
     investigations when appropriate. Ensures a photographer is utilized in cases where
     victim’s injuries should be depicted by photograph in order to complete AFOSI
     investigations, if incident occurs on base. AFOSI will work with the KNP for all off base
     occurrences.
     3.8.5. Notifies 8 SFS of cases that do not meet AFOSI criteria so they may investigate
     applicable cases of family maltreatment according to AFI 31-206.
     3.8.6. Monitors investigations that civil authorities assume with the agreement to release
     their report to AF officials.
     3.8.7. Reviews the Defense Clearance and Investigations Index (DCII) on family
     members suspected of child maltreatment and inform the FAP of results. Also, prepares
     a new index of all family members with new FAP cases when appropriate.
  3.9. Unit Commanders and First Sergeants (Military or Civilian).
 6                                                                 8FWI40-301 1 MARCH 2012


        3.9.1. Will have a working knowledge of FAP, including policies and procedures.
        Training will include: child and spouse maltreatment dynamics and protocols. The
        training will be completed within 90 days of arrival or of assuming these positions and at
        least annually thereafter, if applicable.
        3.9.2. Will report all suspicions of family maltreatment to FAP.
        3.9.3. May respond to the scene in person, or designate a representative, to assist with
        medical or investigative authority in case management of suspected child or spouse
        maltreatment cases. If incident occurs off base, will coordinate with KNP. Assistance
        may include arranging alternative housing for dependent when there is risk of violence to
        the victim or other members of the family.
        3.9.4. Provides follow-up investigation for child or spouse maltreatment cases that do not
        involve law enforcement intervention. Provides updates and coordinates activities with
        the FAP.
     3.10. Staff Judge Advocate (8 FW/JA).
        3.10.1. Serves, or designates an attorney to serve, on the FAC, CRB, CSMRT, and
        HRVRT.
        3.10.2. Coordinates and advises on enforcement of civil laws and the Uniform Code of
        Military Justice in cases of child and spouse maltreatment and acts as a consultant to the
        FAP.
        3.10.3. Coordinates and advises on enforcement of the Victim and Witness Assistance
        Program in cases of child and spouse maltreatment.
     3.11. Wing Chaplain (8 FW/HC).
        3.11.1. Serves, or designates a chaplain to serve, on the FAC and CRB. Supports FAP
        activities and programs, and provides support ministries, as needed.
        3.11.2. Ensures all staff receive training when hired on the identification and reporting
        procedures for suspected maltreatment, then annually thereafter.
     3.12. 8th Force Support Squadron (8 FSS).
     3.12.1.    Appoints the Director, Airmen and Family Readiness Center (A&FRC) (or
     designee) to serve on the FAC.
        3.12.2. Serves as a member of the FAC and nominates an A&FRC staff member to serve
        on the CRB.
        3.12.3. Ensures annual training of staff on family maltreatment dynamics and referral
        procedure for FAP.
4. Procedures for Emergency Removal of Children.
     4.1. When the potential for continued maltreatment exists, or severity of maltreatment is
     such that a child’s environment could contribute to further injury, illness or imminent danger,
     steps will be taken immediately to secure the child’s safety.
     4.2. If the incident occurs on base, SFS will assist. If the incident occurs off base, SFS will
     work with the KNP, accordingly.
8FWI40-301 1 MARCH 2012                                                                        7


   4.3. Whenever possible, removal of the offender should be the first consideration. Action
   should be coordinated between the FAO, 8FW/JA, 8 SFS, and sponsor’s commander IAW
   AF guidelines and the Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA). The focus should always be on
   the child’s safety, and involved parties should be sensitive to the traumatic nature of such
   actions.
5. Annual Training and Command Briefings.
   5.1. All CRB and FAC agencies are required to attend annual Family Advocacy training
   through the designated semi-annual FAC meeting.
   5.2. Squadron Commanders are highly encouraged to have a Family Advocacy briefing at
   one of their commander’s calls on at least an annual basis. However, the training is optional.
   The squadrons requiring annual training are JAG, SFS, AFRC, OSI, and MDG. Training
   will be provided or coordinated through FAP.
   5.3. The FAP has been waived by AFMOA from tracking the status of leadership
   briefings/trainings and reporting metrics to the FAC.
       5.3.1. FAP staff will provide Group/Squadron Commanders and First Sergeants basic
       FAP policy and procedure information. The information can be presented one-on-one or
       sent via email to Squadron Commanders and First Sergeants regarding FAP components
       and access information. The training must be completed within 90 days of arrival and/or
       of assuming these positions and at least annually thereafter. Either a sign-in roster or
       certificate of completion will be used to track compliance.
6. Non-Duty Hours. During non-duty hours, the 8 SFS Base Defense Operations Center
(BDOC) will receive all family maltreatment referrals. The Law Enforcement Desk will notify
the on-call MH Provider through Ambulance Services. FAP staff will review blotter entries the
following duty day.
7. Operating Instructions (OI). The FAO, under the guidance of the FAC, will assist all
appropriate agencies in the development and implementation of operating instructions that cover
responsibilities beyond the scope of those identified in this instruction.
8. Conclusion. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to take precedence over the FAP
Standards as determined by the DoD Family Advocacy Program Manager, Office of the Surgeon
General.




                                            SCOTT L. PLEUS, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
 8                                                           8FWI40-301 1 MARCH 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 40-301, Family Advocacy Program, 30 November 2009
AFI 31-101, The Air Force Installation Security Program (FOUO), 1 March 2003
AFI 31-206, Security Forces Investigations Program, 1 August 2001
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 29 January 2004
AFI 36-2110, Assignments, 20 April 2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 3545, Incident Report
DD Form 2005, Privacy Act Statement - Health Care Records

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AD—Active Duty
ADAPT—Alcohol Drug Prevention and Treatment Program
AF—Air Force
AFMOA—Air Force Medical Organization Agency
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
A&FRC—Airmen and Family Readiness Center
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
ARE—Ambulance Response Element
CAIB—Community Action and Information Board
CONUS—Continental United States
CRB—Central Registry Board
CSMRT—Child Sexual Maltreatment Response Team
CYFD—Children Youth and Families Department
DCII—Defense Central Index of Investigations
DoD—Department of Defense
FAC—Family Advocacy Committee
FAN—Family Advocacy Nurse
FAO—Family Advocacy Officer
8FWI40-301 1 MARCH 2012                      9


FAOM—Family Advocacy Outreach Manager
FAP—Family Advocacy Program
FAPNET—Family Advocacy Program Network
FATM—Family Advocacy Treatment Manager
FMCMT——Family Maltreatment Case Management
FMRC—Family Member Relocation Clearance
FSC—Family Support Center
HRVRT—High Risk for Violence Response Team
IAW—In Accordance With
IDS—Integrated Delivery System
ISDR—Incident Status Determination Review
KNP—Korean National Police
LE—Law Enforcement
MEO—Military Equal Opportunity
MDG/CC—Medical Group Commander
MDG/CD—Deputy Medical Group Commander
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
MPS—Military Personnel Section
MTF—Military Treatment Facility
NPSP—New Parent Support Program
OCONUS—Outside Continental United States
OI—Operating Instruction
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SOFA—Status of Forces Agreement
USC—United States Code
