BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      8TH FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION 21-104
8TH FIGHTER WING
                                                                                16 APRIL 2012

                                                                                   Maintenance

                                                      TECHNICAL ORDER MANAGEMENT
                                                          AND LOCAL TECHNICAL DATA

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 8 MXG/TODO                                                         Certified by: 8 MXG/CC
                                                                                (Col Dane West)
Supersedes:   8FWI 21-104, 25 Aug 2009                                                   Pages: 9


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space
Maintenance. In conjunction with Technical Orders (TO) 00-5-1, 00-5-15, 00-5-18, 00-5-19 and
AFI 21-101_CAFSUP_8FWSUP, this instruction specifies procedures to be used by the
Technical Order Distribution Office (TODO) and the Technical Order Distribution Account
(TODA) under the jurisdiction of the 8th Maintenance Group TODO. It applies to all personnel
assigned, attached or associate units to the 8th Fighter Wing, Kunsan Air Base, Republic of
Korea (ROK). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route the AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System      (AFRIMS)       Records       Disposition    Schedule      (RDS)       located      at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be reviewed in its entirety. TODA
accounts will be inspected by the TODO annually instead of biannually per TO 00-5-1. TODAs
will only be granted access to ETIMS upon receipt of program appointment letter and CBT
certificates. TO catalogs can now be found within ETIMS. A DD Form 2861 or 8 MXG/TODO
 2                                                                  8FWI21-104 16 APRIL 2012


approved Cross-Reference System will be used to show the location of all TOs filed away from
the primary library.
1. 8 MXG/TODO Responsibilities:
     1.1. The 8 MXG/TODO is responsible for maintaining the Enhanced Technical Information
     Management System (ETIMS) files and all time compliance technical orders.
        1.1.1. Ensure individuals picking up classified TOs from 8 MXG/TODO have the
        security clearance commensurate with material’s classification.             The authorized
        individual will be required to sign for all classified materials at time of distribution. An
        appointment letter is required from the unit security manager listing those individuals
        authorized to receive classified material from 8 MXG/TODO.
     1.2. The 8 MXG/TODO is the final authority for the interpretation of this instruction, TOs
     00-5-1, 00-5-15 and 00-5-18.
     1.3. The 8 MXG/TODO will inspect a minimum of 10% of all MXG TODA accounts
     annually and rate them either satisfactory or unsatisfactory. The 8 MXG/TODO will call and
     schedule all annual account inspections. At least one appointed and trained account
     custodian will be present for the annual inspection. Inspections will be conducted during
     day-shift hours unless otherwise coordinated. If an account receives an unsatisfactory rating,
     a follow up inspection will be scheduled within 10 duty days.
        1.3.1. TODA accounts outside of the MXG will be inspected by respective individuals
        appointed by corresponding GP/CC or SQ/CC.
     1.4. Maintenance account annual inspections will be documented in the 8 MXG/MXQ
     Database (vQA). Inspection reports will be provided to TODAs upon request.
     1.5. 8 MXG/TODO will provide weekly TO distribution list no later than Wednesday of the
     following week to Plans & Scheduling for implementation into the weekly flying schedule.
     1.6. Ensure TO change recommendations are submitted by AFTO Form 22, Technical
     Manual (TM) Change Recommendation and Reply and routed through the Product
     Improvement Manager for resolution.
     1.7. Ensure all TODOs/TODAs review TOs for accuracy, currency, release ability and
     security classification during use by TO users. Routine and annual checks will be complied
     with and documented to satisfy this requirement. Routine checks will be accomplished by
     using the TO catalog located in ETIMS in conjunction with TO 00-5-1 and will be conducted
     monthly.
     1.8. Manage and route to Quality Assurance all locally developed publications (work cards,
     job guides, page supplements and checklists) for safety and accuracy of procedures.
        1.8.1. When supplements/changes are received for a parent TO, route all locally prepared
        publications for that TO through 8 MXG/MXQ to ensure no changes are required for the
        locally prepared publications and to verify applicability for that parent TO.
2. TODA Responsibilities:
     2.1. Appoint primary and alternate account custodians and forward appointment letters
     signed by section chief to the 8 MXG/TODO Bldg 911 Rm 214. TODA training will be
8FWI21-104 16 APRIL 2012                                                                    3


  accomplished through online CBT classes, OJT and any 8 MXG/TODO provided training
  aides. CBT training is provided by the AF TO System Training website and can be found at:
  https://wwwd.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=OO-TO-MC-35.
  The TODA General and Advanced CBTs must be completed within 30 days of assignment as
  TODAs (unless the individual has proof of completion of the old CBT). Once the courses
  are completed, a copy of the awarded certificates will be brought to the 8 MXG/TODO to be
  stamped and filed in the TODO appointment book and TODA continuity book.
     2.1.1. Access to ETIMS will only be granted after 8 MXG/TODO receipt of TODA
     appointment letter and copies of both TODA General and Advanced CBT certificates.
     2.1.2. Inform 8 MXG/TODO, by letter, of any changes in account location, custodians,
     telephone numbers, office symbol, security clearance, etc.
     2.1.3. TODAs will use appointment letter format provided by the 8 MXG/TODO.
     2.1.4. If applicable, TODAs with E-Tools will have a separate Automated Data
     Processing Equipment (ADPE) appointment letter signed by squadron commander.
     Required training will be accomplished at the Wing ADPE office. Forward a copy of
     ADPE appointment letter to 8 MXG/TODO. Ensure 8 MXG/TODO receives new ADPE
     appointment letters when there is a change in E-Tools custodians.
  2.2. E-Tools Equipment Custodians (EC) will forward a copy of the completed annual
  physical inventory record to the 8 MXG/TODO office. E-Tools EC will conduct a joint
  physical inventory (outgoing EC with incoming EC) and reconcile any missing items, via
  report of survey, before PCS, PCA, separation or retirement (minimum 30 days prior). EC’s
  will provide a copy of completed physical inventory to 8 MXG/TODO after each completion.
  2.3. Each TODA will validate all new TO requirements against the TO catalog prior to
  submitting to 8 MXG/TODO. Any required TOs not listed on the inventory must be
  submitted to the corresponding 8 MXG/TODO. Use ETIMS to requisition TO increments.
  All requests for emergency requisitions must be in official memorandum format, with
  justification and signed by the section chief.
     2.3.1. Check Web ETIMS weekly for overdue TOs. Overdue TOs are defined as
     requisitions not been received within 60 days from requisition date. Overdue TOs will be
     brought to the attention of the 8 MXG/TODO via email.
  2.4. TODAs will maintain ETIMS listings by making annotations when TO increments are
  received (with the exception of receiving new changes), superseded, rescinded or destroyed.
  When updating information on ETIMS listing, use a single line to draw through old
  information.
     2.4.1. TODAs will compare the monthly ETIMS listing with the TO catalog to ensure all
     information is current. The TODA will return a list of any discrepancies to the
     8 MXG/TODO as soon as possible.
  2.5. All 8 MXG governed TODA distribution boxes are located in 8 MXG/MXQ Building
  911, Room 214 and will be checked no less than twice a week. Failure to do so will result in
  a CAT II Major discrepancy.
 4                                                                8FWI21-104 16 APRIL 2012


     2.6. Each TODA will maintain a TO Continuity Binder. The Continuity Binder will be
     reviewed quarterly and documented. The TODA/Activity self inspection checklist will also
     be accomplished concurrently with the TO Continuity Binder review.
3. TODA Continuity Binder Requirements (For consistency throughout the 8 FW, the
following information will standardize each binder):
     3.1. Cover Page.
     3.2. Table of Contents.
        3.2.1. TAB 1: 8FWI 21-104
        3.2.2. TAB 2: TODA Appointment Letter (Must be stamped by the TODO)
        3.2.3. TAB 3: Checklists/Inventory Review
        3.2.4. TAB 4: Annual List of Effective Pages (LEP) Inspection
        3.2.5. TAB 5: TO Publication Request Form (AFTO Form 187, Technical Order
        Publications Request, with TODO stamp)
        3.2.6. TAB 6: Monthly ETIMS listing
        3.2.7. TAB 7: Miscellaneous
4. Maintenance of TO files:
     4.1. Binders and TOs will be kept in serviceable condition at all times and replaced when
     needed. TOs will not have any torn pages, torn binding holes, stray marks, or unreadable
     content.
     4.2. All documentation in TOs will be done in pencil.
     4.3. FOD: Staples and/or other foreign objects will be removed from all TOs. Page markers
     or Post-it Notes will not be used in TO binders. Any FO, page markers or Post-it notes will
     result in a CAT I Minor discrepancy.
     4.4. List of Effective Pages (LEP) checks will be complied with as follows:
        4.4.1. LEP checks are done when changes/revisions are received. TODOs and TODAs
        will check to ensure all pages of the change/revision are received for their appropriate
        account. This check will be documented on the LEP as: (Change/Revision) LEP C/W,
        (dd/mmm/yy) and initials.
        4.4.2. LEP checks will be accomplished on Local Job Guides (LJG), Local Page
        Supplements (LPS), Local Work Cards (LWC) and Local Check Lists (LCL).
        4.4.3. Work Package (WP) formatted TOs must be checked against the master LEP page.
        When a master LEP page is incomplete, each work package LEP will be checked and
        Document as: (Change/Revision) LEP C/W, (dd/mmm/yy) and initials.
            4.4.3.1. Work Package formatted TOs receiving changes or revisions where the
            master LEP is incomplete will need to be documented on each individual work
            package.
     4.5. Annual LEP checks will be complied with as follows:
8FWI21-104 16 APRIL 2012                                                                    5


     4.5.1. The 8 MXG/TODOs/TODAs determine their Annual LEP check schedule and
     must be followed to prevent overdue Annual LEP checks. The Annual LEP check is
     accomplished by performing a 100% LEP check for the whole TO. The Annual LEP
     check will be documented on the LEP as: Annual LEP C/W, (mmm/yy) and initials.
     4.5.2. Transcribe the Annual LEP check when a change or revision is posted. This will
     ensure the locally determined Annual LEP schedule matches with the TO LEP.
     Document transcribed Annual LEP checks as: Annual LEP C/F, (mmm/yy) and initials.
     4.5.3. Annual LEP checks will be accomplished on LJG, LPS, LWC and LCL.
     4.5.4. Work Package TOs need to be documented for the Annual LEP check. Document
     the Annual LEP check on the title page/List of Effective Page.
  4.6. Posting changes, revisions, and supplements will be documented as follows:
     4.6.1. Individuals posting supplements will annotate on the title page of the supplement
     with the following statement: Posted (dd/mmm/yy) and initials.
     4.6.2. Individuals posting changes/revisions will annotate on the title page of the TO
     with the following statement: Posted (dd/mmm/yy) and initials.
     4.6.3. All changes/revision and supplements will be posted no later than 5 duty days
     from the date on the TODO stamp (See TO 00-5-1 for specific situations).
  4.7. CPINS (Computer Program Identification Number) will be filed using the same
  sequence as the paper TOs and will be identified by AFTO 32. TO files from the Internet or
  a CD may be kept in electronic folders named to facilitate the TOs. The folders may be
  hosted on a PC or server accessible via Local Area Network (LAN).
  4.8. A DD Form 2861 or 8 MXG/TODO approved Cross-Reference System will be used to
  show the location of all TOs filed away from the primary library. All required web based
  TOs (i.e., 00-5-1) will be listed in ETIMS for that account. Any download or printing of web
  based TOs for Continuous Use will be added to ETIMS through 8 MXG/TODO.
  4.9. All copies printed from electronic source will be annotated or stamped for One Time
  Use, Continuous Use or For Reference Use Only and have the date stamped on them.
  Continuous Use TOs will be filed using the same sequence as other paper TOs. (See TO 00-
  5-1                                                                                  and
  AFI 21-101_CAFSUP).
  4.10. Web based TOs downloaded or printed for Continuous Use will be checked for
  currency monthly and before use. These inspections will be documented on a local tracking
  sheet. If the internet or LAN is not accessible use most current TO on hand. It is the
  individual’s responsibility to ensure printed copies are kept current.
  4.11. Routine and Annual checks must be documented on the AFTO Form 131, Technical
  Order Index Routine and Annual Check or locally developed form approved from 8
  MXG/TODO. Refer to TO 00-5-1 and para 4.1 for this instruction for further guidance on
  performing routine and annual checks.
 6                                                                  8FWI21-104 16 APRIL 2012


5. Local Technical Data:
     5.1. Locally prepared work cards, checklists and page supplements are produced to
     formalize and control procedures unique to Kunsan Air Base and do not apply or may not be
     suited to all TO users.
     5.2. Locally prepared publications will not be used to circumvent Air Force Materiel
     Command’s inherent responsibility for technical data (See TO 00-5-1). During validation of
     local technical data, all requests must be reviewed to determine if a TO Improvement Report
     (AFTO Form 22) is necessary.
        5.2.1. Local publications will be returned to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
        for initiation of an AFTO Form 22 as required. The OPR will initiate the AFTO Form
        22, in accordance with TO 00-5-1. The 8 MXG/MXQ Product Improvement Office will
        provide assistance as necessary.
     5.3. All newly proposed local publication draft copies will accompany a signed AF Form
     673, Air Force Publication/Form Action Request and justification letter signed by a section
     chief, at a minimum. Upon initial review and assignment of control number by the 8
     MXG/TODO, the draft copy will be routed through all affected agencies up to the
     superintendent level and the Wing Safety Office (8 FW/SE) prior to submission to the Group
     Commander for approval.
     5.4. Locally prepared publications shall be formatted and used like formal TOs. The same
     dissemination controls of the basic/source TO will be applied to any work card, checklist or
     page supplement.
        5.4.1. Local publications will include a title page with the number, title and date of TO
        affected, the issue data of the local technical data, an LEP, locally generated pages and
        posting instructions. Each locally prepared technical data will also have distribution
        statements consistent with the classification level and restrictions of the parent document.
        5.4.2. Local publications will follow all source TO procedures and no unsafe procedures,
        requirements for additional tools or test equipment will be introduced.
     5.5. Local Work Cards and Local Check Lists will not be interfiled in TO binders with the
     related TO. Local Page Supplements will be filed in the parent TO and treated as a TO Page
     Supplement (TOPS). Local Page Supplements will be printed on color paper (other than
     green) to distinguish them from parent TO increments.
     5.6. Each local page supplement will be maintained efficiently by 8 MXG/TODO to ensure
     information stays current with the source TO. If the source TO changes, then 8 MXG/TODO
     will route the LPS along with the new/changed TO to the 8 MXG/MXQ subject matter
     experts who will determine if the local page supplement requires revisions/changes. The
     8 MXG/TODO will confer with the affected agencies for resolution.
        5.6.1. Local page supplements requiring revision/changes which deal with safety shall be
        updated by 8 MXG/TODO no later than 1 duty day after source TO changes. Routine
        local page supplements requiring revision/changes will be routed by the 8 MXG/TODO
        no later than 5 duty days after source TO changes.
     5.7. Biannual reviews for all local publications will be initiated by the 8 MXG/TODO 1
     month prior to publish date or last biannual review. 8 MXG/MXQ subject matter experts and
8FWI21-104 16 APRIL 2012                                                                    7


  affected agencies will review local publications for accuracy and currency of procedures and
  sign AF Form 673.
     5.7.1. Local publications will not go overdue for biannual reviews. Technical accuracy,
     currency and safety are the driving factors for biannual reviews. Local publications
     overdue for biannual reviews will be initiated for removal and rescinded by 8
     MXG/TODO.
     5.7.2. The 8 MXG/TODO will maintain, at a minimum, a computer generated
     spreadsheet listing all biannual review dates for all local publications.




                                          SCOTT L. PLEUS, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
 8                                                            8FWI21-104 16 APRIL 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 February 2003
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 July 2010 and CAF Sup 1,
28 December 2010
AFI 21-101_CAFSUP_8FWSUP, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 20 Jun 10
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
T.O. 00-5-1, AF Technical Order System, 01 May 2011
T.O. 00-5-15, Air Force Time Compliance Technical Order System, 01 January 2010
T.O. 00-5-18, USAF Technical Order Numbering System, 01 April 2010
T.O. 00-5-19, Security Assistance Technical Order Program, 01 January 2010
Adopted Forms
AF Form 673, Air Force Publication/Form Action Request
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AFTO Form 22, Technical Manual (TM) Change Recommendation and Reply
AFTO Form 131, Technical Order Index Routine and Annual Check,
AFTO Form 187, Technical Order Publication Request
DD Form 2861, Cross-Reference

Acronyms and Abbreviations
ADPE—-Automated Data Processing Equipment
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
CBT—Computer Based Training
CD—Compact Disc
CPINS—Computer Program Identification Number
EC—Equipment Custodians
DMS—Defense Message System
ETIMS—Enhanced Technical Information Management System
FO—Foreign Object
LAN—Local Area Network
LCL—Local Check List
LEP—List of Effective Page
LJG—Local Job Guide
8FWI21-104 16 APRIL 2012                     9


LPS—Local Page Supplement
LWC—Local Work Card
MFR—Memorandum for Record
OJT—On the Job Training
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PCA—Permanent Change Assignment
PCS—Permanent Change Station
RDS—-Records Disposition Schedule
ROK—Republic of Korea
TO—Technical Order
TODO—Technical Order Distribution Office
TODA—Technical Orders Distribution Account
TOPS—TO Page Supplement
WP—Work Package
