BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               908TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
908TH AIRLIFT WING                                                               90-201

                                                                                    26 JULY 2010
                                                              Certified Current 28 September 2012
                                                                           Specialty Management

                                                               SELF-INSPECTION PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 908 AW/CCX                                                        Certified by: 908 AW/CCE
                                                                       (Lt Col Nancy Stephenson)
Supersedes:    908 AWI90-201, 30 October                                                  Pages: 4
               2007


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-2, The Inspector General
Inspection System. The purpose of this instruction is to provide a systematic reporting procedure
that will enable commanders and supervisors to identify, track, and resolve anticipated and actual
problem areas within their units before they can adversely affect mission accomplishment. This
instruction applies to all units and personnel assigned to 908th Airlift Wing (AW) Maxwell Air
Force Base, Alabama. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to 908
AW/CCX Maxwell AFB AL using the AF Form 847 Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363),
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document was substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Changes
implemented the change from the Self Inspection Tracking System (SITS) to the Management
Internal Control Toolset (MICT).
1. Management Internal Control Toolset (MICT). Automation of all program requirements
via MICT is mandatory. MICT is an Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) computer-based
automatic tracking system used to track discrepancies identified during inspections. The MICT
database is a web based program accessed through the Air Force Portal. An active AFRC
ReserveNet Account is required in order to gain access to the MICT database. The use of MICT
will be superseded by any AFI mandated Self Inspection Tracking System.
 2                                                                 908AWI90-201 26 July 2010


2. MICT Program. This program will be used for tracking deficiencies, discrepancies, and
problem areas identified from many sources. They include: AFRC Unit Compliance Inspections
(UCIs); Twenty Second Air Force (22 AF) Staff Assistance Visits (SAVs); Operational
Readiness Inspections (ORIs); Air Mobility Command (AMC)/AFRC/22 AF Special Interest
Items (SIIs); commander interest items; the Management Control Program (MCP); internally
developed checklists; and any other inspection requirements not mentioned here.
3. Wing Commander Overview. Commanders, supervisors and designated Self-Inspection
Monitors are responsible for the overall management of the Self-Inspection program and for
ensuring compliance with higher headquarters guidance and this field instruction.
4. Wing Self-Inspection Monitor:
     4.1. Will oversee compliance with the Self-Inspection program.
        4.1.1. Will inform Unit Self-Inspection monitors of changes or unique program elements
        and manage MICT training for wing staff and Unit Self-Inspection monitors.
        4.1.2. Will maintain a copy of the Wing Commander’s appointment letter on file.
     4.2. Will brief the Wing Commander semiannually or as required when findings require
     senior management involvement.
5. All Unit Self-Inspection Monitors:
     5.1. Will oversee compliance with the Unit Self-Inspection Program and inform the unit
     commander and supervisors of changes and unique program elements.
     5.2. Will ensure semiannual self-inspections are performed during the months of January
     and August.
     5.3. Will ensure that all deficiencies, discrepancies, and problem areas are identified,
     entered, and tracked in the MICT program.
        5.3.1. Actions taken to resolve open items will be reviewed every 30 days through
        closure.
        5.3.2. Notify the unit commander or supervisor of the work center of discrepancies
        requiring management assistance.
     5.4. Will ensure that each individual who is responsible for conducting a self-inspection is
     also knowledgeable on the MICT program and responsible for inputting, updating, and
     tracking discrepancies through closure in the MICT database.
6. General Information:
     6.1. Each unit will maintain a Unit Self-Inspection Binder, including copies of this OI,
     previous inspection reports, and other information as deemed appropriate for a robust self-
     inspection program.
     6.2. Unit’s previous inspection and audit reports; latest UCIs; latest ORI report; applicable
     Numbered Air Force SAV report; Special Interest Item (SIIs); and other applicable reports
     can be accessed by going to the applicable web site. Individuals are encouraged to access
     these web sites monthly to stay abreast of current operations and information.
908AWI90-201 26 July 2010                                                                3


7. Program Revisions. Submit all requests for changes/revisions to the Wing Self-Inspection
program monitor.




                                          ROBERT H. SHEPHERD, Colonel, USAFR
                                          Commander
 4                                                           908AWI90-201 26 July 2010


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 90-2, The Inspector General Inspection, 26 April 2006
AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities, 17 June 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
22 AF—Twenty Second Air Force
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AMC—Air Mobility Command
HSI—Health Services Inspections
MICT—Management Internal Control Toolset
MCP—Management Control Program
ORI—Operational Readiness Inspections
SAV—Staff Assistance Visits
SII—Special Interest Item
UCI—Unit Compliance Inspections
