                        908 Airlift Wing Commander’s
                    EMPHASIS ON EXPLOSIVE SAFETY

                                         The 908th Airlift Wings Explosives Mishap
                                         Prevention Program is established to eliminate
                                         mishaps and incidents with explosives. This
                                         objective is achievable through thorough risk
                                         assessment and management. The procedures and
                                         practices we follow must comply with applicable
                                         directives and with the principles of sound judgment.

                                         Providing a fully-trained combat airlift force requires
                                         the ceaseless efforts of all commanders, supervisor,
                                         and workers minimizing risk to maximize the
                                         mission. The storage, handling, and transporting of
                                         munitions has inherent risks which must be
                                         mitigated. Regardless of the tasking, reducing
                                         hazards to the lowest achievable level is of
                                         paramount importance.

Our assets, both human and equipment, are irreplaceable. Supervisors must analyze their
functional areas and identify unnecessary risks. Once identified, hazards must be promptly
addressed. An effective method for risk management must be established. Supervisor and
workers at all levels are obliged to be alert, observant, and ready to interrupt a sequence of
work events when the potential for mishap is present.

I challenge all personnel involved with handling explosives to ensure that complacency and
compromise remain conspicuously absent from the workplace. Mishaps do not just happen,
they are caused. Shortfalls in individual judgment, preparation, and discretion are
unacceptable when explosives are involved. There is no margin for error.




                                                        BRETT J. CLARK
                                                        Colonel, USAFR
                                                        Commander



908AWVA 91-203, (Per AFMAN 91-201), 29 May 2012
OPR: 908 AW/SE
ACCESSABILITY: Publications are available on the Air Force e-Publishing Web page
RELEASABILITY: There are no access restrictions on this Publication
