BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            908TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
908TH AIRLIFT WING                                                            10-201

                                                                               11 APRIL 2012

                                                                                   Operations

                                                            ANTI-TERRORISM PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasable restrictions on this publication

OPR: 908 AW/SFS                                       Certified by: 908 AW/CCE (LtCol Nancy
                                                                             R. Stephenson)
                                                                                    Pages: 9


This instruction implements AFPD 10-2, Readiness; Department of Defense Directive (DODD)
2000.12, Antiterrorism (AT) Program; Department of Defense Instruction (DODI) 2000.16,
Antiterrorism (AT) Standards. It establishes and implements requirements, policies, procedures,
standards and responsibilities governing unit participation in the 42 ABW AT Program and
defines functional area responsibilities, working groups and education and training. This
instruction applies to all units and personnel assigned to 908th Airlift Wing (AW) Maxwell Air
Force Base, Alabama. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to 908
AW/SFS Maxwell AFB AL using the AF Form 847 Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

1. GENERAL.
   1.1. The Installation Antiterrorism Officer (ATO) manages the 42 ABW AT Program with
   the assistance of Unit Antiterrorism Representatives (ATRs). Therefore, primary and
   alternate unit ATRs must be appointed by each unit/activity commander assigned or attached
   to Maxwell AFB as a means to coordinate the participation of their respective unit in the
   installation AT Program with the Installation ATO        (Unit Security Managers may be
   appointed this additional duty).
   1.2. The Maxwell AFB Antiterrorism Working Group (ATWG) acts as the 42 Air Base
   Wing Commander’s primary advisory body on AT policy and program management.
   Membership will be in accordance with the approved ATWG Charter.
2                                                              908AWI10-201 11 APRIL 2012


       1.2.1. Maxwell ATWG will meet as needed or required by HHQ direction. Additionally,
       the ATWG will be combined, when possible, with the Integrated Defense Working
       Group (IDWG).
2. RESPONSIBILITIES.
    2.1. The 908 AW/ATO will:
       2.1.1. Act as the liaison between the 908 AW/CC and the Installation ATO.
       2.1.2. Ensure Anti-Terrorism Representative ATR’s coordinate through the Unit
       Training Manager (UTM), all unit personnel receive AT Level I (Force Protection)
       training. Unit personnel will accomplish this training through use of the Advanced
       Distributed Learning Service, (ADLS), a computer-based website at:
       HTTPS://GOLEARN.CSD.DISA.MIL. Unit personnel not able to complete Level I
       training on line may complete training off-line. Contact UTMs for specific instructions
       regarding course down-load and record updates.
       2.1.3. Coordinate with Reserve Deployment Readiness Center (RDRC) AT awareness
       training with each unit deployment manager and ensure a primary and alternate ATO has
       been assigned to all mass troop movements.
       2.1.4. Administer the 908 AW RAM Program IAW 42 ABW Plan 10-245.                Designate
       unit personnel responsible for FPCON Measures and RAM implementation.
          2.1.4.1. Send RAM completion to the Installation ATO if unable to access ATRAMP
          at: 42 ABW.Antiterrorism@Maxwell.AF.MIL. Include RAM number, date,
          initiation/termination times, location, name(s) of person(s) who completed the RAM
          and any specific facts (i.e., 10 ID Cards, 25 Cars, 10 rooms, etc.).
       2.1.5. Ensure all construction projects are coordinated through the Installation ATO.
       2.1.6. Create and maintain an AT Representatives program continuity book if unable to
       access the AT COP online. Book contents are subject to review during Installation,
       MAJCOM staff assistance visits (SAVs), IG inspections and Joint Staff Integrated
       Vulnerability Assessment reviews. The book will cover the following items:
          2.1.6.1. Section 1 - Letter(s) of Appointment (update as changes occur).
          2.1.6.2. Section 2 - Unit AT Officer/NCO Training. Retain copy of Installation ATO
          Level 1/II training certificate/Local Training Certificate.
          2.1.6.3. Section 3 – Unit Random Antiterrorism Measures (RAM) Tracking. Units
          will track all RAMs conducted internally over and above the assigned RAMS. ATR
          may produce an Excel Spreadsheet or other tracking tool showing date, time, length
          and type of RAM conducted, The Installation ATO will monitor unit RAMs each day
          and periodically visit a unit to verify RAMs and their effectiveness.
          2.1.6.4. Section 4 – Functional Review Reports. These are centrally maintained by
          the base ATO
          2.1.6.5. Section 5 – AT Information, Memorandums, Messages. This section
          contains pass-ons from and installation ATO (e-mails, memorandums, etc.), wing AT
          bulletin (if applicable), and the schedule for unit AT program reviews.
908AWI10-201 11 APRIL 2012                                                                   3


        2.1.6.6. Section 6 – AFIs. AFI 10-245/AETC Sup and Installation plans. Reference
        these documents with a memorandum as to their electronic location. For units with
        access to the AT COP these are centrally maintained.
        2.1.6.7. Section 7 –Unit Operating Instruction.
        2.1.6.8. Section 8 –Installation ATO Annual AT Program Reviews. ATRs will
        maintain copies of most recent and previous calendar year’s annual ATO reviews of
        unit AT programs (See Attachment 1 for Program Review Checklist). For units with
        access to the AT COP these are done electronically and centrally maintained.
        2.1.6.9. Section 9 – AT Exercise Reports. These reports are maintained on the 42
        ABW Exercise Evaluation Team SharePoint Site
        2.1.6.10. Section 10 – Meeting Minutes. These are maintained on the COP for those
        with access.
        2.1.6.11. Section 11 – Miscellaneous Items.
     2.1.7. Ensure dissemination of threat information, current FPCON status and procedures,
     and required RAM actions to all unit personnel as well as TDY units assigned or visiting
     the 908 AW.
        2.1.7.1. TDY personnel will receive an up-to-date briefing within unit assigned
        concerning current FPCON and measures in-place as well as the unit RAM Program
        and how they will be expected to participate.
        2.1.7.2. Assist each unit with developing a reporting and alerting system for
        notification of TDY members and unit specific procedures. Suggested source is
        newcomers checklist, and procedures in place for unit recall notifications.
        2.1.7.3. Local work force will receive updates via base contact i.e. alerting system on
        computer, giant voice and verbal communication.
     2.1.8. Work closely with 908 AW Plans Officer to ensure AT considerations are
     incorporated into unit plans where applicable.
     2.1.9. Coordinate with ATR to offer Force Protection Training to any military or DoD
     employee family member traveling OCONUS on unofficial travel (such as leave).
  2.2. Unit Deployment Manager (UDM)
     2.2.1. Ensure individuals projected for TDY OCONUS receive/are current on Force
     Protection training via unit out-processing checklist (If you don’t have a unit out-
     processing checklist, establish some other documentation to achieve the same results,
     such filing memorandum with unit ATR). The UDM will ensure individuals receive the
     training prior to deployment.
        2.2.1.1. AOR Threat Briefing: The mandatory Threat Briefing for all overseas
        deployments is given by the Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI).
        UDM will contact AFOSI at 953-7094 for briefing times and to ensure AOR-specific
        information may be incorporated into the deployment brief.
4                                                                908AWI10-201 11 APRIL 2012


           2.2.1.2. AFOSI Counterintelligence Threat Assessment.          The UDM or Unit
           Commander will request a site-specific counterintelligence threat assessment be
           provided to team members within 15 days of any departure , if applicable.
       2.2.2. The UDM will coordinate with the unit ATR to ensure a primary and alternate AT
       Officer/NCO is appointed for each mass troop movement. The UDM will document this
       information on unit deployment rosters.
           2.2.2.1. The primary and alternate deployment team Antiterrorism Officers will
           contact the unit ATR for guidance on AT-related issues.
           2.2.2.2. Once deployed, the deployment team Antiterrorism Officer will contact the
           host base Installation ATO on site for further guidance.
    2.3. Unit ancillary training managers.
       2.3.1. Ensure all Force Protection Training is being conducted and assist with Off-Line
       FP Briefings when necessary. (i.e., family members 14 YOA or older PCSing OCONUS
       on official travel).
       2.3.2. Document Force Protection Training through normal ancillary records when
       documentation through ADLS. Alternate documentation will be PCS/TDY checklist or
       MILPDS is not possible.
    2.4. All Unit Designation personnel will:
       2.4.1. Implement RAMs as directed by the Installation ATO. Units may also conduct
       additional RAMs as deemed appropriate/necessary by the commander.
       2.4.2. Be vigilant for attempts by suspect persons to gather information, conduct
       surveillance or commit criminal acts related to unit and wing operations. Personnel will
       report such incidents to their supervisor or the unit ATR, immediately. Do not assume
       others will report an incident no matter how obvious.
       2.4.3. Always be aware of the current FPCON measure and why the base/community is
       in such conditions. Ensure procedures are in place to convey specific FPCON Measure
       information down to the newest Airman assigned to the unit.
3. PROCEDURES:
    3.1. FPCON Measures and RAM Implementation
       3.1.1. FPCON Implementation. The Force Protection Conditions (FPCONs) describe the
       progressive level of a terrorist threat to all U.S. military facilities, assets, and personnel
       under DoD Directive 2000.12. The purpose of the FPCON system is accessibility to, and
       easy dissemination of, appropriate information. The declaration, reduction, and
       cancellation of FPCONs are the prerogative of the military commander or the head of
       DoD Components. While there is no direct correlation between threat information, (e.g.,
       Intelligence Summaries, Warning Reports, and Spot Reports), and FPCONs, such
       information, coupled with specific FPCON Measure guidance, assists commanders in
       making prudent FPCON declarations. FPCONs may also be suffixed with the geographic
       area deemed at risk. Once a FPCON is declared, the selected security measures are
       implemented immediately. UCCs will receive a Crisis Action Team Directive (CATD)
908AWI10-201 11 APRIL 2012                                                                    5


     listing specific FPCON Measures listed in the 42 ABW Plan 10-245 Installation Security
     Antiterrorism Plan (FOUO). FPCON definitions follow:
        3.1.1.1. FPCON NORMAL. Applies when a general global threat of possible
        terrorist activity exists and warrants a routine security posture.
        3.1.1.2. FPCON ALPHA. Applies when there is an increased threat of possible
        terrorist activity against personnel or facilities, the nature and extent of which are
        unpredictable.
        3.1.1.3. FPCON BRAVO. Applies when an increased and more predictable threat of
        hostile activity exists.
        3.1.1.4. FPCON CHARLIE. Applies when an incident occurs or intelligence is
        received, indicating some form of terrorist action or targeting against personnel or
        facilities is likely.
        3.1.1.5. FPCON DELTA. Applies in the immediate area where an attack has
        occurred or when intelligence has been received that terrorist action against a specific
        location or person is imminent. Normally, this FPCON is declared as a localized
        condition.
        3.1.1.6. Unit ATR will ensure all personnel assigned specific duties associated with
        FPCON Measures are briefed on their responsibilities. Units will use this paragraph
        to make specific reference to unit FPCON Measures checklist. Identify for your unit
        personnel the fact that specific guidance and responsibilities can be obtained by
        referencing the unit FPCON Measures checklist.
        3.1.1.7. Unit personnel must be aware of specific FPCON Measures tasking
        associated with each FPCON Measure. Within the FPCON checklist (42 ABW Plan
        10-245, Volume II) use sub-paragraphs to identify who is responsible for a particular
        task, describing in detail what actions are required for each measure, how they are to
        complete them and by whom. For example, if personnel are to arm with weapons this
        should cover when, where, how, who questions. Or, for single point entry and exit,
        who initiates it, what doors are locked, communication procedures, and by whom and
        what are the entry procedures. Ensure you identify actions for all FPCONs. Ensure
        you assign a responsible office (by office symbol) for each FPCON Measure and
        RAM for each facility under your unit. Ensure you also address alternative parking
        plans for 25m standoff to include relocating reserved and handicapped parking.
     3.1.2. RAM Implementation. These measures are selected measures implemented from
     one or more levels above the current FPCON. These measures are implemented upon
     direction of the installation commander or his designee as a means to alter our security
     signature, provide/conduct training and/or test selected measures of a particular FPCON.
        3.1.2.1. The Installation ATO will e-mail wing ATO with specific RAMs for each
        month. During increased FPCONs, additional RAM’s will be provided to each unit.
        3.1.2.2. Notification for RAMs will be emailed to each unit ATR no later than the
        day before RAM is due. This email will also provide the RAM to accomplish and
        detail understanding of responsibility. Once RAM is complete, unit ATR will email
        wing ATO of results of RAM.
6                                                               908AWI10-201 11 APRIL 2012


    3.2. Bomb Threats/Fire Alarms/Facility Evacuation Incidents
       3.2.1. In the event of a fire alarm, bomb threat or other incident requiring evacuation of a
       Unit Designation facility, the following guidelines will be adhered to: Make sure to
       appoint a responsible office in each facility for initiating the evacuation, ensuring all
       personnel are evacuated, securing any classified material, reporting information to the
       Base Defense Operation Center (BDOC) (Ext. 2254 or 911) and advising unit leadership
       or the unit ATR on the status of the incident. You will designate a rally location (300+
       feet from facility) and predesignate a POC. POC will ensure accountability of all facility
       employees is reported to Command Post (953-2717) or BDOC.
           3.2.1.1. Personnel will immediately evacuate the facility when directed.
           3.2.1.2. Evacuation will be conducted in a minimum of two directions, where
           possible, so as to prevent all personnel from massing in one location.
           3.2.1.3. Personnel will not mass near parked vehicles, trash dumpsters, or any other
           large item that could contain a secondary explosive device. This is to mitigate any
           attempts by criminal elements at creating mass casualty situations via a secondary
           explosive.
           3.2.1.4. Flight/section leadership will account for all personnel upon evacuation and
           provide missing/injured/fatality information to unit leadership.
       3.2.2. Any unit member receiving a bomb threat via telephone will attempt to keep the
       caller on the line and immediately initiate AF Form 440, Bomb Threat Checklist
           3.2.2.1. If possible, have another person call Command Post and/or BDOC on
           another phone.
           3.2.2.2. If the caller hangs up, DO NOT HANG UP the phone.
           3.2.2.3. DO NOT TOUCH any suspicious objects or open any packages or
           containers.
           3.2.2.4. Initiate evacuation as directed by the on-scene commander
    3.3. Chemical/Biological Incident Procedures
       3.3.1. Individual Protective Measures in the event of dispersement of chemical/biological
       agents are located in AFPAM 10-100, Airman’s Manual. Wear IPE, Treat each threat
       with SABC, decontaminate as needed, use auto injectors when experiencing symptoms,
       flush eyes and protect from further contamination and seek medical attention as soon as
       possible.
       3.3.2. Shutdown of HVAC system is important to reduce the spread of all contaminates.
       Proper instruction can be provided by local Civil Engineering office.
       3.3.3. Shelter-in-Place should be in a location located in each facility. Each location is
       required to have all items and equipment necessary to seal room from contaminates.
       3.3.4. Building Evacuation procedures and rally locations are essential to maintain
       accountability of personnel from the work area.
4. LOGISTICS AND ADMINISTRATION.
908AWI10-201 11 APRIL 2012                                                                  7


  4.1. Equipment. Identify where personnel maintain or have access to safety, first responder,
  and/or emergency equipment such as first aid kits and fire extinguishers. Identify where
  personnel may obtain equipment necessary to complete FPCONs and RAMs, e.g. chain to
  secure doors, cones and other barriers to block parking lots, etc.




                                          BRETT J. CLARK, Colonel, USAFR
                                          Commander
 8                                                         908AWI10-201 11 APRIL 2012


                                       Attachment 1
       GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION

References
AFI 10-245, AETC Sup, Air Force Antiterrorism Standards, 30 Mar 2009
AFPD, 10-2, Readiness, 30 Oct 2006
DoD O-2000.12-H, Protection of DoD Personnel and Activities Against Acts of Terrorism and
Political Turbulence, 19 Feb 1996
DoDI 2000.16, DOD Antiterrorism Standards, 21 Jul 1997
DoD 5200.8-R, DoD Physical Security Program, 9 Apr 2007

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADLS—Advanced Distance Learning System
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigation
ATRAMP—Antiterrorism Random Antiterrorism Program
AOR—Area of Operation
ATRAMP—Antiterrorism Random Antiterrorism Program
ATO—Antiterrorism Officer
AT—Antiterrorism
ATR—Antiterrorism Representative
ATWG—Antiterrorism Working Group
BDOC—Base Defense Operation Center
CADT—Crisis Action Development Team
COP—Community of Practice
FPCON—Force Protection Condition of Notification
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
IDWG—Integrated Defense Working Group
RAM—Random Antiterrorism Measure
UCC—Unit Control Center
UDM—Unit Deployment Manager
UTM—Unit Training Manager
908AWI10-201 11 APRIL 2012                                                           9


                                        Attachment 2
                            PROGRAM REVIEW CHECKLIST


Unit ATO/ATR Responsibilities                                             YES   NO   N/A
Force Protection POC
Has the commander designated a unit ATO/ATR in writing?
Has the appointment memorandum been forwarded to the Installation
ATO?
Has the unit developed a folder or binder to maintain meeting minutes,
AT plan and local AT OI?
Is the unit participating in the Installation RAM Program?
Does the unit have specific RAMS and checklists?
AT Level I Training Requirements and Reporting
Have Level I AT requirements been incorporated into unit ancillary
training?
Is Level I being documented?
Are personnel in the unit scheduled for Level I training?
AT Deployment/TDY/Leave Requirements
Has the unit deployment manager developed procedures to request a
deployment briefing for personnel deploying?
Are procedures outlined on the checklist being followed for all
deployments and TDYs?
Does the administrative staff ensure AT requirements are met prior to
issuing TDY orders or leave authorization numbers?
Is a method of communication established so increase in threat level
can be relayed to personnel while on leave or TDY?
Unit FPCON Procedures
Has the unit developed procedures to implement increased force
protection conditions and measures?
Have shortfalls in manpower or materials need to meet FPCON
requirements been identified?
Are projects, purchases of equipment, and READY program
requirements being worked to correct shortfalls?
Has the unit developed bomb threat and emergency evacuation
procedures for all facilities controlled by the unit?
Do the procedures identify assembly areas at least 500’ from the
facility and post incident responsibilities?
Are notification procedures in place to ensure all personnel are notified
of changes to the FPCON?
