BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       90TH MISSILE WING INSTRUCTION 21-200
90TH MISSILE WING
                                                                                   18 JULY 2012

                                                                                    Maintenance

                                                 TOOL, EQUIPMENT AND CONSUMABLES
                                                                     MANAGEMENT


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available for downloading from the e-Publishing
               website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 90 MXG/CCC                                                       Certified by: 90 MXG/CC
                                                                 (Colonel Donald R. Adams, Jr.)
                                                                                        Pages: 8


This instruction establishes policy and procedures for Tools and Equipment Management and
will be used in conjunction with AFI 21-200. The objectives of this instruction are to prevent
and eliminate foreign object damage (FOD) to missiles, training and support equipment, and to
reduce costs through strict effective control and accountability of assets within the 90th Missile
Wing. This includes 90th Missile Maintenance Squadron (90 MMXS), 90th Maintenance
Operations Squadron (90 MOS), 90th Maintenance Group Quality Assurance and all
90th Missile Wing agencies dispatching to perform maintenance on munitions/missiles, training
and support equipment located at Launch Facilities and Missile Alert Facilities. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
Comply with AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Program, for documents containing Privacy Act
information. For Official Use Only information, comply with DoD 5200.1-R, paragraph AP3.2,
and AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, route AF Form 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. See Attachment 1 for Glossary of
References and Supporting Information.

PART 1. This section applies to all dispatching 90 MXG sections and personnel.

1. Program Guidance:
2                                                                90MWI21-200 18 JULY 2012


    1.1. Security, control, and accountability of tools and consumables.
       1.1.1. Store tools and consumables in a designated location for positive control and ease
       of inventory. Prior to dispatch, Composite Tool Kits (CTKs) or individual tools will be
       accounted for on a log or load list which lists (as a minimum) those fields of data found
       on the AF Form 1297. Authorized tool custodian/monitors will issue CTKs and annotate
       accountability for the dispatched CTK on the log.
       1.1.2. Master Inventory Lists (MILs) and Inventory Lists (ILs) will include the
       nomenclature and quantity, for each CTK item, by drawer/section number (see Figure 1
       below). MILs shall contain the date signed, name, rank and signature of the NCOIC.
       Maintain MIL copies in the section’s administrative files, issuing tool room and
       respective CTK. Tool sets with their own container (i.e. drill bits) shall include an IL
       specific to the given tool set.
Figure1. DRAWER 5.

Description                             Quantity
Socket Extension--1.5"                  1
Socket Extension--3.0"                  2

    1.2. Inventory Procedures.
       1.2.1. Inspect/inventory all CTKs quarterly regardless of utilization levels and document
       inspectors name, rank, and the date accomplished in Tool Accountability System (TAS).
       1.2.2. Account for consumables by quantity/unit of issue and replenish them as they are
       used.
       1.2.3. Maintenance teams shall inventory CTKs prior to dispatch and prior to departing
       any job site.
       1.2.4. Handle lost or missing items IAW paragraph 1.6.
       1.2.5. Tool rooms shall visually inspect all CTKs for accountability and document
       discrepancies/completion at the beginning of each tool room shift.
    1.3. Warranted tool management: Owning work center custodian or monitor shall track tools
    and equipment under warranty and take appropriate action with the vendor to replace broken
    or faulty tools/equipment.
    1.4. Control and management of replacement, expendable and consumable hand tools,
    HAZMATs, and other items contained in CTKs.
       1.4.1. Empty spaces (spaces not occupied by a tool) are not permitted in CTKs. Update
       the MIL, IL, and TAS immediately after a tool is permanently removed from a CTK and
       eliminate the empty space.
       1.4.2. Maintain CTKs in Fully Mission Capable (FMC) status at all times. Segregate,
       secure, and control all unserviceable tools.
90MWI21-200 18 JULY 2012                                                                     3


     1.4.3. Process repairable tools for repair and dispose non-repairable items in a timely
     manner. Maintain a supply of spare tools to ensure mission continuity consistent with
     historical failure rates for a given item.
     1.4.4. Immediately update the IL and TAS when tools are unserviceable and/or removed
     from the CTK. Replace unserviceable and repairable tools with projected repair cycle
     time greater than the next scheduled mission requirement with a spare tool (if available).
     Minor defects that do not significantly degrade the performance of a given tool will not
     be cause for replacement of a CTK item, consistent with technical guidance.
     1.4.5. Replace expendable/consumable items from spare tool inventories as needed
     following each dispatch.
     1.4.6. Segregate, secure, control and maintain an IL for spare tool stocks. Do not etch,
     stamp or otherwise mark. Maintain an inventory of spare tools IAW AFI 21-200.
     1.4.7. Control HAZMAT and turn in all items for proper disposition.
  1.5. Transfer of tools/CTKs at the job site: The losing and gaining team at a job site shall
  accomplish a complete inventory prior to transfer and document the transfer on an AF Form
  1297 or equivalent.
  1.6. Procedures for lost or missing tools.
     1.6.1. The maintenance team shall notify Missile Maintenance Operations Center
     (MMOC) for hardness degrade determination and shall await further instructions from
     MMOC, if a tool/item cannot be found during inventory.
     1.6.2. The responsible team shall initiate a Lost Tool Report (see Attachment 2) and
     route as shown therein. An initial search shall be completed within 4 hours on base or
     within 12 hours off base of discovering the item is missing, and subsequent initial
     notifications completed within 8 hours on base and 24 hours off base of loss. The
     secondary search and secondary notifications shall be completed within 24 hours of loss
     whenever possible. Update TAS and associated ILs to reflect the current inventory status
     of the CTK if the tool cannot be immediately found and replace the tool as soon as
     possible to return the CTK to FMC status.
     1.6.3. QA will maintain completed reports for trend analysis.
  1.7. Assignment of Equipment Identification Designators (EIDs). Each CTK must be
  etched, stamped, or otherwise permanently marked with the section’s Worldwide
  Identification code (WWID). Sections shall use the remaining 5 digits of the EID to identify
  the tools stored in a CTK. Assigned WWIDs for 90 MXG maintenance activities are listed in
  (Attachment 3) of this Instruction.
  1.8. Issue and control of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Each individual shall
  inventory their gear prior to departing for the work site and report missing items IAW
  paragraph 1.6.
  1.9. Account for all rags when used in the performance of maintenance. Each rag dispatched
  to a job site must be accounted for prior to departure of the site IAW paragraph 1.2.2.
  1.10. Personnel authorized to procure tools.
 4                                                                90MWI21-200 18 JULY 2012


        1.10.1. Each flight commander/superintendent maintaining tools/equipment will appoint
        a primary and alternate tool control person. These persons are responsible for the
        inventory, accountability, and procurement of any items owned by the work center.
        1.10.2. Flight commanders/superintendent shall review/approve all tool purchases;
        substantiate replacement and disposition requirements of original tools when tools require
        replacement.
     1.11. Procedures for locally manufactured and developed tools not used during nuclear
     weapons maintenance operations are as follows: QA is designated as the approval authority
     for the design of locally manufactured tools prior to manufacture. Maintain these tools IAW
     this instruction and AFI 21-200 once they are manufactured.
     1.12. Procedures for depot teams, factory representatives, and contract field teams are as
     follows: Depot teams, factory representatives, and contract field teams will operate IAW
     Part 2 of this instruction and AFI 21-200 while performing maintenance with or for 90 MXG
     activities.
     1.13. Procedures and responsibilities for distribution of tools/equipment to decentralized
     locations are as follows: Owning tool room will issue all items (CTKs and kits) using TAS.
     Tool room access will be controlled at all times. Unoccupied tool rooms will be kept locked.
        1.13.1. Procedures for crash recovery/hydrazine response equipment are as follows:
        Maintain emergency response equipment IAW applicable technical data and emergency
        response plans. 90 MOS VES will be the OPR for emergency response vehicle and
        equipment.
        1.13.2. Procedures for aircrew/life support section tools dispatched to flight line
        operations are as follows: Control tools dispatched for flight line operations IAW this
        instruction. Life support tools are not applicable to 90 MXG.
        1.13.3. CTKs used in work centers during a shift may be controlled by a single team that
        is responsible for the control and security of said CTK. The work center shall ensure the
        next inventory is performed by a different person when a CTK is inventoried by the same
        person at the beginning and end of a job/shift.
     1.14. Ensure tools are signed in/out by different technicians per AFI 21-200.
     1.15. Procedures for tool room operations and security: When a vehicle containing a CTK is
     left unattended the vehicle must be locked/secured.
PART 2. This section applies to all 90th Missile Wing agencies while dispatching to perform
maintenance on munitions/missiles, training and support equipment located at Launch Facilities
and Missile Alert Facilities.
2. Program Guidance:
     2.1. Follow AFI 21-200, Munitions and Missile Maintenance Management, paragraph 10.2,
     as applicable.
     2.2. Procedures for lost or missing tools.
90MWI21-200 18 JULY 2012                                                                   5


     2.2.1. The individual/team shall notify MMOC, 773-3611, for hardness degrade
     determination and shall await further instructions from MMOC, if a tool/item cannot be
     found during inventory prior to departing/returning site.
     2.2.2. The responsible individual/team shall initiate a Lost Tool Report (see Attachment
     2) and route as shown therein. An initial search shall be completed within 12 hours off
     base of discovering the item is missing, and subsequent initial notifications completed
     within 24 hours off base of loss. The secondary search and secondary notifications shall
     be completed within 24 hours of loss whenever possible. Update applicable tool
     accountability system.
     2.2.3. QA will maintain completed reports for trend analysis.




                                          CHRISTOPHER A. COFFELT, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander, 90th Missile Wing
 6                                                      90MWI21-200 18 JULY 2012


                                     Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Prescribed Forms: There are no prescribed forms.
Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt
90MWI21-200 18 JULY 2012                                                             7


                                     Attachment 2
                      FIGURE A2.1 90 MW LOST TOOL REPORT.

Section I – Loss Data
CTK Designator, as applicable:   Owning Organization/Work Center:

Item Lost:                       Responsible Team Chief:
Date/Time Issued:                Date/Time Loss Discovered:
Trip #:                          Location of Crew When Loss Discovered:
Site Loss Occurred:              Type of Work Being Performed:
Section II – Initial Search Findings
Team Chief Responsible for Initial Search:
Initial Search Findings:            ______ Found           _______     Not Found
Section III – Initial Notifications
Team Chief Responsible for Initial Notifications:
MMOC                   Owning WC              Flight Chief         QA I&E
Rank/Last Name:        Rank/Last Name:        Rank/Last Name:      Rank/Last Name:

Date/Time:           Date/Time:        Date/Time:                Date/Time:
Section IV – 2nd Search Findings
Team Chief Responsible for 2nd Search:
2nd Search Findings:          ______ Found          _______         Not Found
Section V– 2nd Notifications
MMOC                 Owning WC         Flight Chief              QA I&E
Rank/Last Name:      Rank/Last Name:   Rank/Last Name:           Rank/Last Name:

Date/Time:          Date/Time:          Date/Time:            Date/Time:
Section VI– MMOC Notification to 90 MXG/CC
MMOC Notifier:                        Date/Time Notified:
Section VII – Owning Squadrons MA/CMS Investigation Findings and Recommendations

Findings:

Recommendations:

Owning Squadrons MA/CMS Rank, Name, Signature and Date:

Section VIII – 90 MXG/MXQ Review


90MXG/MXQ Chief/Superintendent Rank, Name, Signature and Date:
8                                                    90MWI21-200 18 JULY 2012


                                      Attachment 3
             FIGURE A3.1 90 MXG MAINTENANCE ACTIVITY WWIDS.

Maintenance Activity                     WWID
AGE                                      FWAG
Corrosion                                FWCT
EMT                                      FWEM
Electronics Lab (ELAB)                   FWEL
FMT/PMT                                  FWFM
HICS                                     FWHI
Mech/Pnuedrolics Shop                    FWMC
MMT                                      FWCR
Missile Handling (MHT)                   FWMH
Power, Refrigeration and Electrical      FWPR
(PREL)
MCM                                      FWSM
Team Training                            FWTR
Vehicles/Equipment/Recovery              FWVC
