BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                     90TH MISSILE WING INSTRUCTION 24-302
90TH MISSILE WING
                                                                                 6 MAY 2014

                                                                              Transportation

                                                          VEHICLE CONTROL PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 90 LRS/LGRV                                                     Certified by: 90 LRS/CC
                                                                     (Lt Col Chad Ellsworth)
Supersedes:   90MWI 23-302, 17 August                                                Pages: 16
              2011


This instruction establishes policies and procedures for the management of the 90th Missile
Wing Vehicle Control Program (VCP). It implements the provisions of Air Force Instruction
(AFI) 24-302, Vehicle Management, and outlines procedures for conducting the Vehicle Control
program. This instruction establishes the policies and procedures for implementing and
managing the Vehicle Accident, Abuse and Misuse program; and addresses the definitions,
authority, disposition, reporting procedures and reimbursement of repairs for military vehicle
accidents and incidents of abuse. This instruction applies to all 90th Missile Wing (MW)
personnel, tenant units, and Temporary Duty personnel assigned to Francis E. Warren Air Force
Base, Wyoming. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Comply with AFI 33-
332, Privacy Act Program, for documents containing privacy act information. Comply with
DoDM 5200.01-V2, DoD, Information Security Program and AFI 31-401, Information Security
Management for documents containing For Official Use Only information. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibilities (OPR)
using AF Form 847, Recommendations for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the
field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. See attachment 1 for Glossary of
References and Supporting Information.
 2                                                                  90MWI24-302 6 MAY 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is revised throughout due to the release of AFI 24-302, Vehicle Management,
dated 28 February 2013 and Air Force Global Strike Command supplements.
1. General. The purpose of the VCP is to ensure units meet Air Force (AF) vehicle
management goals and improve focus on government-owned vehicle (GOV) operator care. The
goal of this program is to increase the life cycle of the vehicle fleet by instilling pride of
ownership in vehicle operators and to improve the quality of management and care provided to
government vehicles. Unit Vehicle Control Officers/Vehicle Control Noncommissioned Officers
(VCOs/VCNCOs) are responsible for all of the following requirements unless specified in a
Letter of Agreement with the 90th Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS), Vehicle Management
Flight (LGRV).
2. VCP Responsibilities.
     2.1. Vehicle Management Superintendent (VMS)/or Manager (VMM) will:
        2.1.1. Provide technical assistance and assessments using VCP inspections as requested.
        2.1.2. Develop a plan to maintain the highest professional appearance of the base vehicle
        fleet.
     2.2. Units will accomplish and adhere to the following:
        2.2.1. Maintain sufficient supplies and equipment to encourage frequent operator care,
        cleaning, and vehicle servicing.
        2.2.2. Ensure all squadron personnel are familiar with their responsibilities as vehicle
        operators and the intent of this instruction.
        2.2.3. Develop procedures to encourage operator pride in vehicle care responsibilities.
3. Vehicle Appearance Standards:
     3.1. When regarding maintenance/appearance repair decisions, take into consideration
     factors such as age, overall condition, replacements/due-ins, and the owner/user of the
     vehicle.
     3.2. Good operator care is imperative if the fleet is to present a well-maintained appearance.
     Frequent washing, waxing, and general cleanup are key to a professional looking vehicle
     fleet.
     3.3. Units will wax vehicles as often as necessary to maintain appearance/prevent surface
     deterioration. Keep vehicles clean at all times to include the interior. Operators will not
     steam clean engines or engine compartments. Vehicles will be washed in accordance with
     (IAW) Technical Order (TO) 36-1-191, which states that vehicles in this region will be
     washed a minimum of every 45 days (or more if required). Vehicles will be waxed often
     enough with a manual application type wax to preserve the painted finish (prevent oxidation),
     but do not wax vehicles with flat or Chemical Agent Resistant Coating finishes. Vehicle
     Management will not accept dirty vehicles. If excessively dirty vehicles are towed in, the
     using organization should clean the vehicle prior to being accepted by Vehicle Management.
90MWI24-302 6 MAY 2014                                                                          3


  3.4. Operator Care of Government Vehicles: Increased operator care/maintenance is
  essential in our missile complex to ensure the highest level of reliability for our high-mileage
  vehicles. The scope of this increased operator maintenance and level of maintenance support
  (parts, tools, etc.) is determined by the using organization’s VCO/VCNCO and the local
  VMS/VMM.
  3.5. The following outlines minimum organizational and operator care of government
  vehicles to be accomplished by unit-level vehicle operators across the installation.
     3.5.1. With the applicable form (AF Form 1800, Operator’s Inspection Guide and
     Trouble Report or AF Form 1807, Operator’s Inspection Guide and Trouble Report
     (Fuel Servicing Vehicles) or AF Form 4427, Operator’s Inspection Guide and Trouble
     Report (Fuels Support Equipment), the using organizations/operators will perform a full
     serviceability/functional check of vehicles under their control IAW established intervals
     for vehicle types, located in TO 36-1-191, or applicable TO for nuclear certified vehicles
     and missile support equipment.
     3.5.2. During the documented vehicle serviceability/functional check, operators will
     check all fluid levels IAW applicable operator/owner’s manual or TOs. General purpose
     vehicle operators will check and service fuel, engine oil, and the windshield washer
     reservoir. All other fluid levels, i.e., coolant, automatic transmission, power steering,
     brake, and batteries, are checked by the vehicle operators and reported to Vehicle
     Management for servicing when required.
     3.5.3. Operators will keep tires properly inflated and change flat tires. Monthly tire
     pressure checks will be completed and documented regardless of organizational
     utilization of the vehicle. Operators will perform a visual inspection of tire tread depth
     and if there is a question as to serviceability, they will use a tire tread depth gauge.
     Vehicle Management will replace tires on missile field vehicles when tread depth is at or
     below 4/32" tread depth (non-nuclear certified vehicles) during maintenance visits to
     ensure tread depth does not fall below the minimum allowed by TO 36-1-191 before the
     next scheduled inspection. Operators will report tire tread depth below 4/32” tread depth
     via the AF Form 1800 to Vehicle Management.
     3.5.4. Operators will also check for vehicle cleanliness, damage, missing items, leaks,
     drive belt condition, steering operation, brake operation, heater and windshield wiper
     function.
  3.6. When an operator reports safety discrepancies with any safety-type systems or devices
  that could adversely affect the safety of personnel or the operation of equipment, that
  maintenance is not delayed and the vehicle or equipment item will not be allowed to continue
  service.
     3.6.1. The VMS/VMM or a qualified representative resolves any question about the
     serviceability or seriousness of a discrepancy, decides whether the discrepancy can be
     delayed and if it can, initials the maintenance report section on the inspection guide.
     3.6.2. The AF accepts the idea that when a vehicle ages, a certain amount of wear and
     tear will occur and that vehicles cannot be maintained in a like-new condition. For
     example, the condition of a vehicle in its 4th year of use is not comparable with the
     condition of a new vehicle. To be serviceable, a vehicle must first be safe and function as
 4                                                                     90MWI24-302 6 MAY 2014


        designed. However, deficiencies affecting safety are not acceptable regardless of
        whether the vehicle is old or new.
4. Vehicle Accident/Abuse/Misuse Definitions, Responsibilities, and Reimbursement
Procedures:
     4.1. Vehicle Accident: Any collision, impact, or abrasion against a fixed or moving object
     with a government vehicle which causes damage, whether immediately noticeable or not.
     Vehicles involved in an accident, or found with unreported damage, will be in-processed by
     90 LRS/LGRV Customer Service Section as soon as possible, but not later than the next duty
     day to complete a damage estimate. If a vehicle is involved in an accident, the operator must
     fill out the Standard Form (SF) 91, Operators Report of Motor Vehicle Accident, and notify
     their supervisor, Security Forces and local police (if off base). If the vehicle is involved in an
     accident with a privately- owned vehicle (POV), the GOV operator must additionally fill out
     a DD Form 518, Accident Identification Card, and give the form to the operator of the POV.
     POV-involved accidents require information on the POV and its operator to be documented
     on the SF 91.
        4.1.1. For abuses and incidents, a statement from the operator as to the circumstances
        surrounding the damage is required.
        4.1.2. After filling out the appropriate forms and contacting the required personnel, the
        operator must turn the vehicle and all accident, abuse, or incident documentation in to the
        Vehicle Management Customer Service Section within one duty day of the occurrence.
        General Service Administration (GSA) vehicles involved in accidents must still have a
        copy of the SF 91 turned in to Vehicle Management who will contact the GSA Accident
        Control Center listed on the back of the vehicle’s fleet credit card to coordinate recovery
        and/or repair of the vehicle.
        4.1.3. It is recommended units notify Resource Advisors of GSA damages, as repair
        costs will be billed directly to the unit in their monthly GSA billing.
     4.2. Vehicle Abuse/Incident: An act or omission that has caused, or may cause, damage that
     cannot be attributed to fair wear and tear under normal use. Vehicle abuse may result in
     early failure of components or immediately detectable damage. Some examples of vehicle
     abuse occur when an individual operator or organization:
        4.2.1. Fails to accomplish proper operator care IAW AFI 24-302 and/or loses items (i.e.,
        keys, license plates, panels, hubcaps, trim, attachments).
        4.2.2. Does not report malfunctions, defects, accident damage, or safety discrepancies
        affecting vehicle maintenance in a timely manner (i.e., door latch failure, rear hatch
        handle failure).
        4.2.3. Overloads, fails to tie down or otherwise secure cargo as well as properly use cold
        weather starting aids (i.e., diesel and 110 VAC block heaters, ether, glow plugs).
        4.2.4. Tampers with governors or pollution control devices.
        4.2.5. Operates a vehicle with broken tire chains or improperly inflated tires.
        4.2.6. Allows wind damage to vehicle doors and fenders.
90MWI24-302 6 MAY 2014                                                                         5


     4.2.7. Fails to provide a vehicle or piece of equipment for scheduled maintenance.
     Vehicles overdue for scheduled maintenance may be considered for abuse actions.
     4.2.8. Modifies or adds-on to a vehicle without written permission from the VMS/VMM.
     4.2.9. Refuels a vehicle with incorrect type of fuel, i.e., diesel instead of gasoline.
     4.2.10. Operates a vehicle in violation of operator’s manual or accepted practices.
     4.2.11. Idling a diesel engine for more than 10 minutes causing damage to the particulate
     filter.
  4.3. Vehicle Misuse: Uunauthorized and/or willful exploitation of a government vehicle,
  (i.e., use of government vehicles for personal business, convenience, “hot rodding”,
  speeding, or use not mission related) at any time. See AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, for
  additional guidance pertaining to official use of government motor vehicles.
     4.3.1. Misuse and/or failure to prevent misuse of government-owned or leased vehicles is
     punishable under Title 31 U.S.C. Section 1349 and the Uniform Code of Military Justice.
     The unauthorized or willful misuse of a government motor vehicle can be cause for the
     following disciplinary actions:
         4.3.1.1. Military personnel can be subject to disciplinary action under provisions of
         the Uniform Code of Military Justice or other administrative actions deemed
         appropriate by their commander.
         4.3.1.2. Civilian personnel are subject to suspension from duty by the Secretary of
         the Air Force, without pay, for not less than 1 month, and shall be suspended for a
         longer period of time or summarily removed from office if circumstances warrant.
     4.3.2. IAW AFI 24-301, the 90 MW/CC approves the following extended use of
     government vehicles to and from on-base activities or facilities:
         4.3.2.1. On Base: Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) dispatching personnel en
         route to and from the missile complex and emergency response forces are authorized
         use of government vehicles to and from on-base activities or facilities. Alert crews,
         ICBM personnel, and emergency response forces may not drive government vehicles
         to private quarters, dormitories, domicile-to-duty purposes, or to conduct personal
         business (i.e., automatic teller machines).
         4.3.2.2. Off Base: Personnel conducting official off-base duties are authorized to
         stop at off-base eating establishments in the immediate vicinity of the off-base
         worksite. This does not include eating and stopping at private quarters.
         4.3.2.3. Civilian employees dispatching to the missile field who are not eligible to
         use on-base facilities (i.e., Base Exchange and Commissary) are authorized to make
         brief stops at local off-base facilities en route.
         4.3.2.4. GOVs are not authorized to stop at automatic teller machines, banks, or like
         places. Such stops are considered “personal use” of GOVs and are strictly prohibited
         under all circumstances.
6                                                                  90MWI24-302 6 MAY 2014


       4.3.3. Reporting Vehicle Misuse: Report vehicle misuse cases to 90 LRS/LGRDDO,
       Vehicle Operations Section, at (307) 773-2129. Direct all questions concerning official
       use of government vehicles to the same office and number.
    4.4. Responsibilities: The vehicle operator has the primary responsibility to prevent vehicle
    accidents/abuse/misuse. Any damage should be immediately reported to the 90 LRS/LGRV.
    The secondary responsibility rests with the unit VCO/VCNCO who should inspect unit
    vehicles periodically for unreported damage as well as inspect each vehicle being turned in
    for repairs. Reporting damage to an AF vehicle is the unit’s responsibility.
       4.4.1. Claims process involving GOVs: Whenever there is damage to a GOV or damage
       caused by a GOV to civilian property, no matter how small or insignificant you may
       think the damage is, the organization must notify 90 MW/Judge Advocate (JA) (see
       paragraph 4.5).
       4.4.2. A civilian is entitled to present a claim for monetary reimbursement whenever
       there is property damage, injury, or death caused by government negligence. The
       government may also assert similar claims. The AF can assert a claim against a civilian
       if there was damage, injury or death to government property through a civilian’s
       negligence. For example, if a Security Forces member hits a farmer’s fence with a GOV
       and it causes damage to that fence or crops, then the farmer can present a claim to be
       reimbursed for those damages. If a civilian damages a GOV, 90 MW/JA can assert a
       claim against the civilian so that the AF collects money to repair GOV.
       4.4.3. 90 MW/JA is better able to pay and assert claims effectively and efficiently if they
       are promptly made aware of such situations. This not only benefits our working
       relationship with the public, but also benefits the wing.
    4.5. Reimbursement Procedures: Upon determination of significant vehicle damage as a
    result of accident/abuse/misuse, the following actions will occur:
       4.5.1. Once the owning unit provides the SF 91, 90 LRS/LGRV will initiate a work order
       to estimate the cost of repairs. The work order along with a letter identifying details of
       the accident or abuse damage will be signed by the 90 LRS Commander and sent to the
       using organization’s commander. Additionally, 90 LRS/LGRV will ensure photos of
       damaged areas are taken prior to repair actions (when possible).
           4.5.1.1. The responsible organization may not necessarily be the vehicles assigned
           organization. i.e., U-Drive it vehicles assigned to Vehicle Operations operated by a
           member of another unit. The using organization will be held liable for any/all
           required repairs. Units who lend their vehicles out to other units without coordinating
           with VMS/VMM may be held liable for damages regardless of the operators unit.
           Reimbursement to 90 LRS/LGRV will be made regardless of final determination of
           pecuniary liability.
           4.5.1.2. Accident and abuse vehicles may not be counted toward a unit’s minimum
           essential level (MEL) and temporary vehicle replacements will normally not be
           issued, however replacements can be considered by the VMS/VMM on a case-by-
           case basis, based on mission requirements. For example, if a unit has an MEL of
           three 6-pax and only has two on hand, with one in the shop that was damaged by
           abuse, that unit will not be considered below their MEL, even with an MEL of two, as
90MWI24-302 6 MAY 2014                                                                           7


        the unit caused the drop below their MEL. The VMS/VMM will determine
        maintenance priority and vehicle replacements in these cases.
     4.5.2. At the request of the using organization commander, an AF Form 20, Repair Cost
     and Reparable Value Statement, will be prepared by 90 LRS/Vehicle Management and
     Analysis (VM&A) Section depicting actual costs expended to repair the vehicle.
     4.5.3. After 5 duty days, the vehicle is released for repair unless it is requested to be held
     by the respective squadron commander or VCO/VCNCO. Only the VMS/VMM, using
     squadron commander or VCO/VCNCO (when authorized by the commander in writing)
     may release the vehicle before 5 duty days when needed for the mission. With
     coordination by 90 LRS/LGRV, a unit may also use their Government Purchase Card
     (GPC) to pay for contract repairs if permitted.
     4.5.4. Repairs may be delayed up to 10 duty days at the request of the using unit’s
     commander in cases where there is evidence of gross negligence, willful misconduct, or
     deliberate unauthorized use. This delay is meant to facilitate an investigation where the
     using unit commander has determined a Report of Survey is warranted. The using
     organization is responsible for any additional photographs or accident reports required for
     their investigation. Vehicle damage repairs will be accomplished by the most economical
     means at the discretion of Vehicle Management.
     4.5.5. Once repairs are completed, 90 LRS/LGRV will initiate paperwork (AF Form 20,
     direct reallocation of GPC funds or other means) to recover costs from the owning unit
     (Blue Fleet: parts cost only recovered; GSA/lease vehicles: all repair costs are billed to
     unit). The Vehicle and Equipment Management Office (VEMSO) pay the bill backs up
     front for LRS vehicles and the unit will transfer bill back/reimbursements to VEMSO. If
     it's subsequently determined through local investigation that the damage is not the fault of
     the AF, then GSA will reimburse VEMSO. Repairs to GSA vehicles will be
     accomplished by the vendor chosen by the GSA Accident Control Center. All costs
     associated with repair will automatically be billed to the Billed Office Address Code for
     that GSA vehicle at the VEMSO. Notify the Accident Control Center before repairs
     begin if a POV was involved and the POV operators insurance may be used. All units are
     responsible for all accident/abuse/misuse costs, regardless of cause or how it occurred.
     During a continuing budget resolution, units may be tasked to purchase replacement
     parts/materials before repairs are initiated.
        4.5.5.1. Lost or Stolen AF License Plates: If new (replacement) plate(s) (AF05R)
        are needed because the original plate(s) cannot be recovered, 90 LRS/LGRV will be
        required to order replacement license plates with a “R” suffix. All orders for
        replacement plates will require approval. The following steps must be taken to secure
        the AF05R plate:
        4.5.5.2. Notify local authorities (Security Forces and the Office of Special
        Investigation).
        4.5.5.3. Change lost/stolen plate status to "MS" (missing).
        4.5.5.4. Send VEMSO a copy of the Police report or a letter from the squadron
        commander authorizing the purchase of replacement plate.
 8                                                                       90MWI24-302 6 MAY 2014


            4.5.5.5. Once plate is received, 90 LRS/LGRV will initiate paperwork (AF Form 20,
            direct reallocation of GPC funds or other means) to recover costs from the owning
            unit. All units are responsible for lost/damage plate costs of cause or how it occurred.
5. VCP Staff Assistance Visit (SAV):
     5.1. IAW AFI 24-302, a unit VCP program Staff Assistance Visit (SAV) will not
     automatically occur, but can be requested by the VCO. The unit VCO Binder will maintain
     the following at a minimum (electronically or hard copy):
        5.1.1. Copy of commander approved VCO/VCNCO appointment letter.
        5.1.2. Copy of VCO/VCNCO training document(s).
        5.1.3. Copy of most recently signed vehicle master listing/hand receipt.
        5.1.4. Documentation concerning new vehicle requirements (AF IMT 601), authorization
        change requests, buy submissions and lease vehicle request.
        5.1.5. Documentation concerning purchase request routing for Other Government Motor
        Vehicle of Conveyance (OGMVCs), trailers not classified as vehicles and other non-
        registered equipment items (i.e., ATVs, mules mowers, etc.).
        5.1.6. Documentation concerning add-on equipment and modification authorization
        request with routing.
        5.1.7. Current list of unit vehicle trainers appointed/approved by their commander.
        5.1.8. Documentation (can include AF Forms 4431, Vehicle Assessment Inspection)
        concerning vehicle assessment inspection results.
        5.1.9. Copies of approved vehicle lesson plans (can be paper or electronic).
        5.1.10. Documentation concerning wing vehicle accidents or abuse.
        5.1.11. Installation vehicle official use and idling policies.
     5.2. 90 LRS/LGRV will perform vehicle assessment inspections as part of the VCP. The
     inspections will be used to assess operator care and unit/operator documentation
     requirements. Vehicle Management will conduct an inspection of at least 25 percent of the
     installation’s vehicle fleet (AF owned or leased) every calendar year using AF Form 4431
     (can be completed during vehicle recalls or inspection rodeos).
        5.2.1. If 25 percent of assets are not scheduled for maintenance in a 12-month period,
        establish a schedule to accommodate the remaining vehicles needed to reach the 25-
        percent mark using AF Form 4431.
        5.2.2. Inspections will emphasize documentation, safety items, unreported damage, and
        operator care. Any vehicle found to be in operation with a documented (noted on AF
        Forms 1800/1807) safety discrepancy is an automatic failure for that vehicle.
        5.2.3. Emphasis should be placed on operator care and maintenance of the GSA leased
        fleet since AF vehicle maintenance personnel do not maintain these assets.
        5.2.4. Individual vehicle scores for each unit will be averaged, covering the previous
        calendar year’s assessment period, to produce an overall assessment score for each unit.
        NLT 1 March each year, VM&A will provide average score, analysis, comments and/or
90MWI24-302 6 MAY 2014                                                                          9


      trends to the using organization’s VCO/VCNCO and commander or equivalent. Copies
      of AF Form 4431 will be provided to VCO/VCNCO or using organization’s commander
      upon request. Inspection results will be provided within a reasonable time of a unit
      reaching their 25-percent goal to each unit commander or equivalent.
6. Permissible Operating Distance (POD):
   6.1. In accordance with AFI 24-301, the following PODs are authorized and approved for F.
   E. Warren AFB:
      6.1.1. North to Guernsey, Wyoming (100 miles)
      6.1.2. South to Colorado Springs, Colorado (150 miles)
      6.1.3. East to Ogallala, Nebraska (175 miles)
      6.1.4. West to Jackson, Wyoming (450 miles)
   6.2. All requests to exceed the POD must be reviewed and approved by 90 LRS/LGRV and
   the Vehicle Operations Chief Dispatcher.
7. U-Drive-it Policies & Procedures:
   7.1. Permanent Party. Official use for active duty, reservists, and civilian personnel includes
   to or from AF scheduled appointments, i.e., Military Personnel Flight, records checks, and
   dental appointments. Personnel conducting official off-base duties are authorized to stop at
   off-base eating establishments in the immediate vicinity or direct route of the off-base work
   site. Stopping at private quarters for any reason or stopping for shopping is prohibited. All
   personnel must possess a valid government license for the type of vehicle they will be
   driving.
   7.2. Temporary Duty members. A GOV may be operated between places where the
   member’s presence is required for official business, or between such places and temporary
   lodging, eating establishments, drugstores, barber shops, places of worship, laundry cleaning
   establishments, and similar places required for sustenance of the member, installation
   bowling centers, officer and enlisted clubs, gymnasiums or any on-base Non-Appropriated
   Fund activity (golf courses). If used off-base, restrict the use of these vehicles to reputable
   eating establishments in reasonable proximity to the installation. Reputable is defined as an
   establishment whose primary purpose is food service and not providing alcohol
   (establishments with “Bar” in name will be avoided). GOVs will not be taken to adult
   oriented establishments.
   7.3. Tobacco products will not be used in GOVs. Alcoholic beverages will not be consumed
   in GOVs. Operators will not consume alcohol 8-hours prior to duty/operating any GOV.
   Operators are ultimately responsible for exercising good judgment by imposing additional
   time constraints. Use of hand-held wireless phones is prohibited while operating a GOV.
   7.4. The operator is responsible for identifying vehicle discrepancies prior to operating the
   vehicle and departing the Vehicle Operations compound. Once the vehicle departs, it is
   considered serviced and free of any undocumented damage. The operator’s organization is
   responsible for reimbursing 90 LRS for any damages (accident, wind, etc.). Operators are
   required to operate GOVs in accordance with AFMAN 24-306, Manual for the Wheeled
   Vehicle Driver, and must perform the following:
 10                                                                 90MWI24-302 6 MAY 2014


      7.4.1. Conduct a daily inspection of UDI vehicles using AF Form 1800, sign the form on
      the appropriate date.
      7.4.2. Immediately report any damage or vehicle discrepancies to Vehicle Operations
      Control Center at (307) 773-1843, after duty hours at (307) 631-2804.
      7.4.3. Brief all operators who will be operating the vehicle on all responsibilities.
      7.4.4. Vehicles will be returned in the same condition as dispatched (i.e., fueled, all trash
      removed, and cleaned).
   7.5. Fueling Procedures: Base government fuel station hours of operation are 24 hours a
   day at bldg 1265 Nebraska Avenue. Use the Vehicle Identification Link (VIL) key provided
   with your vehicle to activate the pumps. The keys are either Diesel or Mogas.
      7.5.1. GSA Vehicles: Use the base fuel station or Army Air Force Exchange Service on-
      base service station. The pin number for each card is the six numbers located in the
      license plate (i.e., G42-12345M, pin number is 421234).
   7.6. The wash rack is open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and is located on the corner of
   Nebraska Avenue and South Frontier Road. The only exception is bad weather (below
   freezing/high winds) when the wash rack will be closed.
   7.7. The operator is responsible for returning the vehicle on the date identified in the request.
   If the vehicle cannot be returned on time contact the Vehicle Operations Control Center
   Dispatcher no less than 24 hours in advance at (307) 773-2129.
8. E-470 Use & Procedures:
   8.1. Colorado E-470 no longer has “manned” toll booths. Cameras on the toll way
   photograph the vehicle plate, and a bill is sent to the end owner/using organization.
   8.2. GOVs are not authorized to use E-470 for any reason. All E-470 toll bills are sent to 90
   LRS by the State of Colorado; and sometimes it takes months for the bill to arrive. GPC
   audits require 90 LRS to have specific information to pay this type of bill.
      8.2.1. Reimbursement Procedures: Use of E-470 is not authorized for trips to Colorado
      Springs and Denver International Airport, since it is not the most direct route. If a unit
      does decide to use E-470, the following actions will occur:
          8.2.1.1. Once the E-470 bill is received, 90 LRS Vehicle Dispatch will initiate
          paperwork (AF Form 20, direct reallocation of GPC funds or other means) to recover
          costs from the owning unit (costs to include late fees). All units are responsible for
          all E-470 costs, regardless of cause or how it occurred.
9. Lease with Option to Buy Vehicles:
   9.1. IAW AFI 24-302, Vehicle Management requires all 90th Missile Wing units to
   coordinate all rental, lease, and lease with option to buy agreements through the Base
   Contracting Office, 90 LRS Commander, and VMS/VMM prior to execution of any
   agreement.
10. OGMVC, Trailers not Classified as a Vehicle and Non-Vehicular Equipment
Procurement:
90MWI24-302 6 MAY 2014                                                                       11


   10.1. OGMVCs, trailers not classified as a vehicle and non-vehicular equipment
   procurement will be purchased IAW the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), Defense
   FAR Supplement, AF FAR Supplement, and related AFIs, The Contracting System, and
   managed IAW USAF Supply Manual and AFI 91-207, (Air Force Traffic Safety Program).
   Purchase requests for these assets will be limited to no more than $13,000 and will be
   processed through the Base Ground Safety Office (coordination), Contracting (coordination),
   Vehicle Management Flight (coordination), and 90 LRS Equipment Accountability Office
   (approval).
   10.2. OGMVC authorizations will be set at a maximum of four vehicles per organizational
   flight. For units with no vehicle authorizations, OGMVC authorizations are capped at a
   maximum of two (2) each.
   10.3. Wing/Installation Ground Safety will review each purchase and driver training plans.
   10.4. 90 LRS/LGRV will review all unit requests of this type and forward purchase requests
   to VEMSO for clarification to ensure the desired asset is an equipment item and not a
   vehicle. Units must track any scheduled inspections on OGMVCs and non-registered
   vehicles/trailers for completion of pending maintenance actions and ensuring inspections are
   accomplished. OGMVCs and non-registered Low Speed Vehicles will be assigned X-
   registration numbers.
   10.5. Units will request X-registration numbers from VEMSO. Owning organization will
   maintain the original warranty documents and specifications, and track assets on a supply
   equipment account prior to requesting an X-registration number.
11. Completion of Optional Form (OF) 345, Physical Fitness Inquiry for Motor Vehicle
Operators:
   11.1. IAW AFI 24-301, Department of Defense (DoD) civilian employees are required to
   undergo medical fitness assessments every 4 years in accordance with 5 CFR, Part 930,
   Subpart A, Administrative Practice and Procedures and 49 CFR, Federal Motor Carrier
   Safety Administration, Parts 391.41 through 391.49 to operate a GOV.
   11.2. Commanders will automatically refer their civilian employees for further evaluation by
   appropriate medical authorities to determine if they are physically or mentally qualified for
   driving based on affirmative responses to OF Form 345, section 6. The owning VCO and
   commander can approve items from section 6 without a physician’s approval as long as the
   State of Wyoming issued a civilian license to the employee (i.e., corrective lenses,
   hypertension, reduced hearing, minor arthritis) when these conditions do not impact the
   driver’s abilities. However; if the employee’s medical condition and driving limitations are
   in doubt, the VCO and commander will refer the employee to a physician for a referral.
   11.3. Civilian employees with medical (pathological, psychological, or physiological)
   restrictions that would limit their ability to operate GOVs or equipment are responsible for
   reporting these restrictions to their commander or VCO as soon as they are known.
   11.4. Civilian employees may still be qualified to drive if, in the opinion of the medical
   authorities, weaknesses may be corrected or compensated for with counseling or other
   corrective measures prior to licensing. These provisions will not be used to disqualify
 12                                                                90MWI24-302 6 MAY 2014


   civilian operators who meet the standards for civilian motor vehicle operators and incidental
   operators listed in the 5 CFR, Part 930.
   11.5. Procedures for obtaining/reviewing the OF 345 are:
      11.5.1. The unit VCO will provide the form to any civilian employee in their
      organization before they operate a government vehicle and possess an AF Form 2293, US
      Air Force Motor Vehicle Operator Identification Card. The employee will complete
      Blocks 1 through 10, and return the form directly to the VCO. If the employee answers
      "Yes" to any of the questions in Block 6, the individual will provide a statement in Block
      7 describing why they answered "Yes".
      11.5.2. The unit VCO or the employee’s supervisor are responsible for completing the
      "Review and Certification by Designated Official" block on the form. If the employee
      answers "Yes" to any of the questions in Block 6, review the statement(s) in Block 7
      describing why the employee answered "Yes". For some items marked “Yes” (i.e.,
      corrective lenses, hypertension, reduced hearing, minor arthritis) the owning VCO and
      commander can approve the OF Form 345 as long as the State of Wyoming issued a
      civilian license without sending the member to see a physician, all other states refer to
      their respective regulations. If there is any doubt, the VCO will require the employee to
      provide a statement from their personal physician indicating that they are or are not
      currently under medical care for the identified condition, and that they are/are not capable
      of safely operating a government vehicle. The VCO will then complete Block 3 of the
      "Review and Certification by Designated Official".
      11.5.3. If the employee answers "No" to all questions in Block 6, the VCO or
      commander will complete Block 3 of the "Review and Certification by Designated
      Official".
      11.5.4. If the employee refuses to provide a statement from their personal physician, the
      VCO will complete block 2 of the "Review and Certification by Designated Official".
      11.5.5. Once the form is properly completed and reviewed, the VCO must maintain the
      form in a separate file for each individual. These files must be kept under lock and key
      since the forms contain Privacy Act data and medical information. VCOs will keep a
      record, or documentation when the OF Form 345 was reviewed and results of the review.
      Destroy OF Form 345 three years after separation of employee.
12. Commercial Driver License (CDL):
   12.1. Civilian employees that drive on-base only in CDL required vehicles do not have to
   complete medical Department of Transportation (DoT) certificate as long as they provide a
   letter on wing letterhead from their unit commander stating they are a federal employee and
   drive on base only.
   12.2. If civilian employees drive a CDL required vehicle off base, then they are required to
   have the medical DoT certificate. The doctor who performs the exam must be certified to
   perform the medical certifications. The most current local requirements are at the links
   below:
http://www.fmcsa.dot.gov/rules-regulations/topics/medical/medical.htm
http://www.fmcsa.dot.gov/rules-regulations/topics/medical/aboutDOTexam.htm
90MWI24-302 6 MAY 2014                                                                       13


http://nrcme.fmcsa.dot.gov/disclaimer.aspx
   12.3. CDL holders must supply information about the type of driving they do (self-certify)
   and the status of their medical certificate/card to their state driver’s licensing agency.
   Neglecting to complete these tasks will mean serious consequences for CDL holders. Non-
   compliance means the driver will lose CDL privileges. The driver’s license will be
   downgraded to a non-CDL class, so they can’t operate vehicles that require a CDL until full
   CDL privileges have been reestablished. In many cases, this process will be very time-
   consuming and costly.
       12.3.1. If the Air Force Standard Core Personnel Document for the civilian position
       requires a CDL, the employee must pay all fees and complete all medical clearance for
       the CDL as the CDL is conditional to their employment.
       12.3.2. If the Air Force Standard Core Personnel Document for the civilian position does
       not require a CDL, the employee may request assistance from their organization for fees
       and cost of medical clearance for the CDL as the CDL is not conditional to their
       employment.
13. Garage/Parking of POVs:
   13.1. IAW AFI 24-302, POVs may be temporarily garaged in bldg. 1240 & 1245 after all
   GOVs are garaged first (space available only).
   13.2. POVs may park in the Vehicle Management compound only for official functions as
   deemed necessary by the VMS/VMM. POVs shall not be serviced or repaired in any vehicle
   management facility/shop or in any building where government property is stored.
14. Idling Policy:
   14.1. In order to meet mandates established by EPAct, DoD, Public Law, and Executive
   Orders, Air Force Global Strike Command/A4R has been directed to instruct each LRS to
   establish a local policy listing procedures to reduce fuel costs, prevent engine wear, and
   reduce vehicle emissions. Specifically, vehicles not in use must be turned off and vehicles
   shall not idle when not in motion. Both of these practices unnecessarily consume fuel, clog
   diesel exhaust particulate filters, increase engine wear, and produce harmful emissions. By
   shutting vehicles down, operational and maintenance costs will decrease across the wing and
   the Air Force.
       14.1.1. All units must ensure their personnel do not idle vehicles for periods of time in
       excess of 5 minutes. Unnecessary idling includes, but is not limited to, pre-heating or
       cooling down the operator compartment prior to operation, conversing with others when
       the vehicle is parked and loading or unloading cargo while the vehicle engine is
       operating. An occupied vehicle will not be left idling more than 5 minutes, or 10 minutes
       in extreme heat or cold conditions (temperature above 90 degrees or below 32 degrees).
       Diesel engines should never be idled more than 10 minutes due to possible severe engine
       damage. Emission control devices on 2003 and later diesel engines do not operate
       efficiently while idling and can clog emission filters which in turn can cause engine
       failure. An unoccupied vehicle should never be left idling.
       14.1.2. Mission needs will be taken into consideration. Emergency response vehicles,
       i.e., fire trucks and security forces vehicles, may be left running while parked during
14                                                            90MWI24-302 6 MAY 2014


     emergency response actions. Other exceptions to this policy include security forces
     vehicles transporting K-9s, launch facility operations while performing maintenance and
     security, and vehicles undergoing maintenance.
     14.1.3. Unnecessary idling wastes limited funds that can be better utilized. Failure to
     embrace this initiative could ultimately lead to mission degradation and decreased
     mission effectiveness.




                                         TRACEY L. HAYES, Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander
90MWI24-302 6 MAY 2014                                                   15


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, 01 November 2008
AFI 24-302, Vehicle Management, 26 June 2012
AFPD 64-1, The Contracting System, 7 December 2006
AFI 91-207, The US Air Force Traffic Safety Program, 12 September 2013
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, 01 April 2009
AFMAN 24-306, Manual for the Wheeled Vehicle Operator, 01 July 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
AFPAM 91-210, Contract Safety, 14 February 1994

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPAM—Air Force Pamphlet
DoD—Department of Defense
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
GOV—Government Owned Vehicle
GPC—Government Purchase Card
GSA—General Service Administration
IAW—In Accordance With
ICBM—Intercontinental Ballistic Missile
IMT—Information Management Tool
JA—Judge Advocate
LGRDDO—Vehicle Operations Section
LGRV—Vehicle Management Flight
LRS—Logistics Readiness Squadron
LSV—Low Speed Vehicle
MEL—Minimum Essential Level
MW—Missile Wing
MWI—Missile Wing Instruction
 16                                                              90MWI24-302 6 MAY 2014


OF—Optional Form
OGMVC—Other Government Motor Vehicle of Conveyance
POD—Permissible Operating Distance
REMS—Registered Equipment Management System
SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
SF—Standard Form
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
VCNCO—Vehicle Control Noncommissioned Officer
VCO—Vehicle Control Officer
VCP—Vehicle Control Program
VEMSO—Vehicle and Equipment Support Office
VIL—Vehicle Identification Link
VM&A—Vehicle Management and Analysis
VMM—Vehicle Management Manager
VMS—Vehicle Management Superintendent

Terms
Blue Fleet—-Government Owned and Maintained Vehicle
E—470--Colorado Toll Road
Prescribed and Adopted Forms—Prescribed Forms: There are no forms prescribed by this
publication.
Adopted Forms:
AF20, Repair Cost and Repairable Value Statement, 11 March 2003
AF847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF4355, Vehicle Incoming Inspection, 09 September 2013
AF4431, Vehicle Assessment Inspection, 26 June 2012
Standard Form 91, Motor Vehicle Accident Report, February 2004
