BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                   NINETIETH MISSILE WING
NINETIETH MISSILE WING                                                           INSTRUCTION 10-207
                                                                                     15 SEPTEMBER 2008

                                                                                                  Operations

                                                                      ALERT NOTIFICATION/RECALL
                                                                                    PROCEDURES

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and Forms are available for downloading and ordering from the
                        e-publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 90 MW/CP                                                                     Certified by: 90 MW/CC
                                                                               (Colonel Michael J. Morgan)
Supersedes AFI10-207_90SWSUP1,                                                                   Pages: 11
           26 June 2007

This instruction establishes wing procedures for the design, use, and implementation of alert notification
procedures for all units assigned to F. E. Warren AFB, in support of the Alert System of the CJCS, MCM
151-92, and Emergency Action Procedures of the CSAF. It applies to all forces under the operational con-
trol of the Commander, 90th Missile Wing, including subordinate units, geographically separated units,
and supporting activities. It applies to both military and civilian personnel assigned to F. E. Warren AFB.
This instruction requires collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974, as
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 552a. System of records notice applies.
Maintain and dispose of records created as a result of prescribed processes in accordance with AFI
33-322, Records Management Program. Comply with AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program, for
documents containing Privacy Act Information. For Official Use Only information comply with DoDR
5400.7, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program, Air Force Supplement, Chapter 4.
NOTE: Telephone standby is referred throughout this document as six-ring telephone standby.


1. General. National emergencies or other contingencies require the Commander, 90 MW to possess the
capability to notify personnel or recall them to their place of duty. At the same time, ensure notifications/
recalls are as covert as possible to deny potential enemy useful information and to avoid public specula-
tion or alarm. This instruction establishes the requirement for all organizations to produce recall rosters to
facilitate timely notification/recall of personnel. Depending on the situation, certain personnel may be
excused from the recall, as determined by specific governing directives or the senior officer in charge. The
90 MW Command Post (CP) is responsible for overall management of recall procedures.

2. Definitions:
   2.1. Crew Rest. Consider personnel on crew rest if they are the on-coming or off-going shift.
2                                                                90MWI10-207 15 SEPTEMBER 2008


       2.1.1. Off-going Crews. For crews working 8-hour shifts, the first 8 hours after the shift is con-
       sidered crew rest. For crews working 12-hour shifts, the first 12 hours after the shift is considered
       crew rest.
       2.1.2. Incoming Crews. For crews working 8-hour shifts, the first 8 hours before the shift is con-
       sidered crew rest. For crews working 12-hour shifts, the first 12 hours before the shift is consid-
       ered crew rest (12-hour rest includes air crew and missile combat crew members).
       2.1.3. At all other times, personnel are “off” and subject to recall.
       2.1.4. Crew rest is waived and all personnel must respond if there is a national emergency recall.
       Supervisors will recall non-alert shift workers based on mission need and impact.
    2.2. Emergency Essential Civilian Employee. Those civilians identified (by local authority) IAW
    AFI 36-507 as emergency essential or assigned to key positions for the accomplishment of the mission
    during contingencies or emergencies.
    2.3. Covert Recall. Recalls personnel as quickly as possible without public notice and minimizes
    actions, which might alarm the general public. The telephone is normally used. If the telephone sys-
    tem is out or an individual does not have a telephone, person-to-person contact is required.
    2.4. Overt Recall. Recall personnel using the fastest means available. Telephone and public media
    (radio and television) are authorized for use.
    2.5. Scope of Recall:
       2.5.1. Command-Wide. Used by the 90 MW Commander to recall all personnel for either exer-
       cise or actual situations. It is initiated by the Commander or designated alternate.
       2.5.2. Selective. Used when a specific situation requires the recall of certain personnel, such as a
       Commander’s Senior Staff.
       2.5.3. Organizational. Used by the commander of an organization to recall an organization's per-
       sonnel for a specific reason.
    2.6. Types of Recall and Notification:
       2.6.1. Actual and Exercise Recall. Used to direct personnel to report for duty during real world
       or exercise situations. The nature of the situation and higher headquarters’ direction determines
       the personnel who will be recalled. It is paramount that individuals respond in an expeditious and
       safe manner. Personnel must report in the appropriate duty uniform.
       2.6.2. During an exercise, all personnel in duty status will normally be required to report for duty.
       Personnel in non-duty status (leave, temporary duty) are contacted as required and will report for
       duty if directed to do so.
       2.6.3. Six Ring Telephone Standby. Personnel are immediately available to receive information
       or instructions by telephone, hand-held radio, or pager. Personnel must stay by their home tele-
       phone or have an operable hand-held radio/pager/cellular telephone in their possession.
NOTE: If personnel leave their home while telephone standby procedures are in effect, it is the individ-
ual’s responsibility to inform their supervisor and/or work center of how they may be contacted.
       2.6.4. Tests. Used to assess the effectiveness of an organization’s telephone recall procedures.
90MWI10-207 15 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                              3


           2.6.4.1. The recall roster is completed in its entirety by telephone and the last person contacted
           in each column notes the time of their notification and completes the chain by calling the unit’s
           POC to track recall status.
           2.6.4.2. The latest time reported determines the “total time” for the recall.
           2.6.4.3. All assigned personnel (excluding leave and TDY) will be contacted.
           2.6.4.4. Personnel are not required to report for duty.
       2.6.5. Notification Advisory. Used to notify personnel of an actual or imminent situation, (e.g.
       severe weather) when they must be notified of early release, delayed reporting or other directed
       actions other than recall. Only personnel available for duty are contacted. Do NOT contact per-
       sonnel on leave or temporary duty.
   2.7. Recall Reference Time. Recall Reference Time will be the time the commander of the organiza-
   tion directs initiation of the recall. Recall Reference Time is used to determine the time required to
   complete recall actions.

3. Requirements. The following items are required on the unit recall rosters:
   3.1. Mandatory Markings. Mark rosters FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY, show an “as of” date, iden-
   tify the organization’s recall roster POC, and the organization (squadron or group, wing staff, or
   agency).
   3.2. Required Instructions. Provide all necessary recall instructions. At a minimum included the
   following:
       3.2.1. Notification Processes. Actions when primary contact cannot be made; provisions for
       reporting when required actions and notifications are complete; what to do when the telephone is
       inoperative or individual is otherwise unavailable.
       3.2.2. Communications Outage (Comm-out) Recalls. Units will develop notification proce-
       dures for situations in which normal communications systems are unavailable.
   3.3. Personnel Listings. Include military and civilian personnel. See Attachment 1 for an example.
   3.4. Standard Format Terminology for Recalls. The formatted terminology will be identified on
   the back of the recall roster. See Attachment 2 for the template of required information.
   3.5. Information Protection:
       3.5.1. Recall rosters must contain the following paragraph: “This roster is subject to the Privacy
       Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. § 552a. Personal privacy information regarding government employees and
       members of the Armed Forces is protected, as implemented by AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act
       Program. Information is being collected to allow for alert notifications procedures and is for offi-
       cial intra-governmental use only.”
       3.5.2. Unlisted phone numbers must be identified with an asterisk (*). Release of unlisted num-
       bers is NOT authorized without permission of the individual.
   3.6. AFPC Personnel Readiness Center (PRC). Include the following statement:
   “When there is an emergency, natural disaster, or crisis situation, the AFPC/PRC is activated and will
   run a 24-hour operation (if the situation deems it necessary) in order to provide prompt, timely actions
4                                                                90MWI10-207 15 SEPTEMBER 2008


    concerning Air Force personnel. It also functions as the AFPC point of contact between HQ USAF,
    MAJCOMs, direct reporting units, and other field operating agencies. In addition, the AFPC/PRC
    monitors and anticipates changes to personnel programs, policies, and procedures as they relate to the
    crisis. The AFPC/PRC contact number is 1-800-435-9941.”

4. Responsibilities:
    4.1. All Organizations:
       4.1.1. Review rosters monthly and generate new rosters as necessary, but no more than every 3
       months. Dispose of obsolete rosters in such a manner as to prevent the unauthorized release of per-
       sonal information. Provide each listed person a copy of the roster.
       4.1.2. Provide the CP a copy of all on-call personnel listings as necessary to meet requirements
       for 24 hour notifications IAW other DoD, Air Force, AFSPC, local, etc. publications. It is the
       unit’s responsibility to ensure the listing is current. Provide enough guidance for expeditious noti-
       fications. Send soft copy to the CP Duty Crew NIPRNET account (90sw.cp@warren.af.mil).
       4.1.3. Security Forces Personnel. Security Forces (SF) units will compile and maintain recall
       information for Resources Augmentation Duty (READY) personnel assigned to support SF oper-
       ations during crisis or exercises. READY augmenters will be contacted for recall purposes only
       when they are performing duties with the SF unit.
    4.2. Each individual will:
       4.2.1. Ensure personal information is current on recall rosters and keep latest recall roster readily
       available at all times.
       4.2.2. Contact personnel as specified on the recall roster immediately upon notification.
           4.2.2.1. When using a recall roster, you must talk to the individual! Leaving a message with
           another person or on an answering machine/voice mail does NOT constitute contact.
           4.2.2.2. When unable to contact an individual within a reasonable amount of time (recom-
           mend five minutes), go to the next person(s) on the roster and continue the recall process. Do
           NOT delay notification or reporting but ensure contact is made at the earliest opportunity.
       4.2.3. Report to their duty location in the appropriate uniform. Do NOT delay for personal
       grooming, meals, etc. If you are not directed to report to your duty location, follow the procedures
       as directed in Recall Format Terminology.
       4.2.4. Note the time of notification.
       4.2.5. Ensure compliance with basic reporting standards for all real-world and exercise alert noti-
       fications. The following guidance, in most cases, is more restrictive than day-to-day guidance due
       to the possible nature of the alert notification.
           4.2.5.1. Do not consume any form of alcohol while on six-ring telephone standby or if you are
           subject to an announced recall. No personnel are authorized to be under the influence of alco-
           hol or drugs during these time periods, with “under the influence” defined as “any intoxication
           caused by alcohol or by drugs that is sufficient to impair the rational and full exercise of the
           mental or physical faculties” (IAW AFI 36-2910).
90MWI10-207 15 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                         5


         4.2.5.2. Do not use self-prescribed, over-the-counter medications that will impair your ability
         to perform your duties (missile field command and control, vehicle or equipment operations,
         flight operations, or arming and use of deadly force) while on six-ring telephone standby, sub-
         ject to an announced recall, on duty or within eight hours before duty.
            4.2.5.2.1. If alcohol, prescribed or self-prescribed over-the-counter medications which
            cause impairment are consumed prior to a recall, or prior to being placed on six-ring tele-
            phone standby, immediately seek medical treatment for ailments requiring the use of med-
            ications, or discontinue use of the product. Contact your leadership chain to report the
            situation including the following information, product consumed and last usage. (NOTE:
            For unannounced recalls, such disclosure will not result in action under the Uniform Code
            of Military Justice (UCMJ).)
            4.2.5.2.2. Comply with squadron leadership adjusted reporting instructions. DO NOT
            operate a motor vehicle if impaired. If directed to report immediately, secure alternate
            means of transportation, and notify leadership of that transportation. Leadership will make
            a determination on appropriateness of transportation for safety concerns.
     4.2.6. Ensure compliance with the Personnel Reliability Program (PRP) standards in accordance
     with DoD Regulation 5210.42, AFMAN 10-3902, and AFI 48-123. Verify status with unit PRP
     monitor prior to performing PRP duties.
     4.2.7. Be available to report expeditiously to support maximum reporting within the initial
     60-minute strength-reporting period while on six-ring telephone standby or subject to an
     announced recall.
     4.2.8. Ensure compliance with 90 SFGI 36-4 for security force personnel and 90 OGI 10-1 for
     operations group personnel.

5. Command-Wide Recall:
  5.1. General. Up-channel reporting procedures are used to allow the Air Force, or appropriate cen-
  ters to track personnel strengths and ensure follow-up notification as required.
  5.2. Procedures. The following are procedures for a command-wide recall.
     5.2.1. Recall Initiation. When directed by the wing commander or vice commander, the CP ini-
     tiates a Command-wide recall. The CP will notify the group commanders and the wing director of
     staff who in turn will notify their respective subordinate units. The CP will also notify OSI, wing
     and group commander staffs, and 24-hour work centers, as applicable.
     5.2.2. Up-channel Reporting Procedures. Each unit will establish a center for personnel to report
     to, or contact, for data collection purposes. Groups and wing staff will consolidate data as
     requested.
  5.3. Strength Reporting Procedures. Units will accomplish strength reporting for all recalls unless
  specifically directed otherwise.
     5.3.1. GROUP Monitors. Once you know the RECALL hour, add 1 hour and 10 minutes. This
     will be the report time to Personnel Control Center (PCC) [90 FSS Personnel Readiness] for your
     first call.
6                                                              90MWI10-207 15 SEPTEMBER 2008


       5.3.1.1. The Recall Reference Hour is posted on the 90 MW Recall Database (see paragraph
       5.3.5.4.). If the PCC is not active, RECALL hour can be verified through the commander’s
       senior staff or CP.
       5.3.1.2. Group monitors are required to disseminate recall strength reporting procedures
       within their group. Updates can be made at the unit or group level as determined by group pol-
       icy.
    5.3.2. UNIT Monitors. You will add 1 hour to the RECALL hour. This will be the report time to
    your group monitor for your first call.
    5.3.3. Duty Status Statistics Roster (for unit monitors). Obtain the number of personnel in
    leave, TDY, or other duty status by pulling a duty status roster from Base Level Service Delivery
    Model (BLSDM). Any questions on BLSDM use can be directed to Personnel Systems Manage-
    ment at DSN 481-2320.
    5.3.4. Duty Status Statistics. The duty status statistics will show assigned, present for duty, and
    will break down not present for duty into their different duty status categories, (e.g., leave, TDY
    for school, contingency TDY). It is extremely important to update all duty status changes as they
    occur. If not done, reports will be inaccurate and during a recall, a unit will have to locate each
    individual in the unit who has not signed in to find out their duty status. The only exception is alert
    crews, IAW paragraph 2.1.
       5.3.4.1. Personnel on pass or off duty due to shifts will be called and put on six-ring alert;
       shift personnel will be subject to recall for duty after the crew rest period described above.
       5.3.4.2. Unless specifically directed by the wing or a group commander, when a recall is initi-
       ated, crewmembers in rest status will be placed on six-ring alert and will report for duty in
       accordance with their duty schedule. All other combat crewmembers will report immediately
       to their designated areas.
       5.3.4.3. For strength reporting purposes, combat crewmembers on in crew rest and in six-ring
       alert status will be reported as “available personnel” just as if they had signed in at their
       respective UCC.
    5.3.5. Up-channeling Personnel Numbers.
       5.3.5.1. Each unit monitor will report their numbers to their respective group monitors at
       recall +1:00, recall +2:00, and recall +3:00, etc, until the unit reaches 100 percent accountabil-
       ity.
       5.3.5.2. Each group will submit, by telephone, its initial report of assigned (total personnel
       assigned), adjusted available strength (minus leaves and TDYs), and available personnel
       (actual personnel accounted for) to the PCC NLT recall hour +1:10, with subsequent report of
       available personnel at recall +2:10 and +3:10. Updated reports will be made at 12-hour inter-
       vals beginning at recall +12:00 until all groups report 100 percent accountability.
       5.3.5.3. Unless directed otherwise, the PCC will report available personnel (actual personnel
       accounted for) to the OPR NLT recall hour +1:30, with subsequent report of available person-
       nel at recall +2:30 and +3:30. Updated reports will be made at 12-hour intervals beginning at
       recall +12:00 until the wing report 100 percent accountability.
90MWI10-207 15 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                          7


        5.3.5.4. Automated Recall Procedures: The 90 MW will use the Recall Database on the
        common drive for primary strength reporting. The recall database can be found on the O drive
        at O:\Base_Information\Recall_Strength_Reporting. The time stamp on the database will con-
        firm the timeliness of each update. If there has been no change to the strength figures the time
        stamp must be updated to show the hourly report has been accomplished. This is only required
        if accountability is less than 100%.
        5.3.5.5. Manual Strength Reporting: If the Recall Database is restricted by classification or
        inoperative recall conduct strength reporting by phone or runner to the PCC.
        5.3.5.6. The 90 CPTS monitor will report figures directly to the PCC.
        5.3.5.7. If INFOCON allows, transmit reports to 90MSS.dpmx@warren.af.mil or by email
        or fax to DSN 481-3958. If INFOCON restricts strength data to classified media, transmit
        reports to 90MSS.dpmx@warren.af.smil.mil on SIPRNET or send by runner to the PCC.
        5.3.5.8. Late reporting will result in a zero count for the hour it was late, and be reflected in
        the next hour’s report. Updated reports will be made every hour until all groups report 100%
        accountability.
     5.3.6. Recall of Personnel on leave, Pass, or TDY in the Local Area. Recall Messages are not
     prepared for members on leave, pass, or TDY in the local area. They will be contacted by tele-
     phone or by runner during actual recall alerts. Members on leave, pass, or TDY in local area will
     be identified on 90 MW Form 10 which will be turned in to the PCC with all recall messages. The
     90 MW Form 10 is due to the PCC NLT recall +3:15.
     5.3.7. Recall of Personnel on leave, Pass, or TDY Outside the Local Area. Format for Recall
     Messages will be determined locally. Additionally, the time at which these messages are turned in
     to the PCC is determined locally.
        5.3.7.1. Personnel on a contingency TDY will not be recalled.
        5.3.7.2. Individuals who are on leave or pass outside the local area should be contacted by
        telephone, as this is the most expedient manner to recall them.
        5.3.7.3. Actual TDY/Leave recalls will be at the direction of the 90 MW/CC.
        5.3.7.4. Messages (using DMS) will be prepared for members TDY outside the local area
        (Attachment 3) and are due to the PCC NLT recall +3:15. The message should be printed
        after transmission from the SENT mail box show the date and time the message was sent. In
        the case of an exercise, a copy of the message marked EXERCISE MESSAGE ONLY AND
        DO NOT TRANSMIT is sent to the PCC by email, fax, or runner fulfills the exercise objec-
        tive.
     5.3.8. Monitor Appointment Memorandums. Group and unit commanders will appoint recall
     monitors in writing. Appointment memos will include member’s grade, name, organization and
     duty phone.
        5.3.8.1. A copy of all appointment memorandums will be maintained in the wing’s Personnel
        Readiness office (90 FSS/FSOX).
        5.3.8.2. When new recall monitors are assigned at the unit or group level, an appointment
        memorandum must be accomplished and sent to 90 FSS/FSOX.
8                                                                 90MWI10-207 15 SEPTEMBER 2008


           5.3.8.3. Recall monitors must receive training within 60 days of appointment.
    5.4. Release from Recall:
       5.4.1. Release from a recall is directed by the wing commander or the designated alternate.
       5.4.2. Release announcement is accomplished in the same manner as recall initiation. The CP will
       use the following wording; “Recall is terminated. Personnel are released to their normal duties.”

6. Organizational Recalls:
    6.1. Recall Initiation. The commander or senior officer of an organization initiates the recall accord-
    ing to the organization’s recall roster.
       6.1.1. The organization’s reporting center reports results of the recall to the commander or senior
       officer of the organization.
       6.1.2. Format 5, General Notification Recall provides a commander at all levels with the ability to
       initiate a recall that is tailored to the current situation; for example, Format 5, General Notification
       Recall could be used to notify the base populace of a possible water contamination problem. Initi-
       ator will fill in the blanks provided with the specifics provided. Format 5 can be reused at any time
       with new specifics.
    6.2. Responsibilities. Responsibilities for an organization's reporting centers are the same as those
    for a command-wide recall, except they will not up-channel above the organization level.
    6.3. Release from Recall:
       6.3.1. The commander or senior officer directs release from recall.
       6.3.2. Release is accomplished by using the organizations recall roster. Release from recall word-
       ing is the same as for a command-wide release from recall.

7. Prescribed Forms
90MW Form 10, Personnel on Leave, Pass, or TDY in the Local Area



                                                MICHAEL J. MORGAN, Colonel, USAF
                                                Commander
90MWI10-207 15 SEPTEMBER 2008                  9


                                Attachment 1
10                                                                            90MWI10-207 15 SEPTEMBER 2008


                                                        Attachment 2


FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ALERT NOTIFICATION STATEMENTS
NOTE: Strength Reporting is required for all recalls unless specifically directed otherwise.
1. Format 1, Command/Base/Wing pyramid alert recall: This is the __________ with a Format 1 notification; Commander’s
Senior Staff/Support Commander’s Senior Staff is / is not forming. Reference Hour is ______L.
Instructions: Complete your pyramid alert notifications and report for duty immediately.
2. Format 2, Commander’s Senior Staff/Support Commander’s Senior Staff pyramid alert recall: This is the ___________
with a Format 2 notification. Reference Hour is ______L. Instructions: Commander’s Senior Staff/Support Commander’s
Senior Staff Members report to the assembly area immediately.
3. Format 3, Six-Ring telephone standby: This is the ___________ with a Format 3 notification. Reference Hour is ______L.
(A reference hour may or may not be established). Instructions: Complete your pyramid alert notifications and stand by on
six-ring alert until further notice. You must be capable of being contacted by radio, telephone or pager within six rings.
4. Format 4, Practice/Test Recall: This is the ___________ with a Format 4 notification. Reference Hour is ______L. Instruc-
tions: Complete your pyramid alert notifications.
5. Format 5, General Notification: This is the ___________ with Format 5 notification of ________. Reference Hour is
______L. (Examples of Format 5 are delayed reporting, base closure, local emergency, security condition requiring immediate
notification of personnel, personnel accountability or verification, etc.). A reference hour may or may not be established).
Instructions: Complete your pyramid alert notifications.
6. Format 6, Recall Termination: This is the ___________ with a Format 6 notification. (Commander’s Senior Staff /Support
Commander’s Senior Staff Pyramid Alert) (Recall/six-ring alert), has been terminated. Instructions: Complete your pyramid
alert notifications.
ALERT NOTIFICATION PROCEDURES Upon receipt of an alert notification:
NOTE: To make a notification, you must talk to the named individual. Leaving a message with another person or on an
answering machine/voice mail does not count as contact with the individual.
1. Immediately relay the message exactly as received to the person(s) you are designated to notify, using the appropriate For-
mat Statement from above.
a. If unable to contact a person for five minutes: continue on to the next person; pass the message and the name(s) of indi-
vidual(s) not contacted. Do not delay notification or reporting but ensure contact is made at the earliest opportunity.
b. If put on six-ring alert: continue to attempt contact with any individual(s) that you skipped. Notify your Unit Control Cen-
ter (UCC)/unit monitor of initial results and after contact is made with individual initially skipped.
2. After making all required notifications:
a. If recalled to your duty station: IMMEDIATELY report to your duty station in the appropriate uniform. DO NOT DELAY
for grooming, meals, etc. Upon arrival, sign in with the UCC/unit monitor.
b. If put on six-ring telephone standby: While on six ring alert, you will still report for duty as normal, but now you must be
able to be contacted 24 hours a day. When not on duty, stay by your telephone so that you can answer a call within six rings. If
you cannot remain by your telephone, you must have a cellular telephone or pager, notify all required personnel of your alter-
nate phone number, and keep the cell phone or pager on and with you at all times until you return to your primary telephone.
Individuals could be placed on six ring alert for an extended period of time.
3. The last person or designated representative in a notification chain will:
a. If recalled to your duty station: upon arrival at your duty station, notify the UCC/unit monitor of all individuals from your
recall chain that were not contacted.
b. If put on six-ring alert or for a test: after receiving the notification, contact your UCC/unit monitor and notify them of any
individuals from your recall chain that were not contacted.
When there is an emergency, natural disaster, or crisis situation, the AFPC/PRC is activated and will run a 24-hour operation
(if the situation deems it necessary) in order to provide prompt, timely actions concerning Air Force personnel. It also functions
as the AFPC point of contact between HQ USAF, MAJCOMs, direct reporting units, and other field operating agencies. In
addition, the AFPC/PRC monitors and anticipates changes to personnel programs, policies, and procedures as they relate to the
crisis. The AFPC/PRC contact number is 1-800-435-9941.
90MWI10-207 15 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                       11


                                            Attachment 3

                            SAMPLE RECALL OF TDY PERSONNEL


                               EXERCISE EXERCISE EXERCISE


                      Classification of the message will be Unclassified E F T O


TO:    92MMXS.CC@fairchild.af.mil [Use an organizational e-mail or AMHS account]
       436MMXS.CC@dover.af.mil


SUBJECT: RECALL OF INDIVIDUALS


1. Individuals identified below are TDY to your station from 90 MMXS and are recalled from
TDY effective immediately:


RANK          NAME                  SSN                    TDY UNIT/COURSE NUMBER
TSGT          RAY, WILLIAM          123-45-6789            92 MMXS FAIRCHILD AFB WA
MSGT          BOB, WILLIAM          987-65-4321            436 MMXS DOVER AFB DE


2. Require individuals be returned by the most expeditious means available. Acknowledgement of receipt
and notification of personnel by return message is required.


3. John L. Blue, Lt Col, USAF, 90 MMXS, F. E. Warren AFB WY


WILLIAM R. JOE, TSGT, NCOIC, CSS
90 MXG/CSS, 481-1234


                                      UNCLASSIFIED E F T O


                               EXERCISE EXERCISE EXERCISE


                                       DO NOT TRANSMIT
