BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       90TH MISSILE WING INSTRUCTION 10-901
90TH MISSILE WING
                                                                                  28 JUNE 2012

                                                                                      Operations

                                                  EXERCISE AND EVALUATION PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available for downloading on the e-Publishing website
               at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 90 MW/XP                                                            Certified by: 90 MW/DS
                                                                           (Mr. Barry D. Kistler)
Supersedes:    90SWI10-90, 11 September                                                  Pages: 32
               2007


This instruction implements, AFI 10-204, PARTICIPATION IN JOINT AND NATIONAL
EXERCISES, 21 APRIL 2010, and AFGSCSUP_I 20 DECEMBER 2011. It provides the basic
structure, guidance, and policy for designing, planning, executing, and evaluating contingency
exercises conducted by the 90th Missile Wing (MW) Exercise Evaluation Team (EET). Use this
instruction to supplement Air Force and AFGSC publications directing the exercise program. It
applies to all personnel who design, plan, schedule, conduct, evaluate, monitor, or participate in
90 MW EET exercises. While contractor personnel are encouraged to participate to the greatest
extent possible, it is understood that participation is governed by contract statement of work
(SOW). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
Comply with AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Program, for documents containing Privacy Act
information. Comply with DOD Regulation 5400.7/Air Force Supplement, DOD Freedom of
Information Act Program, for documents containing For Official Use Only information. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibilities (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendations for Change of Publication;
route AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. See
Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction is revised in its entirety and must be completely reviewed.
 2                                                                                                     90MWI10-901 28 JUNE 2012



        1.      Purpose. ..................................................................................................................         2
        2.      Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................             3
        3.      Exercise Evaluation Team (EET). .........................................................................                           5
        4.      Training Requirements. ..........................................................................................                   5
        5.      Policy. ....................................................................................................................        5
        6.      Exercise Cycle. ......................................................................................................              7
        7.      Master Scenario Events List (MSEL). ...................................................................                             7
        8.      Types of Exercises. ................................................................................................                7
        9.      Grading Criteria and Report Definitions. ...............................................................                            8
        10.     Exercise Finding Monitoring. ................................................................................                       8
        10.1.   Unit EM representatives will track deficiencies as part of self-assessment system.
                .................................................................................................................................   8
        11.     After Action Reports (AAR) and Lessons Learned. ..............................................                                      8
        11.1.   AARs. ....................................................................................................................          8
        11.2.   Lessons Learned. ...................................................................................................                8
        12.     IAW International Treaties (START): ...................................................................                             8

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                      9

Attachment 2—EXERCISE GROUND RULES                                                                                                                  11

ATTACHMENT 3—FIGURE A3.1. 90 MW EXERCISE FORCE PROTECTION
         CONDITION (FPCON) FACILITY EXEMPTIONS                                                                                                      20

Attachment 4—FIGURE A4.1.                                                                                                                           25

Attachment 5—EVENT AFTER ACTION REPORT                                                                                                              29

Attachment 6—FIGURE A6.1. 90 MW FORM 2, EXERCISE EVENT PAGE                                                                                         31


1. Purpose. The 90th Missile Wing Exercise Program exists to enhance readiness and improve
crisis response. It supports wartime and peacetime contingency training for the 90 MW and all
subordinate units. Exercises are performance-based scenarios on all aspects of the 90 MW’s
mission and are organized by:
     1.1. Selecting objectives, planning, executing, evaluating, and analyzing assigned wing
     organizations exercise participation.
     1.2. Identifying problems that affect mission readiness, assigning responsibility for
     corrective action and ensuring corrective action is applied.
90MWI10-901 28 JUNE 2012                                                                      3


   1.3. Establishing the responsibilities and providing guidance for managing exercises
   generated or supported by the 90 MW, including:
       1.3.1. Exercises involving tenant units and units assigned to the 90 MW.
       1.3.2. Exercises concurrent with HHQ exercises (i.e., USAF, USSTRATCOM, AFGSC,
       20 AF).
2. Responsibilities.
   2.1. Unit Commanders and staff agency chiefs:
       2.1.1. Ensure highly qualified and knowledgeable personnel are identified to fill
       positions as EET members. Replacements will be identified at least 30 days prior to the
       departure of the current team member(s). Identified personnel must attend required
       initial training and EET brief as scheduled by the EET Chief.
       2.1.2. Assign in writing to the EET Chief, office symbol 90 MW/XP, at least one
       primary and one alternate as EET members. Unit commanders and staff agency chiefs
       may assign more members as necessary according to unit size and mission to ensure
       complete coverage of all unit objectives.
       2.1.3. Recommend unit specific requirements for incorporation into exercise scenarios
       through their assigned EET member.
   2.2. EET Chief:
       2.2.1. Organize the EET.
       2.2.2. Maintain records of appointment and schedule initial and refresher training for
       assigned EET members.
       2.2.3. Provide EET with identification badges or other aids deemed necessary to identify
       evaluators and non-participants.
       2.2.4. Develop exercise objectives in conjunction with wing senior leaders to better
       prepare personnel to complete the overall mission and HHQ inspections.
       2.2.5. Brief EET members prior to each exercise on the objectives, guidelines, scenarios,
       expected activities, ground rules, simulations, procedures, safety concerns, known
       Limiting Factors (LIMFACS), exercise considerations and areas for evaluation.
       2.2.6. Coordinate with EET members, Trusted Agents (TAs), see para 2.5, and others as
       necessary to finalize exercise objectives, areas for evaluation, and exercise scenario
       development.
       2.2.7. Brief the senior staff on exercise objectives and areas of evaluation.
       2.2.8. Provide guidance for debriefings, reports, badges, and uniform requirements.
       2.2.9. Coordinate exercise participation with tenant units, contractors, and the local
       community, as applicable.
       2.2.10. Prepare Master Scenario Events List (MSEL).
       2.2.11. Ensure there are adequate supplies to add fidelity to exercises (i.e., moulage
       materials, uniforms, aircraft, training munitions, role players).
4                                                                90MWI10-901 28 JUNE 2012


       2.2.12. Ensure the EET complies with the Operational Risk Management (ORM) process
       as it applies to exercise evaluation.
       2.2.13. Receive, evaluate, and respond to simulation requests.
       2.2.14. Provide exercise guidance as required to control the exercise and ensure exercise
       objectives and safety are met.
       2.2.15. Provide a White-Cell (to act as agencies outside the wing i.e., HQ AFGSC, the
       Governor of Wyoming, local and state civil authorities) and maintain/track exercise
       events.
       2.2.16. Validate findings and conduct a debriefing with the EET and exercise
       participants as soon as possible following exercise termination.
       2.2.17. Debrief the senior staff on major findings.
       2.2.18. Prepare a written evaluation report. This report will be in sufficient detail to
       identify and report those problems that require command and staff corrective actions. An
       OPR will be assigned for each discrepancy. This report will normally be published
       within 14 days following exercise termination.
    2.3. Group EET Coordinator:
       2.3.1. Appointed by Group CC as the senior EET member (primary and alternate) for the
       respective group.
       2.3.2. Create, coordinate and approve group long-term exercise goals and objectives and
       forward goals to 90 MW/XP for record.
       2.3.3. Coordinate and forward group and/or squadron simulation, exemption, waivers,
       and limiting factors memorandums and exercise considerations to the 90 MW/XP for
       final approval by the 90 MW/CV.
       2.3.4. Ensure squadron appointed EET personnel are assigned to and trained in EET
       duties and responsibilities. See paragraph 4.
    2.4. EET Members:
       2.4.1. Receive required training as scheduled by the EET Chief. See paragraph 4 for
       training requirements.
       2.4.2. Evaluate their unit’s functional mission for their commander(s).
       2.4.3. Attend exercise planning meetings and other events as scheduled by the EET
       Chief.
       2.4.4. Accomplishes pre-exercise coordination with appropriate agencies prior to
       initiation of the exercise. (i.e., Public Affairs EET member accomplish public
       notifications and advance news releases, if deemed necessary).
       2.4.5. Provide exercise objectives, scenario inputs and other inputs as directed by the
       EET Chief. Items requiring an inject card will be outlined on a 90 MW Form 2, Exercise
       Event Page (Attachment 6).
       2.4.6. Coordinate and integrate inputs with the full EET and adapt information to overall
       scenario.
90MWI10-901 28 JUNE 2012                                                                         5


      2.4.7. Be available throughout the exercise and critique period, not only to evaluate, but
      to answer questions, provide additional information, and to validate findings.
      2.4.8. Keep close-hold information in strict confidence and divulge only that which is
      approved by the EET Chief.
      2.4.9. Conduct an oral debriefing with evaluated personnel as soon as possible following
      exercise termination.
      2.4.10. Submit event After-Action Report(s) (AAR) to the EET Chief IAW Attachment
      5. AAR must be submitted within 5 duty days after ENDEX.
      2.4.11. Brief new/replacement EET members and ensure they are properly appointed and
      trained prior to relinquishing EET duties.
      2.4.12. Ensure all safety requirements are complied with during the events.             Stop
      exercise play as necessary until safety issues are resolved.
   2.5. Trusted Agents (TA) are subject matter experts outside the EET who provide input to
   exercise scenarios, create implementers, and assist exercise planners in exercise
   development.
3. Exercise Evaluation Team (EET). The EET will be organized as follows:
   3.1. EET Chief. Appointed by the 90 MW Commander or Vice Commander and be
   assigned to the wing plans office (XP).
   3.2. EET Staff. 90 MW/XP staff assists the EET Chief in conducting the EET
   administration, operations, and training IAW AFI 90-201.
   3.3. EET Members. Units will designate only highly qualified personnel to provide
   functional expertise to the EET and serve as evaluators during exercises. Primary
   consideration should be given to group quality assurance/evaluation personnel. For civilian
   employees, the EET assignment must be related to their current duties. Members must have
   expertise in their functional area and, if applicable, must hold at least a five skill level and
   fully qualified on the tasks they’re evaluating in their respective AFSC.
   3.4. 90 MW/XP personnel along with identified EET members will provide White-Cell
   personnel to ensure responses are tracked and completed correctly.
4. Training Requirements.
   4.1. Each EET member will receive initial training from Wing Plans and Programs prior to
   assuming duties as an EET. Each EET member must log into ADLS and complete the Air
   Force Emergency Response Operations (AERO) Introduction Course, AERO Command and
   Control Course, and Exercise Evaluation Team (EET) Course. A copy of each certificate will
   be provided to the Wing EET Office. Each squadron EET lead/primary will track
   completion of these courses and any other course required to maintain EET SME proficiency.
   EET members will complete refresher training as directed by the wing EET Chief not to
   exceed 20 months IAW AFI 10-2501. Each EET member must remain proficient in their
   respective specialty.
5. Policy. See AFI 90-201, Attachment 7 and Attachment 2 of this instruction for specific
exercise ground rules.
6                                                                  90MWI10-901 28 JUNE 2012


    5.1. Safety takes precedence over all exercise activities. Any EET member or exercise
    participant noting an unsafe condition will immediately stop the exercise event and remove
    personnel from the area, as necessary. The exercise event will not resume until the unsafe
    condition has been corrected. See paragraph A2.3. of the ground rules located in Attachment
    2.
    5.2. If exercises involve munitions or simulated munitions, (ground burst simulators or
    smoke producing devices) the wing must comply with the requirements of AFMAN 91-201,
    Explosives Safety Standards. The Exercise Team Chief will develop a risk assessment that
    includes a list of all explosives to be used, the hazard division/class of the explosives,
    national stock numbers, net explosive weights, detailed location of the exercise, forecasted
    weather, and required separation distances. Once complete, the risk assessment will be
    coordinated with the Base Fire Chief, Weapons Safety, and then signed by the installation
    commander. The signed copy must be maintained by the Exercise Team Chief and Weapons
    Safety.
       5.2.1. EOD will be the sole source for Improvised Explosive Device (IED) and Weapons
       of Mass Destruction (WMD) training aids. EOD is the only agency authorized to
       produce an IED/WMD training aid and must maintain accountability for all training aids
       that are produced and ensure they are properly marked. Any unit requiring an IED/WMD
       training aids that are encountered will be treated as live and be reported accordingly.
    5.3. Tenant exercises, involving only tenant resources, will not be managed by the 90 MW
    EET. However, the team will support the tenants in any way possible, as requested.
    5.4. Units may accomplish independent exercises to satisfy unit specific requirements. Such
    exercises, when involving multiple organizations (for example, ERO exercises), will be
    coordinated with the EET Chief prior to initiation. The EET may opt to incorporate those
    types of exercises concurrent with wing exercises to lessen the impact to base resources.
       5.4.1. Groups will submit a staff summary package with all related information
       pertaining to the group specific exercise and training munitions use to the WG/CC for
       review. All squadron related exercises will be approved by the respective Group CC and
       all flight related exercises will be approved by the respective Squadron CC.
    5.5. F. E. Warren’s civilian employees are required to comply with exercise scenarios and
    participate as though the exercise is a real-world situation. Participation extends to regularly
    scheduled break periods and lunch periods. If scheduled break periods and lunch periods
    must be delayed due to exercise requirements (e.g., the building has been locked down or the
    building is in a cordoned area) civilian employees are required to delay their departure
    accordingly. Management will excuse affected employees for lunch periods, to the extent
    possible, once exercise requirements allow for such excusal. If employees cannot be released
    due to mission or exercise requirements, they will be properly compensated (i.e., overtime
    pay or compensatory time). Bargaining unit employees will be released as required as
    outlined in the-current collective bargaining agreement. When exercises potentially impact
    civilian personnel policies, collective bargaining agreement or the wing civilian pay budget,
    XP will provide a copy of the MSEL to a trusted agent in the Civilian Personnel Office for
    review/comment prior to the exercise.
90MWI10-901 28 JUNE 2012                                                                    7


6. Exercise Cycle. Exercise activities will be conducted IAW AFI10-204_AFGSCSUP_I,
PARTICIPATION IN JOINT AND NATIONALEXERCISES, Chapters 1 and 2.
   6.1. Planning phase. Wing EET will use the Exercise Countdown Checklist (Attachment 4)
   in planning all exercises. Exercise dates are approximate; actual dates will be provided by
   the EET Chief.
   6.2. Preparation phase. Draft events will be discussed, coordinated and deconflicted
   throughout the planning process.
   6.3. Execution phase. All EET members are under the control of the EET Chief once an
   exercise begins. The EET Chief will release members to their work centers as soon as
   possible following exercise termination (ENDEX).
      6.3.1. Upon completion of identified objective or scenario, EET personnel will
      coordinate with EET Chief or Chief XP prior to any inject/scenario termination.
   6.4. Post-exercise reporting phase.
      6.4.1. EET members will submit any critical, minor and major discrepancies or
      observations found during the exercise to the EET Chief within one duty day after
      exercise termination (ENDEX).
      6.4.2. EET members will submit their final event After-Action Report(s) (AAR) to the
      EET Chief within 5 duty days of ENDEX. The report will be formatted IAW
      Attachment 5.
      6.4.3. EET Chief will submit wing final exercise AAR to the MW/CV within 20 days of
      ENDEX.
7. Master Scenario Events List (MSEL).
   7.1. Each EET member will develop exercise events to meet the predetermined exercise
   objectives. Each EET team lead will provide MSEL inputs and objectives using the method
   outlined by Chief EET. Each event requiring inject actions will be listed on individual 90
   MW Form 2, Exercise Event Page, and given to the EET Chief and a completed copy will be
   on filed in the folder.
   7.2. The EET Chief will develop the MSEL with key events and time tables with the
   assistance of the EET SME and ensure the 90 MW Form 2 for events requiring inject actions
   .
8. Types of Exercises. Exercises will be managed and evaluated by the EET IAW, AFI 10-245,
Air Force Antiterrorism (AT) Standards; AFI 10-2501, Full Spectrum Threat Response (FSTR)
Planning and Operations, Chap 10; and AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities,
   8.1. Full wing level exercises
90MW: Sentinel
NORE: Vigilance
CORE: Warrior
NSE: Guarantee
MARE: Rampart
SF Ex: Knight
 8                                                                 90MWI10-901 28 JUNE 2012


9. Grading Criteria and Report Definitions. Exercises conducted by the 90 MW EET will be
graded following the criteria and guidelines outlined in AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities.
     9.1. Findings: Conditions which are major discrepancies and indicate non-compliance with
     technical orders, instructions, HHQ/local directives, or checklist should be addressed. List
     the references used by title, paragraph, attachment, or checklist number.
     9.2. Impact: Address the impact of the condition against the expected outcome.
     9.3. Recommendations: Actions recommended by EET members based upon written
     procedures and sound professional judgment.
10. Exercise Finding Monitoring. Participating units will monitor and document findings and
document corrective actions as outlined AFI 10-2501_AFGM4,
AIR FORCE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT (EM) PROGRAM PLANNING AND
OPERATIONS.
10.1. Unit EM representatives will track deficiencies as part of self-assessment
system. Outline the problems in detail, map out corrective actions, and document the process as
it occurs.
11. After Action Reports (AAR) and Lessons Learned. Exercises conducted by the 90 MW
EET will provide AAR and Lessons Learned reports as outlined in AFI 10-204 AFGSCSUP I,
Participation in Joint and National Exercises; AFI 10-2501_AFGM4, AIR FORCE
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT (EM) PROGRAM PLANNING AND OPERATIONS
11.1. AARs. Participating units will develop an AAR that summarizes exercise activities,
evaluates actions, identifies strengths and weakness, and makes recommendations.
11.2. Lessons Learned. Unless otherwise directed by exercise protocols, all participation
units will comply with the observation, collection, reporting, validation, dissemination, and
tracking procedures contained in AFI 90-1601.
12. IAW International Treaties (START): “Upon receipt of official notification of an
applicable Inspection, all unit exercises, inspections, and assessments at the selected site shall be
halted at a time specified by the installation commander or the designated representative. At the
installation commander’s discretion, the applicable inspection can proceed simultaneously on a
non-interference basis.”




                                              CHRISTOPHER A. COFFELT, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander
90MWI10-901 28 JUNE 2012                                                                 9


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References:
AFI 10-204, Participation in Joint and National Exercises, 21 April 2010
AFI 10-204_AFGSCSUP I, Participation in Joint and National Exercises, 20 December 2011
AFI 10-245, Air Force Antiterrorism (AT) Standards, 16 February 2004
AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations, 24
January 2007
AFI 10-2501_AFGSCSup, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and
Operations, 1 Apr 2010
AFI 90-201_AFGSCSUP, Inspector General Activities, 07 January 2011
AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards, 12 January 2011
Prescribed and Adopted Forms:
Prescribed Forms:
90MW Form 2, Exercise Event Page
Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AFGSC Form 246, Multiple Dispatch/Pre Dispatch/Approved Dispatch Notification,
19 April 2012
AFGSC Form 204, Mishap Data Worksheet, 01 December 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms:
AAR—After-Action Report
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command
CAT—Crisis Action Team
COMSEC—Communications Security
CWC—Chemical Weapons Convention
DMS—Defense Messaging System
EAL—Entry Authorization List
EET—Exercise Evaluation Team
 10                                          90MWI10-901 28 JUNE 2012


ENDEX—End of the Exercise
EWO—Emergency War Order
FPCON—Force Protection Condition
FSTR—Full Spectrum Threat Response
FTX—Field Training Exercise
IA—Information Assurance
LF—Launch Facility
MCC—Master Control Cell
MEO—Most Efficient Organizations
MGS—Missile Guidance Set
MHT—Missile Handling Team
MSEL—Master Scenario Events List
MTF—Medical Treatment Facility
NSI—Nuclear Surety Inspection
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OPSEC—Operations Security
ORI—Operational Readiness Inspection
OST—Open Skies Treaty
PSRE—Propulsion System Rocket Engine
RS—Re-Entry System
SORT—Strategic Offensive Reduction Treaty
STARTEX—Start Exercise
MW—Missile Wing
TA—Trusted Agent
TCC—Transportation Control Center
TE—Transporter Erector
UCC—Unit Control Center
USSTRATCOM—United States Strategic Command
UTC—Unit Type Code
XP—Plans and Programs
WSA—Weapon Storage Area
90MWI10-901 28 JUNE 2012                                                                         11


                                         Attachment 2
                               EXERCISE GROUND RULES

A2.1. General. Direct any questions concerning these ground rules or AFI 90-201_AFGSCSUP
to an on-scene EET member and/or 90 MW/XP. All personnel will use these ground rules when
preparing for and participating in exercises at the 90th Missile Wing (base, missile complex, and
local area) whether those exercises are local or part of an HHQ exercise. Resolve exercise inputs
as if they were an actual situation. Work the problem through to completion using applicable
personnel and equipment, assembling and dispatching as specified by EET personnel.
   A2.1.1. CAT—Crisis Action Team Inputs. Resolve CAT inputs by identifying the
   personnel, equipment, and actions required to solve each problem; however, do not actually
   form teams, assemble equipment, or dispatch unless directed by EET personnel.
   Communications between control centers and on-base agencies is permissible and
   encouraged.
   A2.1.2. During exercise scenarios, EET members will wear EET badges and/or vests to
   assist base personnel in identifying evaluators/observers. These badges do not replace
   restricted area badges. Normal procedures will be followed for entry into restricted areas.
   EET members will not intentionally use invalid/inaccurate badges or EAL data to attempt
   entry to restricted areas. Unit personnel will not delay or hinder EET members’ access to
   authorized areas.
   A2.1.3. Applicable squadron commanders will determine the requirement for civilian
   personnel overtime for exercise participation. Do not cause any deviations of union/contract
   requirements so personnel in a union, or covered by a contract, can participate in an exercise.
   A2.1.4. Do not recall personnel from leave or temporary duty to participate in an exercise.
A2.2. Mission. Real-world mission activities take precedence over exercise events. Do not
allow exercise activities to interfere with mission accomplishment. Contact an on-scene EET
member immediately with any questions concerning exercise event and/or exercise termination
due to exercise impact on mission accomplishment. If no EET member is present, contact the
Crisis Action Team (if formed) and the applicable Unit Control Center (UCC) for guidance.
A2.3. Safety. Safety takes precedence over all exercise activities; do not jeopardize safety or
violate safety practices. All personnel shall immediately stop actions which may jeopardize
personal safety, damage equipment, and/or violate standing safety policies.
   A2.3.1. Use of munitions during exercises will be IAW AFMAN 91-201 and AFI 10-2501.
   All requests to use munitions during an exercise must be pre-coordinated with the EET chief,
   wing weapon safety office, base fire department, and approved by the wing commander.
   A2.3.2. It is important that EET, as well as players, follow all safety guidelines and
   procedures developed for each exercise. Emergency exercise halt procedures will be briefed
   to both players and observer/controllers prior to STARTEX. The safety stop flag words
   "safety, safety, safety" will be used by the observer/controller and passed over all networks
   to indicate that there is a safety issue. If the words “safety, safety, safety in Area XXX” is
   put over the network, then the exercise stop is confined to that area. If the words “safety,
 12                                                               90MWI10-901 28 JUNE 2012


   safety, safety” is used by itself, then the entire exercise must immediately stop until the
   safety-related issue is resolved.
   A2.3.3. All accidents and/or injuries will be immediately reported to the senior on-scene
   EET member and Wing Safety. Events that do result in injury or damage will be investigated
   with follow-up reporting via AFGSC Form 204, Mishap Reporting Form.
A2.4. Communications, Reports, and Logs.
   A2.4.1. Normal Operations Security (OPSEC), Communications Security (COMSEC), and
   Information Assurance (IA) procedures will be applied to all exercise communications
   (verbal, written, electronic, etc.) as if transmitting the real-world equivalent.
   A2.4.2. During exercises including nuclear weapons (simulated or otherwise), use line
   numbers according to T.O. 11N-20-11, General Firefighting Guidance, in telephone, radio,
   and written communications.
   A2.4.3. Use the phrase “EXERCISE, EXERCISE, EXERCISE,” at the beginning and end of
   all verbal and written exercise communications.
   A2.4.4. Prepare and send all required exercise reports (electronic, voice, and hard copy) to
   applicable exercise participants as directed by EET personnel. Do not transmit messages or
   place telephone calls to any non-exercise participants. Personnel should call the SIM-
   SWITCH to meet the requirement for communicating with outside agencies that are not
   participating in the exercise.
   A2.4.5. White-Cell Procedures: The White-Cell is designed to simulate agencies who are
   not participating in the exercise but have a role in a particular input and/or exercise event. It
   will be manned by EET members from each group to facilitate responses from outside
   agencies. The White-Cell responds for all organizations not participating in the exercise
   (e.g., HHQ, National Agencies, state and county officials, etc.). Numbers identified by group
   below:
White-Cell – 773-2921/2922
White-Cell - 773-4597
      A2.4.5.1. White Cell Control: The White Cell overall objective is to act as a conduit for
      all EET members to ensure timely activation and termination of all identified scenarios.
      Additional information will be transmitted through the White Cell for any safety related
      issue concerning exercise play over the LMR net.
      A2.4.5.2. When contacting the White-Cell state “EXERCISE, EXERCISE, EXERCISE,
      this is RANK, NAME, and UNIT.” Give the agency/specific individual and telephone
      number that you are calling and that the White-Cell should simulate.
      A2.4.5.3. Messages should provide actions to be taken or information to be relayed. For
      example; “EXERCISE, EXERCISE, EXERCISE, THIS IS SSGT PAUL JONES FROM
      THE 90th MISSILE MAINTENANCE SQUADRON. I AM CALLING CASCADE
      COUNTY EMERGENCY DISPATCH CENTER AT NINE ONE ONE. A FUEL
      TRUCK HAS COLLIDED WITH A PASSENGER SEDAN AT THE INTERSECTION
      OF CENTRAL AND ROGERS.                BOTH VEHICLES ARE ON FIRE WITH
      PASSENGERS INSIDE. I AM REQUESTING AN AMBULANCE AND FIRE
      FIGHTERS. EXERCISE, EXERCISE, EXERCISE.”
90MWI10-901 28 JUNE 2012                                                                       13


       A2.4.5.4. The White-Cell operator will only provide exercise scripted responses
       designed to duplicate the response actual outside agencies would provide.
   A2.4.6. Reports and Message Traffic. Do not transmit or up-channel exercise reports and/or
   exercise message traffic to off-base non-exercise participants unless otherwise directed by
   EET members or other competent authority. Mark all DMS messages produced for exercise
   scenarios with the term EXERCISE, EXERCISE, EXERCISE and the applicable exercise
   identifier (e.g., Sentinel-Rampart 12-02, MARE, etc.) Include all required addressees on
   exercise messages. Print out a copy of the DMS message and either gives it to or save it for
   an EET member.
   A2.4.7. For those units that normally accomplish unit events logs (command post, control
   centers, etc.) record exercise events and responses that would normally be logged if they
   were real-world events. Affected units have the option of maintaining a separate exercise
   specific log or identifying logged events as exercise events. In either case, the logs must be
   retained for 10 days from exercise completion and made available for EET review.
A2.5. Electrical Power and Computer Systems.
   A2.5.1. Electrical power and/or computer systems will not be disrupted for exercises unless
   a specific objective has been established and the outage has been coordinated with the
   affected units in advance of exercise start.
   A2.5.2. Communications/computer systems, circuits, and equipment removed from service
   due to an exercise scenario input will remain out of service until repaired or restored by unit
   personnel and validated by an EET member or the exercise event is concluded by an EET
   member.
A2.6. Security Forces. Security forces will not actually block off-base highways for exercise
events. Simulate closing highways adjacent to the installation or LFs/MAFs for exercise events
to include placing calls to the White-Cell that simulate notifying applicable off-base agencies
and requesting their assistance.
   A2.6.1. During identified no-notice wing recalls, gates 1, 2, and 5 will open to receive
   personnel recalled during after duty hour notifications. This is to eliminate traffic back-
   up at Gate 1 during after-hours wing recalls. SF EET will ensure accomplishment of posting
   personnel at identified gates.
A2.7. Fire Protection. The fire chief will be notified by EET personnel at least 30 minutes
prior to any exercise involving any use of training munitions and/or fire department response
IAW AFI 32-2001, The Fire Protection Operations and Fire Prevention Program.
A2.8. Medical.
   A2.8.1. The restrictions of all medical profiles remain in effect for exercise events.
   A2.8.2. Medical personnel may choose to use expended/damaged or outdated supplies for
   exercise events. These supplies, if used, must be consistent with medical practices.
A2.9. Contractor and Most Efficient Organizations (MEO).
   A2.9.1. Contractor and/or MEO personnel (if applicable) will respond to all evacuation and
   FPCON restriction events on a non-interference basis. Personnel whose evacuation or travel
   restriction would result in mission impact or a government-caused delay of contractor
 14                                                               90MWI10-901 28 JUNE 2012


   performance should be exempted from exercise participation. The lead EET for the
   functional commander or requiring activity supported by any contractor that may be affected
   by an exercise will submit an exercise exemption request to 90 MW/XP with a courtesy copy
   to 90 CONS prior to the exercise.
   A2.9.2. Regularly scheduled and/or regularly occurring deliveries (e.g., contracted food
   service, medical supplies, fuel, etc.) should not be prevented from making deliveries during
   exercises.
A2.10. Deployment Operations.
   A2.10.1. For standing deployment simulations refer to paragraph A2.1. Refer to 90 MW
   Installation Deployment Plan 403-1 for exercise deployment simulation requests.
   A2.10.2. Real and/or simulated munitions may be used during deployment exercises to add
   fidelity and realism to the exercise event(s).
      A2.10.2.1. Real munitions will not be transported off base. When munitions are
      transported on-base they will be taken directly to the designated location such as the
      holding yard (hot cargo pad). Only approved explosive routes will be used to transport
      munitions. Once inspected, all munitions will be returned to the WSA.
      A2.10.2.2. If simulated munitions are authorized, they will be marked IAW T.O. 11A-1-
      60 and with a label describing the munitions being simulated (e.g., SIMULATED 9MM
      MUNITIONS).
      A2.10.2.3. All munitions pallets will be built in the WSA and moved to the selected
      holding yard (typically hot cargo pad) loaded on the 463L pallet. Vehicles used to
      transport munitions will have appropriate placards and all safety equipment available. If
      simulated munitions are used, all requirements for movement of real world munitions
      must be met. Real world munitions will never be mixed with simulated munitions (e.g.,
      carried on the same truck or placed in the same pallet).
   A2.10.3. Medical Records. Actual medical records will be screened by a Public Health at
   the Medical Treatment Facility (MTF) to ensure each deploying member is medically
   qualified for deployment. Actual medical records will not be taken from the MTF for
   exercises. When required for a deployment exercise, medical records will be simulated by
   using the appropriate blank medical forms. Simulated medical records will be provided to
   the troop commander of each chalk. The simulated medical records must be given to the
   appropriate medical personnel upon arrival at the exercise deployed location. The simulated
   medical records will be returned to Patient Administration, normally at the conclusion of the
   exercise.
   A2.10.4. Simulate authentication of special orders. Minimum distribution of these orders
   will be to the appropriate workstations and included in personnel accountability kits.
   A2.10.5. Simulate issuing new identification cards (e.g., for enlistment extensions needed to
   meet retain ability requirements). Issue identification cards if card is due to expire within 30
   days.
   A2.10.6. Simulate update of personnel data system to project TDY data (flow mini records).
   Save information to computer disc and make available to EET members.
90MWI10-901 28 JUNE 2012                                                                       15


   A2.10.7. Movement of Meals Ready to Eat (MRE) may be simulated. Perform all
   procedures using empty boxes or similar containers. Number of empty boxes or containers
   will correspond to equivalent MRE load.
A2.11. Evacuations.
   A2.11.1. All personnel (contractor and MEO personnel reference paragraph A2.9.), except
   mission-essential personnel performing real-world operations, shall participate in all
   evacuations. Maintain minimum personnel required for security in evacuated facilities.
   A2.11.2. Do not totally evacuate/vacate the following facilities or operations without prior
   coordination with EET and applicable unit and group commanders; however, non-mission
   essential personnel in the facility should evacuate.
      A2.11.2.1. Command post, launch control centers (LCCs), missile maintenance
      operations center (MMOC), 911 dispatch center, helicopter operations desk, base
      switchboard, network control center (NCC), gates/entry control points and posts, missile
      security control/central security control, fire station, weather station, transportation
      control center, Base Defense Operations Center (BDOC) and Confinement Facility
      (when inmates are housed), and missile procedures trainer.
      A2.11.2.2. The weapons storage area (WSA), munitions storage/maintenance facilities,
      and hazardous materials storage areas.
      A2.11.2.3. POL hydrant facilities, heat plant, and waste disposal facilities.
      A2.11.2.4. The clinic, military court facilities, and religious services.
      A2.11.2.5. Promotion testing facilities when testing is in progress, First Term Airman’s
      Center (FTAC), Airman Leadership School (ALS), other PME, and other educational
      activities (including off-duty education courses) when class is in progress. Direct
      personnel to remain in the facility until the exercise event has terminated.
      A2.11.2.6. AAFES exchange operations and concessions (e.g., main exchange,
      shoppette, service station, etc.), commissary, post office, bank, and dining facilities
      (Burger King, bowling center, Trails End Club, etc.) during periods when food is being
      prepared and served.
      A2.11.2.7. Child Development Center (CDC), Youth Activities Center (YAC), and base
      housing areas.
      A2.11.2.8. Personnel residing in dormitories, billeting, or transient lodging facilities are
      exempted from evacuation during exercises. Personnel will remain indoors until exercise
      event that drove evacuation is terminated.
      A2.11.2.9. Restrict entry into facilities exempted from total evacuation to essential
      personnel. Personnel who are conducting business when the evacuation was directed
      may continue their business but must remain in the facility until the evacuation portion of
      the exercise event is over.
A2.12. Movement Restrictions During Increased Force Protection Conditions
(FPCONs). All personnel will take appropriate shelter during applicable exercise FPCONs.
The following exceptions apply:
 16                                                              90MWI10-901 28 JUNE 2012


   A2.12.1. Civilian, contractor, and NAF employees will restrict movements as applicable
   during increased exercise FPCONs as long as the movement restrictions do not cause
   substantial increased costs to the government (e.g., extra/overtime pay, etc.). Unit
   commanders or executive officers will prepare an exemption request for all regularly
   scheduled activities that would violate movement restrictions during increased exercise
   FPCONs and result in substantial increased cost to the government. Upon declaration of
   appropriate exercise FPCON, all missile crews (as determined by OG/CC or OG/CD) will
   stop at the next available safe area (weather and road conditions permitting) to demonstrate
   the capability to restrict travel in the missile field. Declaration of exercise FPCON will be
   made by TCC over the radio and will direct crews to cease travel. After 10 minutes has
   elapsed, TCC will request release for the returning teams from the on-scene EET member. If
   no EET member is on scene, TCC will request release through the Crisis Action Team EET
   Chief. TCC will then relay permission to travel via radio. All other movements that need to
   be conducted during periods of exercise FPCON movement restrictions will be coordinated
   through the Crisis Action Team to the EET Chief as they occur (i.e., release of civilian
   employees at end of duty day).
   A2.12.2. Spouses, dependent children, and military retirees will take appropriate shelter
   during applicable exercise FPCONs for long enough to demonstrate the capability. This will
   normally be approximately 30 minutes after the base goes into an increased FPCON and/or a
   particular facility implements increased FPCON procedures. Facility managers will request
   release for spouses, dependent children, and military retirees from the senior on-scene EET
   member. The on-scene EET member will request release through the Crisis Action Team. If
   no EET member is on scene, the facility manager or UCC will request release through the
   Crisis Action Team to the EET Chief.
   A2.12.3. All personnel (including spouses, dependents, and retirees) will be allowed to move
   during increased exercise FPCONs to report for scheduled medical appointments at the base
   clinic.
   A2.12.4. For emerging situations not covered by these ground rules, contact an on-scene
   EET member or the Crisis Action Team to request movement exemptions during increased
   exercise FPCONs.
   A2.12.5. Once the capability to control access to the base has been demonstrated for a
   minimum of 5 minutes, request release through the Crisis Action Team to reopen the gates
   for normal traffic flows. All AAFES facilities (Burger King, BX), and commissary must
   demonstrate capabilities prior to releasing customers from facilities. Please refer to
   Attachment 3 for simulated facility actions taken during higher FPCON actions.
A2.13. Simulations. Simulations will be minimized and reserved for those actions which are
too costly (resource expenditure, potential risk, etc.) or impractical to perform during an
exercise.
   A2.13.1. Simulation Requests. The EET Chief will review the request and make an
   approval/disapproval recommendation to the wing commander/vice wing commander. The
   wing commander (or vice wing commander) approves all simulation requests.
       A2.13.1.1. Simulation Requests Prior to Exercise Start. The POC requesting a
       simulation will prepare the request and include short title of simulation, event/item to be
90MWI10-901 28 JUNE 2012                                                                        17


       simulated, justification for the simulation request, and the impact if the simulation is not
       approved. Endorsements must include submitters’ unit commander, EET Chief, and
       wing commander/vice wing commander.
       A2.13.1.2. Simulation Requests During an Exercise. Simulation requests during an
       exercise will be passed up the applicable chain of command to the battle staff. Requests
       can be made verbally. Requests for simulation should include the same information as
       contained in simulation requests made prior to STARTEX. EET Chief will make a
       recommendation on approval or disapproval.
   A2.13.2. Standing Simulations. During inclement weather, do not remove outer clothing
   during personnel decontamination operations.
       A2.13.2.1. FPCON MEASURES. Simulate the following areas during identified
       exercise FPCON procedures. Refer to Annex X to 90 MW OPLAN 10-4,
FPCON ALPHA
No simulations

FPCON BRAVO
B.11. Make notifications using White-Cell
B.11.1. Make notifications using White-Cell
B.20. Make notifications using White-Cell

FPCON CHARLIE
C.3. Make off-base notifications using White-Cell
C.3.1. Make contacts/notifications using White-Cell
C.8. Make contacts/notifications using White-Cell
C.10. Make off base notifications using White-Cell
C.14. Make notifications using White-Cell
C.26. Make contacts/notifications using White-Cell
C.55. Make contacts/notifications using White-Cell
FPCON DELTA
D.4. Show capability at gate 1 for 5 min then return to normal operations
D.7. Make notifications using White-Cell
D.9. Make notifications using White-Cell excluding Hospital, AAFES Facilities, and DECA
D.12. Make notifications using White-Cell
D.14. Make notifications using White-Cell
D.18. Make notifications using White-Cell
D.20. Make notifications using White-Cell
D.22. Make notifications using White-Cell
A2.14. ICBM Sortie Generation and Maintenance.
   A2.14.1. Generate the off-base training LF to simulated alert status using training code
   materials. Use the team training RS and training code materials specified in the EAP-
   STRAT VOL 16, Control of ICBM Code Components, in sortie generation. Install new test
   P-Plug in the guidance system of the off-base training LF. Accomplish Code Change
   Verifier operations using test codes to simulate installation of operational code prior to
18                                                             90MWI10-901 28 JUNE 2012


  installing the training War Reserve asset. Treat all test code materials and components as
  operational.
  A2.14.2. For generation of the off-base training LF, accomplish all normal WSA actions for
  the weapons movement. When using training weapons or weapons system simulators, all
  security, maintenance, and safety directives that apply to war reserve assets are applicable.
  Helicopters will provide normal helicopter support.
  A2.14.3. Perform all required actions to build up the training LF to an EWO configuration.
  After generating the training LF, remove the safety control switch lockpin assembly. Safing
  pins will not be removed unless the Command Signals Decoder (missile) has operational
  codes installed. Note: One exception is safing pin removal/installation training may
  continue as long as the MGS remains shutdown at the TLF after safing pin removal.
  Accomplish all required weapons system post-maintenance tests (except for RDCT/active
  stack actions, which will never be accomplished on a training LF unless the sortie is postured
  to SIOP alert). At the conclusion of all post-maintenance tests, return the training LF to the
  desired training configuration after coordination with EET.
  A2.14.4. Inputs requiring dispatch. Personnel dispatching to the field upon receipt of
  scenario input must proceed to the EET on-base staging area (building 1440, vehicle parking
  lot North East corner (corner inside the fence closest to the wash rack)) fully prepared to
  dispatch. Individuals will proceed as directed by EET inspectors. The EET may direct other
  personnel/teams proceed to the staging area for inspection.
  A2.14.5. On-site maintenance will be performed IAW EWO directives/guidelines.
  Exceptions to this rule are Rivet MILE, corrosion control, command-directed
  modifications/test, time sensitive discrepancies, environmental compliance discrepancies,
  and START compliance issues.
  A2.14.6. Actual major maintenance will be performed on weekends or after hours as
  directed by the MXG/CC. If the MXG/CC determines not to authorize weekend or after
  hours maintenance, the dispatches will be simulated and the actual work completed during
  normal duty hours.
  A2.14.7. Only simulated lines of maintenance will process through the staging area.
     A2.14.7.1. Simulated lines will complete all required actions prior to arrival at the
     staging area (e.g., codes, MGS vault). Teams will be issued documentation to identify
     the briefings they received and the equipment they would have been issued. Note: The
     evaluator may request to observe upload of the MGS or loading of specialized equipment.
     The equipment will be downloaded, stored, and marked as outlined in Para A2.14.7.8.
     A2.14.7.2. TEs will not be dispatched to the staging area and will remain in MHT area
     with a placard indicating what lines they are assigned against.
     A2.14.7.3. MHT support vans will go the staging area.
     A2.14.7.4. Teams will not bring critical components to the staging area.
     A2.14.7.5. All simulated RS/convoys will form up in the WSA.
     A2.14.7.6. AFGSC Form 246s will be filled out and turned into Keys and Codes. SIM
     lines will be marked “SIMULATED DISPATCH” across top of the form.
90MWI10-901 28 JUNE 2012                                                                  19


     A2.14.7.7. SIM lines will proceed to Keys and Codes and will be given a card with the
     SN# of the MEEDS that would have been issued for the dispatch.
     A2.14.7.8. All MGS, missile, and PSRE containers will display a placard indicating their
     simulated usage. Electrical drawers and their cases will also be marked.
     A2.14.7.9. All exercise messages, to include part shortages, equipment shortages, or
     limitations, will be processed through the Crisis Action Team.
20                                        90MWI10-901 28 JUNE 2012


                        ATTACHMENT 3
 FIGURE A3.1 90 MW EXERCISE FORCE PROTECTION CONDITION (FPCON)
                      FACILITY EXEMPTIONS
90MWI10-901 28 JUNE 2012                                         21


Figure A3.2. 90 MW EXERCISE FORCE PROTECTION CONDITION (FPCON)
FACILITY EXEMPTIONS
22                                           90MWI10-901 28 JUNE 2012


Figure A3.3. 90 MW EXERCISE FORCE PROTECTION CONDITION (FPCON)
FACILITY EXEMPTIONS
90MWI10-901 28 JUNE 2012                                         23


Figure A3.4. 90 MW EXERCISE FORCE PROTECTION CONDITION (FPCON)
FACILITY EXEMPTIONS
24                                           90MWI10-901 28 JUNE 2012


Figure A3.5. 90 MW EXERCISE FORCE PROTECTION CONDITION (FPCON)
FACILITY EXEMPTIONS
90MWI10-901 28 JUNE 2012                  25


                           Attachment 4
                           FIGURE A4.1

90 MW/XP EXERCISE PREPARATION CHECKLIST
26   90MWI10-901 28 JUNE 2012
90MWI10-901 28 JUNE 2012                               27


Figure A4.2. 90 MW/XP EXERCISE PREPARATION CHECKLIST
28   90MWI10-901 28 JUNE 2012
90MWI10-901 28 JUNE 2012                                                                             29


                                           Attachment 5
                              EVENT AFTER ACTION REPORT

                             DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                        90TH MISSILE WING (AFGSC)




MEMORANDUM FOR 90 MW/XP

FROM: 90 ORG/OFFICE SYMBOL

SUBJECT: EET After Action Report

1. OBJECTIVES OVERVIEW:

1.1.   Objective 1: Use this area to outline objectives. One objective per line.

2. PARTICIPANTS: Use this line to outline units, specialized teams, or participants.

3. EVALUATION SUMMARY                       GRADING/RATING Unit EET lead will grade their
portion of the exercise and provide the rating using the three tier grading attachment.

3.1. FINDINGS: If nothing was identified, place “None” here.

3.1.1. If findings are identified, make sure to provide (reference)(cause code) after each finding.
One finding per line, use the sequential numbering method for each finding.

3.2. OBSERVATIONS: If nothing was identified, place “None” here.

3.2.1. If there is a reference, please provide the reference and cause code after the observation.

3.3. RECOMMENDED IMPROVEMENT AREAS: If nothing was identified, place “None”
here.

3.3.1. If there is a reference, please provide the reference and cause code after the observation.

3.4. STRENGTHS: If nothing was identified, place “None” here.

3.4.1. Use this section to identify any strong points in the unit.

3.4.2. Also use this area to give Kudos to the any “Outstanding Airman”
 30                                                    90MWI10-901 28 JUNE 2012


SIGNATURE BLOCK*** Note - Once completed, ensure your CC or your SQ/GRP CC review
it before forwarding to WG/XP.
90MWI10-901 28 JUNE 2012                                    31


                             Attachment 6
            FIGURE A6.1 90 MW FORM 2, EXERCISE EVENT PAGE
32                                               90MWI10-901 28 JUNE 2012


Figure A6.2. 90 MW FORM 2, EXERCISE EVENT PAGE
