BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      90TH MISSILE WING INSTRUCTION 41-101
90TH MISSILE WING
                                                                                   2 JULY 2012

                                                                             Medical Command

                                                PUBLIC ACCESS DEFIBRILLATION (PAD)
                                                            & AUTOMATIC EXTERNAL
                                                     DEFIBRILLATOR (AED) PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available for downloading on the e-Publishing website
               at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 90 MDOS/CC                                                        Certified by: 90 MDG/CC
                                                                  (Col Francesca Vasta-Falldorf)
Supersedes:   90SWI 40-2, 1 July 2006                                                   Pages: 15


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 41-1, Health Care Programs
and Resources, 15 April 1994, and serves as a guide for the deployment of the Public Access
Defibrillation (PAD) Program at Francis E. Warren Air Force Base. The PAD program employs
an Automated External Defibrillator (AED) to be used in an emergency response to Sudden
Cardiac Arrest (SCA) as a means to decrease premature mortality. This instruction identifies the
lines of responsibility and provides guidelines to ensure an appropriate response to such an
event. This publication is applicable to those stationed at 90 MW. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AF Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at ttps://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Comply with AFI 33-332,
Air Force Privacy Act Program, for documents containing Privacy Act information. For Official
Use Only information, comply with DoD 5200.1-R, paragraph AP3.2, and AFI 31-104,
Information Security Program Management. Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibilities (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. This publication prescribes 90 MW Form 1, Event
Summary. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.
 2                                                                  90MWI41-101 2 JULY 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is revised in its entirety and must be completely reviewed. This document
updates office symbols and references, provides additional details to review process for
documentation, removed specific AED locations and adds user weekly maintenance log
worksheet.
1. Concept of PAD. About 220,000 people die each year from sudden cardiac arrest. Most
cardiac arrests are due to underlying heart disease and result in irregular rhythms called
ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation. These dysrhythmias cause the heart’s pumping
action to stop abruptly and the victim to lose consciousness and have no pulse or breath. If not
treated promptly, death will follow within minutes. The technique of delivering an electrical
shock, called defibrillation, is the only known treatment for ventricular fibrillation and pulseless
ventricular tachycardia. To be effective, defibrillation must be administered within minutes of a
cardiac arrest, for every minute that passes without defibrillation, a victim’s chance of survival
decreases by 7 to 10 percent. After as little as 10 minutes, very few resuscitation attempts are
successful. In the past, the ability to defibrillate was solely in the hands of trained emergency
medical personnel, which may have exceedingly long response times. With the advent of the
automated external defibrillator (AED), a trained rescuer can quickly and easily defibrillate a
cardiac arrest victim and save lives. New generation AEDs are safe, effective, lightweight, low-
maintenance, and relatively inexpensive. In August 2003, the Secretary of Defense mandated
that military installations establish public access defibrillation (PAD) programs with
consideration for potential placement of AEDs in federal buildings.
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
     2.1. The 90th Missile Wing Commander (90 MW/CC): The 90 MW/CC has the overall
     responsibility for the PAD program. The 90 MW/CC directs the Director of Base Medical
     Services (DBMS) to ensure proper medical objectives are maintained for the PAD program.
     2.2. The 90th Medical Group Commander (90 MDG/CC): The 90 MDG/CC has ultimate
     responsibility for all medical aspects of the PAD program. He or she will appoint a PAD
     Medical Director to assist with the PAD program.
     2.3. PAD Medical Director: The PAD Medical Director (SGH) has medical oversight over
     the entire PAD program and its participants. He or she will ensure compliance to developed
     protocols, assess quality assurance, and ensure proper training of PAD coordinators. The
     PAD Medical Director will critically review all recorded data and actions taken each time an
     AED/PAD is used.
     2.4. Organizational Commanders: The Organizational Commander of each participating
     unit shall designate a Unit PAD Coordinator who will serve as the primary liaison between
     the local organization’s PAD program and the PAD Medical Director.
     2.5. PAD Program Coordinator: Will, be appointed from the staff of 90 MDG. Oversees all
     training processes for CPR in conjunction with AED training. Provides recommendations to
     squadron commanders for individuals to serve as Unit PAD coordinators.
     2.6. Unit PAD Coordinator: The Unit PAD Coordinator shall be a member of the local
     organization where the AED is deployed. He or she is responsible for ensuring all
     daily/weekly operator functional checks are completed (see Attachment 6). Moreover, the
90MWI41-101 2 JULY 2012                                                                       3


   PAD Coordinator will ensure all required supplies are stored with the AED. The Unit PAD
   Coordinator will keep the 90th Medical Group’s Medical Equipment Management Office
   (MEMO) apprised of the AED location, the primary and alternate names of the Unit PAD
   Coordinators, and current contact information for these Coordinators. The Unit PAD
   Coordinator ensures all personnel have received the necessary training of the Basic Life
   Support (BLS)/AED program by their local members as set forth in the Education and
   Training policy (see paragraph 6). The Unit PAD coordinator will respond to all emergency
   situations or have their alternate represent them, they are to be considered as targeted
   responders. Once an AED has been used in an emergency situation, the Unit PAD
   Coordinator will forward all incident data to the PAD Medical Director and/or SGH for
   review and will arrange for a Critical Incident Stress Debriefing (CISD) for all individuals
   involved in providing assistance to the victim.
3. AED Selection. The current model recommended by BMETs will be purchased for any new
facilities and/or replacement of old model (LifePak 1000 and/or Phillips Heartstart FR2) when
MEMO deems it to be non-repairable, throughout the entire F. E. Warren AFB, as it will be
simpler to familiarize responders with a single unit’s operation and maintenance. Using
organizations will finance their individual AED requirements.
4. PAD Location and Installation. The key to a successful PAD program is early
defibrillation. Therefore, PADs must be strategically placed throughout F. E. Warren AFB in
order to decrease the response time for defibrillation of a SCA victim (see Attachment 2).
   4.1. Factors to consider in determining PAD placement include:
       4.1.1. Facility size and/or accessibility.
       4.1.2. Number of employees in the facility.
       4.1.3. Identified high-risk environment (i.e., high voltage electrical equipment).
       4.1.4. Number of people that may have public access to the facility on daily basis.
       4.1.5. Average age of facility occupants; older populations are at higher risk.
       4.1.6. Security levels that may hinder access to the facility by emergency medical
       personnel.
       4.1.7. Final disposition on PAD placement throughout the Wing will be recommended
       by the MDG Chief of Medical Staff and MDG/CC.
       4.1.8. Final approval authority is the 90 MW/CC.
   4.2. The devices will be housed in wall-mounted cases which have an audible alarm that
   sounds when the door is opened. This is to alert nearby personnel that a victim has collapsed
   so they may notify paramedics via the system. The wall mounted case will have a minimum
   clearance of three feet around them in which nothing may be placed so as not to hinder easy
   access to defibrillation. Above every wall mounted case will be mounted an AED wall sign;
   each wall mounted case will contain an AED fast response kit which will include 2 pairs of
   Non latex gloves, pocket breathing mask, paramedic scissors, razor, and a large absorbent
   paper towel. Also included in each unit will be 2 sets of Adult SMART pads cartridge, 1 set
   of infant/child SMART pads cartridge, and a quick reference guide.
   4.3. The following is the information needed to obtain an AED for base activities:
 4                                                                90MWI41-101 2 JULY 2012


        4.3.1. Contact MDG Education & Training division to verify the unit has had training or
        will be trained at the time the AED arrives.
        4.3.2. Obtain make and model information provided by MEMO. (X-3060/3074).
     4.3. 3. MEMO will provide requesting personnel with all forms necessary for the AED
     purchase (see Attachment 4).
        4.3.4. The unit will transfer funds to the MDG Resource Advisor (RA) before the
        purchase will be made. (x-4031).
        4.3.5. The unit supply custodian will then coordinate with Medical Logistics for the
        proper procurement action. (x-2392).
        4.3.6. The AED will be received and placed on the unit’s medical equipment account.
        4.3.7. When a new AED is received, an acceptance inspection will be performed by the
        MDG Biomedical Repair Technician (x-3700). Upon completion of that inspection, the
        AED with Custodian Action List (see Attachment 5), will be forwarded to Education and
        Training pending completion of training by the user.
        4.3.8. Before the AED is released to the user, the gaining custodian will sign the CAL.
        The signed CAL will be returned to MEMO to ensure accountability of the equipment
        item.
5. Proper Use of the AED. Proper use of the AED is outlined in the BLS Adult Algorithm (See
Attachment 3). An easy to follow poster of this plan will be posted and displayed by the wall-
mounted PAD cabinet. This algorithm follows the American Heart Association (AHA) “Chain
of Survival” which involves: activating the EMS system (by dialing 911), early CPR, early
defibrillation, and early Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS).
6. Education and Training. AEDs, by virtue of their simplicity, are designed for use by any
lay person, trained or untrained. However, AED orientation and familiarity will make the user,
in the event of sudden cardiac arrest, more likely to utilize and deliver defibrillation earlier.
AED orientation should be accomplished at the time of CPR training. Formal training will be
performed via the AHA Heartsaver AED Course. This four hour course will prepare Unit PAD
Coordinators, and rescuers already identified for CPR training to perform the essential CPR
skills and to use designated AEDs deployed throughout the PAD program. Refresher training
should occur once every two years. Any excess training requirement will be accomplished
through a civilian source at the expense of each local using organization. Current cost for this
outside training is estimated at $35 per student ($25 training/$10 book). However, all PAD
program training must be coordinated between the Unit PAD Coordinator and the 90 MDG’s
Education and Training Division. In accordance with W.S. 35-26-102, all AEDs on F.E. Warren
AFB will be maintained and tested according to the manufacturer's guidelines.
7. Legal/Historical Perspective. There have been no known lawsuits against AED users or lay
rescuers providing CPR as “Good Samaritans.” The perceived potential for a suit involving
AED use has been a deterrent for some organizations considering establishing a PAD program.
In fact, the only successful lawsuits involving PAD Programs have been against companies
(airlines, health clubs, and amusement parks) for not having an AED available in their facility.
The Cardiac Arrest Survival Act (CASA), signed into law in November 2000, directs
consideration of placement of AEDs in federal buildings and provides nationwide Good
90MWI41-101 2 JULY 2012                                                                         5


Samaritan protection that limits liability for anyone who renders emergency treatment with a
defibrillator to save someone’s life. It is worth noting that “Good Samaritan” laws vary from
state to state and that individuals with advanced healthcare training, such as medical doctors,
nurses, and physician assistants may fall outside the scope of these laws. In Wyoming, any
person who uses or attempts to use an automated external defibrillator device on a victim of a
perceived medical emergency, any prescribing physician who authorizes the purchase of the
AED and any individual who provides training in cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) in the
use of an AED shall be immune from civil liability for any harm resulting from the use or
attempted use of such device, unless the harm involved was caused by willful or criminal
misconduct, gross negligence, reckless misconduct or a conscious, flagrant indifference to the
safety of the victim who was harmed. W.S. 35-26-103(a).
8. Medical Logistics and Maintenance. Procurement and receipt of AEDs will be coordinated
with the 90 MDG Medical Logistics office. Each Unit PAD Coordinator will be responsible for
daily/weekly operator checks using the AED functional operations checklist. The 90 MDG Bio-
Medical Maintenance Office shall ensure annual maintenance and functional calibrations are
performed. Should the AED/PAD require servicing, the Unit PAD Coordinator will arrange this
out-of-cycle maintenance with the 90 MDG Medical Maintenance Office (extension 3700 or
5589). The 90 MDG Medical Maintenance Office is responsible for certifying new
AEDs/PADs, periodic maintenance, monitoring safety recall/health device alert notifications,
and ensuring subsequent recall remedies are completed. Accountability and management of
safety recalls and health device alert notifications will be accomplished utilizing the Defense
Medical Logistics Standard Support (DMLSS) System. AED units will be entered into this
system to monitor the locations and points of contact, in the event of any recall or notification.
The cost of supplies, routine and periodic maintenance (and immediate replacement of the failed
AED) will be funded by the respective units.
9. Follow-Up after an AED is employed in the PAD Program. Every event in which an AED
is used in support of the PAD Program (or should have been used) will be reviewed by the PAD
Medical Director and/or SGH to establish whether the patient was treated according to the
established protocol. All information, including Unit PAD Coordinator’s name, location of
incident, scenario, patient data, rescuers on-scene, response times, and AED serial number, will
be forwarded by the affected Unit PAD Coordinator to the PAD Medical Director and/or SGH.
Once a thorough review has been completed, the PAD Medical Director will submit a written
report of the findings to the 90th MDG/CC for consultation for quality assurance purposes. All
information involved in this investigation is confidential and is protected from discovery under
the Quality Assurance Protection Act, Title 10 of U.S.C., Section 1102.
10. Information Collections, Records, and Forms or Information Management Tools
(IMT).
   10.1. Information Collections. No information collections are created by this publication.




                                             CHRISTOPHER A. COFFELT, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
 6                                                                90MWI41-101 2 JULY 2012


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD41-1, Health Care Programs and Resources, 15 Apr 1994
AHA-American Heart Association 7272 Greenville Ave. Dallas, TX 75231


Guidelines for Public Access Defibrillation Programs in DoD Facilities, August 2009
Public Law 106-505, Public Health Improvement Act of 2000, Title IV, Subtitle A, Cardiac
Arrest Survival Act (CASA); (H.R. 2498)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACLS—Advanced Cardiac Life Support
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AED—Automated External Defibrillator
AHA—American Heart Association
AMR—American Medical Response
BCLS—Basic Cardiac Life Support
CASA—Cardiac Arrest Survival Act
CISD—Critical Incident Stress Debriefing
CPR—Cardiac Pulmonary Resuscitation
DMLSS—Defense Medical Logistics Standard Support System
EMS—Emergency Medical Services
PAD—Public Access Defibrillation
SCA—Sudden Cardiac Arrest
SG—Surgeon General

Terms
Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS)—a detailed medical protocol for the provision of
lifesaving cardiac care by paramedics, physicians, or specially trained nurses involving airway
management, defibrillation, and the administration of advanced cardiac drugs.
Automated External Defibrillator (AED)—a medical device capable of recognizing the
presence or absence of ventricular fibrillation or ventricular tachycardia; upon determining that
defibrillation is indicated, the device will deliver electrical shocks to the victim.
Basic Cardiac Life Support (BCLS)—a training program that teaches basic Cardio-Pulmonary
Resuscitation techniques as well as AED orientation in support of PAD program uses.
90MWI41-101 2 JULY 2012                                                                            7


Cardio-Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR)—the act of providing artificial respirations (usually
via mouth-to-mouth or mouth-to-mask) and chest compressions to a pulseless, breathless victim.
Defibrillation—the application of an electrical shock, via an AED, directly through the pads
placed on a victim’s bare chest.
Emergency Medical Services (EMS)—the rapid response team of medically trained personnel
who provide emergency medical intervention and/or transport to the hospital as necessary.
Pulseless Ventricular Tachycardia/Ventricular Fibrillation—an abnormal cardiac rhythm
resulting in little or no forward flow of blood to vital organs that is incompatible with life if not
immediately treated.
Rescuer—is any individual, whether trained BCLS/AED personnel or an untrained lay-
bystander, who provides assistance to a cardiac arrest victim.
Sudden Cardiac Arrest (SCA)—the abrupt cessation of normal cardiac function that typically
results from ventricular fibrillation or pulseless ventricular tachycardia with rapid progression to
death if not immediately treated.
Prescribed and Adopted Forms—Prescribed Forms:
90 MW Form 1, Event Summary


Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
8                             90MWI41-101 2 JULY 2012


             Attachment 2
    FIGURE A2.1 AED/PAD LOCATIONS
90MWI41-101 2 JULY 2012   9
10                              90MWI41-101 2 JULY 2012


               Attachment 3
     FIGURE A3.1 BLS ADULT ALGORITHM
90MWI41-101 2 JULY 2012                             11


                                Attachment 4
                          FIGURE A4.1 AF FORM 601
12   90MWI41-101 2 JULY 2012
90MWI41-101 2 JULY 2012                               13


                             Attachment 5
                  FIGURE A5.1 CUSTODIAN ACTION LIST
14   90MWI41-101 2 JULY 2012
90MWI41-101 2 JULY 2012                            15


                             Attachment 6
                     FIGURE A6.1 DAILY CHECKLIST
