BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                     90TH MISSILE WING INSTRUCTION 32-2001
90TH MISSILE WING
                                                                         22 SEPTEMBER 2014

                                                                              Civil Engineering

                                                             FIRE PREVENTION PROGRAM




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available for downloading on the e-Publishing website
               at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 90 CES/CEF                                                         Certified by: 90 CES/CC
                                                                         (Lt Col James S. Duke)
                                                                                        Pages: 12
Supersedes:   AFI32-2001_90SWSup1, 28
              March 2006


This instruction is implemented by AFI 32-2001, Fire Emergency Services Program. It
establishes procedures for governing the fire protection program to prevent fires and reduce loss
from fire. It provides guidance to assist commanders with the protection of property and
personnel under their control. It applies to all military and civilian personnel assigned or
attached to F. E. Warren Air Force Base, including all contractors, vendors and tenant
organizations. If this Instruction conflicts with or is inconsistent with other governing
documents, including but not limited to occupational safety and environmental regulations, this
Instruction shall not be construed as waiving or relaxing the other governing documents. Ensure
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS). Comply with AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties
Program, for documents containing privacy act information. Comply with DoDM 5200.01-V2,
DoD, Information Security Program and AFI 31-401, Information Security Management for
documents containing For Official Use Only information. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibilities (OPR) using AF Form
847, Recommendations for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. See attachment 1 for Glossary of References and
Supporting Information.
 2                                                   90MWI32-2001 22 SEPTEMBER 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has significant changes and requires complete review. It incorporates changes
from the Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) and applicable Air Force Occupational Safety and
Health (AFOSH) standards. It applies specifically to the 90 Missile Wing and associate tenants
on F.E. Warren AFB.
90MWI32-2001 22 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                  3



                                           Chapter 1

                         OBJECTIVES AND RESPONSIBILITES

1.1. OBJECTIVE: The objectives of the fire prevention and protection program are to
eliminate the cause of fires and reduce the loss of life, injury, and property damage if a fire
occurs. Achievement of these objectives require commanders' support at all levels and the
participation of all base personnel (military, civilian, and contractors/concessionaires), thus
ensuring accomplishment of our assigned military mission.
1.2. RESPONSIBILITIES:
   1.2.1. 90th Mission Support Group (90th MSG) Commander: The 90 MSG Commander
   exercises primary responsibilities through the Base Civil Engineer (BCE). The 90 MSG
   Commander will be notified when a fire hazard creating any dangerous situation cannot be
   resolved by concerned parties to determine if it should be eliminated, or an operation should
   be discontinued, or if implementation of interim controls will be necessary to reduce the risk
   posed by the situation.
   1.2.2. Base Fire Marshal: The BCE is designated to assist the 90 MSG Commander in
   discharging fire protection responsibilities.
   1.2.3. Base Fire Chief: The fire chief manages the fire protection organization and
   exercises those duties outlined in AFI 32-2001, The Fire Protection Operations and Fire
   Prevention Program.
       1.2.3.1. Non-Emergency Contact: The fire prevention office is the point of contact for
       all questions about this publication.
   1.2.4. Unit Commanders: Unit commanders will ensure compliance of fire safety
   requirements in their area of responsibility.
   1.2.5. Supervisors: Supervisors at all levels are responsible for fire safety in the work areas
   and operations.
   1.2.6. Facility Managers: Facility Managers will develop fire protection and prevention
   procedures for their respective units.
 4                                                          90MWI32-2001 22 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                             Chapter 2

          UNIT COMMANDERS, SUPERVISORS AND FACILITY MANAGERS

2.1. UNIT COMMANDERS: Unit commanders will:
     2.1.1. Periodically review unit fire safety program.
     2.1.2. Ensure annual fire drills are conducted for personnel occupying their facilities, as
     required. Contact fire prevention office to determine requirements for annual fire drills.
     2.1.3. Ensure all newly assigned personnel, both military and civilian, receive fire prevention
     training within 30 days of assignment. REFER TO CHAPTER 3.
     2.1.4. Ensure emergency 911 telephone stickers (obtained from the fire department) are
     placed on each instrument in the organization.
2.2. SUPERVISORS: Supervisors at all levels are responsible for fire safety in the work areas
and operations. This includes briefing personnel on the fire reporting procedures and enforcing
safe smoking practices (from a fire hazard standpoint). Conduct a daily fire inspection to ensure
area of responsibility is safe from fire. The supervisor is also responsible for providing training
IAW AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard.
2.3. FACILITY MANAGERS: Facility managers will develop fire protection and prevention
procedures for their respective units.
     2.3.1. Conduct a visual inspection of facilities and note any fire hazards in their area of
     responsibility. Contact the fire prevention office with any noted fire hazards.
     2.3.2. Ensure monthly visual inspections of fire extinguishers, installed fire suppression
     systems (if applicable) to include wet and dry pipe sprinkler systems, and kitchen hood and
     duct systems are performed to ensure they are operational, and documented on attached
     service tag IAW AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard.
     2.3.3. Check fire doors to ensure they are not blocked and in good working order. Ensure all
     exits are accessible and doors are operative. NOTE: Fire doors will only perform their
     intended function if kept closed unless they are equipped with magnetic holders
     interconnected to detection alarm system.
     2.3.4. Ensure all exits are properly marked with lighted exit signs. Exit signs shall not be
     obstructed. Exit lights will be tested monthly and documented on the inspection form
     provided by the fire prevention office. Note: This is an inspectable item during the annual
     fire prevention inspection.
     2.3.5. All facilities with emergency lights and exit lights shall be tested at least monthly by
     the facility manager. Emergency lights must not be obstructed and shall be adjusted so as to
     illuminate paths of egress. Testing will be documented on the inspection form provided by
     the fire prevention office. Note: This is an inspectable item during the annual fire
     prevention inspection.
     2.3.6. Visual inspections of all installed fire alarm and detection systems, manual pull boxes,
     and detectors must be accomplished at least monthly. These inspections shall be limited to:
        2.3.6.1. Checking for visual damage of devices.
90MWI32-2001 22 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                               5


     2.3.6.2. Eliminating obstructions to or blocking of devices (including fire alarm strobe
     devices).
     2.3.6.3. Ensuring devices are secured in place (including all pull boxes).
     2.3.6.4. Smoke detectors equipped with power indicator lights are checked for flashing
     light.
     2.3.6.5. Ensure detectors with activation lights are checked. NOTE: When lit, the Civil
     Engineer customer service and the fire department must be notified of the activated
     detector.
2.4. UNIT REVIEWS, FIRE SAFETY INSPECTIONS, AND LECTURES:
  2.4.1. Annual Fire Inspections. The fire prevention office conducts annual fire prevention
  visits to all base facilities.
  2.4.2. Fire Prevention Lectures and Demonstrations. The fire prevention office will conduct
  fire prevention lectures and demonstrations at the request of functional managers or social
  groups.
     2.4.2.1. Request lectures and demonstrations at least 15 days prior to the desired date to
     include the approximate number of personnel to attend. Requestors should obtain the
     largest possible audience.
 6                                                       90MWI32-2001 22 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                             Chapter 3

            WORKPLACE FIRE PREVENTION TRAINING REQUIREMENTS:

3.1. FIRE PREVENTION TRAINING: Supervisors are responsible for ensuring this training
is provided to new personnel upon assignment to the installation within 30 days and annually if
directed by the organization’s regulation or technical guidance. The training shall be given as
required to ensure all employees remain familiar with fire safety and prevention requirements or
when there is a change in equipment, procedures, processes, safety, or fire prevention
requirements. Training guides are available from the fire prevention office. See Table 3.1. for
training subjects required.

Table 3.1. Training Subjects




*NOTE: Fire protection personnel are exempt from above areas due to continuous recurring
training.
     3.1.1. Fire extinguisher procedures training is conducted by two methods, hands-on or the
     Advanced Distributed Learning Service, Course list, Miscellaneous, Fire Extinguisher
     Safety.
     3.1.2. Annual hands-on fire extinguisher training is provided by the fire prevention office bi-
     monthly.
3.2. DOCUMENTATION: Document the training on the AF Form 55, Employee Safety and
Health Record, Sections I and IV or automated computer tracking program.
90MWI32-2001 22 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                     7


                                              Chapter 4

                         FIRE REPORTING AND FALSE ALARMS

4.1. USE OF 9-1-1: Fire alarm detection systems are installed in facilities to notify facility
occupants and the fire department. Because of the limitations of these systems, occupants should
ALWAYS use the telephone as the primary means of reporting fire emergencies by dialing 911.
   4.1.1. All known fires, extinguished or not, will be reported to the fire department regardless
   of size or type. Additionally, any condition that could result in a fire or create a hazardous
   situation must be reported immediately.
4.2. THE SPEED SYSTEM. The “SPEED” system must be used during emergencies
involving a potential/actual fire or hazardous material situation. “SPEED” utilizes the following
sequence of actions:
   4.2.1. S –Sound the alarm. Activate the fire alarm system by pulling a pull station or alert
   people within the facility or area to evacuate.
   4.2.2. P –Phone the fire department from a safe area. Speak clearly, remain call,dial 911
   and provide the following information (Do not hang up until told to do so):
       4.2.2.1. Building number.
       4.2.2.2. Building title, e.g. club, theatre, etc.
       4.2.2.3. Location of emergency in building.
       4.2.2.4. Nature of emergency if known, e.g. trash fire, flammable gas, etc.
       4.2.2.5. Your name, phone number and your location you are calling from.
   4.2.3. E –Extinguish if possible. For small fires, additional personnel in the area should be
   directed to use fire extinguishers to control the fire until the fire department arrives. If there
   is doubt about the capability to control the fire with available resources, do not attempt to
   fight the fire. Close the door, initiate the fire alarm (pull station) and exit the area.
   4.2.4. E –Ensure Evacuation. NOTE: Evacuate building immediately and do not re-enter
   until cleared by the senior fire official (SFO) on-scene. Alert all personnel and ensure the
   building is evacuated. Close all doors to offices or rooms as they are exited. Evacuated
   personnel should assemble at a designated point to be accounted for.
   4.2.5. D –Direct the fire department. Upon arrival of the fire department, direct them to the
   emergency situation.
4.3. FALSE ALARMS AND TAMPERING WITH FIRE SAFETY EQUIPMENT: Willful
misconduct or negligence involving fire prevention policies, turning in false alarms, tampering
with or the misuse of fire protection systems or devices, is subject to punishment under the
Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) and appropriate civilian punishment.
   4.3.1. No person shall render any portable or fixed fire extinguishing system, fire device or
   warning system inoperative or inaccessible. Violations are punishable under the UCMJ and
   appropriate civilian punishment. Exception: As necessary during emergencies, maintenance,
   drills, prescribed testing, alterations or renovations.
 8                                                       90MWI32-2001 22 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                             Chapter 5

                  CLASSES OF FIRE AND FIREFIGHTING EQUIPMENT

5.1. CLASSES OF FIRE: Fires are classified according to one or more fire classes that
designate the involvement of the types of fuel supply (i.e. solid type fuel, liquid type fuel) or
electrical energy (i.e. presence or absence) and so by what manner of extinguishing agent will be
effective to contain it or put it out.
     5.1.1. Class “A” Fires. Extinguish wood, paper, rags, and similar materials with water type
     or dry chemical type extinguishers. Garden hoses, buckets or cans of water, and dirt can also
     be used effectively.
     5.1.2. Class "B" Fires. Extinguish lubricants, gasoline, diesel, paint thinner, solvents, and
     other flammable or combustible liquids with dry chemical type extinguishers, directed at the
     base of the fire.
     5.1.3. Class "C" Fires. Extinguish electrical fires with chemical type extinguishers designed
     specifically for all these type fires. CAUTION: Do not use water on electrical fires.
     5.1.4. Class "D" Fires. Extinguish burnable combustible metals such as magnesium,
     titanium, etc., with extinguishers designed specifically for these type fires. Do not attempt
     extinguishment with any form of liquid or vaporizing agent.
     5.1.5. Class “K” Fires. Extinguish fires involving cooking oils or liquid cooking media used
     in commercial cooking equipment.
5.2. FIREFIGHTING EQUIPMENT:
     5.2.1. Fire extinguishers and installed firefighting equipment:
        5.2.1.1. Do not tamper with, remove or block access to firefighting equipment from
        installed locations, or use equipment for other than the purpose of combating fires, i.e.,
        fire extinguishers, fire detection, pull-stations and alarm systems.
        5.2.1.2. Do not block or obscure fire extinguishers, fire detection or fire alarm systems.
        5.2.1.3. Facility fire extinguishers will not be moved from their designated location
        except to extinguish a fire. Extinguishers may not be added or subtracted from any
        facility without       prior approval from the fire prevention office. If an extinguisher is
        found unserviceable during a monthly inspection, contact the fire prevention office for
        service coordination.
        5.2.1.4. Fire extinguishers in facilities. Personnel will not occupy any building prior to
        the installation of fire extinguishers. The civil engineer real property officer and project
        monitor will ensure fire extinguishers and knox boxes are included in design of new
        facilities and supplied by the contractor per contract specifications.
     5.2.2. Facility Knox Boxes. The fire prevention office will purchase and have a Knox-Box
     installed on the exterior of the building at a location directed by fire prevention office. The
     Knox-Box will be equipped with a master key(s) or combo cards needed for fire protection
     personnel to access the building quickly without causing property damage in the event of an
     emergency within the facility.
90MWI32-2001 22 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                 9


  5.2.3. Fire Escape Ladders, Stairways and Fenced Areas. The facility manager will ensure:
     5.2.3.1. Fire escape ladders and stairways are unobstructed and maintained in a good
     state of repair.
     5.2.3.2. Storage or use of vending machines in stairwells and under stairwells is
     prohibited at all times.
     5.2.3.3. Adequate means of escape is provided for all fenced-in areas. Local procedures
     for such areas will include provisions for opening a secondary gate in case of fire, for the
     evacuation of personnel and for entrance of fire department personnel and equipment.
  5.2.4. Fire Hydrants. Base fire hydrants will not be used for any other purpose other than
  firefighting without prior written approval from fire department.
 10                                                      90MWI32-2001 22 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                            Chapter 6

                              FIRE PREVENTION—GENERAL

6.1. OPEN FLAME OR FIRES. No open fires or flames, such as campfires, bonfires, fire pits,
chimneys, trash fires, vegetation fires, and so forth, regardless of size, are authorized on this
installation unless inspected by the fire department and approved in writing by the fire chief, or
designated representative.
6.2. CANDLES AND OTHER TYPES OF FLAME PRODUCING DEVICES. The use of
open flame devices such as candles, liquid, or solid fuel burner, incense, and so forth, are
prohibited in all base facilities to include billeting unless approved by the fire prevention office.
Exceptions: Privatized housing, base club, and facilities using open flame devices for religious
services in designated facilities are exempt.
   6.2.1. The use of candle warmers is strictly prohibited for use in dormitories Occupants in
   base facilities must ensure that candle warmer devices are turned off at the end of the duty
   day.
6.3. BARBECUE GRILLS/PORTABLE DEEP-FAT FRYERS: Barbecue grills and deep-fat
fryers will not be used inside or within 10 feet of any Air Force facility. Special events will
require inspection by the fire department prior to the event and approved, in writing, by the fire
chief or his designated representative.
6.4. COOKING IN AIR FORCE FACILITIES: These events will be coordinated with the
fire prevention office by the facility manager at least 48 hours in advance. Cooking is strictly
prohibited in facilities or areas not specifically approved for that purpose, with the exception of
special events approved by the fire chief or designated representative.
6.5. DUMPSTERS: Dumpsters used for trash and other waste shall be located at least 25 feet
from facilities unless written approval by the fire chief or designated representative. Exception:
The temporary use of roll-off type dumpsters during clean-up or renovation projects are exempt.
6.6. FIREWORKS. The possession or use of fireworks is prohibited in all base areas to
including privatized housing.
90MWI32-2001 22 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                   11


                                           Chapter 7

       FIRE PREVENTION—UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING (DORMITORIES)

7.1. RESPONSIBILITIES: Unaccompanied housing occupants are responsible for fire
prevention in their quarters. Occupants must be familiar with fire prevention instructions.
7.2. PROHIBITIONS.
   7.2.1. Do not use open flame lighting devices or candles in unaccompanied housing.
   Candles may be used for decoration; however, they may not be lighted.
   7.2.2. Burning incense is strictly prohibited.
   7.2.3. Cut live Christmas trees are prohibited.
   7.2.4. Any type of automotive or motorcycle equipment, including internal combustion
   engines, batteries, or major sub-assemblies such as bumpers, removable tops, hoods and
   fenders are prohibited except in authorized storage areas.
   7.2.5. The use of radiant heat element cooking appliances, i.e., toasters, toaster ovens,
   skillets, electrical frying pans, hot plates, and hibachi grills are only authorized in dormitory
   kitchenettes.




                                             TRACEY L. HAYES, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 90th Missile Wing
 12                                                  90MWI32-2001 22 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References:
AFI 32-2001, Fire Emergency Services Program, 9 September 2008
AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard, 4 December 2012
Prescribed and Adopted Forms:
Prescribed Forms: No forms have been prescribed by this publication.
Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendations for Change of Publication
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
DoD—Department of Defense
FM—Facility Manager
IAW—In Accordance With
UCMJ—Uniformed Code of Military Justice
UFC—Unified Facilities Criteria
