BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       90TH MISSILE WING INSTRUCTION 32-302
90TH MISSILE WING
                                                                            9 DECEMBER 2014

                                                                               Civil Engineering

                                                CONTROL OF PETS AND STRAY ANIMALS




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 90 CES/CEOI                                                        Certified by: 90 CES/CC
                                                                         (Lt Col James S. Duke)
                                                                                         Pages: 9
Supersedes:    90SWI31-3, 30 January 2004


This instruction implements provisions stated in Air Force Instruction 32-6001, Family Housing
Management and Air Force Instruction 32-6007, Privatized Housing Management and
establishes policy and procedures for the control of pets and how stray animals will be dealt with
at Francis E. Warren Air Force Base (FEW), Wyoming. It applies to all persons who live on,
work on, or visit FEW. On-base residents must also comply with Balfour Beatty Communities’
(BBC),      Pet    Addendum      (http://www.fewarrenfamilyhousing.com/media/659697/Pet-
Addendum.pdf). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Comply with AFI 33-
332, The Air Force Privacy And Civil Liberties Program, for documents containing privacy act
information. Comply with AFI 31-401, Information Security Management for documents
containing For Official Use Only information. Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibilities (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendations for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. See attachment 1 for Glossary of References and
Supporting Information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication was substantially revised and must be reviewed in its entirety. Changes include
the organization from the 90th Space Wing to 90th Missile Wing. The publication series changed
 2                                                          90MWI32-302 9 DECEMBER 2014


from 31 (Security) to 32 (Civil Engineering) due to changes in organizational responsibility.
Additional changes include the infraction consequences in section 2.3.2, and the addition of
policies from Balfour Beatty Communities (BBC) in base housing.
1. Terms Explained.
     1.1. Pet. Any animal kept and cared for by an owner. This includes dogs, cats, horses, and
     exotic animals not prohibited by this instruction or civilian law, etc. Wild animals, farm
     animals, livestock (except horses stabled at the base stables), and reptiles are prohibited as
     pets on FEW.
     1.2. Stray Animal. Any uncontrolled domestic animal loose on the base.
     1.3. Control. A leash, rope or chain, fenced area, or other positive measures to ensure a pet
     cannot gain access to other property or public areas.
     1.4. Animal Abuse. To physically mistreat; to do physical harm; or fail to properly feed,
     water, house, or otherwise provide adequate care for an animal.
     1.5. Incident. Any case of animal abuse or neglect, any bite or scratch by an aggressive pet ,
     or any occurrence of a pet not being under control.
     1.6. Horse Stables. The horse stables are located on the northern part of FEW and are
     operated by The Outriders of Fort D.A. Russell to board privately owned horses. The horse
     stables are not a 90th Force Support Squadron (90 FSS) operation.
2. General.
     2.1. Delegation of Authority. The 90th Missile Wing Commander (90 MW/CC) may
     delegate to the 90th Mission Support Group Commander (90 MSG/CC) the responsibility
     and authority to implement and enforce the policies and procedures set forth in this
     instruction.
     2.2. Pets in Multi-Family Housing (MFH). Housing of domestic animals on a United States
     Air Force Base is a privilege. The 90 MSG/CC permits housing pets so long as these animals
     do not impact mission effectiveness, do not become a nuisance to other base residents, and
     are adequately cared for and controlled.
     2.3. Removal of Pets from Installation. The 90 MW/CC, or delegatee, may order a pet
     removed from the base. In extreme cases, the 90 MW/CC or delegatee may order a family
     member to move off base due to the misbehavior of the pet. The basic rules are:
        2.3.1. Pet owners must keep their pet under control and reasonably quiet at all times.
        Owners must provide adequate care to include food, water, and shelter for their pets
        especially during extreme hot and cold weather. Pets cannot be leashed to outside
        faucets, privacy fences, or any part of the housing unit or existing landscaping.
            2.3.1.1. Pets including cats are permitted off leash when inside the owners' residence
            or within the owners' enclosed yard. Pets, including cats, are NOT permitted to run
            free outside the owners’ enclosed yard. Pets are permitted off leash, if under voice
            control, in the following three areas of the base.
                2.3.1.1.1. Area 1. In the area immediately around and west of North and South
                Pearson Lakes. The area is bordered on the east by Rogers Road, on the north by
90MWI32-302 9 DECEMBER 2014                                                                    3


              Central Drive, on the west by Central Drive and Wapiti Drive, and on the south
              by Wapiti and Rogers Road.
              2.3.1.1.2. Area 2. The area directly east of the horse stables. The area is
              bordered on the west by Rogers Road, on the east by the base perimeter fence, on
              the south by Sampson Road, and no further north that the Army Aviation Support
              Facility.
              2.3.1.1.3. Area 3. The open areas located south and west of Gate 2. This area is
              bordered on the northeast by Missile Drive, on the northwest by Blackpowder
              Road, on the northwest by a line drawn from the intersection of Blackpowder
              Road and Territory Road in a southeasterly direction to the base perimeter fence,
              and on the southeast by the base perimeter fence.
          2.3.1.2. When off leash, in any of these three areas, the pet:
              2.3.1.2.1. Must be accompanied by their owner(s), family members of the owner,
              or someone “sitting” the animal and be under positive verbal command at all
              times.
              2.3.1.2.2. Will not be permitted to become a nuisance or danger to other
              personnel or animals in the area they are located.
              2.3.1.2.3. Must be placed under physical control (on a leash, inside a vehicle,
              inside a pet carrier, etc.) when departing these areas.
              2.3.1.2.4. Are not permitted to enter any base housing areas off leash.
       2.3.2. Failure to follow these rules will result in:
          2.3.2.1. 1st Offense: Written Warning issued by Wing commander or delegatee;
          except for bites, which will result in the animal being quarantined and removal from
          the installation. The pet owner has 10-days to rebut the infraction to the Military
          Magistrate.
          2.3.2.2. 2nd Offense: Final Written Warning issued by the MW/CC or delegatee.
          2.3.2.3. 3rd Offense: Animal will be banned from FEW with a written letter from the
          MW/CC or delegatee.
          2.3.2.4. 4th Offense: Pet Owners will be ordered to move off FEW.
*NOTE 1: 1st biting offense will result in animal being quarantined followed by removal from
housing on FEW.
*NOTE 2: Upon written notice of any offenses, pet owners will have 10 days to rebut written
notice. Address pending circumstances to the 90 MW/CC or delegatee.
       2.3.3. Pet owners are liable for damage caused by their pets, including injuries to other
       animals or people.
          2.3.3.1. Pet owners are responsible for cleaning up and disposing of their pets' feces
          even in off-leash areas. FEW is in a non-compliance area for fecal coliform and all
          feces picked up will keep the base from contributing to the fecal coliform levels.
 4                                                          90MWI32-302 9 DECEMBER 2014


           2.3.3.2. BBC will be notified by memorandum of all pet complaints or incidents
           (e.g., biting, scratching, nuisance stray, abuse, et cetera).
       2.3.4. Authority to ban pets from the installation rests within the sole discretion of the
90 MW/CC or delegatee. However, BBC housing has the authority to ban pets from BBC
housing units when tenants are found in violation of the lease agreement, the pet addendum, or
base regulations and/or instructions.
       2.3.5. Breeding or raising of animals in BBC housing for commercial purposes is
       prohibited unless approved by the 90 MW/CC or delegatee . The operation of a
       commercial-type kennel in government quarters is also prohibited.
       2.3.6. Horses may be housed at the Outriders of Fort D.A. Russell Club stables when the
       stables are operational. Horses must be stabled off base if stables on base are not
       established and operating. Under no circumstances may horses or other farm animals be
       stabled or housed in military housing units. The horse stables are under the management
       of the Outriders Club of Fort D. A. Russell. Horse owners stabling a horse at the stables
       must comply with the Outriders Club of Fort D. A. Russell operating and horse health
       requirements.
           2.3.6.1. Horses may be ridden on the trails in area 1 but are not permitted to enter the
           water. Horses may also be ridden in the area around the stables including the open
           prairie to the north indicated in paragraph 2.3.1.1.2 Area 2. Horses may not be ridden
           into any housing area or in the FAMCAMP Pavilion area.
           2.3.6.2. Family pets of Outriders of Fort D.A. Russell Club members are permitted in
           the stable area. It is the owner's responsibility to ensure pets do not create safety
           problems.
       2.3.7. The Base Entomology personnel will attempt to contact the owner of any stray
       animal/pet they capture. Owners may collect their pets through the Cheyenne Animal
       Shelter. The pet owner is responsible for all costs associated with sheltering the pet at the
       animal shelter.
       2.3.8. Cheyenne Animal Shelter will handle pets as directed by the base veterinarian
       and/or representative if a person has been bitten or scratched and the owner cannot be
       found. When the owner is identified, they will be directed to contact the base
       veterinarian.
       2.3.9. Birds of any type must be securely caged if kept in BBC housing. Fish, reptiles
       and other animals are not permitted in the dormitories, unaccompanied officer's quarters,
       unaccompanied noncommissioned officer’s quarters, guest’s quarters and other public
       buildings without written approval of the 90 MW/CC or delegatee. Case-by case
       exceptions may be made for military working dogs and assistance-type dogs. BBC
       Housing prohibits poisonous reptiles of any type.
       2.3.10. Any incident of a pet inflicting injury, even if properly fenced and/or under
       control, that represents a verifiable danger to the community, will be evaluated on a case-
       by-case basis. Pet owners are responsible for the actions of their animals even if the pet
       is provoked.
3. Responsibilities.
90MWI32-302 9 DECEMBER 2014                                                                     5


   3.1. 90th Security Forces Squadron:
       3.1.1. Will respond to resident complaints of animal abuse or animal bites.
       3.1.2. Will conduct a preliminary investigation in all cases of suspected animal abuse
       and will forward the findings to the Base Veterinary Clinic for further investigation, if
       needed.
       3.1.3. Will include an entry on AF Form 53, Security Forces Desk Blotter. For every
       animal complaint, a Security Forces Management Information System (SFMIS) incident
       report will be accomplished on all incidents as defined by paragraph 1.5
          3.1.3.1. A copy of each report (DD Form 1408) will be sent to the commander of the
          military member (if known) who owns the pet. The Housing Office, BBC, and 90
          MW/CC or delegatee will be notified of any incidents involving violations of the
          governing rules, animal bites or animal abuse problems in BBC housing or other
          areas on base.
          3.1.3.2. If an animal bites or scratches an individual, Security Forces will advise the
          victim to seek medical treatment. If they refuse treatment, annotate the refusal in the
          blotter and SFMIS report, if completed.
   3.2. Base Residents/Pet Owners will:
       3.2.1. Register all Pets. Present records of all pets, including horses, to the Veterinary
       Clinic, Bldg 288, within 5 days after arrival on base in order to validate and ensure its
       health and immunization status. The Veterinary Clinic will review the records and return
       them to the pet owner. The base vet will maintain a copy of the animal’s health record in
       accordance with AFIJI 48-131, Veterinary Health Services.
          3.2.1.1. The pet’s health records must be completed as necessary by the owner. It is
          the owners' responsibility to make sure health records are kept up to date and to
          provide the base veterinarians' office with a copy of examinations and vaccinations
          received from off-base veterinarians. Owners must also inform the Base Veterinary
          Clinic, Bldg. 288,
Phone: (307)773-3354, of any change of address and phone numbers and to physically sign out
your pet records upon Permanent Chance of Station (PCS) or Expiration Term of Service (ETS).
          3.2.1.2. The health records of all horses housed at the base stables must also be
          presented to the Outriders Club of Fort D. A. Russell board members. A copy of the
          vaccination record and negative Coggins Test will be forwarded to the base
          veterinarian.
              3.2.1.2.1. Ensure domestic pets and horses have current rabies vaccination with
              certificate signed by military or civilian veterinarian.
              3.2.1.2.2. Ensure that, in addition to the rabies vaccination, horses stabled at the
              Outriders of Fort D.A. Russell Club stables comply with the vaccination
              requirements established by the USAF, USA Veterinary Services, base
              regulations, and the Outriders Club of Fort D. A. Russell.
       3.2.2. Keep pets under control at all times. The pet must wear a collar or harness with a
       current rabies vaccination tag and the owners name tag. Unless within the confines of the
6                                                           90MWI32-302 9 DECEMBER 2014


       owners' home or fenced yard, pets will be on a leash with the exception of the areas
       identified in paragraph 2.3.1.1. above.
       3.2.3. Keep all pets from creating a nuisance, i.e., barking loudly, digging, chasing
       wildlife, or other actions which may damage government property.
       3.2.4. Keep pets from interfering with the work of civilian or military personnel.
       3.2.5. Keep the pet housed, fed, and safeguarded in accordance with BBC’s Pet
       Addendum. This includes providing proper shelter from the weather when housed
       outdoors.
       3.2.6. Ensure fenced-in yards or area around quarters used by pets are policed daily.
       When pets are walked, clean up any droppings deposited by animals.
       3.2.7. Keep unspayed female animals in isolation while in heat.
       3.2.8. Contact the Base Veterinary Clinic if a pet dies, is sold, or is given away.
       3.2.9. Contact the Law Enforcement Desk when a pet escapes from control.
    3.3. Base Veterinary Clinic:
       3.3.1. Provide animal vaccinations and examinations as necessary in accordance with
       Army Regulation 40-905.
       3.3.2. Maintain pet registration and health records on file for all pets kept or maintained
       on FEW in accordance with Army Regulation 40-905.
       3.3.3. Attending veterinarian will serve as the base Animal Abuse Officer and will assist
       with or be consulted by security forces in potential cases of animal abuse, as identified by
       security forces or by other base residents.
       3.3.4. Provide the owner the original copy of DD Form 2208, Rabies Vaccination
       Certificate and issues a numbered FEW “rabies tag” to the owner.
           3.3.4.1. Forward a log of rabies vaccinations record to Cheyenne Animal Control.
       3.3.5. Coordinate with Military Public Health on all animal bite cases and rabies
       quarantine.
       3.3.6. Provide guidance to pet owners about procedures for veterinary evaluations and
       quarantine of pets following a biting incident.
       3.3.7. Ensure all animals involved in a bite incident receive appropriate veterinary
       evaluation and quarantine as required. The owner of the animal will sign DD Form 2623,
       Animal Home Quarantine, and comply with Army Regulation 40-905.
    3.4. The 90th Civil Engineer Squadron Entomology Shop (90 CES/CEOIE) is responsible
    for picking up and disposing of dead domestic animals (i.e. dogs, cats.) found along the
    roadside on FEW, other than the housing areas. This does not include dead wild animals
    such as geese, ducks, etc. Base Entomology will trap stray cats and dogs when requested.
    The Entomology Shop can be contacted through 90 CES Customer Service at (307)773-
    3175.
90MWI32-302 9 DECEMBER 2014                                                                   7


   3.5. BBC is responsible for stray cats and dogs in the housing area. They are also
   responsible for dead animals in the housing area. If stray cats and dogs or dead animals are
   discovered in the housing area, contact BBC at (307)637-6102.
   3.6. BBC will notify the Base Public Health Office (307)773-3040 and Civil Engineers (307)
   773-3175 of any infestations that may impact the health of the community.
4. Vaccinations, Rabies Control, and Animal Bites:
   4.1. General Requirements. Dogs and cats, 4 months of age and older, (horses 6 months of
   age and older) must be vaccinated as required by Wyoming state law including vaccination
   against rabies. Dogs, cats and horses are required to be vaccinated against rabies in
   accordance with manufacturer’s label directions and veterinary guidance. USDA licensed
   three year vaccines are accepted. A military or civilian veterinarian may complete this.
   Horses must be vaccinated as required by either the Wyoming state law or the Outriders Club
   of Fort D. A. Russell, whichever is more stringent.
      4.1.1. As a minimum, dogs and cats are required to be immunized with those vaccines
      that are considered to be “core” vaccines, as determined by the U.S. Army Veterinary
      Services in the Small Animal Vaccination Guidelines. These vaccinations will be
      accomplished at the discretion of the veterinarian and in accordance with the vaccine
      manufacturer’s instructions. USDA licensed three year vaccines are accepted. In the
      event of a valid medical reason that contraindicates the use of a particular vaccine in a
      given pet, this reason shall be annotated in the medical record.
      4.1.2. As a minimum, horses will be vaccinated and or tested for the following: eastern
      and western encephalomyelitis, rabies, tetanus toxoid, and equine rhinopneumonitis. A
      Coggins test must be completed no more than 12 months prior to entry to the base with
      negative results. Once the horse is placed in the stables, another Coggins test must be
      conducted within 12 months of the last test and annually thereafter.
          4.1.2.1. Foals will be immunized between 3 and 4 months of age, receive boosters 1-
          2 months later, and then follow normal immunization schedules.
   4.2. Vaccination documentation. Vaccinations will be properly documented.
      4.2.1. When pets are vaccinated by the base veterinary clinic, pet owners will be issued a
      numbered and dated FEW “rabies tag” and a DD Form 2208, Rabies Vaccination
      Certificate, for each animal properly vaccinated against rabies. The tag is to be
      permanently affixed to the animals' collar and worn continually. Cheyenne Animal
      Control will be provided copies of rabies vaccination records and tag numbers. In
      accordance with Cheyenne Municipal Codes, a rabies tag must be issued annually.
      Issuance and reporting of annual rabies tag numbers is required for City registration.
      4.2.2. When pets are vaccinated by off-base veterinarians, the owner will ensure the off-
      base veterinarian provides them with an accurate record of the vaccinations and will
      maintain these records. Proof of the vaccination will be taken to the base veterinarian’s
      office where a base rabies tag will be issued. In accordance with Cheyenne Municipal
      Codes, a rabies tag must be issued annually. Issuance and reporting of annual rabies tag
      numbers is required for City registration.
8                                                           90MWI32-302 9 DECEMBER 2014


           4.2.2.1. Pet owners will provide the base veterinarian’s office with a copy of the
           pet’s current vaccination record within 5 days of bringing the animal onto the
           installation, and update the veterinary office’s copy of the vaccination record after
           each vaccination. Horse owners will also provide the base veterinarians' office with a
           copy of the horses' current Coggins test and deworming procedure.
           4.2.2.2. Pet/animal owners will make the animals' health records available, upon
           request, to the base veterinarian or security forces personnel any time their pet is
           involved in an incident to include animal bites, attacks, or if the pet is picked up as a
           stray. The health records must be presented to the requesting agency within 24 hours
           of the request, but not later than 72 hours from the time of the incident.
    4.3. Animal Bite/Scratch Incidents. Anyone bitten or scratched by an animal should seek
    medical treatment at either the base hospital or civilian medical facility. All biting incidents
    will be reported to the 90th Medical Group (90 MDG). If the bite occurred when the owner
    did not properly control the animal, security forces will be contacted.
       4.3.1. The 90 MDG will initiate DD Form 2341, Report of Animal Bite - Potential
       Rabies Exposure, with all available information on the biting incident. The original
       report will be provided to the base veterinary clinic. The individual’s medical record will
       be annotated if they refuse medical treatment.
       4.3.2. When notified of an animal bite/scratch which occurred off base, the base
       veterinary clinic will notify the Cheyenne Animal Control. The DD Form 2341 will be
       annotated to reflect the veterinary evaluation and disposition/status quarantine of the
       biting animal.
       4.3.3. Within 24 hours of on-base biting/scratching incident, the owner will have the
       animal evaluated by a local veterinarian and quarantined for a 10-day period. In
       accordance with Army Regulation 40-905, the base veterinary clinic reserves the right to
       order the animal to be quarantined off base at the owners' expense. The veterinarian must
       reevaluate the animal before it is released from quarantine. Proof of current rabies
       vaccination, the veterinary evaluation, and the quarantine status will be provided to the
       base veterinarian. Also notify BBC by memorandum of all pet complaints or incidents,
       i.e., (biting, scratching, nuisance, stray, abuse, non-control, etc.).




                                              TRACEY L. HAYES, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander, 90th Missile Wing
90MWI32-302 9 DECEMBER 2014                                                      9


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 01 November 2005
AFI 32-6001, Family Housing Management, 21 August 2006
AFI 32-6007, Privatized Housing Management, 19 September 2012
AFI 33-332, The Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program, 05 June 2013
AFI 34-223, Private Organization (PO) Program, 8 March 2007
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
Army Regulation 40-905, Veterinary Health Services, 26 August 2006
Prescribed and Adopted Forms
Prescribed Forms: There are no forms prescribed by this publication.
Adopted Forms:
AF Form 53, Security Forces Desk Blotter
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
DD Form 2208, Rabies Vaccination Certificate, May 2008
DD Form 2341, Animal Bite – Potential Rabies Exposure, Report of, October 2007
DD Form 2623, Animal Home Quarantine, June 1992
