BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       90TH MISSILE WING INSTRUCTION 90-201
90TH MISSILE WING
                                                                                    3 JULY 2013

                                                                                Command Policy

                                                      WING SELF-ASSESSMENT PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available for downloading on the e-Publishing website
               at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 90MW/XP                                                             Certified by: 90 MW/CV
                                                                        (Colonel George Farfour)
Supersedes:    90 SWI 90-1, 20 Aug 2007                                                  Pages: 14


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction 90-201_AFGSCSUP_I, Inspector General
Activities. This instruction applies to the 90th Missile Wing and all subordinate units. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS). Comply with AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, for documents
containing privacy act information. Comply with DoDM 5200.01-V2, DoD, Information
Security Program: Marking of Classified Information and AFI 31-401, Information Security
Management for documents containing For Official Use Only information. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibilities (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendations for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. See Attachment 1 for a
glossary of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been revised to include, in more detail, duties for commanders, agency
chiefs, and the 90th Missile Wing Plans and Programs Office (90 MW/XP). Additions have
been added to include annual XP Staff Assistance Visits (SAV) and annual training
requirements.
1. Overview. The Self-Assessment Program (SAP) provides an effective means to identify,
track, and correct deficiencies obtained from self-inspections, SAVs, Higher Headquarters
(HHQ),and other inspections. Self-assessments assess mission performanceand organizational
effectiveness for commanders through internal reviews. The intent is to provide commanders
 2                                                                  90MWI90-201 3 JULY 2013


witha tool for internal assessment of unit health and to complement external inspections and
assessments. Commanders are SAP customers and therefore dictate the quality of their SAP.
They use SAP results to assess mission readiness and direct resources and energies to correct
deficiencies. A viable SAP requires a conscientious approach at all levels.
     1.1. Program Criteria. A SAP is beneficial if it does the following:
        1.1.1. Assigns SAP responsibilities.
        1.1.2. Is tailored to each unit’s structure and mission and contains mechanisms that
        ensure adequate inspection coverage (at least semi-annually) of the organization’s
        mission, resources, training, and personnel programs.
        1.1.3. Establishes a method to identify, document, track, and resolve self-identified and
        HHQ deficiencies.
        1.1.4. Provides feedback to commanders.
        1.1.5. Establishes a method to cross-feed information on inspection deficiencies, lessons
        learned, and best practices from other bases.
2. Responsibilities.

Figure 2.1. 90 MW Self-Assessment Program Hierarchy.




     2.1. 90th Missile Wing Commander (90 MW/CC).
90MWI90-201 3 JULY 2013                                                                        3


     2.1.1. Provides executive oversight for wing self-assessments.  Delegates self-
     assessments operations to 90 MW/CV. Signs final wing semi-annual self-assessment
     reports.
  2.2. 90th Missile Wing Vice Commander (90 MW/CV).
     2.2.1. Directs semi-annual self-assessments for May and November of 90 MW
     units/agencies to ensure program compliance. The self-assessment reporting months of
     May and November may be changed due to mission requirements.
     2.2.2. Directs additional self-assessments as necessary to include cross-organizational
     self-assessments as required.
     2.2.3. Appoints primary and alternate wing SAP managers in writing and delegates
     authority to the wing SAP managers for the daily administration and management of the
     90 MW SAP.
     2.2.4. Appoints a primary and alternate wing Management Internal Control Toolset
     (MICT) managers in writing and delegates authority to the wing MICT managers for
     daily administration and management of the 90 MW MICT.
     2.2.5. Reviews and recommends closure of HHQ deficiencies to organizations above
     wing level. Closes minor HHQ deficiencies at wing level as authorized by the applicable
     HHQ inspection report reply instructions.
     2.2.6. Delegates closure of self-identified deficiencies to group commanders and
     Director of Staff. Coordinates or closes self-identified deficiencies that apply to the wing
     level or across groups. May review and validate closures accomplished by group
     commanders and Director of Staff.
     2.2.7. Routinely reviews status of open self-identified and HHQ deficiencies.
     2.2.8. Reviews final semi-annual self-inspection reports for 90 MW/CC signature.
  2.3. 90th Missile Plans and Programs Office (90 MW/XP).
     2.3.1. Provides daily administration and management of the wing SAP for the 90
     MW/CV.
     2.3.2. Serves as the interface between 90 MW units and HHQ organizations on daily
     matters concerning SAP.
     2.3.3. Serve as the primary and alternate wing SAP/MICT managers as documented on
     an appointment letter signed by the 90 MW/CV.
     2.3.4. Serve as the primary and alternate lead wing staff agency SAP/MICT monitors as
     documented on an appointment letter signed by the 90 MW Director of Staff.
     2.3.5. Conducts, documents, and tracks initial SAP monitor training of all primary and
     alternate SAP monitors within the wing.
         2.3.5.1. Initial SAP monitor training is conducted by a wing SAP monitor using a
         PowerPoint presentation or similar electronic media in a guided discussion. Paper
         copies of the presentation can be used in addition to the electronic version or if
         computer resources are not available at the training location. The electronic version
4                                                              90MWI90-201 3 JULY 2013


       will be maintained and updated by the wing SAP monitor and made available to all
       SAP monitors within the wing.
       2.3.5.2. Initial SAP monitor training is documented in a memorandum signed by a
       wing SAP monitor who conducted the training. The preferred method is to generate
       one training letter for each individual. The letters will be maintained in the unit’s
       SAP binder at the appropriate level (squadron, flight, etc.).
       2.3.5.3. After completion of initial SAP monitor training, members will be granted
       access to the SharePoint website in order to maintain the SAP binder and
       add/update/modify any open discrepancies.
       2.3.5.4. Annual SAP refresher training is required by reviewing the hardcopy slides
       and notifying XP or through attending a group training session. Upon completion of
       refresher training, a new memorandum will be signed by a wing SAP monitor.
       2.3.5.5. The wing SAP monitor will maintain all appointment letters, training letters,
       and track initial/refresher training for all SAP monitors and maintain control of access
       to the SharePoint database.
    2.3.6. Utilizes, acquires, develops, and maintains available resources to include websites,
    databases, spreadsheets, SharePoint, and other capabilities to effectively administer and
    manage the wing SAP.
    2.3.7. Grants, maintains, and removes SAP/MICT monitors and leadership access to
    available resources.
       2.3.7.1. SAP monitor access is granted upon appointment by the applicable unit
       leadership and completion of initial SAP monitor training.
       2.3.7.2. AppointedSAP/MICT monitors are designated on an appointment letter
       signed and dated by unit leadership.
       2.3.7.3. Initial SAP monitor training is required within 30 days of appointment as
       determined by the date on the appointment letter.
       2.3.7.4. Unit leadership should not be designated as a primary or alternate SAP
       monitor for their unit. Unit leadership is considered to include the unit commander,
       unit deputy commander, Director of Staff, wing staff agency chief, and wing staff
       agency deputy chief.
    2.3.8. Due to classified inspection reports and the limited number of Secret Internet
    Protocol Router Network (SIPRNet) computers, wing and group monitors as minimum
    will maintain a SIPRNet account. Notifies group/staff agency monitors of updates and
    changes to available resources.
    2.3.9. Reviews open self-identified and open HHQ deficiencies at least monthly.
    Reviews will include checking for overdue estimated completion date(s) (ECD), overdue
    30 day updates, adequacy and progress of corrective actions, etc. Ensure applicable SAP
    monitors aggressively follow-up on open deficiencies and units take corrective actions.
    2.3.10. Provides periodic status updates of open self-identifiedand open HHQ
    deficiencies to 90 MW/CV as directed.
90MWI90-201 3 JULY 2013                                                                     5


     2.3.11. Distributes and posts information concerning HHQ inspection deficiencies and
     applicable cross-feed inspection reports from other bases.
     2.3.12. Distributes and posts applicable AF and AFGSC Special Interest Items (SII) and
     Command Interest Items (CII).
        2.3.12.1. Checks for new or updated SIIs and CIIs monthly.
        2.3.12.2. Coordinates new SIIs/CIIs with 90 MW/CV to determine applicability and
        most appropriate unit to serve as wing point of contact (POC). Once a POC is
        determined, contact unit and gather information for POC to work SII or CII. 90
        MW/IG will create an appointment letter for 90 MW/CV to sign and will coordinate
        POC updates when required. For additional instruction on SII/CII see paragraph 7.
     2.3.13. Conducts Staff Assistance Visits (SAV) during the wing semi-annual SAP
     reviews in the months of May and November of group/wing staff agency SAP monitors.
     This review includes validation of SAP monitor appointments, appropriate checklists, and
     a thorough review of any deficiencies assigned to that group/wing staff.
     2.3.14. Ensures the electronic program binder for SAP is established and maintained as a
     viable tool for the wing to utilize. Currently, the electronic 90 MW SAP Binder is
     located       on        the       90      MW/IG          SharePoint        site      at:
     https://warren.eis.af.mil/wingagencies/SAP/default.aspx
     2.3.15. Ensures the scheduling and performance of semi-annual self-inspections. The
     wing SAP monitor will send a notification letter signed by the 90 MW/CV and
     schedulefor each inspection period to the group/wing staff agency monitors.
     2.3.16. Provides standardized templates and instructions for group/wing staff agencies to
     report semi-annual self-inspection results. Reported information includes verification of
     unit SAP monitors, a review of cross-feed inspection reports, checklists/applicable
     directives accomplished, and open self-identified/HHQ deficiencies.
  2.4. Group Commanders/Director of Staff.
     2.4.1. Appoints primary and alternate SAP monitors in writing and forwards a copy to 90
     MW/XP upon appointment.
     2.4.2. Ensures primary/alternate SAP monitors are trained by 90 MW/XP. Monitors
     must be trained within 30 days of appointment.
     2.4.3. Ensure appropriate level of manpower is directed towards the SAP program. The
     minimum requirement is for each unit to have a primary and alternate SAP monitor,
     however, additional monitors are likely required for larger organizations to maintain a
     quality program.
     2.4.4. Ensure assigned units accomplish all required checklists no earlier than 60 days
     before each wing semi-annual self-inspection. These semi-annual reviews will be in the
     months of May and November unless directed otherwise by the 90 MW/CV.
     2.4.5. Review and endorse the group/wing staff semi-annual self-inspection summary
     report. Group commanders and the Director of Staff (DS) will review all SAP
     deficiencies and provide a summary of results for their organization to 90 MW/XP.
6                                                                  90MWI90-201 3 JULY 2013


       2.4.6. Close all self-identified deficiencies in the 90 MW SAP database for their
       organization. The group CD or group monitors/lead wing staff agency monitors can
       make a statement on the self-identified discrepancy (SAP 101) concurring that the write-
       up has been closed by the group CC or DS.
    2.5. Group/Lead Wing Staff Agency SAP monitors.
       2.5.1. Acts as the primary SAP focal point for all subordinate units/agencies. All
       questions and problems related to SAP will go from the units through the group monitors
       to the 90 MW/XP.
       2.5.2. Distributes all information provided to them from 90 MW/XP to their respective
       units as needed. Monitors will also ensure the quality and effectiveness of the inspection
       program within all subordinate units and functional areas.
       2.5.3. Completes annual training by reviewing the current SAP training slides and report
       completion of training to 90 MW/XP. Group and agency monitors are responsible to
       track the status of initial/annual training of their subordinate units and report completion
       of annual training to 90 MW/XP.
       2.5.4. Ensures hard copy group and subordinate unit SAP binders are maintained for
       inspection purposes. Unit SAP binders are required to contain the paper checklists
       accomplished.    Mandatory checklists are the unit’s primary checklists. Electronic
       checklists can be maintained for office safety and records management, which are
       required semi-annually for each applicable office. All hard copy checklists require
       rank/name/date on front page of who completed the inspection and date checklist
       completed.
       2.5.5. Ensures 90 MW/XP has the most current group and subordinate unit appointment
       letters on file.
       2.5.6. Ensures squadron SAP monitors and functional area managers use the 90 MW
       SAP database to document all non-compliance findings. This portion will be used to
       document, track and close all other deficiencies found during self-identification,
       exercises, SAVs, etc.
       2.5.7. Reviews all group/staff agency deficiencies periodically during each month.
       Reviews will include; checking for overdue ECD, overdue 30 day updates, track progress
       of corrective actions, ensure corrective actions are validated, etc. SAP monitors will
       aggressively follow up on errors and take corrective actions for these deficiencies.
       2.5.8. Ensures all semi-annual self-inspections are conducted no earlier than 60 days
       prior to the months of May and November unless directed otherwise by the 90 MW/CV.
       Ensure group and subordinate units semi-annual, self-inspection results are consolidated
       in one report, reviewed and signed by the group CC/CD or DS and sent to 90 MW/XP by
       the established date.
       2.5.9. Ensure source documents, particularly cross-feed inspection reports that are
       located on both the SAPR and NIPR, are thoroughly reviewed; good ideas from other
       bases are adopted (when applicable) and ensure discrepancies found at other bases do not
       exist within their units.
90MWI90-201 3 JULY 2013                                                                     7


     2.5.10. Ensure squadron/staff agencies enter a new database entry into the 90 MW SAP
     database for all non-compliant findings. These findings are those that cannot be
     corrected on-the-spot, and require more than five business days to correct. All write-ups
     will be entered within 10 duty days after the results of an inspection are received in
     writing.
     2.5.11. Due to the size and organizational structure of the 90 MDG, the group SAP
     monitor shall perform all functions of the squadron SAP monitor.
     2.5.12. Monitors will ensure 90 MW SAP 101s are completely filled out and formally
     entered into the SAP database before pushing to their group commanders for closure.
     SAP 101’s will contain, but not be limited to: squadron commander’s or squadron
     monitor’s statement recommending closure, specific reference, up-to-date ECD, cause
     code, discrepancy paragraph painting clear picture, identification of root cause, and an
     enduring/permanent fix that has been practiced (if applicable).
  2.6. The Squadron Commanders/Agency Chiefs.
     2.6.1. Appoint primary and alternate SAP monitors. Ensure both primary and alternate
     SAP monitors are trained by the 90 MW/XP. New monitors will be trained within 30
     days of appointment ensuring continued continuity in each units inspection program.
     Ensure the group SAP monitor has the most current appointment letter on file for
     associate units.
     2.6.2. It is imperative for commanders and agency chiefs to utilize the appropriate level
     of manpower towards the SAP program. The minimum requirement is for each unit to
     have a primary and alternate, however additional monitors are likely required to maintain
     a quality program. Additionally, rank and experience must be considered when assigning
     a monitor.
     2.6.3. Ensure assigned units accomplish all required checklists no earlier than 60 days
     before the semi-annual review. These reviews will usually be in the months of May and
     November.
     2.6.4. Review and endorse the squadron/agency semi-annual, self-inspection summary
     report. Squadron commanders and agency chiefs will review all 90 MW SAP
     deficiencies, self-identified and HHQ, and provide a summary of results for their unit.
     2.6.5. Recommend closure of 90 MW SAP findings to the group commander and DS. A
     deputy commander/director, agency chief or authorized level of authority in the absence
     of these individuals will make a statement on the 90 MW SAP 101 stating write-up is
     ready for closure.
  2.7. Unit/Agency SAP Monitors.
     2.7.1. Complete annual training by reviewing 90 MW SAP training slides and report
     completion of training to the group and agency SAP monitor. Squadron monitors will
     track completion of annual training and report completion to the group monitors.
     2.7.2. Ensure self-inspections are conducted using all applicable and up-to-date
     checklists. Ensure non-compliant findings are entered in the 90 MW SAP database, and a
     memorandum summarizing self-inspection results is signed by the unit CC or agency
     chief and forwarded to the group SAP monitor upon completion.
 8                                                                90MWI90-201 3 JULY 2013


        2.7.3. Maintain reference for hard copy SAP binders, applicable checklists, and
        distribute cross-feed inspection reports to key members of their unit/agency for review
        and action (as appropriate).
        2.7.4. Update or revise instructions, checklists, operating instructions and continuity
        books (where not specifically prohibited by other guidance or AFIs). Ensure to
        incorporate problem areas identified through review of cross-feed inspection reports and
        other source documents into the 90 MW SAP database for further review.
        2.7.5. Review all 90 MW SAPdatabase entries monthly. Reviews will include checking
        for overdue ECDs, overdue 30-day updates, track progress of corrective actions, ensure
        corrective actions are validated, etc.
        2.7.6. Track open deficiencies until closed. Ensure that each open item has a corrective
        action entry entered in the 90 MW SAP database by the 10th of every month following
        the month the deficiency was entered into the system. Take aggressive corrective actions
        to resolve deficiencies that are located in the system.
        2.7.7. Ensure squadron hard copy SAP binders are thoroughly maintained. Flight-level
        SAP binders are highly encouraged and should all be standardized throughout the
        squadron.
        2.7.8. Ensure squadron/wing agencies enter a new database entry into the 90 MW SAP
        database for all discrepancies found during self-inspection, exercises, SAV, etc. These
        findings are those that cannot be corrected on-the-spot, and require more than five
        business days to correct. All nuclear deficiencies will be entered within 10 duty days
        after the results of an inspection are received in writing.
        2.7.9. Monitors will ensure SAP 101s are completely filled out before pushing to group
        level for closure. SAP 101s will contain but not be limited to: squadron commander’s
        statement recommending closure, specific reference, up-to-date ECD, cause code,
        discrepancy paragraph painting clear picture, identification of root cause, and an
        enduring/permanent fix that has been practiced (if applicable).
3. Discrepancy/Corrective Action Reporting.
     3.1. The 90 MW SAP database is used to document and track self-identified discrepancies
     that are non-compliant until they are fully resolved.
     3.2. All discrepancies identified through self-inspections, exercises and SAVs must be
     documented in the 90 MW SAP database.
     3.3. The “Corrective Action” field, located on the SAP 101, is used to document root causes
     at the lowest level. The corrective action block will normally identify an immediate fix to
     the discrepancy, a permanent enduring fix to ensure the discrepancy does not reoccur, and a
     monitor period to ensure the fix is working. Additionally, commander’s recommendation for
     closure will be inputted here. Last, when posting comments in the corrective actions block,
     the member’s last name and date will be posted in the respective sections.
     3.4. The ECD will not exceed one year from the date the discrepancy was originally
     identified. At a minimum, monthly periodic reviews (accomplished by the 10th of the
     month) to explain the current status. Additionally, if an ECD must be extended, the squadron
90MWI90-201 3 JULY 2013                                                                        9


   commander or agency chief will state status of write-up and enter a change. Only group,
   squadron and deputy commanders, deputy directors and wing monitors can change ECDs.
   3.5. Self-identified discrepancies (SAP 101’s) can be closed when all corrective actions are
   completed and the highest level of review for that specific item has confirmed the
   discrepancy has been fixed. Only the 90 MW/CV has the authority to close base level or
   cross-group 90 MW SAP findings. Group Commanders, or equivalent, can close all critical,
   major and minor findings in the 90 MW SAP database.
   3.6. The 90 MW SAP database does not have a push system to ensure every level reviews
   write-ups and concurs with corrective actions. When work centers/flights/squadrons are
   ready to close a 90 MW SAP 101 they will notify the next monitor above them, in writing or
   e-mail, that approval is needed for closure.
       3.6.1. Once the group commander has concurred with the squadron’s corrective actions
       and all the criteria for the 90 MWSAP101 are met, the group monitor will close the self-
       identified discrepancy and report closure to 90 MW/XP to move file from open to closed
       status.
   3.7. For discrepancies received during any nuclear inspection and assigned to a particular
   group/staff agency, Group monitors must approve any discrepancy that requires closure on
   SAPR. All minor infractions will be closed at the 90 MW/CV level. Those discrepancies
   that are Significant, Critical or require an 8 step-process require Group and 90 MW/CV
   approval and forwarded to 20 AF and AFGSC for closure.
4. SAP Binders.
   4.1. SAP binders are used to organize, maintain, and standardize self-inspection program
   documents and tools. The electronic SAP binder will be maintained at the 90 MW/XP level
   at: https://warren.eis.af.mil/wingagencies/SAP/default.aspx. Group and subordinate unit
   binders must be hard copy and maintained per the electronic SAP binder requirements. If
   additional binders are kept at flight level or lower, they will be standardized throughout the
   unit.
   4.2. Formal SAP binders that are being maintained at the unit must be entered in the
   AFRIMS file plan and a disposition control label will be placed inside the front cover or
   placed beneath acetate on the inside of the binder. The disposition authority is Air Force
   Records Disposition Schedule (AFRIMS), Table 33-45, Rule 9. Contact your file custodian
   for more specific instructions for this requirement.
5. Inspection Checklists.
   5.1. SAP monitors can obtain checklists for governing regulations off the 90 MW SharePoint
   site and semi-annual inspection solicitations. Monitors can also check AFGSC Inspector
   General's web page for any additional checklists. Other sites that contain checklists are the
   Air Force Inspection Agency and the e-publishing (e-pubs) website.
       5.1.1. Each SAP monitor is required to review both the e-pubs and AFGSC web page
       prior to the self-inspection for any new or updated AF, HQ, AFGSC or any other
       applicable checklists (prior to unit/agency self-inspections).
   5.2. Rank and experience should be considered when running checklists on any program.
   Recommend minimum E-6 or O-3 oversees the running of any checklists. If the rank
 10                                                                90MWI90-201 3 JULY 2013


   recommendation cannot be met, then an individual who holds the grades of E-6 or O-3
   should check and sign the inspector’s work.
      5.2.1. SAP monitors are responsible to ensure personnel who run checklists adhere to the
      following:
          5.2.1.1. The checklist or guidance utilized is the most up-to-date checklist available.
          5.2.1.2. Annotate checklists with name, rank, and date accomplished at the top of the
          cover page. Information must be written legibly and contain comments when
          required. For guidance other than checklists, annotate a list of references or a printed
          page from each reference with name, rank and date accomplished.
          5.2.1.3. Ensure all questions are checked “YES,” “NO,” or “N/A.” Explanation
          should be provided for every answer given. For checklist items that have multiple
          questions in one block: if one of the questions are answered as non-compliant than
          the entire item is non-compliant.
          5.2.1.4. When an item on the checklist is not in compliance, an explanation of the
          write-up should accompany the finding. For items that are non-compliant and cannot
          be corrected on-the-spot, ensure that the governing SAP monitor opens a SAP 101
          discrepancy for this finding.
   5.3. Localized checklists should be created and utilized to ensure instructions are in full
   compliance. Consider creating local checklists for the following:
      5.3.1. When there is no current checklist available to ensure compliance of instructions.
      5.3.2. When current checklists are too vague or there are not enough questions to ensure
      compliance.
      5.3.3. All localized checklists and instructions must be published IAW AFI 33-360. For
      proper format and publication contact the base publishing manager. All local checklists
      will be posted on the e-Publishing website.
6. Conducting Self-Inspections.
   6.1. Self-inspections reviews are to be normally conducted during the months of May and
   November. The dates of these inspections will be specified by the 90 MW/CV.
   Units/agencies will summarize the results of their inspection findings and have the letter
   signed by their commander. The group SAP monitor will summarize the results of
   subordinate units and have the letter signed by the Gp/CC and forward to 90 MW/XP. These
   letters will include inspection highlights for all discrepancies identified. Points of contact
   for wing checklists, special interest items, and AFGSC or other various checklist items must
   certify in these letters that their checklists are current and provide status of compliance with
   their special interest items, if applicable.
   6.2. Conduct all unit self-inspections using applicable DoD, AF, AFGSC, NAF, Wing, SII,
   and organizational checklists. Review applicable cross-feed documents to ensure problems
   identified at other nuclear bases do not exist locally. Other inspection mechanisms may
   consist of periodically administered checklists, quality control reviews, internal audits,
   functional inspections, management information systems, numerical summaries, analysis
   programs, etc.
90MWI90-201 3 JULY 2013                                                                       11


       6.2.1. All units are required to conduct a minimum of the following general checklists:
       Government Purchase Card (GPC), Government Travel Card (GTC), office safety,
       records management, and Unit Fitness Program. These checklists are located on the 90
       MW SharePoint website at: https://warren.eis.af.mil/wingagencies/SAP/default.aspx.
7. Special Interest Items (SII).
   7.1. SII are areas of interest or concern raised at HQ USAF and HQ AFGSC. SIIs are
   inspected by the AFGSC IG.
   7.2. The unit commander or agency chief for the primary area of responsibility will identify
   a point of contact (POC) to be appointed by the CV (this should be an expert who is well
   versed in the SII area and can ensure compliance for the entire wing) when contacted by 90
   MW/XP for assignment of SII.
   7.3. The SII POC will be briefed by 90 MW/XP concerning OPR responsibilities and as to
   the primary support roles of 90 MW/CV and 90 MW/XP.
   7.4. SII information can be found on the 90                       MW/XPSharePoint        site:
   https://warren.eis.af.mil/wingagencies/SAP/default.aspx.
   7.5. The POC is responsible for ensuring that the SII area is prepared for inspection IAW the
   SII guide and checklist provided with the SII package.
8. Wing Conducted Self-Inspection Program Inspections.
   8.1. All Group SAP monitors will inspect squadron SAP binders and review checklist
   accuracy during the semi-annual inspections. 90 MW/XP will inspect wing staff agencies
   and group programs during the semi-annual inspections.
       8.1.1. From these semi-annual inspections, the MW/XP will generate a report to the
       MW/CC that documents problems requiring attention,total amount of checklists
       accomplished by Group, a review of the discrepancies identified (SAP and HHQ) and a
       list of the SAP monitors. The 90 MW/CC will endorse the semi-annual SAP results and
       the 90 MW/XP will post an electronic copy on the 90 MW/XP SharePoint site.
9. 90 MW/XP Annual SAVs.
   9.1. The 90 MW/XP.
       9.1.1. Conduct an independent review of each squadron-level SAP at least once
       annually. At a minimum, every unit and agency required to maintain a SAP, will be
       randomly selected and solicited for review. This review involves validating appointment
       and training dates, running appropriate checklists and reviewing unit’s discrepancies.
       The purpose is to provide a candid assessment of each SAP, to enhance program
       effectiveness, and to validate program compliance.
       9.1.2. Track SAV compliance and report monthly schedule to supervisor.
       9.1.3. Ensure lessons learned from individual SAV to all units and agencies within the
       wing.
       9.1.4. Maintain a schedule to ensure all units and agencies receive an annual SAV.
12                                                             90MWI90-201 3 JULY 2013


        9.1.4.1. Schedule/execute approximately two to three SAVs per month. SAVs will
        be scheduled using the following priorities:
            9.1.4.1.1. Commander/agency chief requested SAV.
            9.1.4.1.2. Program quality indicators.
            9.1.4.1.3. Units within three months of their SAV due date.
            9.1.4.1.4. All other factors.
        9.1.4.2. When determining SAV priorities, consideration should also be given to
        upcoming inspections/SAV, results of previous inspections/SAV, and recently
        assigned commanders/agency chiefs. SAV dates will be deconflicted with major
        wing, unit, and agency activities to the maximum extent possible.
        9.1.4.3. Will normally announce SAV targets one month before the unit or agency is
        to receive a SAV. The goal is to allow sufficient time to schedule required personnel
        and actions while guarding against a once-a-year, inspection prep mentality.
        9.1.4.4. Units and agencies may receive a follow-up SAV in the same annual cycle if
        warranted by the results of its annual SAV.
        9.1.4.5. Commanders and agency chiefs may request a SAV at any time.
     9.1.5. Focus SAV on the following areas:
        9.1.5.1. Requirements of 90 MWI 90-201 and AFI 90-201 AFGSCSUP.
        9.1.5.2. Management and administration of unit and agency programs.
        9.1.5.3. Involvement of unit and agency leadership and technical experts.
        9.1.5.4. Training of SAP participants.
        9.1.5.5. Execution of SAP checklists to include thoroughness of completion,
        currency of checklists, sufficiency of local checklists and guides, and use of primary
        AFI, etc.
        9.1.5.6. Comprehensiveness of SAP to include the incorporation of
        functional/common programs (e.g., records management, publications, UDM, etc.).
        9.1.5.7. 90 MW SAP database entries to include sources of write-ups (e.g., self-
        inspections, SAV, etc.), root cause analysis, progress of corrective actions, and
        validation of corrective actions.
        9.1.5.8. Trends identified in other inspections and SAV.
        9.1.5.9. Additional areas identified by wing, group, or squadron leadership.
     9.1.6. Employ designated alternates and or augmentees to assist in the performance of
     SAV when needed due to personnel shortages or technical expertise. When requested,
     units and agencies will provide augmentees to the greatest extent possible.
     9.1.7. Provide a written report to the applicable unit commander or agency chief
     following each SAV. Reports will include a rating of "In Compliance, In Compliance
     with Comments, or Not In Compliance.”
90MWI90-201 3 JULY 2013                                                               13


  9.2. Group Commanders/Director of Staff.
     9.2.1. Ensure subordinate units/organizations support 90MW/XP’s annual SAV and
     provide the 90 MW/XP with unit specific areas to focus on when SAV are conducted on
     their organizations.
  9.3. The Squadron Commander/Agency Chief.
     9.3.1. Support 90 MW/XP annual SAV of unit and agency SAP by:
        9.3.1.1. Requesting SAV of their programs.
        9.3.1.2. Providing the 90 MW/XP with unit specific areas to focus on when SAV are
        conducted on their organizations.
        9.3.1.3. Ensuring documents/materials/scheduling information and SAP participants
        are available when scheduled with 90 MW/XP.
        9.3.1.4. Ensuring applicable discrepancies from 90 MW/XP SAV are entered into the
        SAP portion of the 90 MW SAP database.
        9.3.1.5. Providing augmentees to the 90 MW/XP in support of SAV of other units to
        the greatest extent possible.




                                        TRACEY L. HAYES, Colonel, USAF
                                        Commander
 14                                                           90MWI90-201 3 JULY 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System, 23 March 2012
AFI 90-201, AFGSCSUP I, Inspector General Activities, 07 January 2011
AFI 33-322, Records Management Program, 04 June 2012
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Program, 16 May 2011
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 01 November 2005
AFI 31-401_AFGSCSUP, Information Security Program Management, 08 September 2010
DoDM 5200.01 V2, Information Security Program: Overview, Classification, and
Declassification, 24 February 2012
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOUO—For Official Use Only
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
HQ—Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
IG—Inspector General
MAJCOM—Major Command
NAF—Numbered Air Force
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—Point of Contact
SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
SII—Special Interest Item
SAP—Self-Inspection Program
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
