BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      90TH MISSILE WING INSTRUCTION 32-901
90TH MISSILE WING
                                                                                    8 MAY 2012

                                                                              Civil Engineering

                                                        UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING (UH)




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 90 CES/CEACD                                                       Certified by: 90 CES/CC
                                                                     (Lt Col Travis K. Leighton)
                                                                                        Pages: 23
Supersedes:   90 SWI 32-9, 2 February
              2006


This instruction implements requirements of AFI 32-6005, Unaccompanied Housing
Management, establishes Francis E. Warren Air Force Base (FEW) dormitory (dorm) standards.
It applies to all dorm residents. A copy of this instruction must be kept in the dorm room. Dorm
residents’ knowledge and compliance with these standards will make their stay at FEW pleasant
and comfortable. Where there are many people living in one place, it is imperative to ensure a
safe, healthy, and clean living environment. Without the dorm resident being well rested and in
good health, the mission of FEW cannot be accomplished. In the event questions or situations
arise that are not addressed by this instruction, the dorm resident should bring them to the
attention of the appropriate dorm manager or first sergeant. The 90 MW is committed to
upholding these standards equally among all residents. Violations of Paragraphs 2.1., 2.1.1.1.,
2.9., 2.20.1., 2.20.2., 3.3., 4.3., and 5.5. are punishable under Article 92, Uniform Code of
Military Justice (UCMJ). Also reference Attachment 2, Condition of Occupancy for Military
Unaccompanied Housing, and paragraph 18. Personnel discovered damaging or stealing Air
Force assets will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law under the UCMJ. All legal means
will be used to collect damages and secure areas from destruction. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.           Comply with AFI 33-332, Air Force
Privacy Program, for documents containing Privacy Act information. Comply with DOD
Regulation 5400.7/Air Force Supplement, DOD Freedom of Information Act Program, for
 2                                                                 90MWI32-901 8 MAY 2012


documents containing For Official Use Only information. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibilities (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendations for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed to update policies in
unaccompanied housing and Air Force Global Strike Command Supplement dated 1 May 2010
changing all AFSPC references to AFGSC.
1. Air Force Responsibilities: The Air Force will provide inspection, maintenance and repair,
refuse collection and disposal, pest control, fire and police protection for residents assigned to
unaccompanied housing.
     1.1. Initial Inspection: An Airmen Dorm Leader, also known as a dorm manager, will escort
     residents to their room and conduct an initial inspection. During that time, all identified
     discrepancies with the room and appliances will be documented on an AF Form 228,
     Furnishings Custody Receipt and Condition Report. Residents then have three (3) duty days
     to provide additional discrepancies to the dorm manager. Any items noted thereafter will be
     the resident’s responsibility to fix or replace prior to clearing the dorm room.
     1.2. Maintenance and Repair: The Base Civil Engineer (BCE) has primary responsibility for
     ensuring maintenance for the room and dorm. If maintenance needs to be performed
     Monday through Friday, 0730-1630, residents need to contact the dorm manager. In case of
     an emergency during nights, weekends, and holidays, contact the 90 CES Service Call Desk
     at 773-1856. For non-emergencies, wait until the next duty day and contact the dorm
     manager.
        1.2.1. Work Order Response Time:
            1.2.1.1. Emergency work orders are responded to as soon as possible and work is
            continued until the emergency is resolved. Some examples of emergencies or
            emergency work orders include structural, utility, or mechanical problems that could
            cause loss of life or property, serious damage affecting health, safety, security, or
            mission.
            1.2.1.2. Urgent work orders are completed within 5 workdays. Completion date may
            be longer pending requisition of materials. Maintenance will normally be performed
            between 0730-1630. Example of an urgent work order is a “backed-up” commode
            when there is no other commode available.
            1.2.1.3. Routine work orders are completed within 30 days. Completion dates may
            be longer pending requisition of materials. Maintenance will normally be performed
            between 0730-1630. Some examples of routing work orders are minor faucet leaks,
            repairs to wall locker doors, shelving, interior walls, or any cosmetic improvements.
     1.3. Refuse Collection and Disposal: Residents will place room trash and garbage in the
     dumpsters provided. Exterior garbage cans are provided for minor trash or litter, not room
     trash. Resident’s personal dayroom garbage is to be taken to the dumpster or thrown out with
     room trash. Do not place trash in stairwells. Recycling containers are provided and available
90MWI32-901 8 MAY 2012                                                                             3


   for use. The 90th Civil Engineer Entomology Section will dispose of dead animals found on
   base (call 773-2657).
   1.4. Insect Control: If needed, rooms will be treated before move in; however, it is expected
   residents take preventive action to control insects. For example, keep food in sealed plastic
   containers, remove trash and garbage from quarters daily, and discard empty paper bags and
   boxes as quickly as possible. If infestation occurs that is beyond your control, call the dorm
   manager.
   1.5. Change Combinations: The dorm manager keeps a master combination log of all
   rooms. If a combination change is needed, contact the dorm manager, in person, during
   normal duty hours, 0730-1630 (see Attachment 1, Base Facilities/Bldg/Phone Numbers). It
   is the resident’s responsibility to keep the combination secure. Excessive requests to change
   combinations can cause damage to the lock itself and may result in a labor charge. Do not
   give combination to friends.
   1.6. Ground Care: The base grounds crew will normally maintain common areas. Residents
   are responsible for keeping the grounds clean. The dorm manager may have additional
   ground care requirements for bay orderlies.
   1.7. Appliances: Ranges, refrigerators, and dishwashers, if installed, are government
   furnished and maintained. Appliances are assigned by serial number and verified at check-in
   and during termination inspections. The dorm manager will demonstrate proper removal and
   replacement procedures. Notify the dorm manager of any problems immediately.
   1.8. Dorm Managers: Dorm managers are responsible for the management and maintenance
   of the unaccompanied dorms. These duties include, but are not limited to:
      1.8.1. Assigning and terminating rooms:
      1.8.2. Inspecting rooms monthly for maintenance, health hazards, and safety violations.
      1.8.3. Dorm managers will ensure each dorm resident signs a certification as outlined in
      Attachment 3, certifying receipt of a copy of 90 MWI 32-901, understanding the rules
      and provisions therein.
      1.8.4. Accounting for furniture, appliances, recreation equipment, and supplies.
      1.8.5. Acts as facility manager and ensures proper reporting.
      1.8.6. Budgets, orders, and purchases supply, linens, furnishings, and so forth; and
      participates in the Quarters Improvement Committee (QIC).
      1.8.7. Schedules and supervises bay orderlies.       Security Forces Group (SFG) will
      schedule their bay orderlies.
      1.8.8. Initiates and tracks maintenance work orders as well as various self-help projects.
2. Resident Responsibility, Maintain Dorm Standards, and Policies. The dorm is your home
and you should feel at home in it; however, there are some prohibitions:
   2.1. Prohibitions in dorm rooms include, but are not limited to, the following: All forms of
   tobacco use are prohibited. This includes, but is not limited to cigars, cigarettes, snuff,
   chewing tobacco, and so forth. No pets (except fish), automotive parts, auto batteries,
   barbecue grills, burning or burnt candles, incense, flammable liquids (except cosmetic),
4                                                                  90MWI32-901 8 MAY 2012


    flammable pressurized gases (except cosmetic), electrical timers, flammable room
    decorations hanging from the ceiling, flammable paints, gambling, hot plates, open flames,
    smoking in bed, cohabitation, illegal drugs including spice, drug paraphernalia, Hukas,
    prescription drugs not belonging to the resident, unsealed foods, sterno fuel, residents on
    dorm roofs, weapons (see paragraph 4.3. for listing), live Christmas trees, multiple outlet
    extension cords, and under-age drinking (must be 21). The BCE must approve space heaters.
    Power strips with an overload protective device not exceeding 15 amps may be used for
    multiple items. If unsure if an item or action is acceptable, ask the dorm manager.
       2.1.1. Pictures, Posters, and Calendars:
           2.1.1.1. Pictures of scantily clothed persons, either male or female, that may be
           offensive to others are prohibited. Illegal pornographic material (e.g., child
           pornography) is prohibited; pornographic material displaying male or female genitalia
           or female breasts will not be visible in the resident’s room. No pictures that depict or
           show the act of sexual intercourse or profanity in either word or symbol is prohibited.
           Pictures of drugs or drug paraphernalia will be considered prohibited room
           decorations
           2.1.1.2. No items or pictures that degrade national or military leaders will be
           acceptable as decorations and are prohibited.
       2.1.2. Messages, Decals, Stickers, or Posters and Other Items: Profanity or other lewd
       messages are not authorized on message boards. Decals, stickers, or posters are not
       allowed on the outside of the door, in the window, or on any furnishings. Do not tape or
       affix separation or PCS orders to the door surface.
    2.2. Cleanliness: Dorms will be maintained within Air Force standards as outlined in AFI
    32-6005, Unaccompanied Housing Management, as supplemented, and this instruction.
    2.3. Inspections. Random monthly and unannounced quarterly inspections are conducted by
    the First Sergeants, commanders, or other designated authorized personnel. The focus of
    quarters’ inspection is safety and health. The following is a guide to proper care and room
    maintenance:
       2.3.1. Closets: Any closet that is unlocked is subject to inspection.
       2.3.2. Floors: Clean and vacuum as needed. Ensure no dirt is built-up in the corners,
       behind the doors, under beds, or other furniture. Protect floors and carpets with
       newspapers or other absorbent materials when applying shoeshine or edge dressing
       products to shoes or boots.
       2.3.3. Carpets: Carpets should be vacuumed and shampooed when needed. See the
       dorm manager for use of a carpet shampoo machine. Any damage to carpets caused by
       misuse, abuse, burns, and accidents, may be chargeable to the resident.
       2.3.4. Walls: Walls must be clean and maintained in good repair. Use mild soap and
       warm water to keep walls clean. Do not apply adhesive-backed materials, wallpaper, or
       decals to walls or furnishings as these cause damage upon removal. Use nail or “J” type
       hangers only and remove them prior to termination. Make sure doorstops are serviceable
       to prevent damage to walls. If there are holes or depressions in the walls, they must be
       repaired. If the holes are small, (less than 3 inches), the resident may repair them. Any
90MWI32-901 8 MAY 2012                                                                          5


     holes larger than 3 inches must be reported to the dorm manager as soon as possible. It is
     the responsibility of the residents to report any problems as soon as possible. Walls must
     be repaired and repainted as necessary, a minimum of one month prior to out-processing.
     Paint and materials may be obtained from the dorm manager for normal wear and tear
     repair, or instructions on where to purchase if it is the resident’s responsibility. However,
     when rooms are painted in personalized colors or unusual patterns must be repainted one
     month prior to departure and cost of the paint is the resident’s responsibility.
     2.3.5. Sink: Clean hair from drain trap as needed. Clean fixtures so they are free of dirt,
     mildew/mold, and water spots. Report any leaks to the dorm manager immediately. Use
     spray cleaner to clean the inside and outside of the under-sink cabinet. Ensure that
     mirrors are cleaned on an as-needed basis.
     2.3.6. Refrigerators: Clean any spills on the inside. Dispose of spoiled food products
     regularly to prevent mold growth. Clean interior surfaces of refrigerators with water and
     baking soda on a regular basis. Defrost the freezer as needed. Pay special attention to
     shelves; clean under, inside, outside, and behind the bottom drawer if so equipped. Wash
     the metal strips on the inside of the door. Be sure that there is no food residue splattered
     on the inside. The seal around the edge of the door must be clean and without food
     particles or dust/dirt. Dust off the wire framework in the rear of the refrigerator to
     improve cooling and extend the life of the unit. Be sure to clean around and under the
     refrigerator. While defrosting the freezer, do not use a sharp instrument to chip away ice
     and frost. This practice may puncture the coils, and make residents liable for
     replacement. For guidance on how to properly defrost and clean, see the dorm manager.
     2.3.7. Microwaves: Government microwaves, as well as personally owned microwaves,
     must be clean, both inside and outside at all times. Never leave microwaves unattended
     while in use. Use a paper plate or napkin to prevent splatter on regular use. Do not use
     metal or aluminum in microwave.
     2.3.8. Toilet/Bathing Area: This entire area must be especially cared for due to potential
     bacterial growth. Clean the complete toilet ensemble, inside and out, with a disinfectant
     or residue-type cleaner as needed, but at least weekly. Clean the shower tile, bathtub, and
     shower curtain or door with a disinfectant or residue-type cleaner as needed. There
     should be no soap scum or other residue left on walls. The shower curtain must be clean
     without mold or mildew stains. If the stains will not come off, have the dorm manager
     get a new one. Pay particular attention to the curtain wall, as it will mold quickly if
     allowed to remain damp for extended periods of time. Be sure the ceiling light is clean
     and operational. The bulb must be bright enough to see and shower safely, either frosted
     or clear bulbs only. Be sure the entire ceiling is clean and has no build-up of mold or
     mildew that is subject to grow under conditions of extreme dampness. Clean the floor
     behind the toilet and in the corners.
     2.3.9. Living Area: The living area is the easiest to clean. Government issued bedding,
     sheets, and pillowcases may be taken to the dorm manager weekly or will be cleaned
     weekly by the resident. Take issued blankets and mattress covers to linen exchange as
     needed. If bedding is purchased, return the government linen to the dorm manager or the
     resident will be liable for replacement cost.
6                                                                 90MWI32-901 8 MAY 2012


       2.3.10. Under Bed Storage: This area may be used for storage of small items. However,
       the items stored must be neatly arranged, the area is subject to inspection.
       2.3.11. Furniture: Furniture must be clean and neatly arranged in the room. Items on top
       of tables, dressers, and desks must be neat and dusted as needed. Government issued
       furniture must remain in the room and is not to be removed or placed in storage.
       2.3.12. Windows. Clean inside windows, channels, and windowsills as needed. Do not
       remove screens. Report damaged or missing screens to the dorm manager. Lock the
       windows when leaving the room for security purposes. Ensure windows are closed
       during winter months to prevent freezing of water pipes.
       2.3.13. Doors: Clean the door, frame, and sills above the door weekly. Doors must have
       a current and correct nametag. See the dorm manager to have a new one made when rank
       is changed.
       2.3.14. Room Decorations: Personal decorations must be neat and in good taste.
       Decorations should not cover more than 25 percent of walls and no decoration will be
       hung from the ceilings. Picture frames are not required. However, if pictures and posters
       are taped on the walls, any damage done by the tape, must be repaired by the resident one
       month prior to being released from responsibility for that room.
       2.3.15. Holes: Any holes put in the walls to support shelves, pictures, or other wall
       decorations must be filled and painted prior to resident being released from responsibility
       for that room. 2.3.16. Furnishings: Residents sign for the furniture/appliances in their
       room on the AF Form 228 maintained in the dorm manager’s office. Residents are
       responsible for the furnishings signed for and will be held liable for loss or damages and
       must not remove room furniture. Beds may be bunked or not, however, the dorm
       manager furnishes the hardware. Residents must place bunk beds in the standard
       configuration. Beds must be assembled with a frame, headboard, and footboard, if
       applicable.
    2.4. Dormitory and Dormitory Room Quarterly Awards Program:
       2.4.1. The objective of the dormitory award program is to instill pride of ownership and
       provide incentive for dormitory residents to adopt a community oriented philosophy
       toward their dormitories. The program will be based on the calendar year. During the
       third month of each quarter (March, June, September and December) each dormitory and
       a single room from each dormitory zone will compete in the 90 MW Quarterly Dormitory
       Award program. No later than the 15th day of the third month of the quarter, First
       Sergeants will nominate a single room in their assigned dormitory zone to compete for
       Dormitory Room of the Quarter. In dormitories with residents from multiple squadrons,
       all First Sergeants with residents in that dormitory will meet and will select a single
       dormitory room winner. Selection will be based on cleanliness, atmosphere, comfort, and
       resident involvement. All dormitories and the dormitory room of the quarter from each
       dormitory will be inspected by a minimum of three First Sergeants. SNCO’s each from a
       different squadron.
       2.4.2. Inspections of the selected dorms and rooms will be conducted between the 16th
       and the last duty day of the third month of the quarter. All dormitory and single room
       inspections should be completed in a single day and will be inspected by the Wing
90MWI32-901 8 MAY 2012                                                                      7


     Commander or designated representative, and the Command Chief. A minimum of one
     First Sergeant, the effected dormitory manager and dorm council will accompany the
     inspection team throughout the inspection. First Sergeants, dormitory managers, and
     dorm council members consult and may provide assistance/inputs to the inspection team
     members.
     2.4.3. Inspections will be conducted using locally developed dormitory and individual
     room inspection checklists, (Attachment 3). The inspection team leader will notify 90
     MW/CCM to sign a memorandum to be forwarded to the 90 MW/CC formally
     identifying the 90 MW Dormitory and Dormitory Room of the Quarter.
     2.4.4. Previous quarterly dormitory and dormitory room winners (if applicable) will be
     inspected but are ineligible to win consecutive quarters. Dormitories and individual
     dormitory rooms may not be consecutive quarterly winners, but may be selected as
     quarterly winners more than once annually.
     2.4.5. The Dormitory of the Quarter will receive an amount to be determined yearly from
     the 90 MW/CC executive account to be presented by the wing commander in a public
     forum whenever possible. Funds must be spent in compliance with all financial
     requirements and regulations expressly for dormitory quality-of-life improvements. The
     Command Chief, owning First Sergeants and respective dormitory council leadership will
     determine the best use of funds expenditures. A highly visible recognition sign will be
     placed in front of the winning dormitory identifying it as the Dormitory of the Quarter.
     2.4.6. Each individual dormitory room nominee resident will have parking privileges to
     park near their respective dormitories, “Dormitory Room of the Quarter” reserved
     parking spot (one from each dormitory) and receive a one-day pass from their squadron
     commander. The overall 90 MW dormitory room winner will receive a 90 MW/CCM
     coin and be awarded a three-day pass from their squadron commander. Mission
     requirements will dictate award and use of all recognition passes. Only one three-day
     pass may be used per year.
  2.5. Personal Furniture: Personal furnishings must be in good, safe condition and must
  present a neat and acceptable appearance. Personal beds must not interfere with egress from
  rooms, and all government furniture must remain in the room. Waterbeds are not authorized
  or permitted. You will be held liable for any damages caused by personal furnishings and for
  any missing government issued furniture.
  2.6. Dayroom Furniture: Dorm residents are prohibited from removing any furniture from
  the dayrooms. If dayroom furnishing are damaged or destroyed, a Report of Survey (ROS)
  will be accomplished to assess liability. If you see any misuse of government furniture,
  notify the dorm manager or Security Forces immediately.
  2.7. Visitors: Guests are permitted in your room if all residents of the room agree. Your
  guests must be escorted at all times while in the dorm and you are responsible for their
  language, dress, courtesy, and conduct. Cohabitation is not permitted. No guests under the
  age of 18 will be permitted in the dorm, other than the military member’s immediate family,
  unless accompanied by the guest’s parent or parents. Guests are not permitted in the
  room/dorm between 2400-0600 hours.
8                                                                  90MWI32-901 8 MAY 2012


    2.8. Hospitality Room: The hospitality rooms have been established, as needed, to house
    personnel for only a short duration. Hospitality rooms will be available through the
    Consolidated Dormitory Management Office (CDMO).
       2.8.1. Departing Personnel: Departing personnel will be given a hospitality room if
       available or they may remain in their assigned rooms until the day prior to PCS. Upon
       check out, the room will be cleaned according to standards. All linen will be exchanged
       and the bed made. A final room inspection will be accomplished prior to check out. If a
       hospitality room was utilized, all bedding must be washed, dried, folded and placed on
       the bed by the resident.
    2.9. Room Assignment and Termination: Rooms are assigned in accordance with space
    authorizations outlined in AFI 32-6005 and this instruction. You may not move from your
    assigned quarters without your dorm manager's approval. Rooms may be terminated by
    contacting your dorm manager at least 30 days prior to your departure. You will be advised
    of any clearance requirements and you must have the room prepared for new residents prior
    to final inspection. This includes removing all personal items. NOTE: Room walls will be
    repaired and painted prior to residents terminating and vacating the premises. If a member
    abandons a room or fails to completely out-process before their departure, an ROS will be
    accomplished to assess liability for any damages or repairs required to restore the room to its
    original condition.
    2.10. Security: All your high-cost items should be securely stored when you are absent from
    the room. In case of theft, valuable items such as televisions and stereos should have their
    serial number recorded and kept in a safe location. The Air Force will not pay claims on
    stolen items that are not secured. Your locker, window, and room must be locked when
    unoccupied.
    2.11. Room Exterior: Room numbers, nameplates, and approved message plates will be the
    only things mounted on your door. Your nameplate will be updated to reflect the most
    current status. See the dorm manager for a new one when needed. You are responsible for
    vacuuming the hallway in front of your room.
    2.12. Exterior Care: Help keep your dorm clean and neat; if you see trash, please pick it up.
    2.13. Kitchen: Maintaining the appliances, cabinets, and walls in the kitchen requires
    special attention. The individual using the facility will clean after each use. Clean ovens and
    broiler units regularly, as well as the top burners, to prevent a fire hazard. Use oven cleaner
    only on the inside of the oven; do not use cleaner on ovens that are self-cleaning. You are
    liable for any damage caused to the oven. Do not put grease in the garbage disposals, as it
    will solidify in the pipes and cause clogging. Avoid placing hot utensils on counter tops as
    this can cause permanent damage. Clean walls at periodic intervals to prevent surface grease
    build-up.
    2.14. Supplies: The dorm manager purchases cleaning supplies for use only in the common
    areas and these items will not be used in private rooms. See the dorm manager for use of
    purchased items. The dorm manager will provide special lights (fluorescent, mercury vapor,
    and so forth) but you must replace your own regular lamp bulbs.
    2.15. Leave or Extended TDY: If you will be leaving your quarters unoccupied for extended
    periods of time, (over 5 days), you must make arrangements for security, prudent care, and
90MWI32-901 8 MAY 2012                                                                       9


  periodic inspections of your quarters. Inform your dorm manager of your intended absence
  and provide the name of a person designated by you to have access to perform normal
  resident maintenance. If you request, your dorm manager may check on your quarters.
  2.16. Liability for Damage to Dorm Facility: A dorm resident may be held fully liable for
  damage to their dorm facility: if loss or damage was caused by negligence, or willful
  misconduct of a resident, dependent, or guest when the member was on notice of the
  particular risk involved, and failed to take preventive action.
  2.17. Insurance: The Housing Management Office or Base Legal Office may answer
  specific questions on insurance. Renters insurance is strongly encouraged.
  2.18. Energy Conservation: Keep exterior doors closed during heating and cooling periods
  to conserve energy, water, and electricity.
     2.18.1. Water: You may use normal and reasonable amounts of water; however, don't be
     wasteful. Excessive use results in increased costs and depletion of the supply. Do not
     wash your car at the dorm. Use the base car wash located on Old Glory Road as an
     alternative. Do your part to conserve energy.
     2.18.2. Electricity: Minimize the use of all electrical appliances and lights, especially
     during the peak demand periods of 0900-1130 and 1400-1900. Do not leave televisions
     or radios on unattended. When you leave your room, unplug irons and turn off all
     appliances as well as room lights.
     2.18.3. Laundry Facilities: Only dorm residents are authorized to use the laundry
     facilities. Washing with full loads is recommended to conserve energy. Do not overload
     washers or dryers. Overloading causes damage to the machine and possible flooding to
     the dorm. Remove all items from pockets prior to washing. Never place plastic articles,
     pens, or other markers in washers or dryers. You must clean the lint filter before you
     start the dryer. If you have a problem with your facilities, contact the dorm manager.
  2.19. Environmental Issues: Engine oils, engine coolants, car grease, and other similar
  products will not be poured into plumbing, drainage system, on the ground, or in dumpsters.
  Automotive tires and batteries are to be properly disposed of through recycling programs.
  2.20. Drinking Alcohol: The legal drinking age is 21. If you are assigned a roommate who
  is over 21, this person may have alcohol in the room; however, if you are under 21, you may
  not drink. There are no exceptions to this rule—it’s the law! Violations of this or any law
  must be reported to the Law Enforcement Desk (LE Desk) 773-3501.
  2.21. Bicycles: Bicycles are to be locked up at the bike racks outside provided at each dorm.
  Bicycles will not be stored under staircases, on balconies, or chained to railings. Abandoned
  bicycles will be tagged and removed.
  2.22. Vehicles: Authorized minor work on vehicles consists of cleaning the interior, waxing,
  and air filter changes. Cleaning the interior, waxing of vehicles will not be done on
  sidewalks, grass or seeded areas. Do not park on seeded areas. NOTE: Non-operational
  vehicles and unregistered vehicles are prohibited in the dorm area.
     2.22.1. Oil and other fluid changes in the parking lot are prohibited: Security Forces
     may ticket you. Dumping of oils or any vehicle fluids in any unauthorized manner is
     subject to a fine of up to $10,000.
 10                                                               90MWI32-901 8 MAY 2012


   2.23. Marriage: A dorm resident is authorized to move off-base, regardless of rank, as long
   as the member is within 60 days of getting married.
   2.24. Pregnancy: Female members are authorized to move off-base as early as the 20th
   week of pregnancy. The Commander may direct the move of pregnant members from the
   30th week of pregnancy until the date of birth. It is mandatory to move off-base once the
   member has reached the 30th week. Also, the member should add her name to the base
   housing waiting list as soon as pregnancy is confirmed. All that is required is a copy of the
   orders assigning her to FEW and a memorandum of confirmed pregnancy, which can be
   obtained from her OB/GYN doctor.
3. Fire Protection:
   3.1. Fire Evacuation Plan: In the event of a fire, follow the dorm fire evacuation plan
   provided on dorm bulletin board which shows both primary and alternate routes of escape.
   Furnishings will be arranged so as not to obstruct or impede entering or opening of doors
   leading from rooms to exit access or exit doors. Know the evacuation plan and practice your
   escape route. Ensure your guests are aware of exit routes and plan. Any questions on fire
   prevention should be directed to the base fire department, 773-5528.
   3.2. Fire Extinguishers: Fire extinguishers are located throughout the dorm. The fire
   extinguishers are for fire fighting and not for horseplay. Notify the dorm manager if you
   notice an extinguisher is over or undercharged or has been discharged or damaged.
   3.3. Smoke Detectors/Fire Alarms: All residents must evacuate the dorm if the alarm
   sounds. Tampering with alarm call boxes or firefighting equipment is a serious offense,
   punishable under the UCMJ. Residents perform monthly inspections of smoke detectors. Do
   not remove it for any reason. Articles will not be mounted on, or attached to, any fire
   protection device, wiring, or smoke detector. Combustible material must be kept a minimum
   of 18 inches from light fixtures, heat or smoke detectors, sprinkler heads, and heating
   appliances.
   3.4. Fire Reporting: If a fire occurs in your dorm, immediately dial 911. Give the fire alarm
   operator your name, base dorm number and street, if known. Do not hang up until you are
   told to do so. All fires must be reported. Fire reporting telephone stickers must be affixed to
   room phones (see the dorm manager to obtain them).
   3.5. Flammable Item Storage: Storage of flammable item in dorms is prohibited. Prohibited
   flammable items include: gasoline, kerosene, candles (with visibly burnt wicks), incense, or
   any open flame. The only flammable liquids allowed are for cigarette lighter refilling or
   cosmetics (nail polish or polish remover).
   3.6. Barbecue Grills: Barbecue grills are provided at the dorms. Portable grills are
   prohibited for use around the dorms and on balconies; however, they may not be stored in
   dorm rooms, but they may be stored in the storerooms for personal outings. Damage from
   barbecue grills or grease drippings, is considered the residents’ responsibility to repair or
   clean up.
   3.7. Space Heaters: The BCE authorizes space heaters on a case-by-case basis.
   3.8. Cooking Appliances: Cooking in the dorm bedroom is prohibited except in
   microwaves. The only appliances allowed in dorm rooms are coffee pots with automatic
90MWI32-901 8 MAY 2012                                                                          11


   shutoffs, hot air popcorn poppers, and microwave ovens using less than 1600 watts each. If
   you are in a dorm with a kitchen, never leave cooking unattended. Should a grease fire
   occur, cover the burning pan with a lid, turn off the appliance, and call 911. Never use
   water! Do not attempt to move the pan. The kitchen exhaust fan filter should be cleaned
   monthly to prevent the accumulation of grease. Hot plates, toaster ovens, and convection
   ovens are not permitted in dorm rooms. One-plus-one and Dorm-4-Airmen rooms with
   kitchens may have additional small appliances provided they are approved through the
   CDMO and are kept clean and unplugged when not in use.
   3.9. Extension Cords: Extension cords are not permitted. The only exceptions to these are
   power surge cords (surge protectors).
   3.10. Heat Producing Devices: Coffee pots, hot air popcorn poppers, irons, hair dryers and
   straightening/curling irons must be unplugged when not in use.
   3.11. Trash: Prevent trash from accumulating in your room. Dorm residents will not empty
   their room trashcans in any receptacle located in or around the dorm. Room trash will be
   dumped in the dumpsters located outside the dorm daily.
   3.12. Storage: Large boxes and luggage will be stored in storage rooms, not in personal
   rooms. All items placed in storage are at residents’ risk. Access to storage will be during
   normal duty hours. No tires will be placed in storage.
4. Force Protection (Security Forces): The installation commander is responsible for the
control and safeguarding of all base property. Patrolling of the dorm area is accomplished on a
routine basis by Security Forces, and when notified, they will investigate all incidents. All
inquiries concerning law enforcement should be directed to the LE Desk 773-3501.
   4.1. Parking: Park in designated parking areas only. Parking is prohibited on grass or dirt
   areas. Do not park in a crosswalk, fire lane, or within 15 feet of a fire hydrant. Motorcycles
   should be parked in the designated motorcycle parking areas and not under dorm staircases or
   on sidewalks.
   4.2. Visitor Reception: If you plan to have visitors, call 773-3694 or stop by the Visitor
   Control Center at the main gate prior to the arrival of your guest or guests, with the following
   information: Name, arrival time, and expected departure time. Sponsors are responsible for
   the actions of their guests while on FEW.
   4.3. Weapons, Firearms and Fireworks: Weapons, flares, fireworks, ammunition, or any
   type of explosive devices are prohibited in the dorm. Violations are punishable under Article
   92, UCMJ. Local laws and military regulations govern registration, possession and storage
   of privately owned weapons. No weapons of any type will be stored or displayed in the
   room. This includes bows and arrows, martial arts weapons, and knives with blades longer
   than 3 inches (with the exception of kitchen knives and display case items). All types of
   guns designed to propel a projectile (BB, pellet, paint ball, bullet, and so forth) whether by
   air, gas or other means, are prohibited. Items such as stun guns are prohibited. All types of
   water guns are prohibited for use in the dorm. All firearms must be registered and stored at
   the Security Forces Armory. For information on storage of firearms, contact the LE Desk at
   773-3501.
 12                                                               90MWI32-901 8 MAY 2012


   4.4. Crime Stop: Be on the watch for vandalism and theft and promptly report it to the LE
   Desk, 773-3501.
5. Good Neighbors:
   5.1. Resident Courtesy: Courtesy goes a long way in helping reduce tension among dorm
   residents.
   5.2. Noise Control: With shift workers living in all dorms, quiet hours are 24 hours a day. If
   stereo or other noise can be heard outside the room or through the walls, it is definitely too
   loud. Many dorm residents work shifts and sleep during the day. Please be considerate.
   Don't assume that your neighbors enjoy the same type of music or television programs you
   do. Please keep the volume down; excessive stereo and television volume is very disruptive.
   5.3. Parties and Social Gatherings: Parties and other social gatherings are permitted in
   designated dayrooms upon prior approval with the dorm manager and First Sergeant.
   However, you must still take into consideration that other dorm residents may be asleep, so
   the noise level must be kept down. Please clean up after yourself. Do not rearrange day
   room furniture unless you put it back. Do not remove furniture from the day rooms. Dispose
   of your trash properly. Remember, the club and community activity centers are available for
   parties. Make reservations through the applicable agency in charge.
   5.4. Pets: The only pets allowed in the dorms are fish. Residents should further understand
   that any damage caused by an aquarium is their responsibility.
   5.5. Wild Game: The cleaning of wild game is prohibited in the dorm area.
   5.6. Recreation Vehicles: Storage of recreational vehicles (e.g., RVs, ATVs, boats, etc.) in
   dorm areas is prohibited.
   5.7. Motor Vehicles: No motor vehicle being operated on FEW or in the dorm area shall
   have music emitting from the vehicle, which would disturb or be a nuisance to other
   residents.
   5.8. Repair Work. Repair work on your vehicle other than that outlined in paragraph 2.22.1.
   of this instruction is not authorized in the dorm area. The Auto Hobby Shop should be used
   for this repair work.
6. FEW Specific Topics:
   6.1. Business Enterprises: Some businesses for profit may be conducted from your dorm
   room. Any such enterprise must be approved in writing by 90 MSG/CC through 90
   CES/CEAC. Signs for advertising businesses are prohibited in the dorm areas. Contact the
   Housing Element Chief for additional information and guidance.
   6.2. Solicitation in Dorm Housing: All forms of solicitation are prohibited in the dorms.
   Report solicitors to the LE Desk, 773-3501, immediately.
   6.3. Telephones: The 90th Communications Squadron maintains dorm common area
   phones. Dorm room phones can be obtained at your own cost. It is recommended that
   agreements between roommates to share costs be put into writing to avoid conflicts at a later
   date. Remember that the individual with their name on the bill is ultimately responsible for
   any debts incurred.
90MWI32-901 8 MAY 2012                                                                      13


   6.4. Cable Television and Internet: Cable television and internet can be obtained by calling
   the local cable company.
7. Self-Help Work:
   7.1. Requesting Self-Help Work: Self-help work in military dorms must be relatively simple
   and is designed primarily for resident benefit. Normally, a self-help project is to improve
   living conditions. Self-help work must not generate additional maintenance or repair costs.
   All self-help work requires completion of an AF IMT 332, Base Civil Engineer Work
   Request, and coordination as directed by the dorm manager. No work may be accomplished
   until this procedure has been followed and approval received.
   7.2. Painting Interior Walls: Painting requires approval before you begin. The dorm
   manager will inspect before and after painting. Government furnished paint is available;
   other colors are at resident's expense. The room must be returned to authorized colors and
   condition prior to terminating the room or the room must be accepted by the new resident.
   7.3. Inspection of Self-Help Work: Periodic inspection must be accomplished while work is
   in progress. No electrical wiring will be done except by a certified electrician. Self-help
   improvements may be donated by the resident and accepted by the Air Force when
   workmanship and aesthetics meet acceptable construction standards. When removal is
   required, your area must be restored to its original configuration.
8. Termination of Unaccompanied Housing:
   8.1. Giving Notice: Orders are not required to set up termination inspections. The 90 MW
   requires 30 days notice of your vacating date (short notice PCS/separations excluded).
   Notify the dorm manager of your departure, who will then provide you with a list of
   requirements for termination, and will schedule your final inspection.
      8.1.1. Authorization for Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH)/Basic Allowance for
      Subsistence (BAS): Termination of Unaccompanied Housing (UH) for other than PCS
      will be in accordance with AFI 32-6005, Unaccompanied Housing Management.
      Authorization for BAH/BAS will be determined by base dorm occupancy rates and
      offered by priority from the BAH waiting list. Do not enter into a rental or sales
      agreement for off-base housing until you have coordinated with the CDMO and the
      Housing Office. The finance section may arrange for advance pay to cover expenses, but
      the Housing Office is the only office on base authorized to start BAH.
      8.1.2. Airmen and Family Readiness Center: The Airmen and Family Readiness Center
      can be of great assistance in your future moves. Ask them about availability of housing
      at your next location. Call 773-2241 for more information.
      8.1.3. Final Inspection: If you need a substitute to stand final inspection, notify the
      Unaccompanied Housing Superintendent in advance and necessary forms and guidance
      will be given. NOTE: The responsibility for final clearance of unaccompanied housing
      rests solely with the resident.

                                           CHRISTOPHER A. COFFELT, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander, 90th Missile Wing
 14                                                             90MWI32-901 8 MAY 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-6005, Unaccompanied Housing Management, 9 October 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Program, 16 May 2011
Prescribed and Adopted Forms:
Prescribed Forms No forms are prescribed by this instruction.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 228, Furnishings Custody Receipt and Condition Report, 01 November 2000
AF IMT 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, 01 January 1991
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
90MWI32-901 8 MAY 2012                                                 15


                                    Attachment 2
                   BASE FACILITIES/BLDG/PHONE NUMBERS

Ambulance                                          911
Area Defense Counsel                               773-3248
CE Work Order Desk                                 773-1856/773-3175
Chaplain                                           773-3434
Family Advocacy                                    773-4228
Family Support                                     773-2241
Fire Department                                    117/773-2931
Law Enforcement Desk                               911/773-3501
Mental Health                                      773-2998
Operator Assistance                                113
Red Cross                                          773-3921/773-1855
Tri-Care Medical Appointments                      772-4020
Tri-Care Off-Base Approval                         773-3461
United Medical Center                              634-2273
Urgent Care                                        773-3461
Exchange Services:
Anthony’s Pizza                                    778-8272
Aquatics Center                                    773-3195
Auto Skills Center                                 773-3869
Barber Shop Main Exchange                          638-3046
Base Exchange Main Store                           634-1593
Beauty Shop                                        634-7149
Bowling Alley                                      773-2210
Burger King                                        638-1360
Clothing Sales                                     773-3135
Dry Cleaning                                       637-5965
First Term Airman’s Center (FTAC)                  773-6048
Fitness Center                                     773-2304
Golf Course                                        773-3556
Hobby Shop                                         773-3166
Optical Shop                                       632-1369
Shopette Gas Station                               634-7432
Theater                                            773-2226
Thrift Shop                                        632-3398
Trail’s End Club                                   773-3048
Other Important Numbers:
Base Taxi                                          773-1843
Crow Creek Inn                                     773-1844
Directory Assistance                               113
Finance (Military Pay)                             773-1851
Finance (Travel Pay)                               773-1858
16                                          90MWI32-901 8 MAY 2012


Legal                                       773-2256
MPF Customer Service                        773-2366
Post Office                                 773-3409
Social Actions                              773-2741
Traffic Management Office Inbound           773-1848
Traffic Management Office Outbound          773-3824
Warren Federal Credit Union                 432-5400
Special Services:
Laramie County Library                      634-3561
Road Report                                 635-9966
Optimum Cable                               632-8114
Qwest                                       1-800-244-1111
Weather Report                              773-2488
CDM Superintendent                          773-2163/773-2642
Dorm Managers:
Zone A                               Dorm   Phone
                                     220    773-3190
                                     222    773-3190
                                     223    773-3190
Zone B
                                     224    773-3014
                                     226    773-3014
                                     228    773-3014
                                     230    773-2163
Zone C
                                     236    773-2825
                                     244    773-2825
                                     248    773-2825
Zone D
                                     835    773-3014
                                     836    773-3014
                                     838    773-3014
                                     839    773-3014
90MWI32-901 8 MAY 2012                                                                         17


                                         Attachment 3
   CONDITION OF OCCUPANCY FOR MILITARY UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING

__________________________________is assigned to _____________________ to be
(Name: Last, First, MI.)                   (Room & Bldg)
occupied as unaccompanied military housing on ______________________
(DD/MM/YYYY)
1. Resident Use: Residents use the premises solely as an unaccompanied military residence. All
guidelines published in 90 MWI 32-901 and other military instructions must be followed. Use of
the unit for any other purpose is prohibited.
2. Pets: The only pets allowed on the premises are fish.
3. Condition of Property: The dorm manager and the resident have made an inspection of the
property and both parties agree the property is in a fit and habitable condition, except for those
damages or malfunctions that have been itemized, in writing, on AF Form 228, Quarters
Condition Inspection Report. Unaccompanied Housing Management and resident will retain
copies of this report. Any additional items noted by the resident shall be submitted in writing
and received by the dorm manager within 3-calendar days of occupancy. If additional items are
not received by the dorm manager within the 3-day period, Unaccompanied Housing
Management will consider the property to be in acceptable condition and suitable for occupancy.
4. Plumbing and Appliances: The resident shall keep the premises, including all plumbing
fixtures and appliances, clean and safe. At the termination of occupancy, all appliances and
equipment shall be in good working order and the premises shall be in a clean condition except
for normal wear and tear.
5. Use and Repair of Facilities: The resident is expected to make sure no damage is done to
electrical, plumbing, sanitary, heating, ventilation, dorm furnishings and appliances in or on the
premises. Any damage caused by either the military member or guests beyond normal wear and
tear will be repaired at the member's expense.
5.1. Resident will at own expense replace or repair all broken or damaged screens, flooring,
wood, plaster, and drywall occurring during their occupancy--normal wear and tear accepted.
5.2. Resident will at own expense keep in a state of good repair and cleanliness all parts of the
property including equipment and appliances, and keep all property free from objectionable
features, nuisances, and hazards. Residents will be held financially liable for repairs or
replacements of property, equipment, or appliances required due to the resident or their guests’
negligence, willful misconduct, or deliberate unauthorized use. The approval of the dorm
manager must be obtained before the resident places any exceptionally heavy articles, in the unit,
which may damage the unit's structural integrity.
6. Notice of Defects or Malfunction: During normal working hours, residents must promptly
notify the dorm manager whenever the structure or the equipment or any fixture contained
therein becomes defective, broken, damaged, or malfunctions in any way. Residents shall call
Base Civil Engineer (BCE) Customer Service at 773-1856 during non-duty hours.
7. Resident Conduct: Residents and their guests will conduct themselves in a courteous manner
that will not disturb their neighbors.
8. Health and Safety: The resident will comply with all health and safety regulations and
instructions imposed by the commander.
9. System Overloads: The resident will not install or use any equipment that will overload any
water, heating, electrical, sewage, or drainage systems of the assigned premises.
 18                                                                 90MWI32-901 8 MAY 2012


10. Smoke Detectors: It is a violation of federal law to remove any fire detector or smoke
detector in the dorms. Report any malfunctions to your dorm manager.
11. Insurance: Renter’s insurance is available in the state of Wyoming for military dorm
residents.
12. Redecorating and Alterations. You must obtain written permission before redecorating. Do
not make alterations, additions, or improvements without approval via AF IMT 332. Such
alterations could, if accepted by the incoming resident, remain with the property or be removed
by the resident. When removing alterations, the premises will be returned to their original
condition at the expense of the resident.
13. Periods of Absence: The resident must notify the dorm manager whenever extended
absences from quarters are anticipated; this includes TDYs.
14. Access to Property: When warranted by circumstances or reasonable cause, the installation
commander or designated representative may enter the premises to conduct a visual inspection.
The dorm managers may enter the premises to perform a maintenance/damage inspection, filter
change, or CE escort.
15. Neglect and Costs: If at any time, the Air Force is required to make repairs to the property
or equipment for damages caused by your abuse or negligence, or that of your guests, the repairs
may be made at your expense. As appropriate, dorm residents will be afforded the option to
complete the necessary repairs either by outside contractors or on their own.
16. Vandalism: Annually, vandalism costs the Air Force thousands of dollars. Make every
effort to prevent vandalism, theft, and damage to Air Force equipment, furnishings, and
residences. The dorm manager must immediately notify Security Forces when damage, theft, or
vandalism occurs. Personnel discovered damaging or stealing Air Force assets shall be
prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law under the UCMJ. All legal means will be used to
collect damages.
17. Storage: The storage of recreational vehicles, quad-runners, utility trailers, and motorcycle
trailers in the dorm area is not authorized. This policy is necessary for safe access by responding
emergency vehicles and the safety of dorm neighbors.
18. Unauthorized Items: Weapons, flares, fireworks, ammunition, or any type of explosive
devices are prohibited in the dorm. Violations are punishable under Article 92, UCMJ. Local
laws and military regulations govern registration, possession and storage of privately owned
weapons. No weapons of any type will be stored or displayed in the room. This includes bows
and arrows, martial arts weapons, and knives with blades longer than 3 inches (with the
exception of kitchen knives and display case items). All types of guns designed to propel a
projectile (BB, pellet, paint ball, bullet, and so forth) whether by air, gas or other means, are
prohibited. Items such as stun guns are prohibited. All types of water guns are prohibited for
use in the dorm. All firearms must be registered and stored at the Security Forces Armory. For
information on storage of firearms, contact the Security Forces. Prohibited flammable items
include gasoline, kerosene, candles (with visibly burnt wicks), incense, or any open flame. The
only flammable liquids allowed are for cigarette lighter refilling or cosmetics (nail polish,
cleaning solvents or polish remover). Other unauthorized items included grills, extension cords,
car parts, space heaters not issued by dorm management, and wild game cleaning. I understand
it is my responsibility to contact the Traffic Management Office (TMO) to arrange for the
movement of household goods at government expense prior to the movement of such goods. I
understand that it is my responsibility to provide my dorm manager with a minimum of 30 days
advance notice to terminate quarters.
90MWI32-901 8 MAY 2012                                                                       19


_____________________________________________________________________________
PRINTED FULL NAME (Last, First, MI) SIGNATURE/RANK
______________________________________________________________________________
UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING REP SIGNATURE ROOM DATE
I certify that I am in receipt of 90 SWI 32-9, and I understand the conditions contained herein.
 20                                                             90MWI32-901 8 MAY 2012


                                       Attachment 4
                       INSPECTION CHECKLIST
NAME/RANK:_________________DORM/ROOM:_____________DATE:______________

Inspector’s Name:_______________________________________________________________

ITEM                   DESCRIPTION                                             SCORE (0-5)
1. Bed                 Properly made with covering on, in good condition.

2. Carpet              Clean, vacuumed, and major stains
                       removed/reported to dorm manager.
3. Shower              Floor, walls, fixtures/clean and free of mold and
                       soap scum.
4. Bathroom area       Clean inside/out, floor, fan, and walls.

5. Prohibited items    Weapons of any kind, fireworks, fire and safety
                       hazards, display of nudity, non-authorized electrical
                       devices. Heat producing devices i.e., coffee pots,
                       curling irons, hair dryers, etc. MUST BE
                       unplugged while not in use.
6. Refrigerator/       Clean inside/outside, door seals, and freezer
Microwave              defrosted.
7. Stove/Oven          Clean inside/outside.

8. Sink/Faucet         Clean, free of dirt/soap scum, and clean area under
fixtures               sink.
9. Waste basket        Clean inside/outside, empty with new liner, and no
                       food in basket.
10. Mirror             Clean, dust free, and no smudges.

11. Light fixtures     Clean, dust free, and operational.

12. Windows            Glass, sill, blinds clean and dust free, window
                       closed/secured.
13. Doors              Main entrance secured, doors and frames clean and
                       undamaged.
14. Vents              Clean, dust free, and mold free.

15. Furniture (yours   Chests, chairs, desk, dress, TV, etc., clean and dust
or gov’t)              free.
16. Closets            Clean and organized. *(subject to inspection if
                       unlocked)
17. Clothing &         Stored properly. Luggage and empty boxes
personal items         removed from room. Clothing hung in closets or
                       stored in chests. Shoes neatly under bed or in
90MWI32-901 8 MAY 2012                                                                           21


                     closets.
18. Ledges, shelves, Clean and dust free.
etc.
OVERALL INSPECTION RESULTS/NOTES

NOTE: Scoring will consist of a 0 thru 5 for each section with a score of 5 being the highest.
If a particular area is N/A do not score that area.

Add the total of all areas together, multiply by 100 and then divide by the number of scored
sections for the final score. The highest score will be declared the winner.

Example: Raw score of 62 X 100 = 6,200, divided by 13 scored areas = 476.92 Max possibly
score is 500 ***CONSIDER THE MANNER IN WHICH THE FACILITY IS KEPT, NOT
THE AGE OF ITEM ***
 22                                                                 90MWI32-901 8 MAY 2012


                                         Attachment 5
                                  OVERALL INSPECTION

Dormitory Number__________Zone:___________________________DATE:_____________
Inspector’s Name: ______________________________________________________________
 ITEM                 DESCRIPTION                                            SCORE (0-5)
 Outside              (Within a 25’ radius of main entry). Neat and orderly.
     Parking Lot      Clean of trash/debris/cigarette butts/etc.

       Court Yard       Consider layout, upkeep, neat and cleanliness.

 Inside

       Entry Area       Neat and orderly, clear of trash, and no dirt on floor.

 First Floor Hallway    Neat, clean, and orderly.

 First Floor Dayroom    Consider furniture arrangement, condition in which
                        kept (dust/trash free). Neat, clean, and orderly.
       Stairways        Cleanliness general appearance.

   Second Floor         Neat, clean, and orderly.
     Hallway
   Second Floor         Consider furniture arrangement, condition in which
     Dayroom            kept (dust/trash free). Neat, clean, and orderly.
 Common Area

      Sink/Cabinets     Neat, clean, and orderly.

    Microwave           Clean inside/outside.
  Oven/Refrigerator
       Stove            Clean inside/outside.

 Common Storage Clean/orderly.
 Area
 OVERALL INSPECTION RESULTS/NOTES

 NOTE: Scoring will consist of a 0 thru 5 for each section with a score of 5 being the highest.
 If a particular area is N/A do not score that area.

 Add the total of all areas together, multiply by 100 and then divide by the number of scored
 sections for the final score. The highest score will be declared the winner.

 Example: Raw score of 62 X 100 = 6,200, divided by 13 scored areas = 476.92 Max possibly
 score is 500 ***CONSIDER THE MANNER IN WHICH THE FACILITY IS KEPT, NOT
90MWI32-901 8 MAY 2012   23


THE AGE OF ITEM ***
