BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                        90TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 48-2
90TH SPACE WING                                                                           22 FEBRUARY 2007

                                                                                           Aerospace Medicine

                                                               RESPIRATORY PROTECTION PROGRAM




                   COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:           Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                         www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 90 MDOS/SGOAB                                                                  Certified by: 90 MDG/CC
Supersedes 90 SWI 48-2, 26 January 2006                                                             Pages: 18

This Respiratory Protection Program (RPP) wing instruction establishes local procedures and responsibil-
ities for implementing and maintaining the program at F. E. Warren AFB and applies to all military, civil-
ian, or contract personnel assigned and attached to this installation who require the use of respiratory
protection. The primary objective of the plan is to implement 29 Code of Federal Regulation (CFR)
1910.134, Respiratory Protection, and Air Force Occupational Safety and Health (AFOSH) Standard
48-137, Respiratory Protection Program.
Military-unique respiratory protection devices (i.e., MCU-2 Series, JSGPM) may be used for the protec-
tion of military members for specific in-garrison military operations. Requirements for military-unique
respirators are addressed in AFMAN 32-4006, Nuclear, Biological, and Chemical (NBC) Mask Fit and
Liquid Hazard Simulant Training. Air Force civilians who are required to perform military-unique opera-
tions in CBRNE environments will wear NIOSH CBRN-agent approved respirators and comply with all
requirements of AFOSH Standard 48-137, as appropriate. Note: As of 20 September 2006, interim control
is being addressed at AFSPC/HQ and AFSG level to allow usage by civilians of military gas masks in
military unique situations. Glossary of References and Supporting Information may be found in Attach-
ment 1.
Maintain and dispose of records created as a result of prescribed processes in accordance with the Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule (AFRIMS). Comply with AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, for
documents containing Privacy Act information. Comply with DoDR 5400.7/Air Force Supplement/
AFSPCSUP1, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program, Air Force Supplement/AFSPC Sup 1, Chapter
4 for documents containing For Official Use Only information. In accordance with AFI 33-360 V1, 90
SW SUP 1, the 90 SW/CC has delegated approving official authority for this publication to the 90 MDG/
CC.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This instruction has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. The following para-
graphs have been modified: 3., 3.1., 3.2., 3.3., 4., 4.1., 4.2., 4.3., 4.4., 4.5., 5., 5.1., 5.2., 6., 6.1., 6.2.,
2                                                                      90SWI48-2 22 FEBRUARY 2007


6.3., 6.4., 6.5., 7., 7.1., 7.2., 8., 8.1., 8.2., Attachment 5. This document has changed in order to address
revisions within AFOSH STD 48-137. Additionally, sections of this document that were duplicative to 29
CFR 1910.134 and AFOSH STD 48-137 were deleted. It corrects administrative errors, updates refer-
ences, changes format, and incorporates clarifications and changes from MAJCOMs, DRUs and FOAs.
Prescribed forms do not appear in this standard; they may be accessed at either http://afpubs.hq.af.mil or
the Air Force Electronic Publications Library (AFEPL). A bar ( | ) indicates revision from the previous
edition.


1. Program Responsibilities.
    1.1. Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight (BEF) is the office of primary responsibility for the instal-
    lation respiratory protection program.
    1.2. Workplace supervisors or appointed shop representatives have direct responsibility for protecting
    their workers and will implement and enforce the responsibilities.
    1.3. Logistics Readiness Squadron will work with BEF to control the purchase of respirators and
    develop and maintain a stocked supply of respirators and respirator parts.
    1.4. Force Health Management (FHM) or Occupational Medicine Services (OMS) will arrange and
    administer respirator medical evaluations.
    1.5. Physician or Other Licensed Health Care Professional (PLHCP) will conduct respirator medical
    evaluations and provide BEF with recommendation for wear/no wear of respirator.
    1.6. Fire and Emergency Services will ensure adequacy of any self-contained breathing apparatus
    (SCBA) training lesson plans provided by any organization other than the Fire Department. The
    SCBA training lesson plans shall be reviewed and approved, in writing, to the organization providing
    the training. In addition, ensure quality controls of breathing air sampling results are furnished to BEF
    within 2 weeks of receipt.
    1.7. IAW AFOSH Standard 48-8, Controlling Exposures to Hazardous Materials, paragraph 4.3., a
    regulated area shall be established in areas where respiratory protection must be worn to prevent expo-
    sure. Refer to Attachment 4.

2. Purchasing and Inventory Control of Respirators.
    2.1. Organizations that use respirators are responsible for purchasing approved respirator and respira-
    tor parts through the Standard Base Supply System (SBSS) using the stock class 4240 at the Logistics
    Readiness Squadron (LRS) (773-3824/1848).
    2.2. It is the responsibility of BEF to keep the number of approved respirator brands on the installa-
    tion to a minimum. Special respirator stock levels will be established within SBSS by BEF and LRS
    for immediate issue upon successful completion of initial respirator fit testing. Additionally, special
    respirator and respirator spare part stock levels will be established to aid designated personnel to per-
    form proper respirator replacement and maintenance.
    2.3. Routine or normal respirator will be purchased using a Government Purchase Card (GPC) or uti-
    lizing local purchase procedures after notifying and approval by Bioenvironmental Engineering Res-
    piratory Protection Program manager. Organizations are directed to use SBSS to obtain respirators or
    respirator parts, to include air purifying respirator filters and cartridges. Note: Only government-pro-
90SWI48-2 22 FEBRUARY 2007                                                                                3


   vided respirators shall be used by government employees in the Air Force workplace. No privately
   procured respirator protection device will be used by government employees in an Air Force work-
   place.
   2.4. Only NIOSH approved respirators shall be purchased and must be coordinated through BEF. See
   Attachment 5.

3. Workplace RPP Representative.
   3.1. The workplace commander or NCOIC will appoint a qualified representative to serve as the liai-
   son between the shop and BEF for all respiratory protection issues. Use Attachment 2, Appointment
   of Workplace Respiratory Protection Program Administrator, to accomplish this assignment.
   3.2. The representative will be responsible for all workplace supervisor responsibilities and must
   have wide-ranging knowledge and experience of work center operations and personnel. Note: BEF
   reserves the right to request a more qualified representative based on program requirements.
   3.3. RPP representative shall develop a written plan as required by 29 CFR 1910.134 (c), and the plan
   shall be reviewed and approved by BEF. See Attachment 3.

4. Medical Evaluations.
   4.1. Using a respirator may place a physiological burden on employees that varies with type of respi-
   rator used, job and workplace conditions, and medical status of the employee. Therefore, a physician
   must evaluate the employee’s ability to use a respirator before the employee is fit tested or required to
   use the respirator in the workplace.
   4.2. The OSHA medical evaluation questionnaire (29 CFR 1910.134, App C) is used to perform the
   initial employee medical evaluation. Contact the Public Health Flight (773-3040) to obtain a respira-
   tor medical questionnaire.
   4.3. The employee must provide a copy of the workplace-specific plan to the physician along with the
   completed medical questionnaire.
NOTE: All BEF approved workplace-specific plans will be electronically filed at the clinic so the
employees will not have to physically bring the plan to the physician.
   4.4. The physician or other licensed health care professional (PLHCP) will review completed ques-
   tionnaire and the workplace-specific plan to determine the ability of the employee to use a respirator.
   Official notification will be provided to the workplace supervisor or appointed representative and BEF
   in writing describing user approval, approval with conditions, or disapproval.
   4.5. Personnel with a valid shaving waiver will not receive medical qualification to wear a respirator.
   IAW 29 CFR 1910.134(g)(1), “the employer shall not permit respirators with tight-fitting facepieces
   to be worn by employees who have facial hair that comes between the sealing surface of the facepiece
   and the face or that interferes with valve function; or any condition that interferes with the
   face-to-facepiece seal or valve function”.
4                                                                      90SWI48-2 22 FEBRUARY 2007


5. Respiratory Protection Program Training.
    5.1. BEF will provide initial program training to appointed workplace representatives who in-turn
    will provide annual training to respirator users within the workplace. Shop representatives are
    required to utilize BEF developed or purchased training lesson plans and materials.
    5.2. Training must be documented on the employee AF IMT 55.

6. Respirator Fit Testing.
    6.1. Prior to personnel conducting work related processes that require a respirator, the worker must be
    fit tested with the same make, model, style, and size of respirator that will be used in the workplace.
    Current fit tests from other installations may be used if the worker will be using the same make,
    model, style, and size of respirator. The employee must provide a copy of the fit test certificate to BEF
    during in-processing prior to use of previously-approved respirator.
    6.2. Fit testing will be done using the TSI PortaCount machine that is a particle-based test. The Port-
    aCount counts particles within the fit test room and inside the mask, and provides a fit factor for the
    mask.
    6.3. IAW OSHA fit test protocols and standard operating procedures, annual fit testing will be accom-
    plished using the individual’s issued respirator (or community use respirator). The workplace repre-
    sentative will ensure the user brings the field use respirator to the annual fit test appointment. Note:
    No show letters will be sent to unit/CC’s identifying those individuals who have scheduled an appoint-
    ment, but failed to show, cancel or reschedule.
    6.4. Fit testing on the respirator used in the field is accomplished to install user confidence in that
    mask and serves as an annual respirator seal check to ensure the mask seal remains intact. The fit test
    will validate the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) certification for the
    respirator.
    6.5. BEF fit testing respirators are used only for new personnel during initial sizing and fitting. BEF
    provides a selection (i.e., make, mode, and size) of respirators to all new employees during an initial
    fit test. This is done to properly select a respirator that provides “comfort” along with the most accept-
    able fit and each respirator represents a different size/shape and one type may fit better than another.

7. BEF Internal Reviews
    7.1. BEF will periodically review the AF IMT 2773, Respirator Section Worksheet, to determine if
    respirator information and cartridges are current with shop processes.
    7.2. BEF will annotate on the AF IMT 2773 the filter change-out schedule. Note: This information is
    also provided in the shop specific written plan for each respective shop.

8. Technical Order Improvement.
    8.1. Workplace representatives will notify BEF of inconsistencies between 29 CFR 1910.134 or
    AFOSH STD 48-137 and applicable Technical Orders (OR) and initiate an AFTO Form 22, Technical
    Order Improvement Report and Reply, for resolution. A copy of the AFTO Form 22 must be provided
    to BEF.
90SWI48-2 22 FEBRUARY 2007                                                                         5


  8.2. BEF will use official channels to request a change to the TO. In addition, BEF will the MAJCOM
  Bioenvironmental Engineer a coordinated copy of the AFTO Form 22.



                                            MICHAEL J. CAREY, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 90th Space Wing
6                                                                  90SWI48-2 22 FEBRUARY 2007


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
29 CFR 1910.134, Respiratory Protection. CFR may be obtained from the Air Force Publications Web
Site, (http://afpubs.hq.af.mil/links)
AFOSH Standard 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program. Standard may be obtained from the Air Force
Publications Web Site (http://afpubs.hq.mil/)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CFR—Code of Federal Regulation
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
FFPD—Filtering Face Piece Device
GPC—Government Purchase Card
RPP—Respiratory Protection Card
BEF—Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight (90 MDOS/SGOAB)
IEX—Issue exception
SBSS—Standard Base Supply System
SCBA—Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus
PLHCP—Physician or Licensed Health Care Professional
PHA—Physical Health Assessment
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
IDLH—Immediately Dangerous to Life and Health

Terms
Shall—Indicates a mandatory requirement.
Will—Indicates a mandatory requirement, which expresses a declaration of intent, probability or
determination.
Should—Indicates a preferred method of accomplishment.
May—Indicates an acceptable or satisfactory method of accomplishment.
Community Use Respirator—A respirator used by more than one individual.
Facial Hair—Any hair on the face of an individual that interferes with a normal face-to-respirator seal.
This includes beards, sideburns, mustache, goatees, stubble or more than one day’s facial hair growth.
Filtering Face Piece Device—A respirator that has a face piece made entirely of filtering or adsorbing
material. These respirators do not have changeable filters or cartridges. The device does not have an
inhalation valve, and may or may not have an exhalation valve.
90SWI48-2 22 FEBRUARY 2007                                                                                   7


Immediately Dangerous to Life and Health—Any condition that poses an immediate or delayed threat
to life or that would cause irreversible adverse health effects or would interfere with an individual’s ability
to escape unaided from a contaminated area.
Medical Clearance—Two-part process for medically certifying personnel for respirator use. It includes
medical evaluations and fit testing.
Military-unique Respiratory Protection Device—A respiratory protection device which is not
approved by NIOSH for industrial uses but is designed for use in nuclear, chemical, or biological agent
contingency environments.
Respirator—Approved and designed to provide the wearer with respiratory protection against inhalation
of potential harmful atmospheres. The respirator shall be tested and listed by the National Institute for
Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH).
Tight-Fitting Respirators—A respiratory inlet covering that is designed to form a complete seal with the
face.
8                                                                  90SWI48-2 22 FEBRUARY 2007


                                            Attachment 2



                                                                                       <Date>


MEMORANDUM FOR 90 MDOS/SGOAB


FROM:


SUBJECT: Appointment of Workplace Respiratory Protection Program Administrator


1. <Name / Rank> has been appointed the respiratory protection program administrator for <Shop
Name> as of <Date>.


2. In accordance with AFOSH Standard 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program, and other applicable
federal, Air Force, and local regulations, <Rank Name> will be the liaison between Bioenvironmental
Engineering Flight (BEF) and <Shop Name> for all respiratory protection issues. In addition, <Rank
Name> will be responsible for all workplace supervisor responsibilities described in AFOSH Std 48-137,
paragraph 2.8 and will maintain an expert working knowledge of workplace processes and personnel.


3. Please address respiratory protection program letters and or questions to <Rank Name> or myself at
x####.




                                                   <Shop OIC / NCOIC Signature Block>
90SWI48-2 22 FEBRUARY 2007                                                                                 9


                                              Attachment 3



BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                          SHOP RPP PLAN 48-1
90TH SPACE WING
                                                                                              ## June 2005


                                                                                       Aerospace Medicine


                                                            RESPIRATORY PROTECTION PROGRAM

OPR: Shop/Workplace POC                                                             Certified by: 90 MDOS
                                                              Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight (BEF)
Supersedes: Previous OI Title/Date                                             Pages: No. of pages to plan
                                                                                             Distribution: F

This workplace-specific Respiratory Protection Program (RPP) plan establishes procedures and responsi-
bilities for implementing and maintaining the program and applies to all military, civilian, or contract per-
sonnel assigned and attached to Shop who requires the use of respiratory protection. The primary
objective of the plan is to implement 29 Code of Federal Regulation (CFR) 1910.134, Respiratory Protec-
tion, and Air Force Occupational Safety and Health (AFOSH) Standard 48-137, Respiratory Protection
Program.


These requirements and procedures do not apply to military-unique respiratory protection devices (i.e.,
NBC Mask or gas mask) that are designed for use in nuclear, biological, and chemical warfare environ-
ments.


1. Workplace supervisors and appointed shop representatives have a direct responsibility for protecting
their workers and will implement and enforce the responsibilities described in AFOSH STD 48-137, para-
graph 2.8.


2. Individuals who wear respiratory protection will execute the respirator users responsibilities described
in AFOSH STD 48-137, paragraph 2.9 and 90 SWI 48-2, Respiratory Protection Program.


3. General Workplace-Specific Program Elements.
10                                                                     90SWI48-2 22 FEBRUARY 2007


    3.1. Workplace Exposure Monitoring and Surveillance Results. BEF survey reports describe specific
monitoring and surveillance results. Survey reports, if any, are maintained in Section D of the program
folder.


     3.2. Medical Evaluations.


        3.2.1. Using a respirator may place a physiological burden on employees that varies with type of
respirator used, job and workplace conditions, and medical status of the employee. Therefore, a physician
must evaluate the employee’s ability to use a respirator before the employee is fit tested or required to use
the respirator in the workplace.


         3.2.2. The OSHA medical evaluation questionnaire (29 CFR 1910.134, App C) is used to perform
the initial employee medical evaluation. The Public Health Flight (773-3040) provides the medical ques-
tionnaire upon request by the employee or workplace representative.


        3.2.3. The employee must provide a copy of the workplace-specific plan to the physician along
with the completed medical questionnaire. Note: All current and approved workplace-specific plans will
be on file with the clinic and employees will not have to physically bring the plan to the physician.


        3.2.4. The physician or other licensed health care professional (PLHCP) will review completed
questionnaire and the workplace-specific plan to determine the ability of the employee to use a respirator.
Official notification will be provided to the workplace supervisor or appointed representative in writing
describing user approval, approval with conditions, or disapproval.


     3.3. RPP Initial and Annual Training.


        3.3.1. BEF will provide initial program training to appointed workplace representatives who,
in-turn, will provide initial and annual training to respirator users within the workplace. Shop representa-
tives are required to utilize the BEF developed or purchased training lesson plan and materials.


        3.3.2. Training must be documented on the employee AF IMT 55.


       3.3.3. 29 CFR 1910.134 requires personnel using escape respirators (i.e. MAF personnel, missile
crews, etc.) to be trained on proper usage and limitations and lesson plans reviewed and approved by
Bioenvironmental Engineering before implementation.


     3.4. Respirator Fit Testing.
90SWI48-2 22 FEBRUARY 2007                                                                                   11



       3.4.1. Before a worker may be required to wear a respirator with a tight-fitting facepiece, the
worker must be fit tested with the same make, model, style, and size of respirator that will be used in the
workplace. Current fit tests from other installations may be used if the worker will be using the same
make, model, style, and size of respirator.


         3.4.2. Fit testing is accomplished quantitatively using the TSI PortaCount machine. This is a par-
ticle-based test. The PortaCount counts particles within the fit test room and inside the mask, compares
the results, and provides a fit factor for the mask.


         3.4.3. IAW OSHA fit test protocols and standard operating procedures, annual fit testing will be
accomplished using the individual’s issued respirator (or community use respirator). The workplace rep-
resentative will ensure the user brings the field use respirator to the annual fit test appointment. Note:
Fit-testing Monday -Thursday 0800- 1030 and 1300 – 1600 hrs.


         3.4.4. Fit testing on the respirator used in the field is accomplished to install user confidence in
that mask and serves as an annual respirator seal check to ensure the mask seal remains intact. The fit test
will validate the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) certification for the res-
pirator.


          3.4.5. BEF fit testing respirators are used only for new personnel during initial sizing and fitting.
BEF provides a selection (i.e., make, mode, and size) of respirators to all new employees during an initial
fit test. This is done to properly select a respirator that provides “comfort” along with the most acceptable
fit. This is accomplished because each respirator represents a different size/shape and one type may fit
better than another. Additionally, the BEF initial fit testing respirators are quickly becoming worn and
inoperable due the volume of annual fit tests required and performed at this installation.


       3.4.6. Escape respirators require no annual fit-test but proper donning and doffing procedures are
required by appointed personnel in respective areas.


   3.5. Respirator Maintenance Procedures.


        3.5.1. Each individual is responsible for the care, inspection, and maintenance of respirators used
within the workplace. Refer to AFOSH Std 48-137, Chapter 9, for general care, inspection, and mainte-
nance of issued respirators.


        3.5.2. Refer to Attachment 1 of this plan for local procedures and schedules for cleaning, disin-
fecting, storing, inspecting, repairing, discarding, and otherwise maintaining respirators. Included in this
12                                                                     90SWI48-2 22 FEBRUARY 2007


attachment will be the BEF recommended filter, cassette, or cartridge change out schedule for air purify-
ing respirators.


       3.5.3. All respirators require inspection documentation on AF Form 1071.


        3.5.4. All escape respirator bottles require Grade D air quality analysis results be to located near
the respirator or centrally filed and a copy provided to Bioenvironmental Engineering.


    3.6. Respirator Selection for Shop Name. Refer to Attachment 2 for the rationale for the selection of
respirators within the workplace.


     3.7. Purchasing Respirators. Refer to the 90 SWI 48-2 for policies and procedures for purchasing res-
pirator and respirator parts.


     3.8. Workplace Supplemental Information.


       3.8.1. Respirator Use Factors: Refer to Attachment 2, Respirator Selection, for the duration and
frequency of respirator use.


      3.8.2. Expected Physical Work Effort. Refer to Attachment 2, Respirator Selection, for the
employee expected physical work effort involved in processes requiring respirators.


     3.8.3. Thermal Stress Issues. In this section, document in your own words (or provide negative
documentation) for any temperature and humidity extremes that may be encountered.


        3.8.4. Additional Personal Protective Equipment. Use this section to list any additional protec-
tive clothing and equipment that will be worn by employees.


       3.8.5. Type and weight of respirators.

Respirator Type               Respirator Make, Model                         Respirator Weight
90SWI48-2 22 FEBRUARY 2007                                                                           13



4. Please contact <Shop POC> or myself for questions or comments regarding this workplace-specific
plan.


5. This workplace specific-plan has been reviewed by <BIO REP>, Bioenvironmental Engineering
Flight, on <date> and is approved for use within the workplace.




                                                  Shop OIC or NCOIC Signature Block


2 Attachments
1. Local Respirator Maintenance Procedures/Schedules
2. Shop Respirator Selection, Use, Limitations




1. Respirator Care. Don’t copy the AFI. Tell us, in your own words, how, when and where your workers
actually do this.




2. Respirator Inspection. Don’t copy the AFI. Tell us, in your own words, how, when and where your
workers actually do this.




3. Respirator Maintenance. Don’t copy the AFI. Tell us, in your own words, how, when and where your
workers actually do this.
14                                                                     90SWI48-2 22 FEBRUARY 2007



4. Cartridge/Filter change Schedule

                                                                             Change-out Schedule
Respirator Make, Model Cartridge / Filter
                                                                             Information



                                                                             BIO adds info here…



                                                                             BIO adds info here…




5. Guidelines for Estimating Cartridge/filter Change-out Schedule:


         5.1. If the organic vapor’s boiling point (BP) is greater than 70 degrees Celsius and its concentra-
tion is less than 200 ppm, the organic vapor cartridge should last 8 hours a normal work rate (assuming
normal breathing rate).


        5.2. If the concentration is reduced by a factor of 10, the breakthrough time will only increase by
a factor of 5.


        5.3. Humidity greater than 85% generally reduces breakthrough time by 50% at high concentra-
tions (e.g. 1000 ppm)


        5.4. Warning properties (odor) can provide valuable secondary information. Employees who
detect chemicals prior to the scheduled change schedule should leave the area, replace the cartridge and
report to the shop respirator program manager that a problem occurred.
       5.5. Most cartridges use a color change indicator (ESLI). When the indicator matches the refer-
ence color corresponding to the exhausted service life, the cartridge or canister must be changed. (i.e.
mercury vapor, ethylene oxide, and carbon monoxide gas).
SECTION A. OSHA Substance-Specific Standards. OSHA substance-specific standards do/do not apply
to this workplace.


SECTION B. Processes Requiring Respirator/Respirator Selection.
90SWI48-2 22 FEBRUARY 2007                                                                                 15



1. Process Name and Description: This information comes from our occupational health database and
should not be changed. If information is in accurate, please contact our office.


1.1. Worker Activity. Please explain or describe in your own words based on local shop procedures
whether the worker is in the hazardous area continuously or intermittently during the work shift and
whether the work rate is light, medium, or heavy.


1.2. Respirator Use Conditions: Please describe in your own words based on local shop procedures the
period of time a respirator must be worn. Provide the type of respirator use application: routine, non-rou-
tine, emergency, or rescue.


1.3. Location of Potential Hazardous Area. Please describe in your own words based on local shop proce-
dures the location of the hazardous area with respect to a safe area, which has respirable air. List what type
of plans personnel have if an emergency occurs during spraying.


1.4. Operational Limitations. Please list environmental conditions and level of effort required of the respi-
rator wearer that may affect the respirator service life. For example: extreme physical exertion can cause
the user to deplete the air supply in a SCBA such that its service life is reduced by half.


1.5. Immediately Dangerous to Life or Health (IDLH) Conditions. Are there any IDLH conditions while
spraying pesticides? Explain why or why not here.


1.6. Other Exposure Routes. Is there any skin, eye, or other hazards present while applying p-nitrophenol?
If, so explain why here.


1.7. Refer to your shop industrial hygiene survey letters for further health hazard exposures and informa-
tion or call Bioenvironmental Engineering at 3088.


1.8. Respirator Selection Table with protection factors


Respirator Make, Model           Respirator Type          Respirator PF
16                                                                     90SWI48-2 22 FEBRUARY 2007


2.0 List applicable hazards associated with activities/processes and health effects (i.e. asbestos, lead,
methylene chloride, etc.)


Example: Lead - Lead is a naturally occurring bluish-gray metal found in small amounts in the earth’s
crust. Lead can be found in all parts of our environment. Because of health concerns, lead from gasoline,
paints and ceramic products, caulking, and pipe solder has been dramatically reduced in recent years.
Lead can affect almost every organ and system in your body. The most sensitive is the central nervous sys-
tem, particularly in children. Lead also damages kidneys and the reproductive system. The effects are the
same whether it is breathed or swallowed. At high levels, lead may decrease reaction time, cause weak-
ness in fingers, wrists, or ankles, and possibly affect the memory. Lead may cause anemia, a disorder of
the blood. It can also damage the male reproductive system. The connection between these effects and
exposure to low levels of lead is uncertain.
90SWI48-2 22 FEBRUARY 2007                                                                                 17


                                              Attachment 4



                                 DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                     90TH SPACE WING (AFSPC)




                                                                                    29 Dec 2006


MEMORANDUM FOR ALL SHOPS ON RESPIRATORY PROTECTION PROGRAM
FROM: 90 MDOS/SGOAB
SUBJECT: Regulated Areas in the Workplace Where Respirator Protection is Required
1. The Bioenvironmental Engineering office just completed a courtesy visit by the Inspector General (IG).
The important topic of regulated areas was brought to our attention and is in need of explanation to all
applicable work centers that wear respirators for protection.
2. First, it is important for all to understand what defines a regulated area. IAW the Occupational Health
and Safety Administration (OSHA) and Air Force Occupational Health and Safety (AFOSH) Standard
48-8, Controlling Exposures To Hazardous Materials, a regulated area is established where the threshold
limit value (e.g., occupational exposure limit [OEL]) for hazardous contaminants and known human car-
cinogens has been exceeded. Additionally, a regulated area is established in areas where personal protec-
tive equipment is required to avoid skin or eye contact hazards, where respiratory protection must be worn
to prevent exposure; and in any other area where a hazardous exposure could occur if access is not con-
trolled.
3. Second, regulated areas must be demarcated from the rest of the workplace in any manner that ade-
quately establishes and alerts employees of the boundaries of the regulated area. This may be accom-
plished by the work center supervisor by posting signs to all entrances to the area identifying that the
employee is about to enter a regulated area.
4. The regulated area is established and identified after our worker exposure assessments. Whenever the
assessments are completed, a copy of the report will be forwarded to the applicable work center to com-
municate that a regulated area has been established for that work center. The work center supervisor must
then ensure compliance by allowing only those workers who are trained and protected to enter the area.
Due diligence is requested by each work center supervisor.
5. Any questions pertaining to this matter may be directed to MSgt Kenneth Rennekamp at extension
3088.

                                             KALPESH B. PATEL, Major, USAF, BSC
                                             Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight Commander
18                                                       90SWI48-2 22 FEBRUARY 2007


                                      Attachment 5




RP Make      RP Model           RP Size      RP Style   TSI Adapter Part No.
North        76008A             M/L          FF         TSI 8025-17
North        76008AS            SM           FF         TSI 8025-17
North        7700-30M           M            HF         TSI 8025-17
North        7700-30M           SM           HF         TSI 8025-17
North        7700-30M           L            HF         TSI 8025-17
Interspiro   Spiromatic 90/30   ONE-SIZE     FF         TSI 8025-21
Suvivair     Panther 20/20      SM           FF         TSI 8025-13
Suvivair     Panther 20/20      M            FF         TSI 8025-13
Suvivair     Panther 20/20      L            FF         TSI 8025-13
3M           7501               SM           HF         TSI 8025-16
3M           7502               M            HF         TSI 8025-16
3M           7503               L            HF         TSI 8025-16
3M           7800S              SM           HF         TSI 8025-16
3M           7800S              M            HF         TSI 8025-16
3M           7800S              L            HF         TSI 8025-16
MSA          Ultra-Twin         SM           FF         TSI 8025-14
MSA          Ultra-Twin         M            FF         TSI 8025-14
MSA          Ultra-Twin         L            FF         TSI 8025-14
MSA          Comfo Classic      M            HF         TSI 8025-14
MSA          Comfo Classic      L            HF         TSI 8025-14
MSA          Comfo Classic      SM           HF         TSI 8025-14
Willson      Premier Plus       SM           HF         TSI 8025-19
Willson      Premier Plus       M/L          HF         TSI 8025-19
MSA          MCU-2A/P           SM           FF         TSI 8025-USMil
MSA          MCU-2A/P           L            FF         TSI 8025-USMil
MSA          MCU-2A/P           M            FF         TSI 8025-USMil
