BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                     90TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 32-9
90TH SPACE WING                                                                       2 FEBRUARY 2006

                                                                                         Civil Engineering

                                                                        UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 90 CES/CEH (Mrs. Tammy Hanesworth)                 Certified by: 90 CES/CC (Lt Col Joe G. Ballard)
Supersedes 90SWI32-9, 5 April 2002                                                           Pages: 23
                                                                                        Distribution: F

This instruction establishes Francis E. Warren Air Force Base dormitory (dorm) standards. It applies to
and speaks directly to all dorm residents. A copy of this instruction must be kept in the dorm room. Dorm
residents’ knowledge and compliance with these standards will make their stay at Francis E. Warren Air
Force Base pleasant and comfortable. Where there are many people living in one place, it’s imperative to
ensure a safe, healthy, and clean living environment. Without the dorm resident being well rested and in
good health, the mission of Francis E. Warren Air Force Base cannot be accomplished. In the event ques-
tions or situations arise that are not addressed by this instruction, the dorm resident should bring them to
the attention of the appropriate dorm manager or first sergeant. We are committed to upholding these stan-
dards equally among all residents. Reference punitive information, paragraph 4.3., about firearms and
fireworks. Weapons, flares, fireworks, ammunition, or any type of explosive devices are prohibited in the
dorm. Violations of Paragraphs 2.1., 2.9., 2.20.1., 2.20.2., 4.3., and 5.5. are punishable under Article 92,
Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). Also reference Attachment 2, Condition of Occupancy for
Military Unaccompanied Housing, and paragraph 16. Personnel discovered damaging or stealing Air
Force assets would be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law under the UCMJ. All legal means will be
used to collect damages and secure areas from destruction.
Maintain and dispose of records created as a result of prescribed processes in accordance with the Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule (AFRIMS). Comply with AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, for
documents containing Privacy Act information. Comply with DoDR 5400.7/Air Force Supplement/
AFSPCSUP1, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program, Air Force Supplement/AFSPC Sup 1, Chapter
4 for documents containing For Official Use Only information. In accordance with AFI 33-360_Volume
1, 90SWSup1, the 90th Space Wing Commander delegates approving authority for this publication to the
90th Mission Support Group Commander.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed to update policies in unaccompa-
nied housing. A bar (|) indicates revision from the previous edition.
2                                                                                           90SWI32-9 2 FEBRUARY 2006


    1.   Air Force Responsibilities. ........................................................................................            3
    2.   Occupant Responsibility, ...........................................................................................            4
    3.   Fire Protection. ...........................................................................................................   10
    4.   Force Protection (Security Forces). ...........................................................................                11
    5.   Good Neighbors. ........................................................................................................       12
    6.   Francis E. Warren Air Force Base Specific Topics: ..................................................                           13
    7.   Self-Help Work. .........................................................................................................      13
    8.   Termination of Unaccompanied Housing. .................................................................                        13

Attachment 1— BASE FACILITIES/BLDG/PHONE NUMBERS                                                                                        15

Attachment 2— CONDITION OF OCCUPANCY FOR MILITARY UNACCOMPANIED
             HOUSING                                                                                                                    17

Attachment 3— INSPECTION CHECKLIST                                                                                                      20

Attachment 4— OVERALL INSPECTION                                                                                                        22
90SWI32-9 2 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                                 3


1. Air Force Responsibilities. The Air Force will provide maintenance and repair, refuse collection and
disposal, pest control, and fire and police protection for your assigned, unaccompanied housing (UH).
   1.1. Initial Inspections. A dorm manager will escort you to your room and conduct an initial inspec-
   tion. During that time, all identified discrepancies with the room and appliances will be documented
   on an AF Form 228, Furnishings Custody Receipt and Condition Report. You then have 3 duty days
   to provide additional discrepancies to the dorm manager. Any items noted thereafter will be the occu-
   pant’s responsibility to fix or replace prior to clearing the dorm room.
   1.2. Maintenance and Repair. The Base Civil Engineer (BCE) has primary responsibility for ensuring
   maintenance for your room and dorm. If maintenance needs to be performed Monday through Friday,
   0730-1630, please contact your dorm manager. In case of an emergency during nights, weekends, and
   holidays, contact the CE Service Call Desk at 773-1856. For non-emergencies, wait until the next duty
   day and contact the dorm manager.
       1.2.1. Work Order Response Time.
           1.2.1.1. Emergency work orders are responded to as soon as possible and work is continued
           until the emergency is resolved. Some examples are a structural, utility, or mechanical prob-
           lem that could cause loss of life or property, serious damage affecting health, safety, security,
           or mission.
           1.2.1.2. Urgent work orders are completed within 5 workdays. Completion date may be longer
           pending requisition of materials. Maintenance will normally be performed from 0730-1630.
           Example of an urgent work order is a “backed-up” commode, when there is no another com-
           mode available.
           1.2.1.3. Routine work orders are completed within 9 days. Completion dates may be longer
           pending requisition of materials. Maintenance will normally be performed from 0730-1630.
           Some examples are minor faucet leaks, repairs to wall locker doors, shelving, interior walls, or
           any cosmetic improvements.
   1.3. Refuse Collection and Disposal. Place your room trash and garbage in the dumpsters provided.
   Exterior garbage cans are provided for minor trash or litter, not room trash. Your personal day-room
   garbage is to be taken to the dumpster or thrown out with your room trash. Do not place trash in stair-
   wells. Recycling containers are provided and are available for your use. Civil Engineer Entomology
   Section will dispose of dead animals found on base (call 773-2657).
   1.4. Insect Control. If needed, we will treat your room before you move in; however, we expect you
   to take preventive action to control insects. For example, keep food in sealed plastic containers,
   remove trash and garbage from your quarter’s daily, and discard empty paper bags and boxes as
   quickly as possible. If infestation occurs that is beyond your control, call your dorm manager.
   1.5. Change Combinations. Your dorm manager keeps a master combination log of all rooms. If you
   desire a combination change, you must contact your dorm manager, in person, during normal duty
   hours, 0730-1630 (see Attachment 1, Base Facilities/Bldg/Phone Numbers). It is your responsibility
   to keep your combination secure. Excessive requests to change combinations, which may cause dam-
   age to the lock, may result in a labor charge. Do not give your combination to your friends.
   1.6. Ground Care. The base will normally maintain common areas. You're responsible for keeping the
   grounds around your facility clean. Your dorm manager may have additional ground care require-
   ments.
4                                                                      90SWI32-9 2 FEBRUARY 2006


    1.7. Appliances. Ranges, refrigerators, and dishwashers, if installed, are government furnished and
    maintained. Appliances are assigned by serial number and verified at check-in and during termination
    inspections. The dorm manager will demonstrate proper removal and replacement procedures. Notify
    your dorm manager of any problems immediately.
    1.8. Utility connections must be available for a microwave oven.
    1.9. Dorm Managers. Dorm managers are responsible for the management and maintenance of the
    unaccompanied dorms. These duties include, but are not limited to:
       1.9.1. Assigning and terminating rooms.
       1.9.2. Inspecting for maintenance, health hazards, and safety violations.
       1.9.3. Dorm managers will ensure each dorm resident signs a certification as outlined in Attach-
       ment 2, certifying receipt of a copy of 90 SWI 32-9, understanding rules and provisions therein.
       1.9.4. Accounting for furniture, appliances, recreation equipment, and supplies.
       1.9.5. Acts as facility manager and ensures proper reporting.
       1.9.6. Budgets, orders, and purchases supply, linens, furnishings, and so forth; and participate on
       the Quarters Improvement Committee (QIC).
       1.9.7. Schedules and supervises bay orderlies.
       1.9.8. Initiates and tracks maintenance work orders as well as various self-help projects.

2. Occupant Responsibility, Dorm Standards, and Policies. The dorm is your home and we want you
to feel at home in it; however, there are some prohibitions:
    2.1. Prohibitions in dorm rooms include, but are not limited to, the following: All forms of tobacco
    use are prohibited. This includes, but is not limited to cigars, cigarettes, snuff, chewing tobacco, and
    so forth. No pets (except fish), automotive parts, auto batteries, barbecue grills, burning candles,
    incense, cohabitation, flammable liquids (except cosmetic), flammable pressurized gases (except cos-
    metic), electrical timers, flammable room decorations hanging from the ceiling, flammable paints,
    gambling, hot plates, open flames, smoking in bed, unsealed foods, sterno fuel, residents on dorm
    roofs, weapons (see paragraph 4.3. for listing), live Christmas trees, multiple outlet extension cords,
    and under age drinking (must be 21). The BCE must approve space heaters. Power strips with an over-
    load protective device not exceeding 15 amps may be used for multiple items. If you are unsure if an
    item or action is acceptable, ask the dorm manager.
       2.1.1. Pictures:
           2.1.1.1. Pictures of scantily clothed persons, either male or female, that may be offensive to
           others are prohibited. Illegal pornographic material (e.g., child pornography) is prohibited;
           pornographic material displaying male or female genitalia or female breasts will not be visible
           in the resident’s room. No pictures that depict or show the act of sexual intercourse or profan-
           ity in either word or symbol will be considered acceptable room decorations.
           2.1.1.2. No items or pictures that degrade national or military leaders will be acceptable as
           decorations.
       2.1.2. Messages, Decals, Stickers, or Posters and Other Items. Do not tape or affix separation or
       PCS orders to the door surface. Profanity or other lewd messages are not authorized on message
90SWI32-9 2 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                                5


     boards. Decals, stickers, or posters are not allowed on the outside of the door, in the window, or on
     any furnishings.
  2.2. Cleanliness. Dorms will be maintained within Air Force standards as outlined in AFI 32-6005,
  Unaccompanied Housing Management, as supplemented, and this instruction.
  2.3. Inspections. Inspections generally are scheduled and announced, but may be no-notice and
  accomplished by commanders or other designated authorized personnel. The focus for quarters’
  inspection is safety and health. Following is a guide to proper care and maintenance of your room.
  You are not limited to the references in this guide.
     2.3.1. Closets. Any closet that is unlocked is subject to inspection.
     2.3.2. Floors. Clean and vacuum as needed. Ensure there is no dirt build-up in the corners, behind
     the doors, under beds, or other furniture. Protect floors and carpets with newspapers or other
     absorbent materials when applying shoeshine or edge dressing products.
     2.3.3. Carpets. Carpets should be vacuumed and shampooed when needed. See your dorm man-
     ager for use of a carpet shampoo machine. Any damage caused by misuse, abuse, burns, and so
     forth, may be chargeable to the occupant.
     2.3.4. Walls. Walls must be clean and maintained in good repair. Use mild soap and warm water
     to keep walls clean. Do not apply adhesive-backed materials, wallpaper, or decals to walls or fur-
     nishings as these cause damage upon removal. Use nail or “J” type hangers only and remove them
     prior to termination. Make sure doorstops are serviceable to prevent damage to walls. If there are
     holes or depressions in the walls, they must be repaired. If the holes are small (less than 3 inches),
     you may repair them yourself. Any holes larger than 3 inches must be reported to the dorm man-
     ager as soon as possible. It is the responsibility of the occupants to report any problems as soon as
     possible. Walls must be repaired and repainted as necessary, a minimum of one month prior to
     out-processing. You may obtain paint and materials from your dorm manager for normal wear and
     tear repair, or receive instructions on where to purchase if it is the occupant’s responsibility.
     Rooms painted in personalized colors or unusual patterns must be repainted one month prior to
     departure and cost of the paint is the occupant's responsibility.
     2.3.5. Sink. Clean hair from drain trap as needed. Clean fixtures so they are free of dirt, mildew/
     mold, and water spots. Report any leaks to your dorm manager immediately. Use spray cleaner to
     clean the inside and outside of the under-sink cabinet. Ensure that mirrors are cleaned on an
     as-needed basis.
     2.3.6. Refrigerators. Clean any spills on the inside. Dispose of spoiled food products on a regular
     basis to prevent mold growth. Clean interior surfaces of refrigerators with water and baking soda
     on a regular basis. Defrost the freezer as needed. Pay special attention to shelves; clean under,
     inside, outside, and behind the bottom drawer if so equipped. Wash the metal strips on the inside
     of the door. Be sure that there is no food residue splattered on the inside. The seal around the edge
     of the door must be clean and without food particles or dust/dirt. Dust off the wire framework in
     the rear of the refrigerator to improve cooling and extend the life of the unit. Be sure you clean
     around and under the refrigerator. While defrosting the freezer, do not use a sharp instrument to
     chip away ice and frost. This practice may puncture the coils, and make occupant liable for
     replacement.
6                                                                   90SWI32-9 2 FEBRUARY 2006


    2.3.7. Microwave. Government microwaves, as well as personally owned microwaves must be
    clean, both inside and outside at all times. Never leave microwaves unattended while in use.
    2.3.8. Toilet/Bathing Area. This entire area must be especially cared for due to potential bacteria
    growth. Clean the complete toilet ensemble, inside and out, with a disinfectant-type cleaner as
    needed, but at least weekly. Clean the shower tile, bathtub, and shower curtain or door with a dis-
    infectant-type cleaner as needed. There should be no soap scum or other residue left on walls. The
    shower curtain must be clean without mold or mildew stains. If the stains will not come off, have
    the dorm manager get you a new one. Pay particular attention to the curtain wall, as it will mold
    quickly if allowed to remain damp for extended periods of time. Be sure the ceiling light is clean
    and operational. The bulb must be bright enough to see and shower safely, either frosted or clear
    bulbs only. Be sure the entire ceiling is clean and has no build-up of mold or mildew that is subject
    to grow under conditions of extreme dampness. Clean the floor behind the toilet and in the cor-
    ners.
    2.3.9. Living Area. The living area is the easiest to clean. Government issued sheets and pillow-
    cases may be taken to the dorm manager weekly or cleaned by the occupant. We also recommend
    taking issued blankets and mattress covers to linen exchange as needed. If you elect to purchase
    and use your own bedding, return the government linen to the dorm manager or you will be liable
    for replacement cost.
    2.3.10. Under Bed Storage. This area may be used for storage of small items. However, the items
    stored must be neatly arranged and the area is subject to inspection.
    2.3.11. Furniture. Furniture must be clean and neatly arranged in your room. Items on top of
    tables, dressers, and desks must be neat and dusted as needed. Lamps must be dusted as needed.
    Government issued furniture must remain in the room and shall not be removed or placed in stor-
    age.
    2.3.12. Windows. Clean inside windows, channels, and windowsills as needed. Do not remove
    screens. Report damaged or missing screens to the dorm manager. Lock the windows when you
    leave the room for security reasons. Ensure windows are closed during winter months to prevent
    freezing of water pipes.
    2.3.13. Doors. Clean the door, frame, and sills above the door weekly. Doors must have a current
    and correct nametag. See your dorm manager to have a new one made when you change rank.
    2.3.14. Room Decorations. Personal decorations must be neat and in good taste. Decorations
    should not cover more than 25 percent of walls and no decoration will be hung from the ceiling.
    Picture frames are not required. However, if pictures and posters are taped on the walls, any dam-
    age done by the tape, must be repaired by the occupant one month prior to being released from
    responsibility for that room.
    2.3.15. Holes. Any holes put in the walls to support shelves, pictures, or other wall decorations
    will be filled and painted prior to occupant being released from responsibility for that room.
    2.3.16. Furnishings. Occupants sign for the furniture/equipment in their room on the AF Form
    228 maintained in your dorm manager’s office. You are responsible for the furnishings you sign
    for and will be held liable for loss or damages. Beds may be bunked or not, however, the dorm
    manager furnishes the hardware. You must bunk beds in the standard configuration. Beds must be
90SWI32-9 2 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                              7


     assembled with a frame, headboard, and footboard, if applicable. Furthermore, do not remove fur-
     niture from your room.
  2.4. Dormitory and Dormitory Room Quarterly Awards Program:
     2.4.1. The objective of the dormitory award program is to instill pride of ownership and provide
     incentive for dormitory residents to adopt a community oriented philosophy for their dormitories.
     The program will be based on the calendar year. During the third month of each quarter (March,
     June, September and December) each dormitory and a single room from each dormitory will com-
     pete in the 90 SW Quarterly Dormitory Award program. Not later than the 15th day of the third
     month of the quarter, First Sergeants will nominate a single room in their assigned dormitory to
     compete for Dormitory Room of the Quarter. In dormitories with residents from multiple squad-
     rons, all First Sergeants with residents in that dormitory will meet and select a single dormitory
     room winner. Selection should be based on cleanliness, atmosphere, comfort, and resident
     involvement.
     2.4.2. All 14 dormitories and the dormitory room of the quarter from each dormitory will be
     inspected by a minimum of three SNCO’s each from a different squadron. Inspections will be con-
     ducted between the 16th and the last duty day of the third month of the quarter. All dormitory and
     single room inspections should be completed in a single day and will be inspected by the same
     panel of inspectors. A minimum of one First Sergeant and the affected dormitory manager will
     accompany the inspection team throughout the inspection. First Sergeants and dormitory manag-
     ers consult and may provide assistance/inputs to the inspection team members.
     2.4.3. Inspections will be conducted using locally developed dormitory and individual room
     inspection checklists. (See Attachment 3). Shirts, I need an Attachment 3 for the inspection
     checklist to attach to this instruction. The inspection team leader will notify the 90 SW/CCM
     will sign a memorandum to be forwarded to the 90 SW/CC formally identifying the 90 SW Dor-
     mitory and Dormitory Room of the Quarter.
     2.4.4. Previous quarterly dormitory and dormitory room winners (if applicable) will be inspected
     but are ineligible to win consecutive quarters. Dormitories and individual dormitory rooms may
     not be consecutive quarterly winners, but may be selected as quarterly winners more than once
     annually.
     2.4.5. The Dormitory of the Quarter will receive $1,000 from the 90 SW/CC executive account to
     be presented by the wing commander in a public forum whenever possible. Funds must be spent in
     compliance with all financial requirements and regulations expressly for dormitory quality-of-life
     improvements. The Command Chief, owning First Sergeants and respective dormitory council
     leadership will determine the best use of funds expenditures. A highly visible recognition sign will
     be placed in front of the winning dormitory identifying it as the Dormitory of the Quarter.
     2.4.6. Each individual dormitory room nominee resident will have parking privileges to park in
     their respective dormitories, “Dormitory Room of the Quarter” reserved parking spot (one from
     each dormitory, 14 total) and receive an one-day pass from their squadron commander. The overall
     90 SW dormitory room winner will receive a 90 SW/CCM coin, be placed on the 37 HS incentive
     flight list and be awarded a three-day pass from their squadron commander. Mission requirements
     will dictate award and use of all recognition passes.
  2.5. Personal Furniture. Personal furnishings must be in good, safe condition and must present a neat
  and acceptable appearance. Personal beds must not interfere with egress from rooms, and all govern-
8                                                                        90SWI32-9 2 FEBRUARY 2006


    ment furniture must remain in the room. Waterbeds are approved on a case-by-case basis, and renter’s
    insurance is mandatory prior to the bed being filled with water. You will be held liable for any dam-
    ages caused by personal furnishings and for any missing government issued furniture.
    2.6. Day Room Furniture. Dorm residents are not allowed to remove any furniture from the day
    rooms. If day room furnishing is damaged or destroyed, a report of survey (ROS) will be accom-
    plished to assess liability. These rooms are for you; please help keep them clean and in good repair. If
    you see any misuse of government furniture, please notify the dorm manager or security forces imme-
    diately.
    2.7. Visitors. Guests are permitted in your room if all occupants of the room agree. Your guests must
    be escorted at all times while in the dorm and you are responsible for their language, dress, courtesy,
    and conduct. Cohabitation is not authorized. No guest will be left unattended in a dorm. No guests
    under the age of 18 will be permitted in the dorm, other than the military member’s immediate family,
    unless accompanied by the guest’s parent or parents.
    2.8. Hospitality Room. The hospitality room has been established, as needed, to house personnel for
    only a short duration. Hospitality rooms will be available through the CDMO.
       2.8.1. Departing Personnel. Departing personnel will be given a hospitality room when available
       or they may remain in their assigned rooms until the day prior to PCS. Upon check out, the room
       will be cleaned according to standards. All linen will be exchanged and the bed made. A final
       room inspection will be accomplished prior to check out.
    2.9. Room Assignment and Termination. Rooms are assigned in accordance with space authorizations
    outlined in AFI 32-6005 and this instruction. You may not move from your assigned quarters without
    your dorm manager's approval. Rooms may be terminated by contacting your dorm manager at
    least 30 days prior to your departure. You will be advised of any clearance requirements and you
    must have the room prepared for new occupants prior to final inspection. This includes removing all
    personal items. NOTE: Room walls will be repaired and painted prior to occupants vacating the pre-
    mises. If a member abandons a room or fails to completely outprocess before their departure, a report
    of survey will be accomplished to assess liability for any damages or repairs required to restore the
    room to its original condition.
    2.10. Security. All your high-cost items should be securely stored when you are absent from the room.
    Valuable items such as televisions and stereos should have their serial number recorded and kept in a
    safe location in case of theft. The Air Force will not pay claims on stolen items that are not secured.
    Your locker, window, and room must be locked when unoccupied.
    2.11. Room Exterior. Room numbers, nameplates, and approved message plates will be the only
    things mounted on your door. Your nameplate will be updated to reflect the most current status. See
    your dorm manager for a new one when needed. You are responsible for vacuuming the hallway in
    front of your room.
    2.12. Exterior Care. Help keep your dorm clean and neat; if you see trash, please pick it up.
    2.13. Kitchen. Maintaining the appliances, cabinets, and walls in the kitchen requires special atten-
    tion. The individual using the facility will clean after each use. Clean ovens and broiler units regularly,
    as well as the top burners, to prevent a fire hazard. Use oven cleaner only on the inside of the oven;
    do not use cleaner on ovens that are self-cleaning. You are liable for any damage caused to the
    range. Do not put grease in the garbage disposals, as it will solidify in the pipes and cause stop-
90SWI32-9 2 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                                9


  pages. Avoid placing hot utensils on counter tops as this can cause permanent damage. Clean walls at
  periodic intervals to prevent surface grease build-up.
  2.14. Supplies. The dorm manager purchases cleaning supplies for use only in the common areas and
  these items will not be used in private rooms. See the dorm manager for use of purchased items. The
  dorm manager will provide special lights (fluorescent, mercury vapor, and so forth) but you must
  replace your own regular lamp bulbs.
  2.15. Leave or Extended TDY. If you will be leaving your quarters unoccupied for extended periods
  of time (over 5 days), you must make arrangements for security, prudent care, and periodic inspec-
  tions of your quarters. Inform your dorm manager of your intended absence and provide the name of
  a person designated by you to have access to perform normal occupant maintenance. If you request,
  your dorm manager may check on your quarters.
  2.16. Liability for Damage to Dorm Facility. A dorm occupant may be held fully liable for damage to
  their dorm facility: if loss or damage was caused by negligence, or willful misconduct of a dependent,
  or guest when the member was on notice of the particular risk involved, and failed to take preventive
  action.
  2.17. Insurance. The Housing Management Office or Base Legal Office may answer specific ques-
  tions on insurance. Renters insurance is strongly encouraged.
  2.18. Energy Conservation. We need your assistance in conserving energy. Fewer dollars and rising
  utility costs require us to do everything possible to conserve. Keep exterior doors closed during heat-
  ing and cooling periods to conserve energy.
     2.18.1. Water. You may use normal and reasonable amounts of water; however, don't be wasteful.
     Excessive use results in increased costs and depletion of the source of supply. Do not wash your
     car at the dorm. Use the base car wash located on Old Glory Road as an alternative. Do your
     part to conserve energy.
     2.18.2. Electricity. An organized effort must be expended to conserve electricity by eliminating
     unnecessary use. You can help by minimizing the use of all electrical appliances and lights, espe-
     cially during the peak demand periods of 0900-1130 and 1400-1900. Do not leave televisions or
     radios on unattended. When you leave your room, unplug irons and turn off all appliances as well
     as room lights.
     2.18.3. Laundry Facilities. Only dorm residents are authorized to use the laundry facilities.
     Washing with full loads is recommended to conserve energy. Do not overload washers or dryers.
     Overloading causes damage to the machine and possible flooding to the dorm. Never place plastic
     articles, pens, or other markers in washers or dryers. You must clean the lint filter before you start
     the dryer. If you have a problem with your facilities, contact your dorm manager.
  2.19. Environmental Issues. Engine oils, engine coolants, car grease, and other similar products will
  not be poured into plumbing, drainage system, on the ground, or in dumpsters. Automotive tires and
  batteries are to be properly disposed of through recycling programs.
  2.20. Smoking and Drinking Alcohol.
     2.20.1. Smoking and Tobacco use. Smoking in prohibited in all areas of dormitories. Smoking is
     allowed only in designated outdoors areas. All forms of tobacco products are prohibited in com-
10                                                                        90SWI32-9 2 FEBRUARY 2006


        mon areas. This includes, but is not limited to cigars, cigarettes, snuff, chewing tobacco, and so
        forth.
        2.20.2. Drinking Alcohol. The legal age for drinking is 21 years. If you are assigned a roommate
        who is over 21, this person may have alcohol in the room; however, if you are under 21, you may
        not drink. There are no exceptions to this rule—it’s the law! Violations of this or any law must be
        reported to the proper authorities (LE Desk, 773-3501).
     2.21. Bicycles. Bicycles are to be locked up at the bike racks provided at each dorm. Bicycles will not
     be stored under staircases, on balconies, or chained to railings. Abandoned bicycles will be tagged and
     disposed of.
     2.22. Vehicles. Authorized minor work on vehicles consists of cleaning the interior or waxing, and air
     filter changes. Cleaning the interior or waxing of vehicles will not be done on sidewalks, grass or
     seeded areas. Do not park on seeded areas. NOTE: Non-operational vehicles and unregistered vehi-
     cles are not authorized in the dorm area.
        2.22.1. Oil and other fluid changes in the parking lot are prohibited. Security forces may ticket
        you. Dumping of oils or any vehicle fluids in any unauthorized manner is subject to a fine of up to
        $10,000.
     2.23. Marriage. A dorm resident is authorized to move off-base, regardless of rank, as long as the
     member is within 30 days of getting married.
     2.24. Pregnancy. Female members are authorized to move off-base as early as the 20th week of preg-
     nancy. It is mandatory to move off-base once the member has reached the 30th week. Also, the mem-
     ber should have her name added to the base housing waiting list as soon as she is confirmed pregnant.
     All that is required is a copy of the orders assigning her to Francis E. Warren Air Force Base and a
     memorandum of confirmed pregnancy, which can be obtained from her OB/GYN doctor.

3. Fire Protection.
     3.1. Fire Evacuation Plan. A dorm fire evacuation plan is provided showing both primary and alter-
     nate routes of escape in the event of a fire. Furnishings will be arranged so as not to obstruct or impede
     entering or opening of doors leading from rooms to exit access or exit doors. Know the plan and prac-
     tice your escape route. The plan can be found on your dorm bulletin board. Any questions on fire pre-
     vention should be directed to the base fire department, 773-5528.
     3.2. Fire Extinguishers. Fire extinguishers are located throughout your dorm. The fire extinguishers
     are for fire fighting and not for horseplay. Notify your dorm manager if you notice an extinguisher is
     over or undercharged or has been discharged or damaged.
     3.3. Smoke Detectors/Fire Alarms. All occupants must evacuate the dorm if the alarm sounds. Tam-
     pering with alarm call boxes or fire fighting equipment is a serious offense, punishable under the Uni-
     form Code of Military Justice. Occupants perform monthly inspections of smoke detectors. Do not
     remove it for any reason. Articles will not be mounted on, or attached to, any fire protection device,
     wiring, or smoke detector. Combustible material must be kept a minimum of 18 inches from light fix-
     tures, heat or smoke detectors, sprinkler heads, and heating appliances.
     3.4. Fire Reporting. If a fire occurs in your dorm, immediately dial 911. Give the fire alarm operator
     your name, base dorm numbers and street, if known. Do not hang up until you are told to do so. All
90SWI32-9 2 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                               11


   fires must be reported. Fire reporting telephone stickers must be affixed to room phones (see your
   dorm manager to obtain them).
   3.5. Flammable Item Storage. Storage of flammable item is prohibited. Prohibited flammable items
   includes gasoline, kerosene, candles (with visibly burnt wicks), incense, or any open flame. The only
   flammable liquids allowed are for cigarette lighter refilling or cosmetics (nail polish or polish
   remover).
   3.6. Barbecue Grills. Barbecue grills are provided at the dorms. Portable grills are prohibited for use
   around the dorms and on balconies; however, they may be stored in the storerooms for personal out-
   ings. Damage from barbecue grills or grease drippings, is considered the occupants’ responsibility to
   repair or clean up.
   3.7. Space Heaters. The Base Civil Engineer authorizes space heaters on a case-by-case basis.
   3.8. Cooking Appliances. Cooking in the dorm room is prohibited except in microwaves. The only
   appliances allowed in dorm rooms are coffee pots with automatic shutoffs, hot air popcorn poppers,
   and microwave ovens using less than 1600 watts each. If you are in a dorm with a kitchen, never leave
   cooking unattended. Should a grease fire occur, cover the burning pan with a lid, turn off the appli-
   ance, and call 911. Never use water! Do not attempt to move the pan. The kitchen exhaust fan filter
   should be cleaned often to prevent the accumulation of grease. Hot plates, toaster ovens, and convec-
   tion ovens are not permitted. One-plus-one rooms with kitchenettes may have additional small appli-
   ances provided they are approved through the CDM office and are kept clean and unplugged when not
   in use.
   3.9. Extension Cords. No extension cords are authorized. The exceptions to these are power surge
   cords (surge protectors).
   3.10. Heat Producing Devices. Coffee pots, hot air popcorn poppers, irons, hair dryers and curling
   irons must be unplugged when not in use.
   3.11. Trash. Prevent trash from accumulating in your room. Dorm residents will not empty their room
   trashcans in any receptacle located in or around the dorm. Room trash will be dumped in the dump-
   sters located outside the dorm daily.
   3.12. Storage. Large boxes and luggage will be stored in storage rooms, not in personal rooms. All
   items placed in storage are at residents’ risk. Access to storage will be during normal duty hours. No
   tires will be placed in storage.

4. Force Protection (Security Forces). The installation commander is responsible for the control and
safeguarding of all base property. Patrolling of the dorm area is accomplished on a routine basis by the
Security Forces, and when notified, they will investigate all incidents. All inquiries concerning law
enforcement should be directed to the Security Forces Law Enforcement Desk, 773-3501.
   4.1. Parking. Parking is prohibited on grass, seeded, or dirt areas. Do not park in a crosswalk, fire
   lane, or within 15 feet of a fire hydrant. Motorcycles should be parked in the designated motorcycle
   parking areas and not under dorm staircases or on sidewalks.
   4.2. Visitor Reception. If you plan to have visitors, call 773-3694 or stop by the Visitor Control Cen-
   ter at the main gate prior to the arrival of your guest or guests, with the following information: Name,
   arrival time, and expected departure time. Sponsors are responsible for the actions of their guests
   while on Francis E. Warren Air Force Base and its housing areas.
12                                                                      90SWI32-9 2 FEBRUARY 2006


     4.3. Firearms and Fireworks. Weapons, flares, fireworks, ammunition, or any type of explosive
     devices are prohibited in the dorm. Violations are punishable under Article 92, Uniform Code of
     Military Justice (UCMJ). Local laws and military regulations govern registration, possession and
     storage of privately owned weapons. No weapons of any type will be stored or displayed in the room.
     This includes bows and arrows, martial arts weapons, and knives with blades longer than 3 inches
     (with the exception of kitchen knives and display case items). All types of guns designed to propel a
     missile (BB, pellet, paint ball, bullet, and so forth) whether by air, gas or other means, are pro-
     hibited. Items such as stun guns are prohibited. All types of water guns are prohibited for use in the
     dorm. All firearms must be registered and stored at the security forces armory. For information on
     storage of firearms, contact Security Forces.
     4.4. Crime Stop. Be on the watch for vandalism and theft and promptly report it to the LE Desk,
     773-3501.

5. Good Neighbors.
     5.1. Occupant Courtesy. It is not easy for 40 or more people from different walks of life to live
     together in close quarters. Courtesy goes a long way in helping reduce tension among dorm residents.
     5.2. Noise Control. With shift workers living in all dorms, quiet hours are 24 hours a day. If stereo or
     other noise can be heard outside the room or through the walls, it is definitely too loud. Many dorm
     residents work shifts and sleep during the day. Please be considerate. Don't assume that your neigh-
     bors enjoy the same type of music or television programs you do. Please keep the volume down;
     excessive stereo and television volume is very disruptive.
     5.3. Parties and Social Gatherings. Parties and other social gatherings are permitted in designated day
     rooms upon prior approval with the dorm manager and first sergeant. However, you must still take
     into consideration that other dorm residents may be asleep, so the noise level must be kept down.
     Please clean up after yourself. Do not rearrange day room furniture unless you put it back. Do not
     remove furniture from the day rooms. Dispose of your trash properly. Remember, the club and com-
     munity activity centers are available for parties. Make reservations through the applicable agency in
     charge.
     5.4. Pets. The only pets allowed in the dorms are fish. Occupants should further understand that any
     damage caused by an aquarium is their responsibility.
     5.5. Wild Game. The cleaning of wild game is prohibited in the dorm area.
     5.6. Parking. There is very little parking space allocated in some of the dorm areas. Visitors and addi-
     tional vehicles should be parked outside the dorm areas if possible. Be reasonable and considerate;
     talk to your neighbor when problems or misunderstandings occur. Do not park on the grass, sidewalks,
     or fire lanes.
     5.7. Recreation Vehicles. Storage of recreational vehicles (e.g., RVs, ATVs, boats, etc.) in dorm areas
     is not authorized.
     5.8. Motor Vehicles. No motor vehicle being operated on Francis E. Warren Air Force Base or in the
     dorm area shall have music emitting from the vehicle, which would disturb or be a nuisance to other
     residents.
     5.9. Repair Work. Repair work on your vehicle other than that outlined in paragraph 2.22.1. of this
     instruction is not authorized in the dorm area. The auto hobby shop should be used for this repair
90SWI32-9 2 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                                13


   work. This not only maintains the desired appearance in the dorm areas but also is considerate of your
   neighbors.

6. Francis E. Warren Air Force Base Specific Topics:
   6.1. Business Enterprises. Some businesses for profit may be conducted from your dorm room. Any
   such enterprise must be approved in writing by 90 MSG through 90 CES/CEH. Signs for advertising
   businesses are prohibited in the dorm areas. Contact the base housing flight for additional informa-
   tion and guidance.
   6.2. Solicitation in Dorm Housing. All forms of solicitation are prohibited in the dorms. Report solic-
   itors to the Law Enforcement Desk, 773-3501, immediately.
   6.3. Telephones. The 90th Communications Squadron maintains dorm common area phones. Dorm
   room phones can be obtained at your own cost. It is recommended that agreements between room-
   mates to share costs be put into writing to avoid conflicts at a later date. Remember that the individual
   with their name on the bill is ultimately responsible for any debts incurred.
   6.4. Cable Television. Cable television can be obtained by calling the local cable company.

7. Self-Help Work.
   7.1. Requesting Self-Help Work. Self-help work in military dorms must be relatively simple and is
   designed primarily for occupant benefit. Normally, a self-help project is to improve living conditions.
   Self-help work must not generate additional maintenance or repair costs. All self-help work requires
   completion of an AF IMT 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, and coordination as directed by
   the dorm manager. No work will be accomplished until this procedure has been followed and approval
   received.
   7.2. Painting Interior Walls. Painting requires approval before you begin. Your dorm manager will
   inspect before and after painting. Government furnished paint is available, other colors are at occu-
   pant's expense. The room must be returned to proper colors and condition prior to terminating the
   room, or the room must be accepted by the new occupant.
   7.3. Inspection of Self-Help Work. Periodic inspection must be accomplished while work is in
   progress. No electrical wiring will be done except by a certified electrician. Self-help improve-
   ments may be donated by the occupant and accepted by the Air Force when workmanship and aesthet-
   ics meet acceptable construction standards. When removal is required, your area must be restored to
   its original configuration.

8. Termination of Unaccompanied Housing.
   8.1. Giving Notice. Orders are not required to set up termination inspections. We require 30-days
   notice of your vacating date (short notice PCS excepted). At the time you notify the dorm manager of
   your departure, he or she will provide you with a list of requirements for termination, as well as sched-
   ule your final inspection.
      8.1.1. Authorization for BAH/BAS. Termination of UH for other than PCS will be in strict accor-
      dance with AFI 32-6005, Unaccompanied Housing Management. Authorization for BAH/BAS
      will be determined by base dorm occupancy rates and offered by priority off of the BAH waiting
      list. Do not enter into a rental or sales agreement for off-base housing until you have coordinated
14                                                                 90SWI32-9 2 FEBRUARY 2006


     with the CDMO and the base housing office. The finance section may arrange for advance pay to
     cover expenses, but the housing office is the only office on base authorized to start BAH.
     8.1.2. Community Support Center. Your Community Support Center can be of great assistance in
     your future moves. Ask them about availability of housing at your next location. Call 773-2411 for
     more information.
     8.1.3. Final Inspection. If you need a substitute to stand final inspection, notify the Unaccompa-
     nied Housing Superintendent in advance and necessary forms and guidance will be given. NOTE:
     The responsibility for final clearance of unaccompanied housing rests solely with the occu-
     pant.



                                            ALVIN R. KEMMET, JR., Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 90th Mission Support Group
90SWI32-9 2 FEBRUARY 2006                                        15


                                       Attachment 1

                      BASE FACILITIES/BLDG/PHONE NUMBERS


   Emergency Telephone Numbers:
   Ambulance                                 911
   Area Defense Counsel                               3248
   CE Work Order Desk                        1856     3175
   Chaplain                                           3434
   Family Advocacy                                    4228
   Family Support                                     2241
   Fire Department                           117      2931
   Law Enforcement Desk                      911      3501
   Mental Health                                      2998
   Operator Assistance                                113
   Red Cross                                 3921     1855
   Tri-Care Medical Appointments                      772-4020
   Tri-Care Off-Base Approval                         3461
   United Medical Center                              634-2273
   Urgent Care                                        3461
   Exchange Services:
   Anthony’s Pizza                                    778-8272
   Aquatics Center                                    3195
   Auto Skills Center                                 3869
   Barber Shop Main Exchange                          638-3046
   Base Exchange Main Store                           634-1593
   Beauty Shop                                        634-7149
   Bowling Alley                                      2210
   Burger King                                        638-1360
   Clothing Sales                                     3135
   Dry Cleaning                                       637-5965
   First Term Airman’s Center (FTAC)                  6048
   Fitness Center                                     2304
   Golf Course                                        3556
   Hobby Shop                                         3166
   Optical Shop                                       632-1369
   Shoppette Gas Station                              634-7432
   Theater                                            2226
   Thrift Shop                                        632-3398
   Trail’s End Club                                   3048
16                                                           90SWI32-9 2 FEBRUARY 2006


                                  Attachment 1 (Continued)
                        BASE FACILITIES/BLDG/PHONE NUMBERS

     Other Important Numbers:
     Base Taxi                                               1843
     Crow Creek Inn                                          1844
     Directory Assistance                                    113
     Finance (Military Pay)                                  1851
     Finance (Travel Pay)                                    1858
     Legal                                                   2256
     MPF Customer Service                                    2366
     Post Office                                             3409
     Social Actions                                          2741
     Traffic Management Office Inbound                       1848
     Traffic Management Office Outbound                      3824
     Warren Federal Credit Union                             432-5400
     Special Services:
     Laramie County Library                                  634-3561
     Road Report                                             635-9966
     TCI Cable                                               632-8114
     U.S. West                                               1-800-244-1111
     Weather Report                                          2488
     CDM Superintendent                                      2163/2642
     Dorm Managers:
     Zone A                                    Dorm          Phone/Beeper #
                                               220           3190
                                               222           3190
                                               223           3190
                                               224           3190
     Zone B
                                               226           2207
                                               228           2207
                                               230           2207
     Zone C
                                               236           2825
                                               244           2825
                                               248           2825
     Zone D
                                               835           3014
                                               836           3014
                                               838           3014
                                               839           3014
90SWI32-9 2 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                              17


                                              Attachment 2

       CONDITION OF OCCUPANCY FOR MILITARY UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING
__________________________________is assigned to _____________________ to be
        (Name: Last, First, MI.)                             (Room & Bldg)


occupied as unaccompanied military housing on ______________________.
                                                      (DD/MM/YYYY)


1. Occupant Use. Occupants use the premises solely as an unaccompanied military residence. All guide-
lines published in 90 SWI 32-9 and other military instructions must be followed. Use of the unit for any
other purpose is prohibited.


2. Pets. The only pets allowed on the premises are fish.


3. Condition of Property. The dorm manager and the occupant have made an inspection of the property
and both parties agree the property is in a fit and habitable condition, except for those damages or mal-
functions that have been itemized, in writing, on AF Form 228, Quarters Condition Inspection Report.
Housing Management and occupant will retain copies of this report. Any additional items noted by the
occupant should be submitted in writing and received by the dorm manager within 3-calendar days of
occupancy. If additional items are not received by the dorm manager within the 3-day period, Unaccom-
panied Housing Management will consider the property to be in acceptable condition and suitable for
occupancy.


4. Plumbing and Appliances. The occupant should keep the premises, including all plumbing fixtures and
appliances, as clean and safe as conditions permit. At the termination of occupancy, all appliances and
equipment should be in good working order and the premises should be in a clean condition—except for
normal wear and tear.


5. Use and Repair of Facilities. The occupant is expected to make sure no damage is done to electrical,
plumbing, sanitary, heating and ventilation, and dorm furnishings and appliances in or on the premises.
Any damage caused by either the military member or guests beyond normal wear and tear will be repaired
at the member's expense. The occupant will, at his or her own expense:


5.1. Replace or repair all broken or damaged screens, flooring, wood, plaster, and drywall occurred during
their occupancy--normal wear and tear accepted.
18                                                                     90SWI32-9 2 FEBRUARY 2006


                                       Attachment 2 (Continued)
       CONDITION OF OCCUPANCY FOR MILITARY UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING


5.2. Keep in a state of good repair and cleanliness all parts of the property including equipment and appli-
ances, and keep all property free from objectionable features, nuisances, and hazards. Occupants may be
held financially liable for repairs or replacements of property, equipment, or appliances required due to
the occupant or their guests’ negligence, willful misconduct, or deliberate unauthorized use. The approval
of the dorm manager must be obtained before the occupant places any exceptionally heavy articles, such
as waterbeds, in the unit, which may damage the unit's structural integrity.


6. Notice of Defects or Malfunction. The occupant must promptly notify the dorm manager during normal
duty hours, or the CE service call during non-duty hours (for emergencies) at 773-1856, whenever the
structure or the equipment of any fixture contained therein becomes defective, broken, damaged, or mal-
functions in any way.


7. Resident Conduct. Residents and their guests will conduct themselves in a manner that will not disturb
their neighbors.


8. Health and Safety. The occupant will comply with all health and safety regulations/instructions
imposed by the commander.


9. System Overloads. The occupant will not install or use any equipment that will overload any water,
heating, electrical, sewage, or drainage systems of the assigned premises.


10. Smoke Detectors. It is a violation of federal law to remove any fire detector or smoke detector in the
dorms. Report any malfunctions to your dorm manager.


11. Insurance. Insurance is available in the state of Wyoming for military dorm residents.


12. Redecorating and Alterations. You must obtain written permission before redecorating. Do not make
alterations, additions, or improvements without approval via AF IMT 332. Such alterations could, if
accepted by the incoming occupant, remain with the property or be removed by the occupant. When
removing alterations, the premises will be returned to their original condition at the expense of the occu-
pant.


13. Periods of Absence. The occupant must notify the dorm manager whenever extended absences from
quarters are anticipated; this includes TDYs.
90SWI32-9 2 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                                  19


                                        Attachment 2 (Continued)


       CONDITION OF OCCUPANCY FOR MILITARY UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING
14. Access to Property. When warranted by circumstances or reasonable cause, the installation com-
mander or designated representative may enter the premises to conduct a visual inspection. The dorm
managers may enter the premises to perform a maintenance/damage inspection, filter change, or CE
escort.


15. Neglect and Costs. If at any time, the Air Force is required to make repairs to the property or equip-
ment for damages caused by your abuse or negligence, or that of your guests, the repairs may be made at
your expense. As appropriate, dorm occupants will be afforded the option to complete the necessary
repairs either by outside contractors or on their own.


16. Vandalism. Vandalism costs the Air Force thousands of dollars annually. You must make every effort
to prevent vandalism, theft, and damage to your Air Force equipment, furnishings, and residence. The
dorm manager must immediately notify Security Forces (Force Protection) when damage, theft, or van-
dalism occurs. Personnel discovered damaging or stealing Air Force assets would be prosecuted to
the fullest extent of the law under the UCMJ. All legal means will be used to collect damages and
secure areas from destruction.


17. Storage. The storage of recreational vehicles, quad-runners, utility trailers, and motorcycle trailers in
the dorm area is not authorized. This policy is necessary for safe access by responding emergency vehi-
cles and the safety of dorm neighbors.
______________________________________________________________________________
I understand it is my responsibility to contact the Traffic Management Office (TMO) in person to arrange
for the movement of household goods at government expense prior to the movement of such goods. I
understand that it is my responsibility to provide my dorm manager with a minimum of 30 days advance
notice of departure from the base and intent to terminate quarters for any reason.


I certify that I am in receipt of 90 SW I32-9, and I understand the conditions contained herein.


________________________________________________________________________
PRINTED FULL NAME (Last, First, MI)                                   SIGNATURE/RANK


___________________________________________                   _________           ____________
UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING REP SIGNATURE                           ROOM                    DATE
20                                                                  90SWI32-9 2 FEBRUARY 2006


                                            Attachment 3

                                    INSPECTION CHECKLIST



NAME/RANK:                  DORM/ROOM:             -                                   DATE:
Inspectors Name:

ITEM                        DESCRIPTION                                                 SCORE (0-5)
1. Bed                      Properly made with covering on, in good condition.

2. Carpet                   Clean, vacuumed, major stains removed/reported to
                            dorm manager.
3. Shower                   Floor, walls, fixtures/clean and free of mold and soap
                            scum.
4. Commode area             Clean inside/out, floor, fan, walls

5. Prohibited items         Weapons of any kind, fireworks, fire and safety
                            hazards, display of nudity, non-authorized electrical
                            devices. Heat producing devices i.e., coffee pots,
                            curling irons, hair dryers, etc. MUST BE unplugged
                            while not in use.
6. Refrigerator /           Clean inside/outside, door seals, freezer defrosted.
Microwave
7. Stove / Oven             Clean inside/outside

8. Sink / Faucet fixtures   Clean, free of dirt/soap scum, area under sink clean.

9. Waste basket             Clean inside/outside, empty with new liner, no food in
                            can
10. Mirror                  Clean, dust free, no smudges.

11. Light Fixtures          Clean, dust free, operational.

12. Windows                 Glass, sill, blinds clean and dust free, windows closed/
                            secured.
13. Doors                   Main entrance secured, doors and frames clean and
                            un-damaged.
14. Vents                   Clean, dust free, mold free.
90SWI32-9 2 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                        21


ITEM                        DESCRIPTION                                             SCORE (0-5)
15. Chairs                  Clean, dust free.

16. Furniture (yours or     Chests, desk, dresser, TV, etc., clean and dust free.
gov.)
17. Closets                 Clean and organized, *(subject to inspection if
                            unlocked)
18. Clothing & personal     Stored properly. Luggage and empty boxes removed
items                       from room. Clothing hung in closets or stored in
                            chests. Shoes neatly under bed or in closets.
19. Ledges, shelves, etc.   Clean and dust free.




OVERALL ROOM INSPECTION RESULTS


NOTE: Scoring will consist of a 0 thru 5 score for each section. A score of 5 will be given for the
highest rating, then proceeding down to a 0 for the poorest rating. If one area is N/A do not score
that area.


Add the total of all areas together, multiply by 100 and then divide by the number of scored
sections for the final score. The highest score will be declared the winner.


Example: Raw score of 86 X 100 = 8600, divided by 19 scored areas = 452.63
Max possibly score is 500




_
22                                                                90SWI32-9 2 FEBRUARY 2006


                                         Attachment 4

                                  OVERALL INSPECTION

Dormitory Number              Zone                                                 DATE:

Inspectors Name:
ITEM                          DESCRIPTION                                           SCORE (0-5)
Outside                          (Within a 25' radius of main entry) Neat
                                                and orderly
          Parking Lot             Clear of trash/debris/cigarette butts/etc

          Court Yard            Consider layout, upkeep, neat and cleanliness

Inside

          Entry area            Neat and orderly, clear of trash, dirt on floor.

      First Floor Hallway                  Neat clean and orderly

      First Floor Dayroom       Consider furniture arrangement, condition in
                                 which kept (dust/trash free) Neat clean and
                                                   orderly
          Stair ways                  Cleanliness general appearance

     Second Floor Hallway                  Neat clean and orderly

     Second Floor Dayroom       Consider furniture arrangement, condition in
                                 which kept (dust/trash free) Neat clean and
                                                   orderly
Common Kitchen

         Sink/Cabinets                       Clean/Neat/Orderly

Microwave Oven/Refrigerator                  Clean inside/outside

            Stove                            Clean inside/outside

Common Storage Area                             Clean/orderly
90SWI32-9 2 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                        23



OVERALL INSPECTION RESULTS/NOTES


NOTE: Scoring will consist of a 0 thru 5 score for each section. A score of 5 will be given for the
highest rating, then proceeding down to a 0 for the poorest rating. If one area is N/A do not score
that area.



Add the total of all areas together, multiply by 100 and then divide by the number of scored
sections for the final score. The highest score will be declared the winner.



Example: Raw score of 62 X 100 = 8600, divided by 13 scored areas = 476.92
Max possibly score is 500
*** CONSIDER THE MANNER IN WHICH THE FACILITY IS KEPT, NOT THE AGE OF ITEM ***
