BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 90TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 24-203
90TH SPACE WING                                                                           5 APRIL 2008

                                                                                          Transportation

                                                              REUSEABLE CONTAINER PROGRAM




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         This publication is available for downloading on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 90 LRS/LGRT                                                               Certified by: 90 MSG/CC
                                                                             (Colonel Ronald P. Jenkins)
                                                                                                Pages: 6

This instruction implements the Reusable Container Program depicted in AFI 24-203, Preparation and
Movement of Air Force Cargo, and outlines the responsibilities and procedures for the management and
operation of the Reusable Container Program at Francis E. Warren Air Force Base, Wyoming. This
instruction applies to all unit personnel assigned, attached and tenants to the 90th Space Wing. Send rec-
ommended changes and questions about this instruction to 90 LRS/LGRT, 7100 Saber Road, Suite 222, F.
E. Warren AFB, WY 82005, using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Maintain
and dispose of records created as a result of prescribed processes in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (AFRIMS). Comply with AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, for docu-
ments containing Privacy Act information. Comply with DoD Regulation 5400.7/Air Force Supplement/
AFSPCSUP1, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program, Chapter 4, for documents containing For Offi-
cial Use Only information.
2                                                                          90SWI24-203 5 APRIL 2008


                                                Chapter 1

                                          RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1. The 90th Logistics Readiness Squadron will:
    1.1.1. Train all Unit Reusable Container Monitors and document training.
    1.1.2. Track reusable container usage/non-usage by squadron.
    1.1.3. Conduct an initial on-site inspection of reusable container storage areas and additional inspec-
    tions when deemed necessary or if a unit does not meet the Wing standard.
    1.1.4. Convene a reusable container working group meeting at least annually. The working group will
    consist of representatives from the major base shipping activities who initiate over ten shipments
    through the Traffic Management Flight each year (or generate container replacement requests for
    stored items), i.e., supply , maintenance and security forces. The objective of this working group will
    be to minimize unnecessary expenditures of Department of Defense funds necessary to replace con-
    tainers.
    1.1.5. Provide staff assistance and training to units upon request from the unit commander or Unit
    Reusable Container Monitor.
    1.1.6. Provide recommendations for the proper disposition of excess reusable containers and associ-
    ated materials.
    1.1.7. Process and monitor fund recoupment for replacement containers through finance.
    1.1.8. Enforce the Wing minimum standard of 90 percent. If the monthly return rate is below 90 per-
    cent, a letter signed by the Base Reusable Container Manager will be forwarded to the applicable unit
    commander for correction action. This letter will summarize data collected from AF Form 451s,
    Request for Packing Service, and is geared to assist the organization in initiating corrective actions.

1.2. Unit Responsibilities (for units that initiate over 10 shipments, or generate container replacement
requests for stored items, i.e., WRM assets):
    1.2.1. The unit commander will appoint a primary and alternate Unit Reusable Container Monitor
    (units may have multiple alternatives appointed) to represent the unit on all matters pertaining to the
    Base Reusable Container Program.
    1.2.2. Forwarded an updated Reusable Container Monitor appointment letter, signed by the unit com-
    mander, to the 90th Logistics Readiness Squadron, Traffic Management Flight, (90 LRS/LGRT),
    within 10 days of any changes.
    1.2.3. Ensure all cargo received is in the proper container or have this discrepancy annotated on the
    issue documented and maintained with the reusable container.
    1.2.4. Ensure all cargo turned in to base supply is in the proper container or has an AF form 451 (orig-
    inal plus 2 copies) attached with the paper work for the item. The AF Form 451 should be signed by
    only the Unit Reusable Container Monitor, Alternate, or the unit commander, and will contain a
    chargeable unit fund cite. If the AF Form 451 is marked “received in wrong container” then the DD
    Form 1348-1, SATS label, or SDR will be attached to the 451.
90SWI24-203 5 APRIL 2008                                                                               3


  1.2.5. Identify and maintain an active reusable container storage area.
  1.2.6. Report packaging improvements to the base Reusable Container Monitor that will increase the
  efficiency of the Base Reusable Container Program.
  1.2.7. Protect all containers and packaging materials to maintain containers for reuse.
  1.2.8. Provide adequate facilities, equipment and materials to maintain containers for reuse.
  1.2.9. Train unit personnel on the importance of document training, and reusing containers and pack-
  aging materials.
  1.2.10. Attend Base Reusable Container Monitor directed reusable Container program meetings and
  training sessions.
  1.2.11. Train and appoint key personnel on use and preparation of AF Form 451s. Units should
  appoint their own personnel to provide this training and develop a training plan tailored to the unit’s
  shipping practices. Training documentation will be maintained so that it may be presented to Base
  Reusable Container Program Monitor(s) upon request.
  1.2.12. Monitor and establish effective metrics to account for and control reusable containers and
  materials.
4                                                                           90SWI24-203 5 APRIL 2008


                                                 Chapter 2

                                              PROCEDURES

2.1. Base Supply:
    2.1.1. The Receiving Section will make sure that items received are not separated from their respec-
    tive containers.
    2.1.2. Storage and Issue will ensure the original container remains with the issued item. When prop-
    erty requiring a SPI is issued without the SPI container, Supply will annotate the accompanying DD
    Form 1348-1A, Issue Release/Receipt Document or SATS label (or attached SDR), to indicate
    whether or not the property was issued in a reusable container. The using agency will retain the anno-
    tated DD Form 1348-1A (or SATS label) to validate future turn-in shipments of reparable assets with-
    out the proper container.
    2.1.3. The Traffic Management Flight will not accept an item for shipment needing a reusable con-
    tainer unless the item is accompanied by an AF Form 451 or proof that the item was received on base
    or issued to the unit without the correct container. Supply will attach a copy of the SF 364, Report of
    Discrepancy, to the item if it was received on base without the proper container or an AF Form 451 if
    an item was issued without the proper container.
    2.1.4. When an item is received in a container that is contractor packed, every effort should be made
    to return that item or its authorized substitute in the original container. Do not obliterate any markings
    on that container or any other container (i.e., ID, serviceable tag, packaging labels, etc.).

2.2. Other Units:
    2.2.1. On receipt of an item from base supply, make sure that the item is in the required container.
    Items received will stay in their containers until such time as required for bench stock or inspection.
    2.2.2. When an item is removed from its container and put in use, the reusable container will be stored
    in the storage area along with the documentation identifying what item the container is for. Ensure all
    internal blocking, bracing and cushioning materials are placed in the container.



                                                 MICHAEL J. MORGAN, Colonel, USAF
                                                 Commander
90SWI24-203 5 APRIL 2008                                                                                 5


                                              Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 24-203, Preparation and Movement of Air Force Cargo

Terms
Reusable Container—A specially designed container, which is engineered for repeated use without
impairment of its protective function. The reusable container is intended to be used, saved and reused as a
complete system, excluding the wrap or barrier material. These containers are marked “Reusable
Container…Do Not Destroy.”
Category I Container—Container usually made of metal, plastic, synthetic, or composite materials
fabricated to ensure a minimum of 100 trips.
Category II Container—Container usually made of plywood, wood, or fiberboard. Military federal
specification number can identify it. It is constructed to withstand a minimum of 10 trips.
Discrete Special Packaging Instruction Container—This container is a specially designed reusable
container for a particular commodity. A Special Packaging Instruction (SPI) number will identify this on
the exterior of the container.
Fast Pack—A family of standard size reusable containers whose design permits shipment of a large
variety of items within certain limits of size, weight and fragility.
Standard Pack—A pack for which the packaging components, including the shipping container, have
been standardized as to material and size. The cushioning in the Standard Pack is not bonded to the
interior container walls.
6                                   90SWI24-203 5 APRIL 2008


                  Attachment 2

    REUSABLE CONTAINER QUARTERLY INSPECTION
