BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    90TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 31-2
OF THE 90TH SPACE WING                                                                    1 MARCH 2006

                                                                                                   Security

                                                                             INSTALLATION CURFEW




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 90 SFS/SFOLI (MSgt David R. Eckmann)                                       Certified by: 90 SFG/CC
                                                                              (Colonel Allen J. Jamerson)
Supersedes 90SWI31-2, 30 January 2004                                                             Pages: 4
                                                                                           Distribution: F

This instruction establishes an installation curfew for 90th Space Wing, Francis E. Warren Air Force Base
(FEW), for family members 17 years old and younger.
Maintain and dispose of records created as a result of prescribed processes in accordance with the Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule (AFRIMS). Comply with AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, for
documents containing Privacy Act information. Comply with DoD Regulation 5400.7/Air Force Supple-
ment/AFSPC SUP1, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program, Chapter 4, for documents containing For
Official Use Only information.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document was updated to reflect current OPR and Certified By officials. A bar ( | ) indicates revision
from the previous edition.


1. General. This instruction is implemented to provide a strong and legitimate interest in the welfare and
safety of our young citizens. This program protects both the installation and the juveniles from victimiza-
tion and serves as a constructive intervention against developing patterns of delinquency.

2. Definitions:
   2.1. Emergency. An emergency is an unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
   that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a fire, a natural disaster, an
   automobile accident or any situation requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or
   loss of life.
   2.2. Parent. A parent is either:
       2.2.1. A natural parent, adoptive parent or stepparent of another person.
2                                                                            90SWI31-2 1 MARCH 2006


       2.2.2. An individual at least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian to have the
       care and custody of a minor (loco parentis).
    2.3. Guardian. A guardian is:
       2.3.1. Any person who, under court order, is the guardian of a minor.
       2.3.2. Any public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a court.
    2.4. Minor. A minor is any person under 18 years of age. However, if such person is serving on active
    duty in a military service of the United States, he or she will not be considered a minor for purposes of
    this instruction.
    2.5. Family member. For purposes of this instruction, the term "family member" includes other per-
    sons, whether or not related to the military member, who may be residing with or visiting with a mili-
    tary member or his or her family members.
    2.6. Remain: (a) To linger or stay at any public place, or the premises of any establishment, on FEW
    during curfew hours, unless otherwise accepted in this instruction. (b) Not leaving any public place, or
    the premises of any establishment, on FEW when requested to do so during curfew hours by a law
    enforcement officer, operator or other person in control of the premises.
    2.7. Serious Bodily Injury. A bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of death or that causes death,
    serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss or impairment of the function of any bodily mem-
    ber or organ.

3. Offenses:
    3.1. Minor. A minor commits an offense, if unaccompanied by a guardian or parent, by remaining in
    any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the confines of FEW during curfew
    hours.
    3.2. Parent and/or Guardian. A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense when they know-
    ingly allow a minor to remain in any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the
    confines of FEW during curfew hours.
    3.3. Other Personnel. A law enforcement officer, operator, or other person in control of a public area,
    or the premises of an establishment, on FEW, commits an offense by knowingly allowing a minor to
    remain at said premises or public place during curfew hours.

4. Exceptions. An offense, as described in paragraph 3., has not been committed if the minor was:
    4.1. Supervised. Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian.
    4.2. Errand. On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian, without any detour or
    stop.
    4.3. Employment Related. Engaged in employment activity, or travel to or from home without detour
    or stop, required for employment activity.
    4.4. Emergency. Involved in an emergency.
    4.5. Adjacent to Residence. On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the residence
    of a neighbor directly next door who did not complain about the minor's presence.
90SWI31-2 1 MARCH 2006                                                                                    3


   4.6. Attending Official Functions. Attending an official school, religious or other recreational activity
   supervised by adults and sponsored by the city of Cheyenne, a civic organization or another similar
   entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to or returning from, without detour or stop, an
   official school, religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city
   of Cheyenne, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor.
   4.7. Other. Married or had disabilities of minority removed in accordance with the law. (The term
   "disabilities of minority" refers to the legal process whereby a minor is designated an adult by the
   court system).

5. Enforcement:
   5.1. Identification of Violation/Violator. Before taking any enforcement action, security forces (SF)
   personnel shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in the public place.
   5.2. Enforcement Actions. A SF member shall not issue a citation or make an arrest in accordance
   with this instruction unless they reasonably believe that an offense has occurred and that, based on the
   circumstances, no exceptions in paragraphs 4.1. through 4.7. are present.

6. Responsibility:
   6.1. Commanders. Commanders must ensure their personnel are aware of the requirements of this
   instruction.
   6.2. Military Personnel. Service members (sponsors) must ensure their family members are made
   aware of and comply with this instruction.

7. Curfew Hours. Unless otherwise excepted under this instruction, family members 17 years of age and
younger may not be in a public place, or on the premises of any establishment, on FEW during:
   7.1. Sunday through Thursday. Curfew will begin at 2300 (11:00 p.m.) on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
   Wednesday and Thursday and last until 0600 (6:00 a.m.) on the following day.
   7.2. Friday, Saturday and Holidays. Curfew will begin at 0100 (1:00 a.m.) and end at 0600 (6:00 a.m.)
   on Saturday, Sunday and holiday mornings.

8. Exemptions. Family members 17 years of age and younger will be allowed in public places or on the
premises of establishments on FEW after curfew hours under the following conditions:
   8.1. In the company of/or under the control of a legal parent/guardian.
   8.2. Returning from/going to a place of gainful employment.
   8.3. Within one hour after the termination of sanctioned school functions.
   8.4. Bonafide travel between quarters on/off base as long as legal parent/guardian has knowledge
   thereof.

9. Violations:
   9.1. Juvenile Advisory Council (JAC). The JAC will handle each violation of this instruction. A per-
   son violating this instruction is guilty of a separate offense each time the violation is committed, con-
   tinued or permitted.
4                                                                          90SWI31-2 1 MARCH 2006


    9.2. SF Documentation. Violations of this instruction, brought to the attention of or detected by secu-
    rity forces will be recorded in the police blotter, annotated on a AF IMT 3545, Incident Report, and
    forwarded to the JAC and the sponsor's commander for action.



                                               MICHAEL J. CAREY, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander, 90th Space Wing
