BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    90TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 31-3
90TH SPACE WING                                                                       30 JANUARY 2004

                                                                                                  Security

                                                        CONTROL OF PETS AND STRAY ANIMALS




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 90 SFS/SFOL                                     Certified by: 90 SFG/CC (Colonel Michael H. Witt)
       (MSgt Clifford S. Anderson)
Supersedes FEWI 31-3, 4 August 1998                                                               Pages: 7
                                                                                           Distribution: F

This instruction establishes policy and procedures for the control of pets and how stray animals will be
dealt with at F. E. Warren (FEW) AFB, WY. It applies to all persons who live on, work on, or visit FEW.
On base residents must also comply with 90 SW Pamphlet 32-12, Family Housing - We Care. Maintain
and dispose of records created as a result of prescribed processes in accordance with AFMAN 37-139,
Records Disposition Schedule (will become AFMAN 33-322, Volume 4). Comply with AFI 33-332, Air
Force Privacy Act Program, for documents containing Privacy Act information. Comply with DoD Reg-
ulation 5400.7/Air Force Supplement/AFSPCSUP1, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program, Chapter
4, for documents containing For Official Use Only information.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.




1. Terms Explained.
   1.1. Pet. Any animal kept and cared for by an owner. This includes dogs, cats, horses, and exotic ani-
   mals not prohibited by this instruction or civilian law, etc. Wild animals, farm animals, livestock
   (except horses stabled at the base stables), poisonous snakes, constricting snakes (e.g., boas and
   pythons), and exotic carnivorous animals (e.g., monitor lizards) are prohibited as pets on FEW AFB.
   1.2. Stray Animal. Any uncontrolled domestic animal loose on the base.
   1.3. Control. A pet leashed, on a rope or chain, kept in a fenced area, or otherwise under such positive
   control it cannot gain free access to other property or public areas.
2                                                                       90SWI31-3 30 JANUARY 2004


    1.4. Animal Abuse. To physically mistreat; to do physical harm; or fail to properly feed, water, house,
    or otherwise provide adequate care for an animal.
    1.5. Incident. Any case of animal abuse or neglect, any bite or scratch by a pet inflicting bodily harm,
    a pet being a nuisance in which security forces have to intervene, or any occurrence of a pet not being
    under control or free from restraint.
    1.6. Base Stables. Those facilities located on the northern part of FEW AFB. The base stables are not
    a 90th Services Squadron (90 SVS) operation. The stables are currently under the management of the
    Outriders Club of Fort D. A. Russell. The club is a private organization under the guidance of AFI
    34-23, Private Organization Program (POP). The 90 SVS monitors and administers the POP.

2. General.
    2.1. Delegation of Authority. The 90 MSG/CC has been delegated responsibility and authority by 90
    SW/CC to implement and enforce the policies and procedures set forth in this instruction.
    2.2. Privilege Versus Right. Housing of domestic animals on a United States Air Force Base is a priv-
    ilege, not a right. The 90 MSG/CC permits housing pets so long as these animals do not impact mis-
    sion effectiveness, do not become a nuisance to other base residents, and are adequately cared for and
    controlled.
    2.3. Order of Removal From FEW. In accordance with 90 SW Pamphlet 32-12, Family Housing-We
    Care, the 90 MSG/CC may order a pet removed from the base. In extreme cases 90 MSG/CC may
    order a family member to move off base due to the misbehavior of the pet. The basic rules are:
       2.3.1. Pet owners must keep their pet under control and reasonably quiet at all times. Owners must
       provide adequate care to include food, water, and shelter for their pets especially during extreme
       hot and cold weather. Pets cannot be leashed to outside faucets, privacy fences, or any part of the
       housing unit or existing landscaping.
           2.3.1.1. Pets including cats, are permitted off leash when inside the owners' residence or
           within the owners' enclosed yard. Pets, including cats are NOT permitted to run free outside
           the owners' yard. Pets are permitted off leash in the following three areas of the base.
               2.3.1.1.1. Area 1. In the area immediately around and west of North and South Pearson
               Lakes. The area is bordered on the east by Rogers Road, on the north by Central Drive, on
               the west by Central Drive and Wapiti Drive, and on the south by Wapiti and Rogers Road.
               2.3.1.1.2. Area 2. The area directly east of the base stables. The area is bordered on the
               west by Rogers Road, on the north by the base perimeter fence, on the east by the base
               perimeter fence, and on the south by Sampson Road.
               2.3.1.1.3. Area 3. The open areas located south and west of Gate 2. This area is bordered
               on the northeast by Missile Drive, on the northwest by Blackpowder Road, on the north-
               west by a line drawn from the intersection of Blackpowder Road and Territory Road in a
               southeasterly direction to the base perimeter fence, and on the southeast by the base perim-
               eter fence.
           2.3.1.2. When off leash, in any of these three areas, the pet:
               2.3.1.2.1. Must be accompanied by their owner(s), family members of the owner, or some-
               one “sitting” the animal and be under positive verbal command at all times.
90SWI31-3 30 JANUARY 2004                                                                              3


            2.3.1.2.2. Will not be permitted to become a nuisance or danger to other personnel or ani-
            mals in the area they are located.
            2.3.1.2.3. Must be placed under physical control (on a leash, inside a vehicle, inside a pet
            carrier, etc.) when departing these areas.
            2.3.1.2.4. Are not permitted to enter any base housing areas off leash.
     2.3.2. Pet owners are liable for damage caused by their pets, including injuries to other animals or
     people.
        2.3.2.1. Pet owners are responsible for cleaning up and disposing of their pets' feces. This
        includes feces deposited in any yard or public area. Picking up the feces is not required for the
        off leash areas 2 and 3. Feces cleanup is not required in the off leash area 1 except owners must
        clean up the pets' feces deposited directly around North and South Pearson Lakes and the pub-
        lic facilities located around these lakes.
        2.3.2.2. 90 CES/CEH Housing Manager will be notified by memorandum of all pet com-
        plaints or incidents (e.g., biting, scratching, nuisance stray, abuse, et cetera)
     2.3.3. Pets may be prohibited from military family housing units under the sole discretion of the
     90 MSG/CC.
     2.3.4. Breeding or raising of animals in military family housing for shows or commercial pur-
     poses is prohibited unless approved by the 90 MSG/CC. The operation of a commercial-type ken-
     nel in government quarters is also prohibited.
     2.3.5. Horses may be housed at the base stables when the stables are operational. Horses must be
     stabled off base if base stables are not established and operating. Under no circumstances may
     horses or other farm animals be stabled or housed in military housing units. The base stables are
     under the management of the Outriders Club of Fort D. A. Russell. Horse owners stabling a horse
     at the base stables must comply with the Outriders Club of Fort D. A. Russell operating and horse
     health requirements.
        2.3.5.1. Horses may be ridden on the trails in area 1 but are not permitted to enter the water.
        Horses may also be ridden in the area around the stables including the pastures to the north
        indicated in paragraph 2.3.1.1.2. Area 2. Horses are not to be ridden into any housing area or
        be in the FAMCAMP Pavilion area.
        2.3.5.2. Family pets of Outriders of Fort D.A. Russell Club members are permitted in the sta-
        ble area. It is the owner's responsibility to ensure pets do not create safety problems.
     2.3.6. Security forces personnel will attempt to contact the owner of any stray animal/pet they
     capture. If the owner cannot be contacted, or does not report to security forces personnel to
     retrieve their animal, security forces personnel will take the animal to the Cheyenne Animal Shel-
     ter. Owners may collect their pets through the animal shelter. The pet owner is responsible for all
     costs associated with sheltering the pet at the animal shelter.
     2.3.7. Reptiles and birds of any type must be securely caged if kept in military family housing.
     With the exception of military working dogs, assistance-type dogs, fish, animals and reptiles are
     not permitted in the dormitories, UOQ/UNCOQ, guest quarters, or other public buildings without
     written approval of the unit commander. Poisonous or constrictor type reptiles are not allowed in
     military family housing or military dormitories.
4                                                                        90SWI31-3 30 JANUARY 2004


       2.3.8. Any incident of a pet inflicting injury, even if properly fenced or secured, that represents a
       verifiable danger to the community, will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. Pet owners are
       responsible for the actions of their animals even if the pet is provoked.

3. Responsibilities.
    3.1. 90th Security Forces Squadron:
       3.1.1. Will be observant for stray animals and will respond to resident complaints. Security Forces
       personnel will make every effort to capture the animal and transport it safely and humanely to the
       Cheyenne Animal Shelter.
       3.1.2. Will handle pets as directed by the base veterinarian and/or representative if a person has
       been bitten or scratched and the owner cannot be found. When the owner is identified, they will be
       directed to contact the base veterinarian.
       3.1.3. Will conduct a preliminary investigation in all cases of suspected animal abuse and forward
       findings to the Base Veterinary Clinic for further investigation, if needed.
       3.1.4. Will include an entry on AF Form 53, Security Forces Desk Blotter (or computer generated
       replacement.) For every animal complaint, an AF Form 3545, Incident Report, will be accom-
       plished on all incidents as defined by paragraph 1.5..
           3.1.4.1. A copy of each report will be sent to the commander of the military member (if
           known) who owns the pet. Reports of incidents involving animal bites or involving animal
           problems in military family housing will be forwarded to the Housing Office and Base Veteri-
           nary Clinic.
           3.1.4.2. If an animal bites or scratches an individual, advise the victim to seek medical treat-
           ment. If they refuse treatment, annotate the refusal in the AF Form 53 and the AF Form 3545,
           if completed.
    3.2. Base Residents/Pet Owners will:
       3.2.1. Register all Pets. Present records of all pets, including horses, to the Veterinary Clinic, Bldg
       288, within 7 days after arrival on base in order to validate and ensure its health and immunization
       status. The Veterinary Clinic will review the records and return them to the pet owner. The base
       vet will maintain a copy of the animal’s health record in accordance with AFJI 48-131.
           3.2.1.1. The pet’s health records must be completed as necessary by the owner. It is the own-
           ers' responsibility to make sure health records are kept up to date and to provide the base vet-
           erinarians' office with a copy of exams and vaccinations received from off-base veterinarians.
           Owners must also inform the Base Veterinary Clinic, Bldg. 288, of any change of address and
           phone numbers and to physically sign out your pet records upon PCS/ETS.
           3.2.1.2. The health records of all horses housed at the base stables must also be presented to
           the Outriders Club of Fort D. A. Russell board members. A copy of the vaccination record and
           negative Coggins Test will be forwarded to the base veterinarian.
       3.2.2. Ensure domestic pets and horses have current rabies vaccination with certificate signed by
       military or civilian veterinarian.
           3.2.2.1. Ensure that, in addition to the rabies vaccination, horses stabled at the base stables
90SWI31-3 30 JANUARY 2004                                                                               5


         comply with the vaccination requirements established by the USAF, base regulations, and the
         Outriders Club of Fort D. A. Russell.
     3.2.3. Keep pets under control at all times. The pet must wear a collar or harness with a current
     rabies vaccination tag and the owners nametag. Unless within the confines of the owners' home or
     fenced yard, pets will be on a leash with the exception of the areas identified in paragraph 2.3.1.1.
     above.
     3.2.4. Keep all pets from creating a nuisance, i.e., barking loudly, digging, or other similar
     actions, which may damage government property.
     3.2.5. Keep pets from interfering with the work of civilian or military personnel.
     3.2.6. Keep the pet housed, fed, and safeguarded in accordance with 90 SW Pamphlet 32-12. This
     includes providing proper shelter from the weather when housed outdoors.
     3.2.7. Ensure fenced-in yards or area around quarters used by pets are policed daily. When pets
     are walked, clean up any droppings deposited by animals.
     3.2.8. Keep unspayed female animals in isolation during their heat period.
     3.2.9. Contact the Base Veterinary Clinic if the pet or animal dies, is sold, or is given away.
     3.2.10. Contact the Law Enforcement Desk when a pet escapes from control.
  3.3. Base Veterinary Clinic:
     3.3.1. Provides animal vaccinations and examinations as necessary in accordance with AFJI
     48-131.
     3.3.2. Maintains pet registration and health records on file for all pets kept or maintained on FEW
     AFB in accordance with AFJI 48-131.
     3.3.3. Attending veterinarian will serve as the base Animal Abuse Officer and will assist with or
     be consulted by security forces in potential cases of animal abuse, as identified by security forces
     or by other base residents.
     3.3.4. Provides the owner the original copy of DD Form 2208, Rabies Vaccination Certificate and
     issues a numbered FEW “rabies tag” to the owner.
         3.3.4.1. Forwards a log of vaccinations to the 90 SFS/SFOL and one copy of the vaccination
         record to Laramie County Animal Control.
         3.3.4.2. Retains one copy of the vaccination record in veterinarian clinic files.
     3.3.5. Coordinates with Military Public Health on all animal bite cases and rabies quarantine.
     3.3.6. Provides guidance to pet owners about procedures for veterinary evaluations and quaran-
     tine of pets following a biting incident.
     3.3.7. Ensures all animals involved in a bite incident receive appropriate veterinary evaluation
     and quarantine as required. The owner of the animal will sign DD Form 2623, Animal Home
     Quarantine, and comply with AFJI 48-131.
  3.4. Base Entomology (90 CES/CEOHE). The base entomology section is responsible for picking up
  and disposing of dead animals (i.e. dogs, cats, etc.) found along the roadside on FEW AFB. This does
  not include animals such as dead badgers, geese, ducks, etc. The base game warden is responsible for
6                                                                        90SWI31-3 30 JANUARY 2004


    picking up and disposing of injured or dead game animals on the installation. Base Entomology will
    trap stray cats when requested. Base Entomology can be contacted through Civil Engineer Customer
    Service.

4. Vaccinations, Rabies Control, and Animal Bites:
    4.1. General Requirements. Dogs and cats, 4 months of age and older, (horses 6 months of age and
    older) must be vaccinated as required by Wyoming state law including vaccination against rabies
    annually. A military or civilian veterinarian may complete this. Horses must be vaccinated as required
    by either the Wyoming state law or the Outriders Club of Fort D. A. Russell, whichever is more strin-
    gent.
       4.1.1. As a minimum, dogs will be vaccinated against distemper, hepatitis, leptospirosis, parain-
       fluenza, coronavirus, and parvovirus at 8, 12, and 16 weeks of age. Either military or civilian vet-
       erinarian will revaccinate dogs annually.
       4.1.2. As a minimum, cats will be vaccinated against feline rhinotracheitis, distemper, calici virus,
       feline leukemia, and chlamydia at 8, 12, and 16 weeks of age. Either a military or civilian veteri-
       narian will revaccinate cats annually.
       4.1.3. As a minimum, horses will be vaccinated and or tested for the following: eastern and west-
       ern encephalomyelitis, rabies, tetanus toxoid, equine influenza, and equine rhinopneumonitis. A
       coggins test must be completed no more than 12 months prior to entry to the base with negative
       results. Once the horse is placed in the base stables, another coggins test must be conducted within
       12 months of the last test and annually thereafter.
           4.1.3.1. Foals will be immunized between 3 and 4 months of age, receive boosters 1-2 months
           later, and then follow normal immunization schedules.
    4.2. Vaccination Documentation. Vaccinations will be properly documented.
       4.2.1. When pets are vaccinated by the base veterinary clinic, pet owners will be issued a num-
       bered and dated FEW “rabies tag” and a DD Form 2208, Rabies Vaccination Certificate, for each
       animal properly vaccinated against rabies. The tag is to be permanently affixed to the animals' col-
       lar and worn continually. Other copies of the certificate will be on file at the Veterinary Clinic and
       Laramie County Animal Control.
       4.2.2. When pets are vaccinated by off-base veterinarians, the owner will ensure the off-base vet-
       erinarian provides them with an accurate record of the vaccinations and will maintain these
       records. Proof of the vaccination will be taken to the base veterinarian’s office where a base rabies
       tag and certificate will be issued.
           4.2.2.1. Pet owners will provide the base veterinarian’s office with a copy of the pet’s current
           vaccination record within 7 days of bringing the animal onto the installation, and update the
           veterinary office’s copy of the vaccination record after each vaccination. Horse owners will
           also provide the base veterinarians' office with a copy of the horses' current coggins test and
           deworming procedure.
           4.2.2.2. Pet/animal owners will make the animals' health records available, upon request, to
           the base veterinarian or security forces personnel any time their pet is involved in an incident
           to include animal bites, attacks, or if the pet is picked up as a stray. The health records must be
           presented to the requesting agency within 24 hours of the request, but not later than 72 hours
90SWI31-3 30 JANUARY 2004                                                                                   7


         from the time of the incident.
  4.3. Animal Bite/Scratch Incidents. Anyone bitten or scratched by an animal should seek medical
  treatment at either the base hospital or civilian medical facility. All biting incidents will be reported to
  90 MDG. If the bite occurred when the owner did not properly control the animal, security forces will
  be contacted.
     4.3.1. The 90 MDG will initiate DD Form 2341, Report of Animal Bite - Potential Rabies Expo-
     sure, with all available information on the biting incident. The original report will be provided to
     the base veterinary clinic. The individual’s medical record will be annotated if they refuse medical
     treatment.
     4.3.2. When notified of an animal bite/scratch which occurred off base, the base veterinary clinic
     will notify the Laramie County Animal Control Center. The DD Form 2341 will be annotated to
     reflect the veterinary evaluation and disposition/status quarantine of the biting animal.
     4.3.3. Within 24 hours of on-base biting/scratching incident, the owner will have the animal eval-
     uated by a local veterinarian and quarantined for a 10-day period. The 90 MSG/CC reserves the
     right to order the animal to be quarantined off base at the owners' expense. The veterinarian must
     reevaluate the animal before it is released from quarantine. Proof the rabies vaccination was com-
     pleted within the last 12 months, the veterinary evaluation, and the quarantine status will be pro-
     vided to the base veterinarian. Also notify 90 CES/CEH (housing manager) by memorandum of
     all pet complaints or incidents, i.e., (biting, scratching, nuisance, stray, abuse, non-control, etc.).



                                                     EVAN J. HOAPILI, Colonel, USAF
                                                     Commander
