BY THE ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               90TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 10-9
90TH SPACE WING                                                                         18 APRIL 2005

                                                                                             Operations

                                                                              PLANS MANAGEMENT




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 90 SW/XPA (TSgt Randy Ridenour)                   Certified by: 90 SW/XP (2Lt Michael J. Hurley)
Supersedes 90SWI10-9, 14 January 2000                                                      Pages: 11
                                                                                     Distribution: F

This instruction incorporates some formatting concepts in AFMAN 10-401, Volume 1, Operation Plan
and Concept Plan Development and Implementation and AFMAN 10-401, Volume 2, Planning Formats
and Guidance. It establishes responsibilities and procedures for developing, coordinating, and publishing
90th Space Wing (90 SW) plans. This instruction applies to all 90 SW staff agencies and group and squad-
ron commanders involved in writing wing plans. This instruction does not apply to group or squadron
unique plans; however, squadrons should use this guidance to maximize plan standardization throughout
the wing. Send recommended changes to 90 SW/XP, 5305 Randall Ave, F. E. Warren AFB, WY 82005.
Units may supplement this instruction with Operating Instructions.
Maintain and dispose of records created as a result of prescribed processes in accordance with The Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule (WebRims). Comply with AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Pro-
gram, for documents containing Privacy Act information. Comply with DoD Regulation 5400.7/Air
Force Supplement/AFSPCSUP1, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program, Chapter 4, for documents
containing For Official Use Only information.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This instruction has been significantly revised and must be completely reviewed. A bar ( | ) indicates a
revision from the previous edition.


1. References:
   1.1. DOD Directive 5210.83, DOD Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information. Outlines guidance
   for determining and marking documents Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information.
   1.2. DOD Regulation 5400.7/Air Force Supplement, DOD Freedom of Information Act Program.
   Describes correct procedures for marking documents For Official Use Only.
2                                                                          90SWI10-9 18 APRIL 2005


    1.3. AFMAN 10-401, Volume 1. Operation Plan and Concept Plan Development and Implementa-
    tion. Provides Air Force-unique planning aspects not addressed in Joint Operation Planning and Exe-
    cution System (JOPES) documents and complements JOPES guidance for Air Force planners at all
    levels.
    1.4. AFMAN 10-401, Volume 2. Planning Formats and Guidance. Prescribes the formats for and
    gives guidance on preparing and completing operations and concept plans.
    1.5. Joint Pub 5-0, Doctrine for Planning Joint Operations. Delineates the joint planning process and
    defines Operation Plans (OPLANS).

2. Operations, Support, and Functional Plan Responsibilities:
    2.1. Commander, 90th Space Wing (90 SW/CC). Approves and signs all wing plans.
    2.2. Wing Plans and Programs Office (90 SW/XP):
       2.2.1. Manages the 90 SW Plans Program.
       2.2.2. Maintains a plans library, electronic and paper, consisting of plans signed by the wing com-
       mander or designated representative. The plans library includes only those plans that task agencies
       inside 90 SW or across group lines.
       2.2.3. Publishes an intranet based index of wing plans. This index includes only those plans
       defined in paragraph 2.2.2. above.
       2.2.4. Reviews/coordinates on wing-level plans. Reviews now only for format but also to verify
       compliance with HHQ and local policies. Will ensure the OPR has written coordination with all
       tasked agencies.
       2.2.5. Tracks and tasks OPRs with the annual review of wing-level plans.
       2.2.6. Provides guidance to 90 SW organizations on the plans program.
    2.3. Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR). Responsible for creating, coordinating and managing
    plans within its functional area.
       2.3.1. Develops plans as directed by higher headquarters requirements.
       2.3.2. Ensures proper construction and format of plans.
       2.3.3. Identifies all tasked agencies.
       2.3.4. Coordinates plans with tasked agencies, via bottom-line and top-line reviews, on an annual
       or as needed basis, whichever is sooner. This includes both agencies within 90 SW and those
       external to 90 SW. OPR will route bottom-line and top-line reviews per the 90th Space Wing
       Administration Guide. For non-Air Force agencies outside the wing, use an official memorandum
       requesting coordination with an explanation of support requested from that agency.
       2.3.5. Distributes plans to all users per Annex Z and provide 90 SW/XP a scanned copy of the
       signed plan for the 90 SW Wing Plans intranet library. Classified plans will be distributed in hard
       copy format only.
    2.4. Tasked Organizations. It is imperative any tasked agency review the plan to ensure tasks in the
    plan are accurate and feasible. Review plans for compliance and feasibility and ensure the plan
    reflects the most recent guidance and information for their functional area.
90SWI10-9 18 APRIL 2005                                                                                  3


3. General. A plan is a documented course of action establishing procedures on an one-time or as-needed
basis. A plan ensures established procedures are coordinated before an event takes place. Operation, con-
cept, supporting and functional plans are developed based on requirements identified by either an AFI, a
Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) directive, Headquarters United States Space Command (USSPACECOM)
directive, Headquarters Air Force Space Command (AFSPC) directive or locally-established requirement.
A wing plan is defined as a plan which tasks a group or agency outside the OPR’s group.
   3.1. Format. Plans adhere to formats prescribed in higher headquarters directives. AFMAN 10-401,
   Volume 2, Planning Formats and Guidance, is the governing guidance for formatting Air Force oper-
   ational and concept plans. All wing plans will be typed in Arial font, size 12. The objective of using a
   prescribed plan format is to ensure standardization and ease of use across the wing. Group and squad-
   ron plans should also use this format to ensure consistency across the wing.

4. Plan Review and Staffing Requirements.
   4.1. Annual Review. To ensure currency of information and taskings, all plans will be reviewed annu-
   ally. This gives tasked organizations the opportunity to update their respective annexes to more accu-
   rately reflect abilities to support requirements in the plan.
       4.1.1. 90 SW/XP will manage the wing-level plans annual review process while the plan OPR is
       responsible for staffing and coordinating the plan. For wing-level plans, 90 SW/XP will notify the
       plan OPR 90 days in advance of the requirement to perform the annual review.
       4.1.2. If review determines only a small portion (20% or less of all pages) of the plan requires
       minor updating/improvement, changes may be made by page-replacement or by pen-and-ink
       change depending on complexity. Ensures a bottom-line review for any change is coordinated
       with all affected agencies. A top-line review will then be completed with effected group com-
       manders.
       4.1.3. The OPR will maintain coordination documentation and distribute changes to everyone in
       Annex Z, Distribution.
   4.2. Staffing. Staff plans through appropriate agencies. This ensures others have the opportunity to
   review your plan for possible impacts to their organization. A good rule of thumb is to coordinate with
   any office mentioned in your plan or listed in Annex Z.
       4.2.1. Staffing a plan provides two-way benefits. The plan OPR benefits from the expertise of
       functional representatives who ensure taskings in the plan are realistic and attainable. The tasked
       agencies benefit because they can tailor the support they can give in advance of plan implementa-
       tion and not be caught off guard when the plan is implemented.
       4.2.2. As a minimum, the following organizations will review all 90 SW plans: all group CCs, 0
       OSS/OSE for OPSEC, 90 CPTS, 90 SW/SE, 90 SW/JA, 90 SW/XP and all agencies (within and
       external to 90 SW) tasked in the plan. NOTE: IAW AFSPC and 20 AF policy, all plans containing
       Missile Potential Hazards (MPH), missile or nuclear mishaps or disaster control situations will be
       coordinated through 20 AF/SE.
       4.2.3. Follow the 90 SW Administrative Guide for coordination within 90 SW. For non-Air Force
       agencies outside the Wing, use an official memorandum with an explanation of the requested sup-
       port from that agency. All agencies affected by the plan must review the plan and provide appro-
4                                                                        90SWI10-9 18 APRIL 2005


       priate comments before the plan is staffed through 90 SW/XP and the Wing Command Section for
       approval.
       4.2.4. The OPR will accomplish a comment resolution matrix (CRM) after each level of review.
       A CRM serves as a record of all comments made during coordination and how those comments
       were resolved. Typically the CRM is a four-column document with the following headings:
       PAGE, PARAGRAPH, COMMENT and RESOLUTION. The Page and Paragraph columns
       identify the location within the plan of the comment in the Comment column. The Comment col-
       umn lists the OPR who submitted the original comment, the criticality of the comment (Critical,
       Substantive or Administrative) and the original comment itself. The Resolution column describes
       how that comment was resolved (whether or not the comment was included/incorporated in the
       plan) and justification for the described resolution.
       4.2.5. After the wing commander approves the plan by signing the last page of the basic plan and
       Annex A, and the applicable authority signs the memorandum of transmittal, the OPR will make
       necessary distribution (paper or electronic copies). 90 SW/XP requires both one paper copy and
       one electronic copy with scanned signatures of the plan for the wing plans library.

5. Implementation Plans (IPLANS).
    5.1. Commander, 90th Space Wing (90 SW/CC) or designated authority approves all IPLANS.
    5.2. Wing Plans and Programs Office (90 SW/XP):
       5.2.1. Manages 90 SW IPLANS.
       5.2.2. Develops IPLANS s directed by higher headquarters programming plans (PPLAN) require-
       ments.
       5.2.3. Staffs PPLANS to 90 SW groups and wing staff agencies for review.
       5.2.4. Tasks 90 SW groups and wing staff agencies to prepare their IPLAN annexes and to
       develop milestone timelines for each IPLAN project.
       5.2.5. Publishes and distributes IPLANS to the 90 SW group and wing staff agencies.
       5.2.6. Tracks the status of IPLAN milestones through the project lifespan.
       5.2.7. Processes changes to the IPLANS, including coordination of the changes and distribution.
       5.2.8. Formally rescinds IPLANS when the primary objectives of the plan are met.
    5.3. 90 SW Group and Wing Staff Agency OPRs:
       5.3.1. Are responsible for the content of their IPLAN functional area annexes, including provid-
       ing changes to 90 SW/XP when the OPR deems necessary.
       5.3.2. When tasked by 90 SW/XP, prepare their functional area annex, to include developing
       milestones for each trackable action for the IPLAN projects. All inputs are to be coordinated
       through the chief of the respective group or wing staff agency before being submitted to 90 SW/
       XP.
       5.3.3. Provide status reports in accordance with Annex A of each IPLAN.
    5.4. Numbering IPLANS. IPLANS are assigned a number based upon the fiscal year the IPLAN was
    initiated in and the number of IPLANS created within that fiscal year (e.g., 00-1).
90SWI10-9 18 APRIL 2005                                                                                5


6. Administrative Requirements.
   6.1. Classification Markings. Refer to DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, and AFI
   31-401, Managing the Information Security Program, for proper classification markings.
   6.2. For Official Use Only (FOUO). Refer to DoD 5400.7-R/Air Force Supplement, DoD Freedom of
   Information Act Program, for FOUO rules. FOUO is for information that has not been given a secu-
   rity classification pursuant to the criteria of an Executive Order, but which may be withheld from the
   public because disclosure would cause a foreseeable harm to an interest protected by one or more
   Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) exemptions. Mark documents with “FOR OFFICIAL USE
   ONLY” at the bottom on the outside of the front cover (if any), on each page containing FOUO infor-
   mation, and on the outside of the back cover (if any). Each paragraph containing FOUO information
   shall be marked as such.
   6.3. Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information (UCNI). Refer to DoD Directive 5210.83, DoD
   Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information, for UCNI rules. Consider whether dissemination of
   such information would assist a potential adversary targeting nuclear material or aid in producing a
   nuclear explosive device.



                                              EVAN J. HOAPILI, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander
6                                                                  90SWI10-9 18 APRIL 2005


                                        Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DOD Directive 5210.83, DOD Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information
DOD 5200.1.R, Information Security Program
DOD Regulation 5400.7/AF Supplement, DOD Force Freedom of Information Act Program
AFMAN 10-401, Operation Plan and Concept Plan Development and Implementation
AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning
AFI 10-404, Base Support Planning
AFI 10-501, Program Action Directives and Program Planning
AFI 31-401, Managing the Information Security Program

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AFSPCI—Air Force Space Command Instruction
BSP—Base Support Plan
CINC—Commander in Chief
COMSEC—Communications Security
CONPLAN—Concept Plan
CRM—Comment Resolution Matrix
FOUO—For Official Use Only
IPlan—Implementation Plan
JCS—Joint Chiefs of Staff
LIMFAC—Limiting Factor
MAJCOM—Major Command
NSA—National Security Agency
OPLAN—Operations Plan
OPORD—Operation Order
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OPSEC—Operation Security
90SWI10-9 18 APRIL 2005                                                                                   7


PDF—Personnel Deployment Function
PPlan—Programming Plan
SW—Space Wing
TPFDD—Time-Phased Force and Deployment Data
USSPACECOM—Headquarters United States Space Command
WRM—War Reserve Material

Terms
Annex—A document appended to a basic plan or order to make it clearer or to give it further detail.
Appendix—A subordinate addition to the annex of a plan, which is usually too bulky or full of details to
include in an annex. An appendix is related to a major division or category of data to be presented.
Base Support Plan—The installation level planning accomplished to support unified and specified
command wartime operation plans, as well as MAJCOM supporting plans. It cuts across all functional
support areas in a consolidated view of installation missions, requirements, capabilities and limitations to
plan the actions and resources supporting war or contingency operations other than war, including
deployment and reception operations.
Beddown—Common terminology used for the destination of combat forces in a theater.
Chain of Command—The succession of commanding officers from a superior to a subordinate through
which command is exercised; also called command channel.
Comment Resolution Matrix (CRM).—This document is used in second and subsequent rounds of
coordination of a plan. The CRM serves as a record of all comments made during coordination and how
those comments were resolved. Typically the CRM is a four-column document with the following
headings: PAGE, PARAGRAPH, COMMENT and RESOLUTION. The Page and Paragraph
columns identify the location within the plan of the comment in the Comment column. The Comment
column lists the OPR who submitted the original comment, the criticality of the comment (Critical,
Substantive or Administrative) and the original comment itself. The Resolution column describes how
that comment was resolved (whether or not the comment was included/incorporated in the plan) and
justification for the described resolution.
Communications Security (COMSEC)—The protection resulting from all measures designed to deny
unauthorized persons information of value which might be derived from the possession and study of
telecommunications or to mislead unauthorized persons in their interpretation of the results of such
possession and study.
Concept Plan (CONPLAN)—An operation plan in an abbreviated format that would require
considerable expansion or alteration to convert it into an OPLAN or OPORD. It contains the CINC’s
Strategic Concept and those annexes and appendices deemed necessary to complete planning. Usually
does not contain a TPFDD.
For Official Use Only (FOUO)—FOUO is for information that has not been given a security
classification pursuant to the criteria of an Executive Order, but which may be withheld from the public
because disclosure would cause a foreseeable harm to an interest protected by one or more Freedom of
Information Act (FOIA) exemptions. The governing directive for FOUO is DOD 5400.7-R/AF Sup.
8                                                                         90SWI10-9 18 APRIL 2005


Guidance—Policy, direction, decision, or instructions having the effect of an order when issued by a
higher authority.
Implementation Plan—A wing-level detailed plan to execute and track projects that have been approved
by HQ AFSPC. These projects include force structure changes, such as activations, inactivations, unit
relocations and transfers and major mission upgrades or changes.
Installation Deployment Plan—A document which provides detailed procedures, instructions, and
comprehensive data required to expeditiously deploy personnel and equipment.
Limiting Factor (LIMFAC)—A factor or condition that either temporarily or permanently
impedes mission accomplishment. This limitation has a significant impact on the capability to perform the
wartime mission and has become a wartime constraint.
Need-to-Know—A criterion used in security procedures which requires the custodians of classified
information to establish, prior to disclosure, that the intended recipient must have access to the
information to perform his official duties.
Operation—A military action or the carrying out of a strategic, tactical, service, training, or
administrative military mission; the process of carrying on combat, including movement, supply, attack,
defense, and maneuvers needed to gain objectives of any battle or campaign.
Operation Order (OPORD)—A directive issued by a commander to subordinate commanders for the
purpose of effecting the coordinated execution of an operation.
Operation Plan (OPLAN)—A plan for the conduct of joint operations that can be used as a basis for
development of an OPORD. An OPLAN identifies the forces and supplies required to execute the CINC’s
Strategic Concept and a movement schedule of these resources to the theater of operations. Forces and
supplies are identified in the OPLAN TPFDD.
Operation Security (OPSEC)—A process of analyzing friendly actions attendant to military operations
and other activities to identify those actions that can be observed by adversary intelligence systems,
determine indicators hostile intelligence systems might obtain that could be pieced together to derive
critical information, or select and execute measures that eliminate or reduce to an acceptable level the
vulnerabilities of friendly actions to adversary exploitation.
Plan—The scheme or proposed method for accomplishing a mission or reaching an objective.
PPlan—A MAJCOM level plan which describes MAJCOM or USAF initiatives that help accomplish a
major action.
Shortfall—The lack of forces, equipment, personnel, materiel, or capability, identified as a plan
requirement that would adversely affect a command’s ability to accomplish its mission and that are not
immediately available to satisfy mission requirements.
Support—The action of a force which aids, protects, complements, or sustains another force in
accordance with a directive requiring such action.
Supporting Plan—An operation plan prepared by a supporting commander or subordinate commander
to satisfy the requirements of the supported commander’s plan.
Sustainability—The ability to maintain the necessary level and duration of combat activity to achieve
national objectives.
90SWI10-9 18 APRIL 2005                                                                 9


Tab—A tab is a further subdivision of an appendix to provide clarity of presentation.
10                                 90SWI10-9 18 APRIL 2005


             Attachment 2

     PLANS ANNUAL REVIEW PROCESS
90SWI10-9 18 APRIL 2005                                        11


                                    Attachment 3

                                   PLAN COVER
                            (Type using Arial font, size 24)




                          90TH SPACE WING
                          SEVERE WEATHER
                      FUNCTIONAL PLAN

                          90 SW FPLAN 420-1




                              1 JUNE 2004

                           OPR: 90 SW/XP
