BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 90TH SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 21-3
90TH SPACE WING                                                                                      19 SEPTEMBER 2005

                                                                                                                   Maintenance

                                                                                MUNITIONS CUSTOMER SUPPORT




                   COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 90 MMXS/MMXMO                                               Certified by: 90 MXG/CC (Colonel Jodie L. Bliss)
       (MSgt Michael V. McCarty)
Supersedes 90SWI21-3, 18 August 2003                                                                                 Pages: 33
                                                                                                                Distribution: F

This instruction establishes policies and procedures for accountability, issue, turn-in, inventory control,
and requirements forecasting of all munitions assigned to FV4613 and managed under the Munitions
Accountable Systems Section. It applies to all organizations and activities assigned to or supported by the
90th Space Wing having a valid requirement and proper authority to maintain or expend munitions items.
All organizational commanders, account custodians, customers, and 90th Missile Maintenance Squadron
personnel are responsible for ensuring compliance with procedures outlined in this instruction. See
Attachment 1, Glossary of References and Supporting Information, for references and terms.
Maintain and dispose of any records created as a result of prescribed processes in accordance with the Air
Records Disposition Schedule (AFRIMS). Comply with AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, for docu-
ments containing Privacy Act information. Comply with DoD Regulation 5400.7/Air Force Supplement/
AFSPCSUP1, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program, Air Force Supplement, Chapter 4, for docu-
ments containing For Official Use Only information.
In accordance with AFI 33-360, V1, 90 SW Sup 1, paragraph 1.10.1.2., the 90 SW/CC designates the 90
MXG/CC the approval authority official for this publication. The signature block remains that of the 90th
Space Wing Commander.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. The following paragraphs were
added: 2.5., 18.1., 18.2., 18.3. A bar (|) indicates a revision from the previous edition.
      1.      Responsibilities of MASO/Designated Representative: ...........................................                 3
      2.      Establishment of Custody Account. ...........................................................................   3
      3.      AF IMT 68, Munitions Authorization Record. ..........................................................           3
Figure 1.     Sample AF IMT 68 (Page 1), Munitions Authorization Record. .............................                        6
2                                                                                      90SWI21-3 19 SEPTEMBER 2005


Figure 2.   Sample AF IMT 68 (Page 2), Munitions Authorization Record. .............................                                   7
      4.    Munitions Consumption/Custody Issue Procedures: .................................................                          7
Figure 3.   Sample Electronic Request For Issues, Expenditures, and Turn-ins. .......................                                  9
      5.    Munitions Turn-In Procedures: ..................................................................................           9
      6.    Custody Expenditure Procedures: ..............................................................................            10
      7.    Munitions Custody Account Procedures: ..................................................................                  10
      8.    Munitions Storage and Security Procedures: .............................................................                  10
      9.    Time Change Procedures: ..........................................................................................        11
    10.     Procedures for Annual Munitions Forecasts: .............................................................                  11
    11.     Commercial Off the Shelf (COTS) Munitions (Formerly Local Purchase). .............                                        11
    12.     Disposition and Incident Reporting Procedures: .......................................................                    11
    13.     Theft, Suspected Theft, or Loss of Munitions: ..........................................................                  12
    14.     Munitions Inventories: ...............................................................................................    12
    15.     Munitions Suspended or Restricted: ..........................................................................             12
    16.     Handling and Transportation of Explosive Items. .....................................................                     13
    17.     After Hours Support. ..................................................................................................   13
    18.     Account Deficiencies. ................................................................................................    13
    19.     Deviations and Interpretations of Procedures. ...........................................................                 13

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                       14

Attachment 2— SAMPLE MUNITIONS CUSTODY RESPONSIBILITY BRIEFING
             MEMORANDUM (CUSTODIANS)                                                                                                  16

Attachment 3— SAMPLE MUNITIONS CUSTODY RESPONSIBILITY BRIEFING
             MEMORANDUM (COMMANDER)                                                                                                   23

Attachment 4— SAMPLE REQUEST MEMORANDUM FOR MUNITIONS CUSTODY
             ACCOUNT                                                                                                                  28

Attachment 5— SAMPLE MEMORANDUM FOR MUNITIONS FORECASTS                                                                               29

Attachment 6— SAMPLE OF OUT-OF-CYCLE REQUEST                                                                                          30

Attachment 7— SAMPLE COURTESY STORAGE AGREEMENT                                                                                       31
90SWI21-3 19 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                             3


1. Responsibilities of MASO/Designated Representative:
   1.1. Brief unit commander and munitions account custodians on their responsibilities at the time an
   account is established and custodial changes occur. This is a mandatory briefing for all commanders
   and primary custodians. (See Attachment 2, Sample Munitions Custody Responsibility Briefing
   Memorandum [Commander], and Attachment 3, Sample Munitions Custody Responsibility Briefing
   Memorandum [Custodian].)
   1.2. Ensure all munitions are on hand within approved allocation quantities.
   1.3. Provide technical guidance to custodians on account management.
   1.4. Ensure all requested munitions are authorized and adequately justified.
   1.5. Ensure munitions are issued to only authorized individuals.
   1.6. Notify users/former users of munitions restrictions and suspensions.

2. Establishment of Custody Account. An account must be established prior to the release of any muni-
tions items to an authorized using organization. Any organization requiring munitions to perform their
mission must establish a munitions custody account. The requesting activity should use the following pro-
cedures as a guide:
   2.1. The unit commander will request in writing the assignment of an organizational account from the
   MASO/Munitions Accountability Section (see Attachment 4, Sample Request Memorandum For
   Munitions Custody Account). Justification for an account must include the intended use of the muni-
   tions and prescribing directives, instructions, or messages requiring the unit to obtain or maintain
   munitions to perform a mission.
   2.2. The MASO will review the request for completeness, determine if the items are MASO managed,
   approve or disapprove establishment of the munitions account, and notify the requesting commander
   of decision.
   2.3. Once the request is approved, an AF IMT 68, Munitions Authorization Record, will be prepared
   IAW paragraph 3. of this instruction and chapter 17 of AFI 21-201, Management and Maintenance of
   Non-Nuclear Munitions. (See sample at Figure 1., Sample AF IMT 68 (Front), Munitions Authoriza-
   tion Record, and Figure 2., Sample AF IMT 68 (Back), Munitions Authorization Record).
   2.4. To ensure that commanders and appointed custodians fully understand and recognize their
   responsibilities, the MASO/designated representative will brief/train them prior to the release of any
   munitions items to their organization or account. A memorandum certifying that the briefing was con-
   ducted will be placed in the account jacket file and the custodian will maintain a copy.
   2.5. Once an account has been established, it must have an approved munitions allocation before it
   may receive munitions assets. If a munitions allocation does not exist, an out-of-cycle munitions
   request must accompany the customer account request memorandum. For guidance on completing an
   out-of-cycle request, refer to AFI 21-201, paragraph 14.2 and Attachment 6 of this instruction. Once
   an allocation is established, the MASO or designated representative will notify the custodian of assets
   on hand, requisition status, and when assets are available.

3. AF IMT 68, Munitions Authorization Record.
4                                                                   90SWI21-3 19 SEPTEMBER 2005


    3.1. Organizational commanders may delegate authority to personnel assigned to their organization or
    command.
       3.1.1. Delegation of their authority does not relieve the organizational or unit commander of his
       or her pecuniary liability for the loss, damage, or destruction of property resulting from negli-
       gence, willful misconduct, or deliberate unauthorized use. When authority is delegated, an AF
       IMT 68 will be prepared IAW Figure 1. and Figure 2., and submitted to 90 MMXS/MMXMO as
       follows:
           3.1.1.1. Form will be typed. Submit original copy for MASO approval/disapproval. Once
           approved, copies will be distributed to all required agencies.
           3.1.1.2. The commander will designate a primary and an alternate custodian indicated by a P
           (primary) and A (alternate) in the DEROS block.
    3.2. All personnel appointed on the AF IMT 68 must be well aware of the total quantity of munitions
    authorized and previously expended, and will ensure total authorizations are not exceeded.
    3.3. IAW AFI 21-201, the AF IMT 68 will be completely reaccomplished annually, when personnel
    are added, when the primary custodian changes, or when the commander changes.
    3.4. Forty-five days prior to a primary custodian being relieved from duty, transferred, separated from
    service, or going TDY in excess of 45 days, a new primary custodian will be assigned to assume cus-
    todial responsibility for the account. After a custody account inventory is completed and signed by
    both individuals and the unit commander, the new primary custodian has responsibility for the
    account. Both the primary and alternate custodian should not be absent from the account at the same
    time. If they must be gone at the same time, a new custodian must be appointed, briefed and fully
    trained in all aspects of the account.
    3.5. The primary custodian will be responsible for ensuring the AF IMT 68 is completed correctly and
    kept accurate at all times. Follow the example provided in Figure 1. and Figure 2.
       3.5.1. Top of Form. The “FROM” block will be the unit commander’s office symbol, the “TO”
       block will be 90 MMXS/MMXMO. NOTE: If Munitions Accountability does not receive the
       revalidated/reaccomplished form within 30 days of the due date, the account will be frozen from
       further action until the form is received.
       3.5.2. Part I. (ORGANIZATIONAL INFORMATION). State delivery location (i.e., bldg, bay
       number, etc.), organization and shop code (squadron / account number), parent MAJCOM, and
       receiving activity (office symbol / function). If the AF IMT 68 is being used to receipt for classi-
       fied property, indicate so in a statement annotated on the form below the receiving activity AFPD
       21-2.
       3.5.3. Part II. (PERSONNEL AUTHORIZED TO REQUEST/RECEIPT/EXPEND MUNI-
       TIONS). Ensure individuals delegated this authority have been briefed by the commander con-
       cerning their responsibilities. Indicate level of responsibility by placing a P (primary) in the
       DEROS block for primary custodian, and an A (alternate) in the DEROS block for alternate(s).
       Those individuals authorized to receipt for classified items must have level of security clearance
       annotated.
       3.5.4. Part III. (ADDITIONAL PERSONNEL AUTHORIZED TO REQUEST/RECEIPT/
       EXPEND MUNITIONS). Ensure individuals delegated this authority have received training con-
90SWI21-3 19 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                      5


     ducted by Munitions Accountability personnel concerning current custody account management
     procedures.
     3.5.5. Part IV. (UNIT COMMANDER). In the space provided above the commanders’ signature
     block, enter the date of the previous AF IMT 68 being superseded.
     3.5.6. Part V. (APPROVAL/DISAPPROVAL BY MASO). This section is reserved for the MASO
     to approve or disapprove the form. An approved/disapproved copy will be returned to the custo-
     dian for filing or further actions if required.
6                                                         90SWI21-3 19 SEPTEMBER 2005


Figure 1. Sample AF IMT 68 (Page 1), Munitions Authorization Record.
90SWI21-3 19 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                         7


Figure 2. Sample AF IMT 68 (Page 2), Munitions Authorization Record.




4. Munitions Consumption/Custody Issue Procedures:
   4.1. Requests for issue will be accomplished by submitting an electronic issue request via email to
   FV4613 F.E. Warren Munitions <FV4613@warren.af.mil>. Any member designated on the AF IMT
   68 can send this request. All requests will be reviewed by the MASO/designated representative and
   approved/disapproved for processing. All request not properly completed IAW this instruction and
8                                                                     90SWI21-3 19 SEPTEMBER 2005


    Figure 3., Sample Electronic Request, will be returned to requesting organization for reaccomplish-
    ment. There are two types of issues made to an organization: custody and consumption.
       4.1.1. Custody Issues. A custody issue is one issued to an organization for use at a later time.
       Secure facilities and adequate storage must be available to support all custody issues (see AFI
       31-101, The Air Force Installation Security Program [FOUO], and AFMAN 91-201, Explosive
       Safety Standards). All custody issues are controlled on a custody account and must be supported
       with a MAJCOM approved allocation.
       4.1.2. Consumption Issues. Consumption issues must be consumed/installed with a 15-day period
       from date and time of issue. If available storage facilities cannot satisfy security requirements
       specified in AFI 31-101 and safety requirements in AFMAN 91-201, consumption issues are
       restricted to the quantity that can be consumed on the day of issue. Generally, consumption issues
       are limited to those assets needed for immediate installation (i.e., ICBM components, CAD/PAD,
       etc.), immediate use, or assets for end item repair. All CAD/PAD items regardless of their expend-
       ability, recoverability, or reparability code (ERRC), must be issued under the Due-In From Main-
       tenance (DIFM) control concept. Unserviceable DIFM controlled assets must be turned-in within
       15 days of replacement issue.
    4.2. Issue requests for in stock munitions will be submitted at least 10 duty days before the date muni-
    tions are required. If munitions are required between 1 to 10 duty days, contact MASO with justifica-
    tion for consideration/urgent munitions request procedures. For requests within 24 hours refer to AFI
    21-201, paragraph 23.4., Emergency Issue Procedures.
       4.2.1. When the munitions have been inspected and are ready for issue, the 90 MMXS Conven-
       tional Munitions Section will notify the requester to schedule date and time for pick up. Muni-
       tions must be transported IAW AFMAN 91-201. The vehicle transporting munitions must have
       adequate restraints, at least two appropriately rated fire extinguishers, applicable hazard placards,
       and tire chocks, or the munitions will not be released.
       4.2.2. Munitions not picked up by scheduled date and time will be returned to base stock. The
       organization must submit turn-in documentation and resubmit the issue request when/if the
       requirement recurs.
    4.3. To receipt for munitions, the recipient will present proper identification and must be listed in Part
    II or III of the AF IMT 68. The property will be released using the following procedures:
       4.3.1. The recipient will verify property stock number, lot number, condition code, and quantity
       before signing the receipt document. If both document and property are in agreement, the date,
       organization, rank, printed name, and signature will be placed on the issue document.
       4.3.2. The Munitions Accountability Section will retain the original document and the account
       custodian will retain the copy.
90SWI21-3 19 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                              9


Figure 3. Sample Electronic Request For Issues, Expenditures, and Turn-ins.


Electronic (e-mail) Requests must contain the following:
Type of Request: ("ISSUE", "EXPENDITURE", "TURN-IN")
ORG/Shop Code:
Nomenclature:
NSN:
Lot#: ("EXPENDITURE" and "TURN-IN" only)
Doc#: ("EXPENDITURE" and "TURN-IN" only)
Quantity:
CAT Code:
Date/Time Required:
Remarks: "CLASSIFIED ITEM" (if applicable) "CONSUMPTION ISSUE" or "CUSTODY
             ISSUE" and reason/purpose for issue, expenditure, or turn-in.


NOTE: Requestor/Originator must be account custodian or organizational commander (refer to
AF IMT 68) and their electronic signature (//SIGNED//) and signature block must be on the email.

5. Munitions Turn-In Procedures:
   5.1. To turn-in munitions, the custodian or user must call Conventional Munitions, extension 3404, to
   schedule a date and time for the assets to be turned in. Prior to the scheduled date of turn-in, send an
   electronic turn-in email to FV4613 F.E. Warren Munitions <FV4613@warren.af.mil>. If any error
   is detected on the turn-in email, the email will be rejected and a new one will be required. (Reference
   Figure 3., Sample Electronic Request)
   5.2. There are four types of turn-ins for serviceable and unserviceable munitions:
       5.2.1. Consumption : Used to turn-in munitions originally issued for immediate consumption, but
       were not consumed.
       5.2.2. DIFM : Used to turn-in assets that have been removed from an end item and to clear DIFM
       details. NOTE: Normally this process only involves time change items for replacement of unser-
       viceable components. DIFM assets must be turned into Conventional Munitions within 15 calen-
       dar days of replacement issue date. The asset is turned in using the same document control number
       as the issued item.
       5.2.3. Custody : Used to turn-in munitions that are excess or have become unserviceable.
       5.2.4. Found On Base (FOB): Used to turn-in munitions that are found outside the central or
       approved storage area and cannot be verified as being issued to a custody or consumption account.
       FOB munitions are to be turned in as soon as possible after discovery. The Conventional Muni-
       tions Section will fill out all documentation. NOTE: Ammunition and/or explosive items found on
10                                                                    90SWI21-3 19 SEPTEMBER 2005


        base and deemed safe by proper authority, i.e., Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD), a qualified
        munitions inspector, etc., must be immediately turned in to the MASO via Conventional Muni-
        tions.
     5.3. The using organization will maintain munitions in their original container(s) except for assets in
     use. The organization must retain original containers for assets in use. All munitions will be segre-
     gated, identified by lot number, and replaced in original containers prior to turn-in. Items not in the
     proper configuration will not be accepted for turn-in. This does not include FOB items.
     5.4. The munitions inchecker will perform a physical count of all munitions and the contents of the
     containers, except those that are factory sealed and still intact. If the physical count differs from the
     quantity, the in-checker will coordinate with the responsible individual, resolve the discrepancy, cor-
     rect the turn-in email, and send the electronic turn-in, with the inchecker’s //SIGNED// signature
     block, to FV4613 F.E. Warren Munitions <FV4613@warren.af.mil>. The email will then be verified
     by the MASO and a copy forwarded to the account custodian.

6. Custody Expenditure Procedures:
     6.1. Expenditure requests will be submitted electronically to FV4613 F.E. Warren Munitions
     <FV4613@warren.af.mil>. ALL expenditure requests will be sent NLT 5 DAYS after munitions
     have been expended (Reference Figure 3., Sample Electronic Request).
     6.2. The custodian is responsible for ensuring information reflected on the email request is correct.
     This includes NSN, lot/serial number, quantity, structure number, location, category code, condition
     code, and document number. If any of the information submitted is in error or incomplete, the email
     will be returned to the custodian for corrections and must be resubmitted.

7. Munitions Custody Account Procedures:
     7.1. Munitions custody accounts will be maintained IAW the responsibilities that are outlined in the
     custodian’s briefing Memorandum (see Attachment 3).
     7.2. Each custodian is required to maintain a jacket folder in the following format to coincide with
     Munitions Accountability records, IAW AFI 21-201, paragraph 22.3.
     7.3. Each lot of munitions will be separated in storage by NSN and lot number to ensure lot integrity.
     Containers will be arranged in a manner conducive to identification/inventory. Only one lite box per
     lot number per structure will be allowed. Notify Conventional Munitions if lot number integrity is
     ever lost to schedule immediate turn-in of assets. Lost lot number integrity includes lot numbers that
     have been rubbed off assets and different lot numbers mixed together in the same containers.

8. Munitions Storage and Security Procedures:
     8.1. Munitions will not be stored for any amount of time in any facility not licensed or approved for
     munitions storage IAW AFI 31-101. NOTE: Contact 90 SW/SE for licensing requirements.
     8.2. If an explosive license can not be obtained, courtesy storage may be available in the Weapons
     Storage Area. To initiate a courtesy storage agreement, review AFI 21-201, paragraph 4.1.12., and
     then contact the Conventional Munitions Section for assistance. The organization will retain account-
     ability and responsibility for all courtesy stored munitions. (See Attachment 7, Sample Courtesy
     Storage Agreement).
90SWI21-3 19 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                              11


9. Time Change Procedures:
   9.1. For time-change asset requirements, refer to AFI 21-201, Chapter 31.
   9.2. Issue requests will be processed IAW paragraph 4. of this publication.

10. Procedures for Annual Munitions Forecasts:
   10.1. In October of each year, Munitions Accountability notifies host and tenant units to forecast their
   munitions requirements by year for the next 5 fiscal years. This munitions forecast is required to
   ensure uninterrupted training, operations, mobility support, and to provide HQ USAF justification for
   purchasing munitions assets. Therefore, it is essential the forecast submitted is accurate and timely.
   Munitions Accountability will provide forecasting examples to complete your forecast (see Attach-
   ment 5, Sample Memorandum For Munitions Forecasts). NOTE: New Accounts satisfied by an
   Out-of-Cycle Request (OOCR) initially must be forecasted for to satisfy next FY allocation.
   10.2. The MASO will review munitions forecasts for completeness and accuracy. If problems/ques-
   tions arise, units will be asked to provide clarification or justification. Once the review is completed,
   the MASO forwards forecasts to applicable MAJCOM functional managers.
   10.3. HQ USAF is final approving authority for all munitions allocations. Upon receipt of approved
   fiscal year allocation, Munitions Accountability will load authorized levels into Combat Ammunition
   System (CAS) computer database. If changes of any sort are required after that year’s approved allo-
   cations are loaded, contact Munitions Accountability for guidance on preparing an out-of-cycle fore-
   cast change request (see Attachment 6, Sample Out Of Cycle Request). Any unit that has munitions
   exceeding the quantity of its allocation must turn-in the excess or process an OOCR through Muni-
   tions Accountability for the additional allocation within 30 days.
   10.4. There are some munitions assets in the AF inventory that are non-forecastable and are approved
   locally by the MASO. Authorization for these NSNs is requested using a Supplemental Allocation
   Authorization Request (SAAR). Munitions Accountability will submit SAAR’s upon request by the
   consumption account custodian.

11. Commercial Off the Shelf (COTS) Munitions (Formerly Local Purchase). R e f e r              to    AFI
21-201,Chapter 32.

12. Disposition and Incident Reporting Procedures:
   12.1. Munitions that constitute a possible danger to human life or property will be secured and
   reported to EOD via Munitions Control (ext. 2166) or through the Wing Command Post (ext. 5210)
   after normal duty hours. Appropriate agencies will be notified as required. The custodian will pro-
   vide Munitions Accountability with a turn-in document for any asset turned over to Conventional
   Munitions or EOD.
   12.2. Casings, fired brass, and steel cartridge casings (other than CAD/PAD casings) generated from
   the expenditure of ammunition will be scheduled for turn in and processing with the Conventional
   Munitions Section (ext. 3404). These items must be segregated by type of metal and free of foreign
   debris before turning into the Conventional Munitions Section. Items will be treated as explosive
   until certified explosive-free by a qualified munitions inspector.
12                                                                   90SWI21-3 19 SEPTEMBER 2005


     12.3. All empty munitions containers are accountable items and will be turned in to the Munitions
     Inspection Section for reuse or disposition.

13. Theft, Suspected Theft, or Loss of Munitions:
     13.1. When a theft, suspected theft, loss, damage or destruction of munitions or an explosive item
     occurs, or is suspected to have occurred, immediate action will be taken to notify the MASO and other
     appropriate authorities as specified in AFI 31-101. This policy applies to all ammunition or explosive
     items whether in-transit, in storage or issued to the organization for custody or consumption.
     13.2. Munitions Accountability will notify the responsible commander when a Report of Survey
     (ROS) may be required by the MASO. If a ROS is required, the commander will appoint a disinter-
     ested individual and follow the guidelines set forth in AFMAN 23-220.
     13.3. For specific guidance on lost or stolen munitions, refer to AFI 21-201, paragraph 21.6.

14. Munitions Inventories:
     14.1. The MASO or designated Munitions Accountability representative will conduct inventories
     IAW AFI 21-201, paragraph 21.4.
     14.2. Inventory Count sheets will be e-mailed to the primary and alternate custodians at the beginning
     of the month their inventory is due. The type of inventory, quarterly or annual, will also be annotated
     in the email. Once these count sheets are produced the account is frozen, meaning all issues, expendi-
     tures, and turn-ins will be on hold until the inventory is completed, returned to Munitions Account-
     ability, and reconciled in CAS database. The account custodian has 15 days to complete the inventory
     and return the signed count sheets to Munitions Accountability. During this period, courtesy stored
     assets may only be accessed by scheduling a date and time through Munitions Accountability at ext.
     3259. After the inventory is reconciled, the account custodian will be given a Custody Account List-
     ing (507) to be signed by the Organizational Commander within 10 days. Failure to comply with the
     above could result in the account’s assets being frozen or turned in to base stock.
     14.3. When a change of primary custodian occurs, a joint inventory of the custody account must be
     performed by the gaining and losing primary custodian and a Munitions Accountability representative
     at least 45 days prior to the primary custodian leaving. NOTE: IAW AFI 21-201, para. 21.4.2.3.1,
     AFSPC ICBM launch facility accounts are exempt from the physical inventory requirements, in
     which a paperwork inventory using the annual facility periodic maintenance inspection will be used.
     14.4. The MASO will not certify any inventory until all discrepancies have been corrected.

15. Munitions Suspended or Restricted:
     15.1. The MASO or designated representative will immediately notify the custodian and commander
     by telephone and follow up with written notification of all suspended or restricted munitions. Upon
     notification, all suspended/restricted munitions will be turned in.
     15.2. If any munitions listed on the suspension or restriction notification memorandum or message
     are found to be in the custodian’s possession, they will be contacted by the Conventional Munitions
     Section to coordinate a turn-in within 24 hours of discovery.
90SWI21-3 19 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                              13


16. Handling and Transportation of Explosive Items. All individuals handling or transporting explo-
sive items are required to be familiar with and follow the procedures listed in AFMAN 91-201, Explosive
Safety Standards, DODD 6055.9, DoD Explosives Safety Board (DDESB) and DoD Component Explo-
sives Safety Responsibilities, AFI 24-201, Cargo Movement.

17. After Hours Support. If munitions support is required after normal duty hours (0730 - 1630) or on
weekends, call the Francis E. Warren AFB Missile Maintenance Operation Center at (307) 773-3611.
They, in turn, will contact 90 MMXS Munitions Control standby personnel, who will handle or coordinate
all after duty support.

18. Account Deficiencies. If the custody account is not managed or maintained in accordance with this
instruction the following actions will be taken:
   18.1. The organizational commander will be notified in writing and be given the opportunity to cor-
   rect deficiencies within 15 days or all account activity will be suspended, rendering all assigned muni-
   tions unavailable for use.
   18.2. If discrepancies are not corrected within 30 days of notification, the group commander or equiv-
   alent will be notified through appropriate channels for assistance.
   18.3. The MASO will “unfreeze” the account when identified discrepancies have been corrected, or
   may direct the assets be turned in.

19. Deviations and Interpretations of Procedures. Deviations to the procedures outlined in this
instruction will not be tolerated and could result in delayed Munitions support. The final authority in
interpreting any part or parts of this instruction will rest with the Munitions Accountable Systems Officer.



                                                MICHAEL J. CAREY, Colonel, USAF
                                                Commander, 90th Space Wing
14                                                               90SWI21-3 19 SEPTEMBER 2005


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD 5100.76-M, Physical Security of Sensitive Conventional Arms, Ammunition, and Explosives
DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program
DoDD 6055.9, DoD Explosives Safety Board (DDESB) and DoD Component Explosives Safety Responsi-
bilities
AFI 21-201, Management and Maintenance of Non-Nuclear Munitions
AFMAN 23-110V2PT13, Standard Base Supply Customer's Procedures
AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey For Air Force Property
AFPD 24-2, Preparation and Movement of Air Force Property
AFI 24-201, Cargo Movement
AFI 31-101, The Air Force Installation Security Program (FOUO)
AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management
AFI 36-2217, Munitions Requirements for Air Crew Training
AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards
AFCAT 21-209V1, Ground Munitions
AFCAT 21-209V2, Demolition Munitions
AM427A, Special Inventory Worksheet
AM507A, Custody Account Listing

Abbreviations and Acronyms
FK—This term is a supply designator assigned by the Air Force indicating a Munitions Accountable
Systems Section function operating under the Standard Base Supply System or a manual supply account.
FV—The same as FK, except operation is under the Combat Ammunition System Base.
MASO—Munitions Accountable Systems Officer—IAW AFI 21-201, Management and Maintenance
of Non-Nuclear Munitions, this is the senior 2WOX1 or the individual appointed in writing by the MXG/
CC or equivalent, assigned to the Munitions Flight.
TRIC—Transaction Identification Code—Code used on AF 2005 to identify the type of munitions
accounting function being accomplished (i.e. MSI, TIN).

Terms
Allocation—The annual authorized quantity of munitions approved by MAJCOM for use in support of
organizational mission.
90SWI21-3 19 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                            15


Audit Trail—A clear, concise, documented chain of events that shows all transactions effecting
accountability from the time of issue until expenditure, installation, turn-in, or disposition.
Consumption Account—Munitions issued to an organizational account that must be expended or
installed within 15 days. (See paragraph 4. for specific procedures).
Custodian—The individual selected and designated by the using organizational commander to manage
munitions for the organization. The custodian is responsible for proper management of his or her account
in accordance with this instruction and other applicable directives.
Custody Account—Munitions assigned to an organizational account not normally installed or expended
within 15 days. (See paragraph 7. and Attachment 3 for a full explanation of requirements and
procedures.)
Emergency Issue—Any issue of munitions to an organization that doesn't meet the criteria for routine
issue procedures or processing time requirements.
Lot Number—Refers to the batch, lot, or group of munitions produced by the manufacturer at the same
time. Lot number integrity will be maintained at all times.
Pecuniary Liability—A debt incurred through command, supervisory, custodial, personal loss, damage,
or destruction of property, resulting from willful misconduct, deliberate unauthorized use, or negligence.
Pecuniary liability may be shared.
Requisition—The procurement of an item by Munitions Accountability to fulfill a valid need for assets,
which are not on hand.
Suspended Account—Account frozen by the MASO where no transactions are authorized due to
improper management of the account.
16                                                                   90SWI21-3 19 SEPTEMBER 2005


                                              Attachment 2

      SAMPLE MUNITIONS CUSTODY RESPONSIBILITY BRIEFING MEMORANDUM
                              (CUSTODIANS)


MEMORANDUM FOR ACCOUNT(S)


FROM: 90 MMXS/MMXMO


SUBJECT: Munitions Custodian and Certifier Briefing


1. In accordance with AFI 21-201, paragraph 17.2.2, it is required that all personnel on the AF IMT 68 be
briefed on their responsibilities. Munitions custodians and certifying individuals are appointed by their
commander and assume their responsibilities by signing the AF IMT 68, Munitions Authorization
Record.


2. The AF IMT 68, Munitions Authorization Record: Commanders use this form to designate individuals
authorized to request, receipt, or expend munitions.


     a. Part II and III of AF IMT 68, (front and back side), delegates individuals authorized to send
     electronic requests to Munitions Accountability for issue requests, turn-ins, expenditures, and receipt
     of munitions. These individuals are responsible for ensuring that munitions are being utilized only
     for the purpose and in the quantities authorized by governing directives.


     b. The AF IMT 68 with original signatures (blue or black ink) is submitted to the Munitions
     Accountable Systems Officer (MASO). Upon approval the MASO will sign and date the AF IMT 68
     and send a copy to the custodian. It is re-accomplished annually or when primary custodian or
     Commander changes occur, whichever occurs first. The MASO must be notified verbally when an
     individual’s authorization is withdrawn and the MASO will delete that individual from the form.


          (1) When a change in custodians occurs, the munitions account must be properly transferred to
          the new custodian 45 days before the old custodian departs. The following actions must be
          accomplished:


                a) AF IMT 68 re-accomplished.
90SWI21-3 19 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                          17


            b) A 100% inventory is conducted with the old and new custodian and Munitions Account-
ability personnel, utilizing CAS generated count sheets and the Custody Account Listing (AM507). Both
custodians and the Munitions Accountability personnel conducting the inventory will sign the CAS gen-
erated count sheets. The AM507 will then be signed by the gaining and losing primary custodians, Orga-
nizational Commander, and approved by the MASO.


          c) The new custodian(s) must be briefed on their responsibilities by Munitions Accountability
personnel prior to the new AF IMT 68 being approved by the MASO.


             (2) When a change in commanders occurs, AF IMT 68 is reaccomplished and the new
commander must sign after being briefed by the MASO or a representative.


    3. Custodians will:


      a. Reconcile munitions expenditure reports and account inventories with training and
      operational records before submitting accountable expenditure requests.


      b. Ensure the forms agree with supporting documents and the stated quantity of munitions
       was actually used, before submitting electronic expenditure requests to Munitions
       Accountability.


       c. The briefing statement in part II of the AF IMT 68 must be read and understood by the
       appointed individuals designated in blocks II and III of the AF IMT 68. Questions may be
       directed to Munitions Accountability personnel at ext. 3259 / 2682.


       d. Submit munitions forecast requirements according to AFI 21-201, chapter 13, and
       paragraph 10. of this instruction.


       e. Ensure allocations aren’t exceeded.


       f. Ensure adequate security, protection, proper storage and transportation of munitions IAW
       AFMAN 91-201 and AFI 31-101.


       g. Ensure on-hand munitions do not exceed explosive safety limits.
18                                                                     90SWI21-3 19 SEPTEMBER 2005


     h. Prepare and forward the AF IMT 68 to the commander.


i. Ensure electronic requests agree with supporting documents.


     j. Ensure munitions in excess of the current FY allocation are scheduled for turn-in within 30
     days or complete a letter requesting MASO approval to keep excess in accordance with AFI
     21-201 paragraph 14.1.5.


  k. Follow all responsibilities outlined in 90 SWI 21-3, part II of the AF IMT 68, Munitions
     custody account training slides and this briefing at all times.


4. Storage: Storage facilities for munitions in the possession of the using organization must meet the
explosive storage, safety, and security criteria outlined in AFMAN 91-201 and AFI 31-101. AF IMT
2047, Explosive Facilities License, must be coordinated with the Wing Explosive Safety Manager, Secu-
rity Police, Fire Department, and Munitions Maintenance. Quantities and items stored will not exceed
limits cited on the license. The license must be affixed, in plain view, on the storage facility.


     a. “Courtesy Storage” may be available in the munitions storage area for organizations that do
     not or cannot meet storage requirements. In this case, a courtesy storage agreement between
     the unit and Conventional Munitions is required.


5. Custody Account Listing (AM507): The AM507 is a custody receipt listing used for inventory verifi-
cation and accountability.


     a. Inventories are performed quarterly (by the custodian), when a change in custodian occurs,
     and during surveillance visits from Munitions Accountability personnel.


NOTE: The total quantity of all lots should equal the respective on-hand balance shown on the Custody
Account Listing. If not, documentation supporting the difference should be available, such as an AM723
for an authorized expenditure, otherwise a discrepancy exists.


     b. The Custody Account Listing is provided in one copy. Once the inventory is performed,
     and no discrepancies have been discovered, the primary/alternate custodian and the
     commander must sign. Signatures certify that assets on hand are properly secured, stored, and
90SWI21-3 19 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                            19


  accounted for. The Custody Account Listing is forwarded to Munitions Accountability for
  MASO validation/approval. After MASO validation/approval, a copy will be returned to the
  custodian for filing in the jacket file. If a discrepancy is discovered, notify Munitions
  Accountability for assistance in resolving the matter.


NOTE: It is imperative that each custodian understands how to read the Custody Account Listing and
what it is used for.


6. Issues, Expenditures, and Turn-ins:


  a. All of these transactions may be submitted electronically to FV4613 F.E. Warren
  Munitions <FV4613@warren.af.mil>.


  b. Issue requests for in stock munitions will be submitted at least 10 duty days before the date
  munitions are required. If munitions are required between 1 to 10 duty days, contact MASO
  with justification for consideration/urgent munitions request procedures. For requests within
  24 hours refer to AFI 21-201, paragraph 23.4., Emergency Issue Procedures.


  c. Expenditures must be submitted no later than 5 duty days after the expenditure or
  installation.


  d. Turn-Ins must be prepared if assets on hand must be turned in. Email electronic turn-in to
  FV4613 F.E. Warren Munitions <FV4613@warren.af.mil>, and coordinated with Munitions
  Inspection, extension 3404.


NOTE: If a mistake is made in preparing the electronic request, the custodian is responsible for correct-
ing/reaccomplishment.
7. Loss, theft, and unauthorized expenditure: Any actual or suspected loss, theft, or unauthorized expen-
diture of munitions must be reported to the MASO and Security Police Law Enforcement. The MASO
will then determine the proper action.


8. Custodial Jacket File: Custodians are required to maintain a munitions custody jacket file for account
documentation. Documents removed after receipt of a new validated AM507A must be maintained IAW
AFMAN 37-139. The file must contain, but is not limited to:
20                                                                       90SWI21-3 19 SEPTEMBER 2005



a.                Current Munitions Authorization Record (AF IMT 68).


b.                Approved allocation document including any Out of Cycle Requests


c.                Current forecast


d.                Latest reconciled quarterly custodian inventory


e.                Latest reconciled annual MASO custody inventory


f.                Commander’s Briefing


g.                Custodians’ Briefing


h.             All supporting issue, expenditure, and turn documents since the last signed quarterly cus-
todian inventory.


9. Surveillance Visits: Surveillance visits from Munitions Maintenance personnel consist of an inspec-
tion and inventory of assets and a custodial management review. Results of each visit are documented and
forwarded to the applicable commander, and in turn to the custodian for filing in the jacket file.


10. Munitions Forecast: The munitions forecast must be accomplished annually by fiscal year for a
five-year period. It is due to Munitions Accountability by the last duty day of October annually. Separate
quantities are forecasted for mobility, operations, and training requirements according to munitions allow-
ance cited in governing directives or other allowance documents from higher headquarters. The 5 year
forecast is accomplished IAW AFCAT 21-209. USAF determines the supportability percentage of the
total forecasted quantity for each item and channels it back down to base level, which determines each
organizations allocation for the fiscal year. Unused portions of allocations at the end of the year are not
carried forward (are not added to the new FY allocation). Assets remaining physically on hand in the sup-
ply point, which are not allocated for the next FY, must be turned-in.


     a. Out-of-Cycle Forecasts: In the event that an unforeseen requirement develops, and current
     allocation is not sufficient, it is the custodian’s responsibility to submit an out-of-cycle
     munitions request to 90 MMXS/MMXMO. It will be endorsed and forwarded HQ/AFSPC.
90SWI21-3 19 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                               21


11. Suspense’s: Are placed on required documentation and other necessary actions to keep the account
valid. Failure to meet an initial suspense will result in an account “freeze” until a second suspense is met.
If the second suspense is not met, the commander will be notified of the discrepancy and 15 more days
will be allocated to resolve the discrepancy. After 30 days, the appropriate group commander will be noti-
fied and the MASO may direct turn-in of the account’s munitions.


12. Lot Number Integrity: All munitions items MUST be controlled throughout their “lifetime” by their
lot number. This is to ensure operational readiness and safety as certain lot numbers are sometimes sus-
pended or restricted from use because of defects. By way of lot numbers, these items can be easily traced
and taken out of circulation.


13. By signing this briefing, you agree to the training requirements and all responsibilities contained in
90SWI 21-3, part II of the AF IMT 68, Munitions custody account training slides and this briefing.


14. You may contact Munitions Accountability any time you have any questions or concerns about your
account at extension –3259 or -2682.




                                                       //SIGNED//
                                             MICHAEL V. McCARTY, MSgt, USAF
                                             Munitions Accountable Systems Officer
22                                                              90SWI21-3 19 SEPTEMBER 2005


                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
1st Ind, ACCOUNT(S)

MEMORANDUM FOR 90MMXS/MMXMO

Receipt and understanding of this briefing is acknowledged.


DATE        RANK PRINTED NAME                                 SIGNED NAME




                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
90SWI21-3 19 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                             23


                                               Attachment 3

     SAMPLE MUNITIONS CUSTODY RESPONSIBILITY BRIEFING MEMORANDUM
                            (COMMANDER)


MEMORANDUM FOR COMMANDER OF MUNITIONS ACCOUNT:

FROM: 90 MMXS/MMXMO (MASO)


SUBJECT: Commander’s Briefing for Maintaining a Munitions Account


1. In accordance with AFI 21-201, Chapter 2, paragraph 2.7.4.3 organizational commanders assume full
responsibility for all ammunition items received by their organization. In order to understand responsibil-
ities associated with maintaining accounts, the Munitions Accountable Systems Officer (MASO) or des-
ignated representative is required to provide the commander written instructions upon establishment of
munitions accounts and each subsequent commander thereafter.


2. Primary responsibilities consist of, but are not limited to:


   a. Maintain an auditable up-to-date record of all issues, expenditures, and turn-ins.


   b. Provide proper storage in accordance with AFI 91-201, Explosive Safety Standards. Wing
   Explosive Safety, Security Police, and the Fire Department must approve explosive storage licenses.


   c. Provide proper security in accordance with AFI 31-101, The Air Force Installation Security
   Program [FOUO]. Accountability and inventory integrity must be maintained so unauthorized
   personnel are denied access to munitions.


   d. Keep command supervision and custodial control over all munitions issued to the organization.
   This includes ensuring munitions are utilized only for the purpose and in quantities authorized by
   governing directives. Also ensure that ammunition items issued to your organization are not released
   to agencies or individuals outside the USAF without proper authority and approval of the MASO and
   higher headquarters.


  e. Maintain a current AF IMT 68, Munitions Authorization Record: (Attachment 2 of Custodial
Handout)
24                                                                    90SWI21-3 19 SEPTEMBER 2005


     (1) This form is used to designate organization personnel to request, receipt for, and expend
     munitions. The commander’s signature on this form also certifies, understanding and recognizes the
responsibilities for the account, and has been briefed by the MASO.


        (2) Part II and III of the AF IMT 68 delegates individuals authorized to request, receipt for, and
        expend munitions. They are responsible for ensuring that munitions are being utilized only for the
        purpose and in quantities authorized by governing directives. Before signing the electronic
        expenditure, these individuals must verify that the stated quantity agrees with the expenditure
        tracking forms and that the expenditure actually occurred. Custody Accounts will identify primary
        and alternate custodians by placing a P (primary) and an A (alternate) in the DEROS block on the
         AF IMT 68. These individuals are responsible for the day-to-day accountability and management
        of the account. The security clearance of the personnel if delegated to receive classified munitions
        will be annotated in the note 1 block.
        (3) The AF IMT 68 will be reaccomplished annually, when primary custodian changes, or
        commander changes, which ever comes first. Failure to maintain a current AF IMT 68 will result in
        the account being “frozen” and all transactions on the account stopped.


        f. Notify MASO of a change in organizational commander two weeks prior and of an individual’s
        AF IMT 68 authorization change immediately.


        (1) Change of Primary Custodian should be accomplished at least 45 days prior to PCS or extended
        TDY. The custodian will notify Munitions Accountability that a change of custody inventory is
        necessary. The account will be frozen and inventoried with the current custodian, new custodian,
        and a Munitions Accountability representative.


     g. Ensure that your unit out-processing checklists contain the requirement for departing personnel to
     transfer the account to a new custodian at least 45 days prior to their departure or the MASO may direct
     the turn-in all munitions.


     h. Take prompt action to remove a custodian who continually disregards the responsibilities of
     maintaining your munitions custody account.


     i. Set up procedures to control, collect, and turn-in all munitions scrap/brass and their original
     containers and packing. It is extremely important that metal containers be controlled and accounted for
     until returned to Munitions Maintenance for disposition. Guidance can be found in AFI 21-201 chapter
     29.


     j. Aid the MASO in correcting any deficiencies in the operation of the munitions custody account.
90SWI21-3 19 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                            25


  k. Issue requests for in stock munitions will be submitted at least 10 duty days before the date
  munitions are required. If munitions are required between 1 to 10 duty days, contact MASO with jus
  tification for consideration/urgent munitions request procedures. For requests within 24 hours refer to
  AFI 21-201, paragraph 23.4, Emergency Issue Procedures.


   l. Designate in writing acting commanders of the account during periods of absence. This may be
accomplished by providing a copy of “G” series orders to Munitions Accountability (90MMXS/
MMXMO).


   m. Report the loss, theft, or unauthorized expenditure of munitions to the MASO and Security Forces
   immediately.
   n. Maintain a current Custody Account Listing (AM507) for all items on the organization’s account.


      (1) This listing shows total quantity authorized and on-hand for each item on the account.


      (2) It is validated each quarter when the custodian performs a lot number inventory.


      (3) Once the inventory has been completed the AM507 will be signed by the custodian, certified by
      the organizational commander, and approved by the MASO.


      (4) Each time there is a custodian change, the account will be inventoried and a new AM507A will
      be signed by the new custodian, certified by the organizational commander, and approved by the
      MASO.


      (5) Copies of all transactions, which affect the balance of the account, must be maintained until a
      MASO approved AM507A reflecting the updated account balance is received.


   o. Ensure the organization meets all suspense’s.


      (1) Suspense’s are placed on required documentation and other actions to keep the account valid.


      (2) Failure to meet an initial suspense will result in the organization commander being notified in
      writing and given the opportunity to correct deficiencies within 15 days or the account will be
      frozen. If discrepancies are not corrected within 15 days after notification, the MASO will freeze
      the account. If the discrepancies are not corrected within 30 days after notification, the Group
      Commander or equivalent will be notified through appropriate channels for assistance and the
      MASO may direct turn-in of the account’s munitions.
26                                                                   90SWI21-3 19 SEPTEMBER 2005


3. Organizational commanders will make every effort to maintain munitions by lot number. Integrity of
all munitions items must be controlled throughout their “lifetime” by lot number for safety and opera-
tional readiness requirements. Lot number integrity and accountability of all issued munitions must be
maintained until the assets are expended or turned-in.


     a. Certain lot numbers are sometimes suspended or restricted from use because of defects. By
     utilization of lot numbers, these items can be easily traced and taken out of circulation.


     b. Many munitions items carry a shelf/service life and the lot number is used to track their status.
     c. Lot numbers can be used in detecting munitions that have been obtained through improper
     channels.
4. One of the most important duties of an organization using munitions is to annually prepare a five-year
forecast of your munitions requirements. It is due to Munitions Accountability by the last duty day of
October annually. Separate quantities are forecasted for mobility, operations, and training requirements
according to munitions allowances cited in governing directives or other allowance documents from
higher headquarters. Annual forecasts are accomplished IAW AFCAT 21-209. Annual forecasts are chan-
neled up to USAF and consolidated with Air Force wide requirements. The Air Force determines what
percentage of the total forecasted quantity is supportable for each item. This percentage is then channeled
back down to the base level, which determines each organization’s allocation for the fiscal year. Unused
portions of the allocation at the end of the year are not carried forward. Any requirements not forecasted
may seriously affect your mission for the forthcoming year.


5. Out-of-Cycle Munitions Allocations Request (OOCR): In the event that an unforeseen requirement
develops, or an allocation is not sufficient, it is the custodian’s responsibility to submit an out-of-cycle
munitions request to 90 MMXM/MMXMO (see example in 90SWI 21-3). It will be endorsed and for-
warded to HQ AFSPC/LGMW. OOCRs may not be submitted until at least 65 percent of the current allo-
cation has been expended.


6. Commanders of units with a mobility tasking will:


     a. Ensure all authorized ammunition is forecasted for to support personnel deployment during
     exercises/actual deployments.


     b. In the event of an actual deployment requiring allocated munitions, notify Munitions
     Accountability of the deployment location so the assets can be prepared and shipped to the host
     FK/FV account for the deployed location.


7. Munitions Accountability personnel will conduct a Surveillance visit on an annual basis. This visit
will consist of an inventory, serviceability inspection, and custodial management inspection. Command-
90SWI21-3 19 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                               27


ers will be briefed, normally in writing, unless results warrant a personal briefing on the findings of each
visit.


8. If any assistance is required in maintaining your munitions account, please contact Munitions Account-
ability at 773-3259 / 2682. Quality support is our NUMBER ONE GOAL!




                                                             //SIGNED//
                                              MICHAEL V. McCARTY, MSgt, USAF
                                              Munitions Accountable Systems Officer




1st Ind to (Your commander’s office symbol), Commander’s Briefing for Maintaining a Munitions
Account


MEMORANDUM FOR 90 MMXS/MMXMO


I read the attached memo and understand my responsibilities as a commander with a munitions account.




                                              Commander’s Sig. Block, USAF
                                              Commander
28                                                                 90SWI21-3 19 SEPTEMBER 2005


                                             Attachment 4

       SAMPLE REQUEST MEMORANDUM FOR MUNITIONS CUSTODY ACCOUNT


MEMORANDUM FOR 90 MMXS/MMXMO


FROM:


SUBJECT: Establishing a Munitions Custody Account


1. Request a munitions custody account be established for _________(org)____________(org and shop
code).


2. Munitions required by this account will be used to support (reason).


3. A munitions allocation has/has not been received and an out-of-cycle request is/is not attached.


4. All required munitions will be retained on a custody account until they are turned into Conventional
Munitions section, installed, or expended.


5. P.O.C. is (rank and full name), ext.




                                                    Commander’Signature Block
90SWI21-3 19 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                       29


                                                Attachment 5

                   SAMPLE MEMORANDUM FOR MUNITIONS FORECASTS
MEMORANDUM FOR 90 MMXS/MMXMO

FROM: (Requesting Squadron/Office Symbol)

SUBJECT: 5-Year Forecast for Supply Point 1

1. The following is the munitions forecast for (squadron/office symbol):

NOUN                   NSN            DODIC          CAT 2004         2005   2006   2007   2008

40MM TP        1310-01-148-8881       B519            D        70     70     70     70     70

JUSTIFICATION: 70 rounds (rds) will be used for training of base personnel and CATM proficiency
IAW AFCAT 21-209V1 TABLE xx.

(AFQC) 10 personnel x 5 rds = 50 rds

(Proficiency) 2 instructors x 10 rds = 20 rds

NOUN                   NSN            DODIC          CAT 2004         2005   2006   2007   2008

12 GAUGE 1305-00-892-4254             A011            D        700    700    700    700    700

JUSTIFICATION: 700 rds will be used for training of base personnel and CATM proficiency.

(AFQC) 25 personnel x 20 rds = 500 rds

(Proficiency) 2 instructors x 100 rds = 200 rds

2. If there are any questions, please contact me at extension 5454.




JOHN J. DOE, SSGT, USAF
Instructor, Combat Arms
30                                                                 90SWI21-3 19 SEPTEMBER 2005


                                             Attachment 6

                              SAMPLE OF OUT-OF-CYCLE REQUEST
MEMORANDUM FOR 90 MMXS/MMXMO

FROM:

SUBJECT: Out-of-Cycle Request For Munitions

1. FYXX out-of-cycle munitions allocation is requested for the following item/s:

     •   Master NSN/DODIC: 1305-01-172-9558/A363
     •   Nomenclature: CTG, 9MM BALL
     •   MSRC:
     •   Requirement Code: TL
     •   Category Code: T
     •   Functional User Code: S1
     •   Custody Account Number: 361TD
     •   Current Years Allocation: 0
     •   Current Expenditure Data: 0
     •   Requested Increase: 120
     •   Formula used to determine quantity: 2 X 60 rds = 120 EA
     •   On-hand Quantity: 0
     •   Host-User Command Code (1S-1S)




2. AUTHORIZING DIRECTIVE: Mobility UTC XXXX and AFCAT 21-209V1, para. 3.13.

3. MISSION IMPACT IF NOT APPROVED: We would not be able to support mobility
   UTC as tasked by AFSPC.

4. Any questions concerning this request should be directed to TSgt John Doe, at
   extension 1834.




                                             (Commander or Designated Representative)




Approve/Disapprove                           (MASO signature block)
90SWI21-3 19 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                            31


                                             Attachment 7

                         SAMPLE COURTESY STORAGE AGREEMENT

MEMORANDUM FOR 90 MMXS/MMXMD

FROM:


            Organization        Office Symbol          Tel #        Munitions Supply Point
                                                                    Account Org/Shop Code



SUBJECT: Munitions Courtesy Storage Agreement (MCSA)

1. This courtesy agreement outlines responsibilities and requirements between 90 MMXS and the cus-
tomer for courtesy storage of their munitions in 90 MMXS storage structures. This agreement is IAW
AFI 21-201 Para 4.1.12 and will be reviewed annually.

2. In the event requirements of this document can’t be met please contact the NCOIC of Conventional
Munitions at ext. 3404.
3. IAW AFI 21-201, para 4.1.12, the following specific duties and responsibilities are required for cour-
tesy-stored munitions assets:

MMXMD Shall:
  • Provide technical guidance to customer on the proper care/handling of DOD owned munitions
     and the management and/or execution of custodial responsibilities NLT 3 duty days from
     customer’s request.
  • Provide customer access to munitions NLT 3 duty days from date of request, except in
     emergency situations, in which the customer shall be escorted within the time coordinated.
  • Provide customer with safe, clean, and secure storage facilities.
  • Ensure that only those personnel listed in paragraph 4 are allowed access to customer’s
     munitions.
  • Notify customer of any movement of their munitions.
  • Notify customer of any inventory or other technical discrepancies found with their munitions.
  • Provide customer forklift support for all palletized munitions within the Weapons Storage Area
     (WSA) or Nonnuclear Munitions Storage Area (NMSA).
  • Provide munitions inspection, maintenance, and logistics support to customer.
     Provide customer with training on the proper completion of the AF IMT 4331, Munitions
     Transaction Sheet.
        Customer is only required to complete if granted unescorted access.
32                                                                   90SWI21-3 19 SEPTEMBER 2005


      •     Repair packaging discrepancies/replace seals not caused by customer or while in customer’s
            possession.
      •     Notify Munitions Control of any explosives hazard class/division or CIC code status changes to
            facilities except for those caused by unescorted movements.

Customer Shall:
    • Accomplish all inventory, accounting and reviewing/reporting actions/requirements in a timely
       manner.
    • Exercise proper care and control of munitions in their possession.
    • Provide MMXMD a list of all personnel authorized to access and/or remove assets from courtesy
       storage, as set in paragraph 4 below.
    • Safely and securely transport explosives IAW AFMAN 91-201, (Title 49 CFR) and AFI 31-101.
    • Notify MMXMD at ext 3404, 3 duty days prior to the date access is required to their munitions,
       emergencies excepted.
    • After-hours munitions support may be obtained through the on-call Munitions Controller at
       631-5774.
    • Ensure all munitions are sealed prior to placing assets in storage facilities.
    • Complete an AF IMT 4331 for unescorted asset moves, and submit to MMXMD NLT 3 days
       after movement occurs.
    • Ensure inspection/technical guidance for non-DOD owned munitions be provided to the Senior
       Munitions Inspector prior to storage of asset.
    • Be responsible for proper container packaging, marking, and lot separation.
    • Repair packaging discrepancies caused by customer or while in customer’s possession.
    • Notify Munitions Control of all explosives hazard class/division or CIC code changes to
       facilities for unescorted moves.

4.    The following personnel are hereby authorized by customer to have access to and withdraw all of
      customer’s courtesy-stored munitions. Additions/deletions to this list must be, submitted by a
      Primary/Alternate Custodian identified in part 3 of AF IMT 68, send changes via e-mail. Customers
      Unit Commander must be CC’d in the e-mail.

     Rank                Full Name                Duty Phone             SSN (last six)
90SWI21-3 19 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                         33


5. The attached list of munitions line items, (IS507), represents the specific types and maximum
   quantities of all munitions for which customer shall require courtesy storage. The customer
   acknowledges that MMXMD will use this data to calculate and plan its overall annual storage
   requirements for the 90 SW/F.E. Warren AFB.


6. Any questions concerning this MCSA may be directed to 90 MMXS/MMXMD at ext. 3404.
7. The parties indicate by their signatures below that they understand and accept the terms and
   conditions of this MCSA, on this _______day of ______, in the year 200X:


       Name and Grade of Customer’s                             Signature of
              Commander                                   Customer’s Commander




             Name and Grade of                                   Signature of
         Munitions Flight Chief / CC                     Munitions Flight Chief / CC




8. Annual Review/Revalidation:
    On this _____ day of _____, in the year 200X, this MCSA has been reviewed and found to be
    acceptable, relevant and accurate as stated herein. The parties to this MCSA acknowledge that any
    required changes to any of the provisions of this MCSA, or changes to any supporting information
    contained therein, will require execution of a new MCSA.


      Name and Grade of Customer’s                             Signature of
             Commander                                   Customer’s Commander




             Name and Grade of                                 Signature of
        Munitions Flight Chief / CC                    Munitions Flight Chief / CC
