BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        910 AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 48-104
910 AIRLIFT WING
                                                                         17 DECEMBER 2012

                                                                           Aerospace Medicine

                                                 BLOODBORNE PATHOGENS EXPOSURE
                                                                  CONTROL PLAN


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 910 AW/SGPB                                                      Certified by: 910 AW/CC
                                                                 (Colonel Reinhard L. Schmidt)
                                                                                        Pages: 8
Supersedes:   910AWI48-104, 1 August 2005


This instruction implements 29 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) 1910.1030, Bloodborne
Pathogens, and Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program. It
establishes procedures for the base Bloodborne Pathogen Program. It recognizes that employees
of the 910 Airlift Wing (910AW), located at Youngstown Air Reserve Station (YARS), Vienna,
Ohio, who may encounter routine and non-routine occupational exposure to bloodborne
pathogens including hepatitis B virus (HBV) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). It
applies to all 910 Airlift Wing military, civilian, and contractor personnel. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using Air Force Information Management Tool (AF IMT) Form 847 “Recommendation for
Change of Publication”; route AF IMT 847’s from the field through the appropriate functional’s
chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363
“Management of Records”, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition             Schedule             (AF             RDS)             located         at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision updates procedures for the base Bloodborne Pathogen Program.
1. Objectives. This instruction is established to protect employees and prevent bloodborne
pathogen infections. This is done by limiting occupational exposure to blood and other
potentially infectious materials, since any exposure could result in transmission of bloodborne
pathogens, which could lead to disease or death.
 2                                                         910AWI48-104 17 DECEMBER 2012


2. Definitions.
     2.1. Blood: Human blood, human blood components, and products made from human blood.
     2.2. Bloodborne Pathogens: Pathogenic microorganisms that are present in human blood and
     can cause disease in humans. These pathogens include, but are not limited to, hepatitis B
     virus (HBV) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)
     2.3. Contaminated: The presence or the reasonably anticipated presence of blood or other
     potentially infectious materials on an item or surface.
     2.4. Contaminated Sharps: Any contaminated object that can penetrate the skin including,
     but not limited to, needles, scalpels, broken glass, broken capillary tubes and exposed ends of
     dental wires.
     2.5. Decontamination: The use of physical or chemical means to remove, inactivate, or
     destroy bloodborne pathogens on a surface or item to the point where they are no longer
     capable of transmitting infectious articles and the surface or item is rendered safe for
     handling, use or disposal.
     2.6. Engineering Controls: Controls (e.g. sharps disposable containers, shelf-sheathing
     needles) that isolate or remove the bloodborne pathogens hazard from the workplace.
     2.7. Exposure Incident: A specific eye, mouth, other mucous membrane, non-intact skin, or
     parenteral contact with blood or other potentially infectious materials that result from the
     performance of an employee’s duties.
     2.8. Occupational Exposure: Reasonably anticipated skin, eye, mucous membrane, or
     parenteral contact with blood or other potentially infectious materials that may result from
     the performance of an employee’s duties.
        2.8.1. Other Potentially Infectious Materials:
            2.8.1.1. The following human body fluids. Semen, vaginal secretions, cerebrospinal
            fluid, synovial fluid, pleural fluid, pericardial fluid, peritoneal fluid, amniotic fluid,
            saliva in dental procedures, any body fluid that is visibly contaminated with blood,
            and all body fluids except sweat.
                2.8.1.1.1. Any unfixed tissue or organ (other than intact skin) from a human
                (living or dead).
                2.8.1.1.2. HIV: containing cell or tissue cultures, organ cultures, HIV or HBV-
                containing culture medium or other solutions, blood, organs, or other tissue from
                experimental animals infected with HIV or HBV.
                2.8.1.1.3. Parenteral: Piercing mucous membranes or the skin barrier through
                such events as needle stick, human bites, cuts, and abrasions.
                2.8.1.1.4. Personal Protective Equipment: Specialized clothing or equipment
                worn by an employee for protection against a hazard. General work clothes (e.g.
                uniforms, pants, shirts, or blouses) not intended to function, as protections against
                a hazard are not considered to be personal protective equipment.
                2.8.1.1.5. Source Individual: Any individual, living or dead, whose blood or other
                potentially infectious materials may be a source of occupational exposure to the
910AWI48-104 17 DECEMBER 2012                                                                   3


              employee. Examples include, but are not limited to, hospital and clinic patients;
              clients in institutions for the developmentally disabled; trauma victims; clients of
              drug and alcohol treatment facilities; residents of hospices and nursing homes;
              human remains; and individuals who donate or sell blood or blood components.
              2.8.1.1.6. Universal Precautions: An approach to infection control. According to
              the concept of universal precautions, all human blood and certain human body
              fluids are treated as if known to be infectious for HIV, HBV, and other
              bloodborne pathogens.
              2.8.1.1.7. Work Practice Controls: Controls that reduce the likelihood of
              exposure by altering the manner in which a task is performed (e.g. prohibiting
              recapping of needles by a two-handed technique).
3. Responsibilities:
   3.1. Commanders will ensure all personnel at risk for occupational exposures to potentially
   infectious material are adequately protected, receive initial orientation and annual training,
   and comply with established guidelines and requirements defined in this plan and 29 CFR
   1910.1030.
   3.2. Bioenvironmental Engineering Services:
       3.2.1. Develop and review the Bloodborne Pathogens Exposure Control Plan.
       3.2.2. Coordinate with units to determine which job classifications may have potential
       exposure.
       3.2.3. Ensure that job classifications identify tasks and methods of compliance.
       3.2.4. Maintain documentation for 3 years in accordance with administrative procedures
       for all units within the wing.
   3.3. Employees:
       3.3.1. Receive training annually.
       3.3.2. Use appropriate methods of compliance when performing tasks with potential
       exposure to bloodborne pathogens.
       3.3.3. Report exposure to bloodborne pathogens to the full-time Bioenvironmental
       Engineering / Public Health Office.
4. Exposure Determination:
   4.1. The following units have employees, which have an occupational exposure to
   bloodborne pathogens.        These requirements are maintain in their particular industrial
   hygiene case file located in the Bioenvironmental Engineering Office.
       4.1.1. Medical Squadron (910MDS).
       4.1.2. Fire Department (910CE/CEF).
       4.1.3. Security Forces (910SFS) (Military and Civilian employees).
       4.1.4. Bioenvironmental Engineering (910AW/SGPB)
       4.1.5. 773rd Airlift Squadron/Life Support.
 4                                                         910AWI48-104 17 DECEMBER 2012


        4.1.6. 757th Airlift Squadron/Life Support.
            4.1.6.1. 910 Operations Group/Aerial Spray Unit
        4.1.7. Contractor employees of Vocational Guidance Service, Inc, Cleveland, OH, a
        civilian contract custodial agency, also has an occupational exposure to bloodborne
        pathogens, which is responsible under 29 CFR 1910.1030 to establish compliance of the
        Bloodborne Pathogens to their employees A copy of their Exposure Control Plan is
        maintained in the 910AW Public Health Office.
        4.1.8. Good Samaritan acts which result in the exposure to blood or other potentially
        infectious materials from assisting a fellow employee (i.e. giving first aid) are not
        included in the standard. The 910 Airlift Wing however, will provide assistance with
        post-exposure evaluation and follow-up in such cases.
5. Methods of Compliance:
     5.1. Universal Precautions: Effective immediately, universal precautions shall be observed to
     prevent contact with blood or other potentially infectious materials. Under circumstances in
     which differentiation between body fluid types is difficult or impossible, all body fluids shall
     be considered potentially infectious materials. Supervisors of employees working in job
     classifications who encounter occupational exposure to blood or other potentially infectious
     materials (listed in the exposure determination section) are responsible for ensuring that
     employees observe universal precautions at all times.
     5.2. Engineering and Work Practice Controls: Engineering and work practice controls shall
     be utilized as a primary method for eliminating or controlling exposure to blood or other
     potentially infectious materials. The following work practice controls will be utilized and
     enforced by supervisors.
        5.2.1. Employees must wash their hands and any other exposed skin with soap and
        water, or flush mucous membranes with water immediately, or as soon as feasible,
        following contact of such body areas with blood or other potentially infectious materials.
        5.2.2. Employees must wash their hands before and after using the restroom.
        5.2.3. Employees must wash their hands immediately, or as soon as possible, after
        removal of gloves or other personal protective equipment.
        5.2.4. Hand cleaners or towelettes are acceptable only where hand washing facilities are
        not feasible.
        5.2.5. Contaminated needles and other sharps shall not be bent, recapped, or removed
        unless no alternative is feasible or such action is required by a specific medical
        procedures. Such recapping or needle removal must be accomplished through the use of a
        mechanical device or a one-handed technique. Shearing or breaking of contaminated
        needles is prohibited.
        5.2.6. Contaminated reusable sharps (i.e. scalpels) shall be placed in appropriate
        containers immediately or as soon as possible after use.
        5.2.7. Eating, drinking, smoking, applying cosmetics or lip balm, and handling contact
        lenses are prohibited in work areas where there is a reasonable likelihood of occupational
        exposure.
910AWI48-104 17 DECEMBER 2012                                                                  5


     5.2.8. Food and drink shall not be kept in refrigerators, freezers, shelves, and cabinets or
     on countertops or bench tops where blood or other potentially infectious materials are
     present.
     5.2.9. All procedures involving blood or other potentially infectious materials shall be
     performed in such a manner as to minimize splashing, splattering, and generation of
     droplets of these substances.
     5.2.10. Mouth pipetting/suctioning of blood or other potentially infectious materials is
     prohibited.
     5.2.11. Specimens of blood or other potentially infectious materials shall be placed in a
     container, which prevents leakage during collection, handling, processing, storage,
     transport, or shipping.
     5.2.12. Equipment, which may become contaminated with blood or other potentially
     infectious materials, shall be examined prior to servicing or shipping and decontaminated
     as necessary. If decontamination is not feasible, a readily observable label in accordance
     with 29 CFR 1910.1030 must be attached to the equipment stating which portions remain
     contaminated.
     5.2.13. If outside contamination of a primary specimen container occurs, that container is
     placed within a second leak-proof container, appropriately labeled, for handling and
     storage. If the specimen can puncture the primary container, the secondary container must
     be puncture-resistant as well.
  5.3. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Where occupational exposure remains after
  institution of engineering and work practice controls, appropriate PPE will be used. PPE will
  be considered “appropriate” only if it does not permit blood or other potentially infectious
  materials to pass through to reach employees work clothes, street clothes, undergarments,
  skin, eyes, mouth, or other mucous membranes under normal conditions of use. PPE is
  provided at no cost to the employee. Supervisors will be responsible for ensuring that
  employees wear appropriate PPE. The following also applies to PPE.
     5.3.1. PPE must be cleaned, laundered, repaired, and/or replaced as needed to maintain
     its effectiveness.
     5.3.2. If blood or other potentially infectious material penetrates a garment, this garment
     must be removed immediately or as soon as feasible.
     5.3.3. All PPE must be removed prior to leaving the work area.
     5.3.4. When PPE is removed, it must be placed in an appropriately designated covered
     container for storage, washing and decontamination, or disposal.
     5.3.5. As a minimum, protective equipment shall consist of the following:
         5.3.5.1. Gloves. When the employee’s hands have the potential for direct skin
         contact with blood or other potentially infectious materials, whether on surfaces,
         linen, or the body. Replace gloves if torn, punctured, contaminated, or if their ability
         to function as a barrier is compromised. Never wash or decontaminate disposable
         gloves for reuse or before disposal.
 6                                                        910AWI48-104 17 DECEMBER 2012


            5.3.5.2. Mask, Eye Protection, or Chin Length Face Shield: When droplets, splashes,
            splatters, sprays, or aerosols of blood or other potentially infectious materials may be
            generated and pose a hazard to the eye, nose, or mouth.
            5.3.5.3. Gowns, Lab coats, Aprons, and other Similar Clothing. If clothing may
            become soiled with blood or other potentially infectious materials, or if blood or other
            potentially infectious materials penetrate a garment, the garment(s) must be removed
            immediately or as soon as feasible. If a pullover scrub (as opposed to scrubs with
            snap closures) become minimally contaminated, employees should be trained to
            remove the outer surface; e.g., rolling up the garment as it is pulled toward the head
            for removal. However, if the amount of blood exposure is such that the blood
            penetrates the scrub and contaminates the inner surface, not only is it impossible to
            remove the scrub without exposure to blood, but the penetration itself would
            constitute exposure. It may be prudent to train employees to cut off such a
            contaminated scrub to aid removal and prevent exposure to the face.
6. Hepatitis B Vaccination (HBV):
     6.1. The Hepatitis B vaccine and vaccination series shall be made available to all employees
     with occupational exposure at no cost to the employee. 910 Airlift Wing will provide the
     HBV to all employees with occupational exposure.
     6.2. All employees who may be working in areas with occupational exposure are allowed the
     chance to receive the Hepatitis B vaccination after the employee has received the training
     required and within 10 working days of initial assignments. Employees who decline the
     Hepatitis B vaccination will be required to sign a declination statement. All reservists
     exposed must receive the vaccine. If an employee initially declines the Hepatitis B vaccine
     but later decides to accept, 910 Airlift Wing will make available the Hepatitis B vaccine at
     that time, assuming employees still has an occupational exposure.
7. Post-Exposure Evaluation and Follow Up:
     7.1. Due to such complex material, the Bioenvironmental / Public Health Office must be
     called in determining direction should this occur.
     7.2. Due to potentially severe consequences resulting in exposure incidents, the
     circumstances regarding these incidents will be investigated with the utmost priority. Any
     time an exposure incident occurs, employees must notify their immediate supervisor within 3
     hours of the incident to ensure the proper evaluation and follow-up. The medical evaluation
     and follow-up will include the following elements (within 24 hours).
        7.2.1. Documentation and evaluation by a physician of the route(s) of exposure and the
        circumstances under which the exposure incident occurred.
        7.2.2. Identification and documentation of the source individual, unless infeasible or
        prohibited by state or local law. If consent is obtained (where required), the source
        individual’s blood shall be tested and the results documented. If the source individual is
        known to be infected with HIV or HBV, this shall be documented without a repeat test.
        7.2.3. Results of the source individual’s testing shall be made available to the exposed
        employee, along with applicable laws and regulations concerning disclosure of the
        identity and infectious status of the source individual.
910AWI48-104 17 DECEMBER 2012                                                                  7


      7.2.4. The exposed employee’s blood shall be tested as soon as feasible after consent is
      obtained.
      7.2.5. If the employee consents to baseline blood collection such testing shall be done as
      soon as feasible.
      7.2.6. When medically indicated, post exposure prophylaxis will be provided, as
      recommended by the United Stated Public Health Service.
      7.2.7. Counseling will be made available to the employee upon request.
      7.2.8. Evaluation of reported illness.
   7.3. Within 15 days of completion, a copy of the evaluating healthcare professional’s written
   opinion shall be obtained and provided to the employee.
8. Recordkeeping:
   8.1. Medical records must be kept for each employee with occupational exposure to
   bloodborne pathogens. Civilian medical records will be maintained in accordance with
   established civil service procedures. The following records will be kept on file.
   8.2. A file for each employee with occupational exposure to blood or other potentially
   infectious materials including the name and social security number of the employee, a copy
   of the employee’s hepatitis B vaccination status, any medical records relative to the
   employee’s ability to receive vaccination. This information will be considered Personal
   Identification Information (PII) and must be handled/protected appropriately.
   8.3. A copy of all results of examination, medical testing, and follow-up procedures
   following an exposure incident.
   8.4. The employer’s copy of the healthcare professional’s written opinion regarding post-
   exposure evaluation and follow-up.
   8.5. Declination statement of civilian workers will be filed in medical records and Tab F of
   the industrial hygiene case files.
   8.6. The above records will not be disclosed or reported without the employee’s express
   written consent to any person within or outside the workplace except as required by the
   bloodborne pathogens standard or by law. Additionally, these records will be maintained for
   at least the duration of the employment plus thirty (30) years, and in accordance with AF
   RDS. Further records of this nature must be identified as Vital Records within the unit/office
   file plan. Records containing Personal Indentifying Information (PII) must be protected in
   accordance with the Federal Privacy Act of 1974.




                                               REINHARD L. SCHMIDT, Colonel, USAFR
                                               Commander, 910 Airlift Wing
 8                                                    910AWI48-104 17 DECEMBER 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, “Management of Records”, 1 March 2008
AFPD 48-1, “Aerospace Medical Program”, 23 August 2012
29 CFR 1910.1030, “Bloodborne Pathogens”
Adopted Form
AF IMT 847 “Recommendation for Change of Publication”

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFIMT—Air Force Information Management Tool
BEO—(Base) Bioenvironment Office
HBV—Hepatitis B virus
HIV—Human immunodefiency virus
PA—Privacy Act
PII—Personal Indentification Information
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
USPHS—United States Public Health Office
