BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       910 AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 32-9001
910 AIRLIFT WING
                                                                          14 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                              Civil Engineering

                                                           REAL PROPERTY KEY CONTROL




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms identified in this instruction are available for
               downloading or ordering at the Air Force (AF) e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 910MSG/CERR                                                      Certified by: 910MSG/CC
                                                                        ( Colonel Teresa Hams)
                                                                                        Pages: 4
Supersedes:   910AWI32-9001, 24 July 2006


This instruction implements Air Force Pamphlet (AFPAM) 32-1004, Volume 3, Working in the
Operations Flight Facility Maintenance. This instruction establishes procedures for an effective
facility key control program and applies to all base personnel and tenants who are issued keys by
the 910 Civil Engineer (910CE) Real Property Office while assigned to or stationed at the 910
Airlift Wing (910AW), Youngstown Air Reserve Station (YARS), Vienna, Ohio. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR), using AF Form IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
routed through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as
a result of processes described in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force
Records Disposition (RDS) found at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision reflects changes associated with the loss of government-owned keys; updates key
personnel, facility contact telephone numbers, and processes required for key issuance.
1. Key Request Procedures.
   1.1. All requests for keys (including master keys) will be made through the employee's
   supervisor. Supervisors, in coordination with employees, determine which employees have
   an actual, justifiable need for keys on a permanent basis. Upon Supervisor approval, the key
   request is submitted to the Squadron Commander/Division Chief for review and final
   approval.
 2                                                       910AWI32-9001 14 FEBRUARY 2013


     1.2. Squadron Commander/Division Chief’s can only approve permanent keys for secured
     areas or buildings under their direct control. Organizations sharing a building can only
     request permanent keys (including master keys) for their assigned area. Personnel requesting
     permanent keys under another Squadron Commander/Division Chief’s control must submit
     the request to them for approval.
     1.3. Reserve personnel requiring a key on a permanent basis, with justifiable need, will
     submit the request to their Squadron Commander for approval.
     1.4. If key holders responsible for a secured area cannot be reached, temporary use of keys
     can be issued from the Real Property Key Cabinet on a day-to-day basis, with prior
     Supervisor approval either by phone or email. The Supervisor will call Real Property to give
     the person’s name and area to access. Upon arrival, the person will sign the Temporary Key
     Request Log for the requested key.
     1.5. Key cabinets are used for securing duplicate keys in the absence of personnel who
     control specialized areas, such as pilferable goods. Only one of the same key is permitted for
     key cabinets. Squadron Commander/Division Chief’s are responsible for designating, in
     writing, a Primary and Alternate(s) person for each key box within their division. Keys to
     the key cabinet should be limited to only the Primary and Alternate person, unless another
     alternate is warranted. All Real Property Keys issued for the key cabinet will be signed by
     the primary person on his or her computer generated Keyholder Record Sheet from Real
     Property.
     1.6. Only the appropriate Squadron Commander/Division Chief has the authority to
     authorize a request for keys by calling or e-mailing the Base Realty Specialist at extension
     609-1340. The Squadron Commander/Division Chief’s are responsible for all keys issued
     for areas under their direct control. A current Squadron Commander/Division Chief Key
     Record Log is sent to each person as requested, to identify for whom the Squadron
     Commander/Division Chief has approved keys and for what doors, rooms, or buildings.
     1.7. The Base Realty Specialist will remove the requested key(s) from the Real Property Key
     Cabinet, and issue the key(s) to the approved key requester. Upon receipt of key(s), the new
     Keyholder will sign his or her Key holder Record Sheet maintained by Real Property and be
     furnished a copy.
2. Turn-in of Issued Keys.
     2.1. Any personnel changing offices, transferring, or resigning, are required to turn in any
     Real Property issued keys to the Base Realty Specialist. Reservists who work only on Unit
     Training Assemblies (UTA’s) will return their keys to the appropriate Military Section Chief
     or, if absent, the Squadron Commander. The Military Sectional Chief/Squadron Commander
     will return the keys to Real Property. Once the Base Realty Specialist obtains the returned
     key(s), the individual’s signed key sheet is removed from the Key Holder Record Sheet File
     and their name removed from the Real Property Master Key Record Log. As a reminder to
     civilians resigning, Real Property is listed on the Base Civilian Personnel Out-Processing
     Checklist.
3. Primary Key Controller.
910AWI32-9001 14 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                   3


   3.1. The Base Realty Specialist is the Primary Key Controller, and is responsible for the
   issuance of keys. When the Base Realty Specialist is off duty, the Supervisor of Resources
   Flight becomes responsible for key control. If there is a building emergency, or a need to
   secure a building’s exterior door after duty hours, call the Squadron Commander/Division
   Chief first, followed by the Alternate (if one is listed). If they cannot be reached, call the
   Primary or Alternate Building Manager. If no Squadron Commander/Division Chief or
   Building Manager can be reached, then call the Youngstown Air Reserve Station, Base Fire
   Department Shift Supervisor on duty, extension 609-1107, to only secure an exterior door.
   3.2. There will be an annual inventory of all of the keys in the Real Property Key Cabinet.
4. Penalty for Misuse of Government Keys.
   4.1. The unauthorized use, lending-out of authorized keys, or duplication of Government
   issued keys is prohibited.
   4.2. The penalty rendered for misuse of Government issued keys is determined by Air Force
   Instruction (AFI) 36-704, Discipline and Adverse Actions.
5. Reporting of Lost/Stolen Keys.
   5.1. Any person losing a key must notify their Supervisor immediately to insure against
   compromise of security. The Supervisor will notify the Building Manager, their Squadron
   Commander/Division Chief, and 910MSG/CERR Real Property office, of the lost and
   missing key.
   5.2. Base Lodging has their own electronic key card control policy, which they control for
   each of the lodging rooms, and are therefore not affected by this instruction. YARS Building
   128, Wing Headquarters, has electronic key card access only for the exterior doors, which are
   controlled by the primary Building Manager and the Security Forces Physical Security
   Manager, located at YARS Building 400, 910 Security Forces Squadron.




                                            BRIAN E. DOMINGUEZ, Brig Gen, USAFR
                                            Commander, 910 Airlift Wing
 4                                                    910AWI32-9001 14 FEBRUARY 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-6005, Unaccompanied Housing Management, 9 Oct 2008
AFI 36-704, Discipline and Adverse Actions, 22 Jul 1994
AFPAM 32-1004, Volume 3, Working in the Operations Flight Facility Maintenance, 1 Sep
1998
AFPD32-10, Installation and Facilities, 27 Mar 2005
Adopted Forms
AF IMT 847 – Request for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AW—(910) Airlift Wing
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPAM—Air Force Pamphlet
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AWI—Airlift Wing Instruction
CE—(910) Civil Engineer
CC—Commander, 910 Airlift Wing
IAW—In accordance with
YARS—Youngstown Air Reserve Station, Vienna, Ohio
