BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        910 AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 32-1001
910 AIRLIFT WING
                                                                          12 SEPTEMBER 2013

                                                                               Civil Engineering

                                                              WORK CLEARANCE REQUEST




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on
               the Air Force e-Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 910 MSG/CE                                                        Certified by: 910 AW/CC
                                                                      (Colonel James D. Dignan)
                                                                                         Pages: 5
Supersedes:    910AWI32-1001,
               10 August 2005


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-10, Installations and
Facilities, and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 32-1001, Operations Management, Para 6.6. It
establishes procedures, requirements, and responsibilities for the processing of the Air Force
(AF) Form 103, Base Civil Engineer Work Clearance Request. This instruction applies all
persons (civilian employees, military personnel, contractors, and sub-contractors) who have a
need or requirement to perform work on the Youngstown Air Reserve Station facility and
installation. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR), using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change to
Publication; route all AF847s from the field through the appropriate chain of command. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). NOTE: Any
document, form, or record created using Personal Identification Information (PII), must do so
within the scope, limitations, and protection of AFI33-332, Air Force Privacy Act and Civil
Liberties Program, and Title 5, United States Code (USC) 552a, as amended, Privacy Act of
1974.
 2                                                       910AWI32-1001 12 SEPTEMBER 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has revisions and updates that must be reviewed. The names have been changed.
in paragraph 2 and 3.1; added marking the area with white flags (white flags provided by BOS
SP)
1. Purpose.
     1.1. The AF Form 103, is used for any work (Contract or In-House), that may disrupt aircraft
     or vehicular traffic flow, base utility services, base communication cables, protection
     provided by fire and intrusion alarm systems, or routine activities of the installation. This
     form is used to coordinate the required work with key base activities and keep customer
     inconvenience to a minimum. It is also used to identify potentially hazardous work
     conditions in an attempt to prevent accidents. The Work Clearance Request is initiated at
     least ten (10) days prior to the start of work. If work delays are encountered, and/or the
     conditions at the job site change (or may have changed) the Work Clearance Request must be
     reprocessed.
     1.2. The processed and approved AF Form 103 is used as an authorization document to work
     in a specified area. It certifies that all required coordination has been conducted.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. The requestor shall be responsible for processing the initial request and marking the area
     with white flags (white flags provided by BOS). The requestor for all Civil Engineering
     contracts and/or project work shall be the Project Engineer, Engineer or Engineering
     Technician appointed by the Project Engineer within the appropriate work area. The
     requestor for all work to be accomplished by the BOS RPM Function or other service
     provider shall be an individual appointed by the service provider; this individual shall be in a
     comparable position, grade, or title as those listed above. On Corps of Engineers Projects, the
     requestor shall be the Corps of Engineers (COE) Field Supervisor, or his designated
     representative. Other agencies which require a permit shall appoint a designated
     representative to serve as the requestor for all work to be accomplished.
     2.2. All personnel responsible for the design/planning of any work to be accomplished shall
     ensure that provisions are included in the design/plan to place tracer wires in any ditch or
     trench containing any pipe, conduit, drain tile, cable or any other item which may require
     positive location for future excavation.
3. Procedures.
     3.1. Requestor. When excavation and/or other work for which an AF Form 103 is required,
     the requestor shall complete the top portion of the AF Form 103 and coordinate with the BOS
     RPM customer service unit (CSU) to locate and mark or stake utilities as required. The
     requestor shall provide a clear, legible document, depicting the exact work area, mark the
     proposed work area with white flags (white flags provided by BOS) and shall coordinate with
     the BOS RPM function's appointed representative to determine the utilities which may
     require marking. Routine/non-emergency requests shall be submitted at least ten (10)
     working days prior to the estimated start date of the required work. For emergency work the
     requests shall be submitted immediately. "Emergency Request" shall be clearly annotated on
     the AF Form 103. The BOS RPM Function shall be responsible for obtaining coordination of
910AWI32-1001 12 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                   3


  those elements on the form outside of the Civil Engineering Division (i.e., Safety, Fire Dept,
  Security, Operations (Ground and Flight), Communications, except for privatized/public
  utilities and/or Ohio Utilities Protection Services (OUPS)). The requestor shall ensure that
  the appropriate approval signature is obtained prior to the start of any work. The time frame
  for the validity of the request shall be annotated on the form and shall be ninety (90) days
  unless otherwise noted. The BOS RPM Function annotates the AF Form 103 after the
  required coordination is completed and returns a copy of the AF FORM 103 to the requestor.
  The original AF Form 103 is kept on file in the BOS RPM Functions Office.
     3.1.1. The requestor shall ensure that an accurate drawing or sketch of the completed
     work is provided to the Base Civil Engineering Flight. Requestors shall notify the BOS
     RPM Customer Service Unit (CSU) upon completion of all work associated with the
     request.
  3.2. The BOS RPM Function: Shall assign an appropriate craftsman to locate and stake or
  mark the required utility within ten (10) working days of receipt of an AF FORM 103. When
  all utilities have been located and marked, the RPM Function Foreman or designated
  representative shall notify the requestor, and return the AF Form 103 to BOS RPM Customer
  Service.
  3.3. The marker of the utility (BOS RPM, OUPS, COM, Private Utility Rep, etc.) shall trace
  and locate the pipe, cable, line, wire, tile, or other item concerned, by the use of an electronic
  locator and the provided sketches/drawings, and shall mark the path with a stake or paint,
  whichever is appropriate. Paths shall be clearly marked with a stake or paint mark at least,
  but not more than, every ten (10) feet along the route within the proposed work area. Upon
  completion of the assigned task, the craftsman shall notify the BOS RPM Foreman.
     3.3.1. Marker comments such as “SEE PRINTS” on the AF FORM 103, Block 8, shall
     not be acceptable. All utilities shown on the drawing(s) as within the "construction area"
     shall be marked; if "construction area" is not designated, the area within four (4) feet, (2
     feet on either side) of the proposed work shall be marked. In areas where there is a large
     concentration of utilities or the utility cannot be positively located, the drawings and AF
     Form 103 shall be clearly marked “HAND DIG ONLY IN THIS AREA”.
  3.4. Contractors performing work within the installation shall ensure that they work within
  the limitations specified. Any damages incurred during performance of the work described in
  the AF Form 103 will be handled in accordance with applicable law/regulation and/or the
  terms of the applicable contract. In areas marked “HAND DIG ONLY IN THIS AREA”, the
  Contractor shall assume complete responsibility for any damage incurred.
  3.5. Single point of contact: The Civil Engineering BOS RPM Customer Service Unit,
  (CSU), shall be the point of contact for all open AF FORM 103, Work Clearance Requests.
  The CSU shall receive requests from the Requestor and shall log all requests. The CSU log
  shall contain, as a minimum, the date received, date required, the job order number, a locally
  assigned control number, and the expiration date (90 days unless otherwise noted).
     3.5.1. Revalidation. When a request expires or extends beyond the expiration date, the
     requests shall be revalidated by the BOS RPM Function, the extended expiration date
     shall be annotated on the AF Form 103, and the CSU log adjusted to reflect the extension.
     The requestor must initiate the revalidation of the AF Form 103.
 4                                                   910AWI32-1001 12 SEPTEMBER 2013


       3.5.2. Termination. When the requestor notifies the BOS RPM function that associated
       work has been completed, the BOS RPM, CSU will annotate the log with the appropriate
       date of completion and the request shall be closed. A copy of the closed AF Form 103
       shall be provided to the requestor by the BOS RPM within five (5) working days of
       closing.
4. Draftsmen. The government personnel assigned the duties of drafting shall ensure that all
appropriate drawings are updated after completion of the work and closing of the AF Form 103
to reflect the most current changes in accordance with the information provided by the requestor
and/or the Engineer Flight Chief.
5. Communications. Base Communications personnel shall be responsible for coordination/
marking of any communications and associated equipment lines within their ownership/control
and shall advise the requestor if additional coordination is required with outside communication
companies. Contractor, or other entity performing the work, is responsible for any permits or
coordination with the Ohio Utilities Protection Service (OUPS) or Utility owner (such as First
Energy/Ohio Edison), as required by its contract/order.
6. Questions/Discrepancies. Any question or discrepancy arising from, or as a result of, these
procedures, shall be directed to the Base Civil Engineer.




                                            JAMES D. DIGNAN, Colonel, USAFR
                                            Commander
910AWI32-1001 12 SEPTEMBER 2013                                          5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities, 04 Mar 2013
AFI 32-1001, Operations Management, 01 Sep 2005
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program, 05 Jun 2013
AFMAN 33-363_AFGM 2013-01, Management of Records, 29 Aug 2013
Adopted Forms:
AF Form 103, Base Civil Engineering Work Clearance Request
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change to Publications

Terms and Acronyms
AFI— Air Force Instruction
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
BOS— Base Operating Services
COE— (US Army) Corps of Engineers
CSU— Customer Service Unit
OUPS— Ohio Utilities Protection Service
RDS— (Air Force) Records Disposition Schedule
RPM— (Base/Facility) Real Property Manager
