BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               910TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
910TH AIRLIFT WING                                                               21-202

                                                                                    19 JULY 2011

                                                                                      Maintenance

                                                                       DEICING OF AIRCRAFT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 910 AMXS/MXA                                                        Certified by: 910 AW/CC
                                                                          (Col Udo K. McGregor)
                                                                                           Pages: 3


This instruction establishes responsibilities and outlines protective and preventive measures for
deicing aircraft. It applies to all 910 AW personnel involved in the deice process. It also carries
out tenets Technical Order (T.O.) 42C-1-2, 1C-130H-2-71JG-00-1. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air
Force Information Management Tool (AF IMT) 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF IMTs 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This is the initial publication of 910AWI21-202
1. Definition. Deicing of aircraft is defined as the use of the appropriate method to clear an
aircraft of frost, snow and/or ice covering by using chemicals, hot air blast system, indoor radiant
heat or sweeping.
2. Responsibilities.
   2.1. The Aircraft Maintenance Squadron (AMXS) Flight Chiefs are responsible for
   compliance with the instruction and ensuring subordinate personnel are thoroughly
   knowledgeable of the procedures for, and compliant with, the procedures for deicing aircraft.
 2                                                                910AWI 21-202 19 JULY 2011


     2.2. The Aerospace Ground Equipment Flight (MXMG) Chief is responsible for opening,
     storing and servicing chemicals in the deicing trucks. AMXS personnel are responsible for
     servicing the deice trucks with the assistance of MXMG.
     2.3. All personnel involved are responsible for coordination with other personnel involved in
     the process. Aircraft deicing priorities will be coordinated and designated by the respective
     flying squadron each morning at the Daily Operations Scheduling Meeting, with the
     Production Superintendent, or his/her representative, in attendance.
     2.4. The Aircraft Commander is the final authority on when deicing is required and
     adequacy once accomplished.
     2.5. The Flightline Expediter is responsible for notifying the Maintenance Operations Center
     (MOC) prior to fluid deicing.
     2.6. MXMG is responsible for reporting the daily status of deice trucks and quantity of deice
     fluid available to MOC/Production Superintendent (located on “V” drive, maintpla, deice
     status).
     2.7. MOC is responsible for notifying CE of snow removal priorities including apron/aircraft
     parking spot area and time required and will confirm with the Base Operating Services
     Contractor (BOSC) of its awareness of the flying schedule and its preparedness to respond
     for deicing.
     2.8. Civil Engineer (CE) is responsible for maintenance of the deice fluid holding tank and
     disposition of the spent fluid once placed in appropriate tank(s).
     2.9. The Deice Vehicle Operator is responsible for annotations of the Vehicle Deice Log
     Sheet with the quantity of deice fluid and water used the refractometer reading and aircraft
     location when deiced.
3. Procedures.
     3.1. Best management practices will be used to minimize discharge of chemicals for deicing.
     Deicing will be performed per T.O. 42C-1-2 on aircraft prior to flight whenever any amount
     of ice, frost and/or snow is present on any aircraft surface.
     3.2. Aircraft parking spots 1 foxtrot (1F) and 1 alpha (1A) are the preferred aircraft deice
     locations; these spots will be used for deicing unless circumstances, such as unavailability of
     personnel, unpredicted inclement weather, or mission requirements, dictate otherwise.
     Regardless of spot(s) used for deicing, the spot(s)/area will be vacuumed and cleaned of
     spent fluid.
     3.3. Prior to the Flight Engineer’s Pre-Flight Inspection, Aircraft Maintenance personnel will
     clear and deice all flight control surfaces with a heavy accumulation of snow/ice/frost to
     prevent damage when operating the flight controls. Clearing/deicing will be via sweeping
     and/or hot air blast.
     3.4. Prior to deicing the aircraft with fluid deice, the Flight Engineer Pre-Flight Inspection
     will be accomplished. The Flight Engineer will advise Aircraft Maintenance of inspection
     results and/or that inspection is complete and that deicing of the aircraft may commence.
     3.5. All C-130 propellers will be pre-heated prior to flight when the ambient temperature is
     0-degrees Celsius or below. If mission constraints preclude pre-heating, pilots and flight
910AWI 21-202 19 JULY 2011                                                                        3


   engineers will ensure that no pitch inputs are applied to the propellers until engine oil
   temperature reaches a minimum of 60 degrees Celsius.
   3.6. When conditions for icing or precipitation exist, aircrew will be on board with power on
   during the deicing operation and will be prepared to start engines immediately upon
   completion of the deicing process. Deice fluid has no “holdover” time.
4. Methods.
   4.1. Deicing procedures will be accomplished per T.O. 42C-1-2. Deicing/anti-icing of
   aircraft using hangar heat will be the primary method for deicing. If hangar space is not
   available, sweeping, brushing or hot air blast will be used. If necessary, the deicing fluid will
   be used.
   4.2. Aircraft placed in hangars for the purpose of snow/ice/frost removal will remain in the
   hangar until aircraft is completely dry. If sufficient maintenance personnel are not available
   for towing, aircrew members will assist in this task after being briefed on duties and
   responsibilities of/for aircraft towing by the maintenance tow team supervisor. Aircrew
   personnel will not serve as tug driver or tow-team supervisor.
5. Recovery Procedures.
   5.1. Recovery of as much deice fluid as possible will be accomplished using the powered
   cleaner/sweeper. Waste fluid will be transferred into the appropriate holding tank, located on
   the north end of hangar 305, where it will await further disposition by CE.
   5.2. The sweeper operator will report to MOC the approximate amounts of deice fluid and
   water recovered and apron/parking spot area in which recovered.




                                             UDO K. MCGREGOR, Col, USAFR
                                             Commander
