BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                             910TH AIRLIFT WING
910TH AIRLIFT WING                                                     INSTRUCTION 21-102

                                                                              26 MARCH 2010
                                                            Certified Current 23 February 2012
                                                                                  Maintenance

                                                              FOREIGN OBJECT DAMAGE
                                                                       CONTROL (FOD)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 910 MXG/MXQ                                                    Certified by: 910 MXG/CC
Supersedes: 910AWI 21-102,                                                  (Col. Jane Kitchen)
            20 December 2002                                                           Pages: 4


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 21-101_Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) SUP_1 Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, AFI 91-204, Safety
Investigations Reports and 910th AW Plan 91-212, Bird-Aircraft Strike Hazard Plan. This
instruction establishes procedures and outlines precautionary measures for ensuring effective
prevention of Foreign Object Damage (FOD) to assigned aircraft and equipment. It applies to all
personnel assigned to the maintenance organization and designed to ensure FOD is identified and
removed. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF IMT 847 directly to the 910 MXG/MXQ at Youngstown ARB.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision incorporates numerous grammatical changes and removes the requirement for FOD
shakers.
1. Definition. Any damage to aerospace equipment by an external foreign object which may or
may not degrade the required safety or operational characteristics of the equipment.
2                                                             910AWI21-102 26 MARCH 2010


2. Responsibilities.
    2.1. Vice Wing Commander will:
       2.1.1. Appoint a qualified technical sergeant (or above), or civilian equivalent with at
       least eight years experience in the maintenance field.
       2.1.2. Review all unit FOD mishap reports and analyze the reports and/or other data for
       trends that identify areas requiring management actions.
       2.1.3. Ensure that FOD prevention is part of Quality Assurance (QA) inspections.
    2.2. FOD Prevention NCO will:
       2.2.1. Monitor and recommend changes (as required) to FOD prevention training.
       2.2.2. Responsible for the management of the FOD Control Program.
       2.2.3. Prepare and present material at the quarterly FOD prevention meeting.
       2.2.4. Will conduct random FOD inspections.
    2.3. The FOD Prevention Committee is established under an appointment letter (#48).
    2.4. Supervisors are responsible for total program compliance within their areas of
    responsibility.
    2.5. Individuals have the responsibility to clean up after themselves and place all FOD in
    containers. Personnel performing the task for hardware control must use screw bags and then
    attach the bag to the item.
    2.6. FOD is the responsibility of all personnel involved in maintaining and/or protecting
    aerospace and support equipment. This includes operators and maintainers, who work in
    and/or around aircraft, both on the flightline, and in hangar areas. It encompasses support
    shops, buildings, main and/or access roads.
3. Procedures.
    3.1. FOD Containers. Supervisors are responsible to ensure that FOD containers are
    available in all work areas and are emptied daily.
    3.2. Flight Line Vehicles. Vehicle operators will ensure assigned vehicles operating on the
    flight line and adjacent ramps and roadways are frequently inspected for foreign objects,
    loose hardware, and tire trapped objects. FOD containers will be checked and emptied on a
    daily basis. Vehicles with magnetic bars will also be checked on a daily basis and any items
    picked up will be discarded.
    3.3. Aircraft Parking Areas. The aircraft crew chiefs must ensure that the areas around their
    assigned aircraft are clean and free of foreign objects. An enhanced housekeeping program
    around the aircraft is mandatory to control potential hazards.
    3.4. Use of Protective Plugs and Covers. Protective plugs and covers must be installed in the
    aircraft as prescribed by technical data at all times when aircraft are parked. Upon removal
    of the protective covers, an inspection of intakes and exhaust must be accomplished and
    annotated IAW prescribed technical order on the aircraft AFTO 781A Form, Maintenance
    Discrepancy and Work Document. The entry must be a RED "X" symbol and only cleared
    by a qualified technician prior to release of the aircraft to the aircrew. (Stamp established)
910AWI21-102 26 MARCH 2010                                                                     3


   3.5. Intake Inspections. Whenever maintenance is performed in or around the air intake
   section of an installed engine, an entry will be made in the AFTO 781A Form, Maintenance
   Discrepancy and Work Document, stating “Inspection due on (specific position) engine air
   inlet section after completion of maintenance action”. The entry must be a RED "X" symbol
   and only cleared by a qualified inspector, prior to engine operation.
   3.6. Throttle quadrant covers must be installed without delay after each flight and remain in
   place while on the ground.
   3.7. Check for missing hardware e.g. such as streamers, attaching cables, and etc. on aircraft
   21 equipment.
   3.8. Cleaning Ramps and Surfaced Areas. Aircraft parking ramps, taxiways, and access
   roads will be cleaned as frequently as required to remove FOD. Thorough cleaning will be
   accomplished using the mobile vacuum sweeper and hand policing. Sweeper requests are
   made through Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) as required. FOD walks are normally
   accomplished on UTA's and/or Monday mornings (weather/conditions permitting).
   3.9. The Composite Tool Kit (CTK) program is everyone's responsibility. (Aircrew and
   Maintainers) Ensure tools are inventoried prior to and after the job has been completed
   (Maintainer). Aircrew must have accountability of the equipment they possess. Refer to the
   CTK portion of AFI 21-101_AFRCI Supplement 1, Chapter 10 and 910 AWl 21-109.
   3.10. Industrial shop rags are controlled items, accountability is mandatory. Refer to
   910AWl 21-109, Composite Tool Kit (CTK) and MOI 21-37 for accountability procedures.
   3.11. Wearing of loose clothing and/or articles around engine/equipment intakes is
   prohibited. The wear of clothing on the flightline must be consistent with FOD prevention in
   mind. Personnel will pay close attention to straps, buckles, quick release clips and
   accountable tool pouches to ensure they are properly secured to their clothing, belts, back
   packs, etc…in order to prevent entanglement during working operations. At no time will
   hats be permitted to be worn within the areas of operating aircraft engines to include
   auxiliary power units of the aircraft. Including wigs, hairpieces, metal hair fasteners,
   earrings or other jewelry which may fall off without notice be permitted to be worn on the
   flightline. Further, AFRCI 21-101 Sup 1 states that jewelry is not permitted on the flightline
   or in industrial areas with exception to watches unless prohibited by technical guidance or
   AFOSH Standards.
4. Bird Strike Procedures.
   4.1. Flight line or air crew personnel will notify MOC of bird strikes.
   4.2. MOC will then contact MXQ for investigation.
   4.3. MXQ will inform Base Safety Office and then investigate the bird strike for possible
   FOD damage to the aircraft. Upon completion of the investigation, MXQ will take
   specimens (feathers), if any remains are identifiable, to the Base Safety Office.
5. Training Requirements. All personnel will receive FOD awareness training upon initial
assignment by the supervisor. Work center supervisors will ensure that each individual receives
the necessary training and briefing, to ensure they understand the importance of FOD detection
and removal. Review the FOD program booklet and other informational data that is available.
4                                                        910AWI21-102 26 MARCH 2010


6. Investigation and Reporting of FOD.
    6.1. Refer to AFI 21-101, paragraph 14.19.9 for FOD investigation and reporting
    procedures.
    6.2. All aircraft sustaining FOD damage from an unknown cause will follow procedures as
    outlined in 910 AWI 21-105, Impoundment Procedures.

7. Adopted Forms:

AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AFTO 781A Form, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document.




                                          UDO K. McGREGOR, Colonel, USAFR
                                          Commander
