BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               910 AIR WING INSTRUCTION 31-218
910 AIRLIFT WING
                                                                                  17 APRIL 2014

                                                                                          Security

                                                                      TRAFFIC SUPERVISION



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms identified in this instruction are available through
               Air Force (AF) e-Publishing at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading
               or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 910 SFS/S3                                                         Certified by: 910 AW/CC
                                                                       (Colonel James D. Dignan)
                                                                                        Pages: 31


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 31-1, Integrated Defense, Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 31-116, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, and Inter-service
publication Air Force Instruction (AFI) 31-218_IP, Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision. It
provides uniform procedures to be used in the supervision and management of the base traffic
program at Youngstown Air Reserve Station, Vienna, Ohio. It establishes responsibilities and
instructions to owner/operators of privately owned vehicles (POV), snowmobiles, all-terrain
vehicles (ATVs), bicycles, and motorcycles. It provides for the administration of a vehicular
traffic system and establishes a traffic point system, stipulating the posting of collateral or
appearances before a United States Magistrate for certain motor vehicle violations. It requires the
collection of Personal Identifying Information (PII) information. NOTE: All Personal
Identifying Information (PII) collected for reports, documentation, and forms identified in this
publication is FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY (FOUO), is not for public release, and is subject to
Title 5, United States Code (U.S.C.), Section 552a as amended, The Privacy Act of 1974 . All
traffic laws of the State of Ohio apply at Youngstown Air Reserve Station (YARS), Vienna,
Ohio, except as otherwise noted in this instruction. This instruction pertains to all civilian and
military personnel who have a need to operate a POV or government owned vehicle (GOV) on
this installation. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office
of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS). NOTE: When compiling data on forms, reports, or documents
 2                                                                                             910AWI31-218 17 APRIL 2014


directed by this publication, the protection of Personal Identifying Information (PII) is subject to
the provisions of Title 5, USC 552a as amended, The Privacy Act of 1974 and AFI 33-332, Air
Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program. Individual Social Security Numbers (SSN) and or
Electronic Identification Data (EID), will not be shown or displayed unless there is no other way
to identify the personnel involved in a situation or incident.


        1.      Program Management. ...........................................................................................               2
        2.      Facility/Installation Driving Privileges. .................................................................                   3
        3.      Motor Vehicle Registration. ...................................................................................               6
        4.      Traffic Planning and Codes. ..................................................................................               10
        5.      Motorcycles, Motor-Scooters, Mopeds, ATVs, and Snowmobiles on Air Force
                Installations. ...........................................................................................................   14
        6.      Headphones, Earphones and Cellular phones. .......................................................                           16
        7.      Restraint systems. ..................................................................................................        16
        8.      Speed Measuring Devices. .....................................................................................               16
        9.      Traffic Accident Investigation. ..............................................................................               20
        10.     Traffic Accident Investigation Reports. .................................................................                    20
        11.     Traffic Violation Reports. ......................................................................................            21
        12.     Standards and Procedures for Processing Intoxicated Drivers. .............................                                   21
        13.     Detection, Apprehension, and Testing of Intoxicated drivers. ...............................                                 21
        14.     Off-installation Traffic Activities. .........................................................................               22
        15.     Compliance with Local and State Laws. ................................................................                       22
        16.     Driving Records and the Traffic Point System. .....................................................                          22
Table 1.        Suspension or Revocation of Driving Privileges. ..................................................                           23
Table 2.        Point Assessment for Moving Violations. .............................................................                        24

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                               27

Attachment 2—EXAMPLE, DEPLOYED/TDY PARKING PERMIT                                                                                            30


1. Program Management. This program implements policy, assigns responsibilities, and
establishes procedures for motor vehicle traffic supervision on the installation.
     1.1. This includes, but is not limited to:
        1.1.1. Granting, suspending, or revoking the privilege to operate a privately owned
        vehicle (POV).
        1.1.2. Registration of Privately Owned Vehicles (POVs).
910AWI31-218 17 APRIL 2014                                                                       3


       1.1.3. Administration of vehicle registration and driver performance records.
       1.1.4. Police traffic supervision.        The base Defense Force Commander (DFC)
       (910SFS/CC) can modify these policies and procedures when traffic operations under
       military supervision necessitate special measures to meet mission unique requirements or
       to protect public safety. Safe and efficient movement of personnel and vehicles is the
       objective of every traffic control program. Program goals should focus on ways to
       reduce traffic-related deaths, injuries, and property damage.
   1.2. Responsibilities.
       1.2.1. Installation Commander (910AW/CC).
       1.2.1.1. Establishes and manages the installation traffic supervision program. The
       Commander has broad authority to regulate the movement of traffic and personnel on the
       installation. The Commander develops local procedures to ensure safe pedestrian and
       vehicle traffic. To meet goals and objectives, the Commander integrates safety,
       engineering, legal, and law enforcement resources into the traffic review and planning
       process.
       1.2.2. Defense Force Commander (DFC).
           1.2.2.1. The DFC, also known as the 910 Security Forces commander 9910SFS/CC),
           is the commander’s principal advisor on issues pertaining to the safe movement of
           personnel and traffic. The DFC exercises staff responsibility for directing, regulating,
           and controlling traffic, and enforcing installation rules pertaining to traffic control.
       1.2.3. Installation Safety Officer (910AW/SE).
           1.2.3.1. The base/wing/facility Safety Officer develops traffic accident prevention
           initiatives in support of the traffic safety program. The Safety Officer also helps the
           DFC and other agencies with accident and incident investigation.
       1.2.4. Installation Civil Engineer (910AW/CE).
           1.2.4.1. The installation/facility CE plans, designs, constructs, and maintains streets
           highways and abutting lands. CE select, determine appropriate design, procure,
           construct, install, and maintain permanent traffic and parking control devices in
           coordination with the DFC and installation Safety Officer.
   1.3. Delegation of Authority.
       1.3.1. The Installation Commander can delegate authority under this program to the 910
       Mission Support Group (910MSG/CC) Commander, or other appropriate official, in
       writing. Those selected for delegation must not occupy a law enforcement, investigative,
       or other position which might lead to a conflict of interest or the appearance of such
       conflict during their administration of the motor vehicle traffic supervision program. The
       Installation Commander must coordinate the Letter of Delegation through the installation
       Staff Judge Advocate office.
2. Facility/Installation Driving Privileges.
   2.1. Requirements for driving privileges
4                                                               910AWI31-218 17 APRIL 2014


       2.1.1. Driving a GOV or POV on the installation is a privilege granted by the Installation
       Commander. If you accept that privilege, you must comply with the laws and
       instructions governing motor vehicle operation and registration on the installation.
       Consequently, everyone operating a motor vehicle on the installation must produce, upon
       request from Security Forces the following:
           2.1.1.1. Proof of vehicle ownership or vehicle registration if required by the issuing
           authority.
           2.1.1.2. A valid state motor vehicle operator license and /or an AF Form 2293, US
           Air Force Motor Vehicle Operator’s Identification Card supported by a US Armed
           Forces Identification Card. Locally generated Defense Biometrics Identification card
           (DBIDS) or Computer Access Card (CAC) is acceptable identification media for
           civilian personnel and contractors.
           2.1.1.3. Proof of current vehicle insurance.
    2.2. Stopping and Inspecting Personnel or Vehicles.
       2.2.1. Security forces may stop vehicles on military installations based on the Installation
       Commander’s authority. The following principles govern the stopping of motor vehicles:
       2.2.2. AFI 31-101, The Installation Security Program, local command instructions, and
       policies established by the commander will detail stop, inspection, search, and
       impoundment of motor vehicles at the Installation entry points and in Air Force
       Restricted Areas.
       2.2.3. On-base traffic stops and inspections (other than at Installation Entry Points and
       Restricted Areas) of POVs is authorized when there is a reasonable basis to believe it’s
       necessary to enforce a traffic regulation or when there is suspicion of criminal activity.
    2.3. Implied Consent to Blood, Breath, or Urine Tests.
       2.3.1. Vehicle operators give consent to evidential tests for alcohol or other drug content
       of their blood, breath, and/or urine as a condition of accepting installation driving
       privileges. This consent applies when lawfully detained, apprehended, or cited for an
       impaired driving offense committed while driving or in physical control of a motor
       vehicle on the installation. Also reference the Ohio Revised Code (ORC), Section
       4511.191, Implied Consent.
    2.4. Implied Consent to Vehicle Impoundment.
       2.4.1. As a condition of accepting installation driving privileges, drivers must give their
       consent for the removal and temporary impoundment of their POV, the determination to
       impound a vehicle will be made by the installation commander or designee. POV
       impoundment applies to the following situations, to include but not limited to:
       2.4.2. Illegally parked for unreasonable periods.
       2.4.3. Interferes with traffic operations
       2.4.4. Creates a safety hazard
       2.4.5. Disabled by accident or incident
910AWI31-218 17 APRIL 2014                                                                       5


     2.4.6. Left unattended in, or adjacent to, a Restricted, Controlled, or Off-Limits Area
     2.4.7. Abandoned
     2.4.8. Drivers also agree to reimburse an authorized agency or contractor for the cost of
     towing, storage, and disposal should a need arise to remove or impound their motor
     vehicle because of a situation described above.
  2.5. Suspension or Revocation of Driving Privileges.
     2.5.1. The Installation Commander may suspend or revoke installation driving privileges
     and POV registration for lawful reasons both related and unrelated to traffic violations or
     safe vehicle operations.
     2.5.2. Suspensions
         2.5.2.1. The Installation Commander can suspend driving privileges for serious
         violations or when lesser measures fail to improve a driver’s performance. The
         commander may also suspend or revoke licenses for up to 12 months if a driver
         continually violates installation parking standards, or habitually violates other
         standards considered non-moving in nature. (i.e., performing unauthorized repair;
         failure to register or insure vehicles; unauthorized modifications or alterations; failure
         to maintain safety standards, etc.).
         2.5.2.2. The Installation Commander has discretionary authority and may withdraw
         anyone’s authorization to operate a GOV or POV on the installation.
         2.5.2.3. The Installation Commander will follow administrative due process
         established and published in AFI31-218(I) for determination and/or execution of
         suspension/revocation of driving privileges.
     2.5.3. Revocations.
         2.5.3.1. The Installation Commander will immediately revoke driving privileges for a
         period of not less than one year in the following circumstances:
         2.5.3.2. A person is lawfully detained for intoxicated driving and refuses to submit to
         or complete tests to measure blood alcohol or drug content as required by law of the
         jurisdiction, installation traffic code, or this instruction.
         2.5.3.3. A conviction, non-judicial punishment, or a military or civilian
         administrative action resulting in the suspension or revocation of a driver’s license for
         intoxicated driving.
         2.5.3.4. When a serious incident involving a motor vehicle occurs and the Installation
         Commander determines revocation of driving privileges is required to preserve public
         safety or the good order and discipline of military personnel. Anyone with suspended
         or revocated privileges may petition the Installation Commander for partial or limited
         driving privileges.
  2.6. Administrative Due Process for Suspensions and Revocations.
     2.6.1. When considering suspending or revoking someone’s driving privileges, notify
     that person in writing and tell them what action you are taking and the reason for it.
     Coordinate this notice with the installation legal office.
 6                                                                910AWI31-218 17 APRIL 2014


        2.6.2. Except for incidents outlined in paragraphs 2.5.1.3. and 2.5.2., do not suspend or
        revoke a person’s driving privileges until they are notified (or a reasonable attempt made)
        and offered an administrative hearing. The Installation Commander determines when a
        suspension or revocation takes effect once making or attempting this written notice.
        2.6.3. Any suspension of driving privileges will follow the administrative due process for
        suspensions as identified and detailed in AFI 31-218(I).
3. Motor Vehicle Registration.
     3.1. Registration Policy.
        3.1.1. Register motor vehicles according to guidance in this program and policies
        established by the Installation Commander. The Installation Commander may extend
        registration to anyone they deem appropriate.
     3.2. Individuals who possess a valid DD Form 2, appropriate federal ID or DBIDS generated
     ID card (YARS specific) will be granted access to the installation. When there are multiple
     individuals in the vehicle only one person needs to present the proper identification, during
     normal security operations.
        3.2.1. Vehicles operators must possess and be prepared to show a valid state driver's
        license, proof of vehicle insurance, and proper vehicle registration to enter the
        installation.
        3.2.2. Privately owned vehicles (POV’s) entering the installations are subject to search
        (inspection) at all times. Random numbers are assigned each week to establish which
        vehicles are inspected, utilizing the Random Anti-terrorism Formula (RAM) identified in
        RAM #33. During the inspection process vehicles operators will be required to show a
        valid state driver's license, proof of vehicle insurance, and proper vehicle registration to
        operate a motor vehicle on the installation.
        3.2.3. Unannounced civilian police, ambulances, or fire trucks must be checked for a
        need to enter the installation by verification through Emergency Control Center (ECC).
        Announced emergency vehicles may proceed directly on the installation after a quick
        cursory check.
     3.3. Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) vehicles are usually unmarked,
     AFOSI agents may display their AFOSI placard in the front windshield of the vehicle, show
     their AFOSI credentials or valid DD Form 2 to gain entry onto the installation.
     3.4. Commercial vehicles must produce a valid Bill of Lading to the Installation Entry
     Controller to gain entry onto the installation. The entry controller will direct the vehicle
     operator to proceed to the 910SFS Pass and Registration Office to get the proper clearance to
     enter. During the inspection process vehicles operators will be required to show a valid state
     driver's license, proof of vehicle insurance, and proper vehicle registration to operate a motor
     vehicle on the installation.
        3.4.1. If the 910SFS Pass and Registration office is not staffed, contact the unit/agency
        identified as the delivery destination to ensure they are aware that the cargo has arrived,
        verify the validity of the delivery and request an escort.
910AWI31-218 17 APRIL 2014                                                                      7


     3.4.2. All commercial vehicles, regardless of size or entry time, will be inspected prior to
     entering the installation. Commercial vehicles with Hazardous Material placards will not
     be inspected within the vehicle inspection facility. The inspections will take place in the
     open overflow lane at the main gate.
  3.5. Visitor procedures:
     3.5.1. When pass and registration is not manned the installation entry controller may
     issue either a DBIDS generated pass or an AF Form 75, Visitor/Vehicle Pass, for up to a
     72-hour period. Visitors/contractors who require passes for more than 72 hours will be
     issued a 72-hour pass by the installation entry controller and directed to go to the Pass
     and Registration Office inside Bldg 102 to request a Visitor's Pass for more than 72
     hours. When the Pass and Registration Office is manned all visitors will be directed to
     Building 102. All visitors must possess and produce a valid state driver's license, proof of
     vehicle insurance, and proper vehicle registration. Valid International driver’s licenses
     will be recognized and are authorized for use on the installation
     3.5.2. When a sponsor or government activity assigned to the installation expects a
     visitor of commercial/military delivery, they will forward the appropriate information to
     910 SFS Police Services (S5) office, who will verify the information and in turn forward
     it to the Pass and Registration office. To receive approvals for access provide the
     following information: Full name and date/time of expected arrival of the visitor(s);
     destination; base point of contact; base point of contact phone number. Once the expected
     visitor/delivery arrives and their driver's license, proof of vehicle insurance, and proof of
     vehicle registration has been established, the Pass and Registration office will issue the
     proper pass. If the time of arrival is not during normal duty hours, the Pass and
     Registration section will forward the appropriate pass to the gate at the end of the duty
     day.
  3.6. Standards for Impoundment.
     3.6.1. The on-duty 910SFS Flight Chief, or above, will determine when the vehicle will
     be driven or moved without owner’s consent if the owner cannot be contacted or the
     owner refuses and conditions in AFI 31-218(I) are present.
     3.6.2. A vehicle should not be impounded unless it interferes with traffic, threatens
     public safety or convenience, is involved in criminal activity, contains evidence of
     criminal activity, or is stolen or abandoned.
     3.6.3. The impoundment of vehicles is inappropriate if other reasonable alternatives
     exist. When possible, attempt to locate the owner of the POV and have the vehicle
     removed. If reasonably feasible, allow another responsible person to drive or tow the
     POV, if they have provided proof of permission from the owner, operator, or person
     empowered to control the vehicle. However in such cases, Security Forces (or towing
     contractor) is not responsible for safeguarding the vehicle. Impounding of POVs is
     justified when any of the following conditions exist:
         3.6.3.1. The vehicle is illegally parked.
         3.6.3.2. On a street, or is double-parked and interferes with the orderly flow of
         traffic.
8                                                           910AWI31-218 17 APRIL 2014


       3.6.3.3. On a sidewalk, within an intersection, on a crosswalk, in a fire lane, or is
       blocking a driveway so that the vehicle interferes with operations or creates a safety
       hazard to other roadway users or the general public.
       3.6.3.4. When blocking an emergency exit door of any public place.
       3.6.3.5. In a “Tow-Away” zone that is so marked with signs.
       3.6.3.6. When left unattended or abandoned in or adjacent to a Restricted or
       Controlled area.
       3.6.3.7. The vehicle interferes with or is involved in one of the following.
          3.6.3.7.1. Street cleaning or snow removal operations after attempts to contact the
          owner fail
          3.6.3.7.2. Emergency operations during a natural disaster, fire, or other
          emergency
       3.6.3.8. The vehicle was used in a crime or contains evidence of criminal activity
       3.6.3.9. The owner or person in charge of the vehicle is apprehended and therefore
       unable (or unwilling) to arrange removal of the vehicle
       3.6.3.10. The POV is mechanically defective and is a menace to others using the
       public roadways
       3.6.3.11. The POV is disabled by a traffic accident and the operator in unavailable or
       physically incapable of having the vehicle towed to a place of safety for storage or
       safekeeping
       3.6.3.12. Law enforcement personnel reasonably believe the vehicle is abandoned
       3.6.3.13. When a licensed driver is absent from the scene
    3.6.4. Towing, Storage, and Impounding:
       3.6.4.1. The Air Force or a contracted wrecker service may tow and store impounded
       POVs depending on availability of towing services and the Installation Commander’s
       preference.
    3.6.5. Procedures for Impoundment:
       3.6.5.1. Unattended POVs:
          3.6.5.1.1. Conspicuously place DD Form 2507, Abandoned Vehicle Notice (See
          DODD 5525.4), on POVs considered abandoned or improperly unattended.
          Document this action with an entry in the security forces blotter.
          3.6.5.1.2. Allow the owner three days from the date the POV is tagged to remove
          the vehicle, except for cases where the vehicle is interfering with or impeding
          regular flow of traffic. Have the vehicle towed if it is not moved within the
          allotted time. If a contracted wrecker service is used, complete a DD Form 2505,
          Abandoned Vehicle Removal Authorization
          3.6.5.1.3. After the vehicle is removed, security forces or the contractor
          completes the DD Form 2506, Vehicle Impoundment Report (See DODD 5525.4),
910AWI31-218 17 APRIL 2014                                                                     9


            as a record of action taken.
            3.6.5.1.4. Law enforcement personnel or the contractor conduct an inventory
            listing personal property. Do not open closed containers such as a suitcase unless
            necessary to identify the owner or if the contents might present a danger to the
            public. In most cases, listing the container and sealing it with security tape will
            suffice.
            3.6.5.1.5. Place personal property in a secure area for safekeeping.
            3.6.5.1.6. Forward DD Form 2507, Notice of Vehicle Impoundment (See DODD
            5525.4), by certified mail to the address of the last known owner of the vehicle to
            advise the owner of the impoundment action and request information concerning
            the owner’s intentions concerning the vehicle.
        3.6.5.2. Stolen POVs or vehicles involved in criminal activity:
            3.6.5.2.1. Keep vehicles in Air Force custody when holding them for evidentiary
            purposes. Release recovered stolen POVs to the registered owner, unless held for
            evidentiary purposes, or to the law enforcement agency reporting the vehicle
            stolen, as appropriate.
            3.6.5.2.2. At times, civilian law enforcement or civilian government agencies will
            request the Air Force impound an on-base vehicle for reasons not related to
            military issues. Staff such requests through the Staff Judge Advocate (SJA) and
            DFC. When appropriate, comply and support such requests and impound the
            vehicle for a reasonable period. Release the vehicle if civil authorities do not take
            custody of the vehicle within a reasonable period as determined by the Installation
            Commander.
     3.6.6. Search Incident to Impoundment Based on Criminal Activity:
        3.6.6.1. Search of a POV in conjunction with impoundment based on criminal
        activity will likely occur in one of the following situations:
        3.6.6.2. The owner or operator is not present. This situation could arise during traffic
        and crime-related impoundments and abandoned vehicle seizures. Do not search the
        vehicle unless evidence or contraband is in plain view or is readily discernible on the
        outside as evidence of criminal activity. When in doubt, obtain proper search
        authority before searching.
        3.6.6.3. The owner or operator is present. This situation can occur during a traffic or
        criminal incident or if the owner is apprehended for a crime or serious traffic
        violation and sufficient probable cause exists to seize the vehicle. In some cases, the
        operator is present but is unwilling, incapacitated, or otherwise unable to make
        adequate arrangements to safeguard the vehicle. As a general rule, you may search
        vehicle without search authority when there is reasonable danger to Security Forces
        or public, there is a risk of destruction of evidence, or the search is reasonable under
        rules governing search incident to apprehension.
     3.6.7. Disposition of Vehicles After Impoundment:
 10                                                           910AWI31-218 17 APRIL 2014


          3.6.7.1. When a vehicle is impounded, hold it for as long as necessary for
          evidentiary, law enforcement, or other legal purposes. Contact the installation SJA
          prior to taking any action. Unless directed by competent authority, release vehicles
          and property when no longer needed for one of the reasons stated above. Review
          Title 10, USC 2575, Disposition of Unclaimed Property, and DoD Directive 4160.21-
          m, Defense Reutilization Marketing Manual, (when DRMO is used) and AFI 31-
          218(I) before taking action of vehicles not claimed by the owner or an authorized
          agent.
          3.6.7.2. A vehicle is considered abandoned 60 days after making reasonable, good-
          faith efforts to contact the owner or when the owner is contacted and fails to take
          appropriate steps to assume responsibility for the vehicle. When owners decline to
          recover their vehicles, attempt to secure release of the vehicle by having the
          registered owners complete and sign the DD Form 2507. The 60-day waiting period
          does not apply when the owner releases the vehicle to the Air Force on DD Form
          2507, signed letter, power of attorney, or other legally recognized document.
          3.6.7.3. Once the vehicle becomes the lawful possession of the Air Force, process the
          vehicle as abandoned property per local procedures. Unless otherwise directed,
          Installation Commanders have considerable latitude in determining the best use for,
          or disposal of, abandoned property. Scrap, auction, or use to support Morale,
          Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) activities are potential options.
4. Traffic Planning and Codes.
   4.1. Traffic Planning
      4.1.1. Safe and efficient movement of traffic on the installation requires traffic
      supervision. A strong supervision program includes sound traffic circulation planning,
      supervision and control of motor vehicle traffic. Proactive publication and enforcement
      of traffic laws and regulations together with timely and professional investigation of
      motor vehicle accidents are also important.
      4.1.2. The Installation Commander develops the traffic circulation plan that provides for
      the safest and most efficient use of primary and secondary roads. The base traffic
      engineer, DFC, safety officer, and other concerned agencies develop the traffic
      circulation plan. Planning is usually conducted at the Funds Management Board (FMB).
   4.2. Installation Traffic Codes.
      4.2.1. The Installation Commander establishes a traffic code for operation of motor
      vehicles on the installation. Installation traffic codes contain the base rules of the road
      and will, to the degree possible conform to the code of the state of Ohio. The DFC is
      responsible for developing the traffic code and for ensuring it meets all local and legal
      requirements.
      4.2.2. Motor Vehicle Laws.
          4.2.2.1. Compliance with order of Security Forces; Fleeing from Security Forces
          after a signal to stop.
              4.2.2.1.1. No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of any
              Security Forces member invested with authority to direct, control, or regulate
910AWI31-218 17 APRIL 2014                                                                      11


           traffic. No person shall operate a motor vehicle so as to willfully elude or flee
           Security Forces personnel after receiving a visual or audible signal to bring
           his/her vehicle to a stop.
        4.2.2.2. Emergency Vehicles to proceed cautiously past red or stop signal.
           4.2.2.2.1. The driver of any emergency vehicle when responding to an emergency
           call, upon approaching a red or stop signal or any stop sign shall slow down as
           necessary for safety to traffic but may proceed cautiously past such red or stop
           signal with due regard for the safety of all persons using the street or highway.
        4.2.2.3. Emergency vehicles exempted from speed limits.
           4.2.2.3.1. Speed limitations do not apply to emergency vehicles or public safety
           vehicles when they are responding to emergency calls and are equipped with and
           displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible to the front of
           the vehicle and when the drivers thereof sound audible signals by siren, or vehicle
           horn. This section does not relieve the driver of an emergency vehicle from the
           duty to drive with due caution for the safety of all persons using the street or
           highway.
        4.2.2.4. Lanes of travel upon roadways.
           4.2.2.4.1. Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
           the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
           4.2.2.4.2. When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
           direction or when making a left turn under rules governing such movements.
           4.2.2.4.3. When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left of
           the center of the roadway and person doing so shall yield right of way to all
           vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the unobstructed portion of the
           highway within such distances as to constitute an immediate hazard.
           4.2.2.4.4. When driving upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for
           one-way traffic.
           4.2.2.4.5. This section shall not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the
           centerline in making a left turn into or from a parking lot or driveway.
        4.2.2.5. Vehicles travelling in opposite directions.
           4.2.2.5.1. Operators of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each
           other to the right.
        4.2.2.6. Rules for turns at intersections.
           4.2.2.6.1. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall be
           governed by the following rules:
           4.2.2.6.2. Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close as
           practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
           4.2.2.6.3. At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both directions
           on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left-turn shall be
12                                                         910AWI31-218 17 APRIL 2014


        made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the center line.
     4.2.2.7. Use of signals for stopping, turning, decreased speed, moving left or right;
     limitations.
        4.2.2.7.1. No person shall turn a vehicle or move right or left upon a highway
        unless and until such person has exercised due care to ascertain that the
        movement can be made with reasonable safety nor without giving an appropriate
        signal.
        4.2.2.7.2. When required, a signal of intention to turn or move right or left shall
        be given continuously during not less than the last one hundred feet traveled by
        the vehicle before turning.
        4.2.2.7.3. No person shall stop or suddenly decrease speed of a vehicle without
        first giving an appropriate signal when there is an opportunity to give a signal.
        Any stop or turn signal required by this section shall be given either by means of
        the hand and arm or signal lights that clearly indicate to both approaching and
        following traffic intention to turn or move right or left.
     4.2.2.8. Hand and arm signals.
        4.2.2.8.1. All signals required when given by hand and arm shall be given from
        the left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and such signals shall indicate
        as follows:
        4.2.2.8.2. Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally.
        4.2.2.8.3. Right turn, hand and arm extended upward.
        4.2.2.8.4. Stop or decrease speed, hand and arm extended downward.
     4.2.2.9. Driving in response to stop or yield sign.
        4.2.2.9.1. Except when directed to proceed by security forces, every driver of a
        vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if
        none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if
        none, then at the point nearest the intersection roadway where the driver has a
        view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering it. After
        having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
        intersection or approaching on another roadway.
        4.2.2.9.2. The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow down to a
        speed reasonable for existing conditions and, if required for safety to stop at
        clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near
        side of the intersection, or, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting
        roadway where the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
        intersection.
        4.2.2.9.3. Whenever a driver is involved in a collision with a vehicle in the
        intersection or junction of roadways, after driving past a yield sign without
        stopping, the collision shall be evidence of the driver’s failure to yield the right-
        of-way.
910AWI31-218 17 APRIL 2014                                                                  13


        4.2.2.10. Entering roadway from any place other than another roadway; Duty to
        yield.
           4.2.2.10.1. The operator of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from
           anyplace other than another roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all traffic
           approaching on the roadway.
        4.2.2.11. Right-of-way of emergency vehicles.
           4.2.2.11.1. Upon approaching an emergency vehicle, equipped with at least one
           flashing, rotating or oscillating light and the driver is giving audible signal by
           siren, or vehicle horn, the driver of every other vehicle shall immediately drive to
           a position parallel to, and as close as possible to, the right edge or curb of the
           roadway and stop and remain in such position until the emergency vehicle has
           passed, except when otherwise directed by Security Forces personnel. This
           section does not relieve the driver of an emergency vehicle from the duty to drive
           with due regard for the safety of all persons and property on the roadway.
        4.2.2.12. Pedestrian yield, Emergency vehicle.
           4.2.2.12.1. Upon the immediate approach of an emergency vehicle, every
           pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the emergency vehicle.
        4.2.2.13. Right-of-way of pedestrian on crosswalk; Limitations.
           4.2.2.13.1. When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation the
           driver of a vehicle, shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if need
           be so to yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway. No pedestrian shall suddenly
           leave a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle,
           which is so close as to constitute an immediate hazard. Whenever any vehicle is
           stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to
           permit a pedestrian to cross the roadway, the driver of any other vehicle
           approaching from the rear shall not overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
        4.2.2.14. Pedestrian crossing roadway outside of a crosswalk.
           4.2.2.14.1. Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
           marked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
           No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless authorized by
           official traffic control devices.
        4.2.2.15. Pedestrian(s) walking along highways.
           4.2.2.15.1. Where a sidewalk is provided, any pedestrian walking along and upon
           a roadway shall walk only on the sidewalk.
           4.2.2.15.2. Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
           upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practical from the edge of
           the roadway.
           4.2.2.15.3. Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
           walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practical to an outside
           edge of the roadway, and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on the left
           side of the roadway.
14                                                          910AWI31-218 17 APRIL 2014


        4.2.2.16. Prohibition against consumption in a motor vehicle.
            4.2.2.16.1. No person shall consume any beer or intoxicating liquor in a motor
            vehicle nor have an open container of alcohol or intoxicating liquor.
     4.2.3. DoD Bicycle safety rules.
        4.2.3.1. Bicycle and tricycle (non-motorized two and three wheeled vehicles) safety
        rules will be applied under the generic term bicycle for this AWI.
        4.2.3.2. A person operating a bicycle shall not ride other than upon the permanent
        and regular seat attached thereto, nor carry any other person upon such bicycle other
        than upon a firmly attached and regular seat thereon.
        4.2.3.3. No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article that
        prevents the driver from keeping both hands on the handlebars.
        4.2.3.4. A bicycle must be equipped with a headlight and rear reflectors at a
        minimum, when riding the bicycle after dark.
        4.2.3.5. All personnel (including dependents, contractors, retirees, etc) who ride
        bicycles on the installation must wear an approved (i.e., American National Standards
        Institute [ANSI] or Snell Memorial Foundation) bicycle helmet except during duties
        on the flightline.
5. Motorcycles, Motor-Scooters, Mopeds, ATVs, and Snowmobiles on Air Force
Installations.
  5.1. Motorcycles, Mopeds, and Motor Scooters.
     5.1.1. Operators must comply with special requirements when driving motorcycles,
     mopeds, motor-scooters or other two or three wheeled motorized vehicles. Refer to AFI
     91-207 for helmet, eye, and clothing safety requirements.
     5.1.2. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) requirements as outlined in DoDI 6055.4
     and AFI 91-207 are required for riders.
     5.1.3. Failure to wear the PPE or comply with licensing or operator training requirements
     may be considered in making Line-of-Duty (LOD) determinations if the injury is from
     such nonuse of PPE or noncompliance.
  5.2. ATVs and Snowmobiles.
     5.2.1. An All-Terrain Vehicle (ATV) is a motorized vehicle with three or four wheels,
     low pressure tires, a wheel base of 50 inches or less, an overall weight of 600 pounds or
     less, a handlebar for steering, and seat designed to be straddled. A snowmobile is a
     motorized vehicle designed to operate on snow surfaces. No snowmobiles are authorized
     to operate at the Youngstown Air Reserve Station facility.
     5.2.2. Off-road vehicle operators must wear protective devices in accordance with AFI
     91-207, The US Air Force Traffic Safety Program, to include knee/shin guards and
     padded full finger off-road vehicle gloves.
     5.2.3. No passengers will ride on an ATV.
910AWI31-218 17 APRIL 2014                                                                   15


     5.2.4. Any use of an ATV certified to transport munitions must comply with AFMAN
     91-201, Explosive Safety Standards.
  5.3. Operator Safety Requirements.
     5.3.1. When operated on the installation, in both on-and-off road modes, all Government
     or privately owned Motorcycles, Mopeds, Motor Scooters and ATVs must have
     headlights turned on at all times.
  5.4. Off-road Vehicle Operator Training Course.
     5.4.1. This course provides basic riding techniques and strategies necessary for
     government off-road vehicle operators. Units purchasing these vehicles for official use
     must ensure operators complete an applicable safety course that includes hands-on
     training and skill and knowledge evaluations. Purchasing units must develop safety
     requirements for mission and tactical operational training involving motorcycles and
     ATVs and integrate those requirements into tactics, techniques, and training. A Specialty
     Vehicle Institute of America (SVIA) course completion card is proof of course
     completion.
     5.4.2. Attendees are all people who will use ATVs for official business, on or off DoD
     installations. Operators must complete training before operating a Government owned
     ATV.
     5.4.3. ATV Rider’s Course.
         5.4.3.1. This course is modeled after the MSF motorcycle safety courses. It teaches
         riders proper protective gear selection; riding maneuvers such as sharp turns,
         climbing, descending; and traveling hills and surmounting obstacles. By the end of
         six hours, participants are ready for a supervised trail ride during which they
         demonstrate their skills and earn a certificate of proficiency.
  5.5. Golf-Cart Type Vehicles (Government Off-Road Vehicles (GORV).
     5.5.1. AFRC recognizes that several units have purchased and used golf cart-type
     vehicles in lieu of such motor vehicles as small trucks and automobiles. AFRC
     recognizes the economics of doing so and will support the continued use and operation of
     cart-type vehicles within the following parameters: AFI 91-207, The USAF Traffic Safety
     Program, Paragraph 2.2.4.3 that requires an ORM evaluation be completed prior to
     operating these vehicles on the installation.
     5.5.2. Carts will be operated at 25 mph or less.
     5.5.3. If the cart manufacturer states that the installation of occupant restraints would
     void the warranty on the cart, occupant restraints will NOT be installed.
     5.5.4. Obviously, occupant restraints are preferred. But if the structural construction of
     the vehicle will not allow the proper functioning of a restraint, the restraint will not be
     installed.
     5.5.5. Carts must be equipped with turn signals, headlight (s), a slow moving vehicle
     emblem (the universally recognized orange triangle) and windshield wiper (s).
 16                                                             910AWI31-218 17 APRIL 2014


      5.5.6. If carts are operated in winter and snowdrifts present a visibility problem at
      intersections, a brightly colored flag or ball shall be installed atop a standard and attached
      to the cart of sufficient height to be seen above the drifts.
      5.5.7. Individuals newly gained to a work area who are expected to operate a cart must
      satisfactorily demonstrate ability to operate the cart before being tasked to do so. The
      individual’s supervisor will be responsible to ensure the individual’s installation driving
      privileges have not been suspended/revoked and that the test is completed. (NOTE: This
      does not mean that the supervisor has to conduct the test. Anyone designated by the
      supervisor, as long as he/she is competent, may administer the “skills test”.)
6. Headphones, Earphones and Cellular phones.
   6.1. Headphones and Earphones.
      6.1.1. The wearing of headphones and earphones is prohibited while driving a motor
      vehicle on base. This does not negate wearing hearing protection when conditions and
      good judgment dictate its use as when driving in a noise hazard area. This restriction
      does not apply to intercom systems worn by motorcycle operators and their passengers.
   6.2. Cell phones will not be used on the installation while operating a POV or a GOV with
   the exception of utilizing a hands free device.
7. Restraint systems.
   7.1. Operators and passengers of all vehicles operated on this installation will wear restraint
   systems. In addition, operators and passengers of GOVs must wear restraint systems when
   driving or riding off the installation as well.
   7.2. All Air Force active duty and reserve component members on active duty must wear
   restraint systems while driving or riding in a POV whether on or off the installation.
   7.3. U.S. Department of Transportation (US DOT) requires approved infant/child restraint
   devices in POVs for children 4 years old or under and not exceeding 50 pounds in weight.
   7.4. Cars manufactured after model year 1966 require a manufacturer-approved restraint
   system meeting federal traffic safety standards.
   7.5. Operators using vehicles equipped with air bags must still wear the manufacturer’s
   primary restraint system (seat belts).
8. Speed Measuring Devices.
   8.1. Use speed measuring devices in traffic control studies and enforcement programs. Post
   signs to indicate the use of speed measuring devices.
   8.2. Equipment purchases. If possible, consider purchasing the same brand and model of
   equipment as used by civilian counterparts. Where possible, attend the same or similar
   certification courses used by local authorities.
   8.3. Training and certification standards.
      8.3.1. The DFC should strive to ensure operators of speed-measuring devices meet
      training and certification requirements prescribed by the state or jurisdiction. The DFC
      may establish local training and certification programs for operators of speed-measuring
910AWI31-218 17 APRIL 2014                                                                    17


     devices. If exercising this option, it must be ensured that qualification and training
     standards are admissible as evidence and considered reliable by both military and civil
     authorities. This requirement applies to courts-martial, non-judicial proceedings, and
     civilian courts used to prosecute civilian offenders. Coordination between the military
     staff judge advocate and attorney general is necessary.
     8.3.2. Recertification. Certify operators every three years or more frequently when
     required by the state. The DFC must document and maintain certification and training
     standards in the unit training section.
     8.3.3. Use the following sources in local training and certification programs:
         8.3.3.1. State or local training guides, plans, and procedures.
         8.3.3.2. Publish techniques for radar speed detection and legal aspects of speed-
         measuring devices by the National Highway Safety Administration and the
         International Association of Directors of Law Enforcement Standards and Training.
  8.4. Speed Limits.
     8.4.1. 25 Miles Per Hour (MPH) on all base roads unless otherwise posted.
     8.4.2. 15 MPH within the flight line controlled area.
     8.4.3. 5 MPH within close proximity of any aircraft/when driving inside the restricted
     area.
     8.4.4. 5 MPH when towing aircraft.
     8.4.5. 5 MPH in all parking lots.
     8.4.6. 15 MPH when entering/exiting any installation gate.
  8.5. Traffic Flow.
     8.5.1. Normal traffic flow will enter/exit the Main Gate (gate #1) with the left lane for
     through traffic and the right lane for overflow traffic.
         8.5.1.1. Traffic flow in reference to lane assignments may be changed or altered by
         Security Forces at any time for mission requirements and force protection standards.
     8.5.2. Normal duty day exiting, peak load traffic during unit training assemblies (UTAs)
     and scheduled events may require the use of Gate #2 to effectively control large volumes
     of traffic.
     8.5.3. Point controls will be established at congested locations in order to provide for the
     maximum safe and efficient use of roadways during special events. Coordination with
     local law enforcement agencies will also be accomplished.
     8.5.4. No privately owned vehicles are permitted to drive on the flight line unless they
     are displaying a 910 AW flight line authorization pass issued by the 910 AW Airfield
     Manager office.
     8.5.5. During periods of increased Force Protection Conditions (FPCONS) vehicle and
     foot traffic will be diverted away from critical facilities and equipment by blocking roads.
     Determination to close installation roads or access points will be made by DFC.
18                                                             910AWI31-218 17 APRIL 2014


  8.6. Parking.
     8.6.1. Illegal parking contributes to congestion and slows traffic on the installation.
     Strong enforcement of parking rules results in better use of available parking while
     reducing traffic accidents and hazards. Combine enforcement with community education
     and awareness in areas where illegal parking is a problem.
     8.6.2. Parking lot procedures:
         8.6.2.1. Lots containing dual-block angle parking:
            8.6.2.1.1. Pull into right angle slots so as to place right front wheel at extreme
            right of near block and left front wheel against left of far block.
            8.6.2.1.2. Pull into left angle slots so as to place left front wheel at extreme left of
            near block and right front wheel against right of far block.
         8.6.2.2. Lots containing wide single blocks:
            8.6.2.2.1. Align vehicles so a square attitude exists.
            8.6.2.2.2. Subsequent vehicles will align with first vehicle until a row is
            complete.
            8.6.2.2.3. The same procedure will be followed when forming the next row.
         8.6.2.3. Lots where no parking blocks exist:
            8.6.2.3.1. Align vehicles so a square attitude exists.
            8.6.2.3.2. Subsequent vehicles will align with the first vehicle until a row is
            complete but leaving room on both ends for vehicles to pass.
            8.6.2.3.3. The same procedure will be followed when forming the next row.
         8.6.2.3.4. Prohibited Parking:
            8.6.2.3.4.1. In a space reserved for some other specific vehicle.
            8.6.2.3.4.2. Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant, street corner or intersection.
            8.6.2.3.4.3. Within 25 feet of a building (unless already approved for parking).
            8.6.2.3.4.4. In a fire lane.
            8.6.2.3.4.5. When blocking an entrance or exit to a building.
            8.6.2.3.4.6. On a street blocking one lane of traffic.
            8.6.2.3.4.7. On a road shoulder.
            8.6.2.3.4.8. On grass, unless parking is designated by the Installation Commander
            under expanded parking conditions due to an open house, large visiting groups,
            and other similar events.
            8.6.2.3.4.9. On access aprons around hangers.
            8.6.2.3.4.10. On sidewalks and curbing.
            8.6.2.3.4.11. In areas designated as loading zones.
910AWI31-218 17 APRIL 2014                                                                     19


             8.6.2.3.4.12. The above prohibited parking restrictions do not apply to the Fire
             Department and Security Forces in that area. This is due to the response
             requirement in an emergency.
             8.6.2.3.4.13. All motor vehicles parked on the installation will be properly
             registered and plated as prescribed by state law.
  8.7. Reserved or Assigned Parking Areas or Signs used on Youngstown Air Reserve Station
  (YARS):
     8.7.1. Installation Commander (910AW/CC):
         8.7.1.1. 910 AW/CC will have reserved slots in various lots to support TDY,
         deployed or mobilized personnel.
         8.7.1.2. Limited unsecured parking is available for deployed military personnel at
         specific locations on base (contact respective Unit Deployment Manager(s) for
         location(s)). Long term parking is at the risk of the deployed member and the 910
         Airlift Wing incurs no liability whatsoever for vehicles parked on base during
         deployment activities. A Deployed/TDY Parking Permit must be obtained from the
         910SFS/S5 office, located at YARS Building 400, then completed with the original
         sent to the 910SFS/S5P office, a copy to the deployed member’s unit, and a copy with
         the deployed member’s family. (See Attachment 2 for examples.)
     8.7.2. Visitor Parking:
         8.7.2.1. Slots will be made available in various lots for visitors to the Youngstown
         Air Reserve Station in all parking lots.
     8.7.3. Military Vehicles:
         8.7.3.1. Slots will be made available in various lots for specific government vehicles
         to enable mail pickup and delivery and other official business to be conducted.
     8.7.4. Handicapped Parking:
         8.7.4.1. Slots will be made available for handicapped persons in selected lots used by
         the general public and lots adjacent to the areas in which handicapped persons are
         working
  8.8. Adverse Weather:
     8.8.1. Provisions for adverse road and weather conditions affecting this installation and
     its employees are contained in the base Snow and Ice Control Plan and the 910AW
     Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan (CEMP) 10-2. When the situation
     dictates, refer to the appropriate plan for specific instructions.
  8.9. Special Events.
     8.9.1. Due to the small size of this installation and accessibility, large events such as air
     shows are very difficult to manage. Parking for large events requires the use of unpaved
     areas of the base such as grass-covered areas and fields. Weather permitting, all available
     space will be used for parking. Planning and coordination for specialized events will be
     conducted in meetings designated for the specific event.
 20                                                              910AWI31-218 17 APRIL 2014


   8.10. Traffic Control During FPCONS:
       8.10.1. During periods of heightened security, traffic flow will be altered to protect
       personnel and resources from attack. Barriers will be placed at strategic locations in
       order to impede the normal flow of traffic. Heavy equipment or jersey barriers will be
       placed at the Main Gate to obstruct the normal flow of traffic coning on the installation.
       An emergency exit other than the Main Gate will be designated and used in the event a
       terrorist act occurs on this installation. This emergency exit will be used by all
       nonessential personnel and secured when they are safely off the installation.
9. Traffic Accident Investigation.
   9.1. Conduct detailed investigations of the following:
   9.2. A major traffic accident is any accident involving a fatality, injury or property damage
   above the amount established by Installation Commanders. Monetary damage amounts for
   major accidents are typically $10,000. The investigation of major accidents should be
   accomplished by a trained accident investigator. MAJCOMs will determine the level of
   training required.
   9.3. Generally, a detailed accident investigation includes, but is not limited to, an AF Form
   1315, Accident Report, field sketch, scale diagram (if death or serious bodily harm), and
   accident narrative.
   9.4. All accidents involving a fatality or personal injury.
10. Traffic Accident Investigation Reports.
   10.1. Anyone involved in an on-base vehicle accident must immediately report the incident
   to the base/facility Security Forces. Report off-base accidents to the Security Forces control
   center if they involve injuries to military personnel or damage to military property. The DFC
   must develop a local notification matrix that will ensure notification of appropriate base and
   civilian agencies.
   10.2. The Security Forces will act as the focal point for gathering off-base accident
   information. Record the information in the Security Forces Desk Blotter. When possible,
   obtain copies of major accident reports prepared by investigating civilian police agencies.
   10.3. Security forces will respond to all on-base major vehicle accidents to accomplish the
   following:
       10.3.1. Render first aid and arrange for medical assistance.
       10.3.2. Protect personal property.
       10.3.3. Normalize traffic.
       10.3.4. Identify witnesses and personnel involved.
       10.3.5. Conduct a formal investigation.
       10.3.6. The DFC determines (with Installation Commander approval) when and/or if
       minor accidents require investigation or a police response.
       10.3.7. Report minor accidents not involving a police response to security forces within
       72 hours. Record accident information in the security forces blotter.
910AWI31-218 17 APRIL 2014                                                                   21


11. Traffic Violation Reports.
   11.1. The Installation Commander establishes procedures for disposing of traffic violation
   cases through administrative or judicial action consistent with the Uniform Code of Military
   Justice (UCMJ) and federal law. Additionally, forward a copy of all violation reports on
   military personnel and DoD civilian employees apprehended for intoxicated driving to the
   Substance Abuse Office, Drug and Alcohol Control. When a DD Form 1408, Armed Forces
   Traffic Ticket is used, distribute the form as follows:
   11.2. Provide the pink copy to the violator with normal reporting instructions and rebuttal
   instructions.
   11.3. Forward the white copy to the service member’s commander, to the commander of the
   family member’s sponsor, or to the civilian’s supervisor or employer for administrative
   action within the unit/organization.
   11.4. Forward the yellow copy to the Security Forces Administration (S5P) branch for
   processing and tracking until the white “action copy” is returned by the unit commander,
   section commander, or First Sergeant. When the white copy is received, review it for action
   taken; annotate the information in the Security Forces Management Information System
   (SFMIS) or the AF Form 1313, Driver Record, with the moving or non-moving violation
   and any points assessed. File the white and yellow copies with the driver record.
12. Standards and Procedures for Processing Intoxicated Drivers.
   12.1. As a minimum, the DFC will ensure that installation law enforcement personnel are
   trained to do the following:
   12.2. Recognize signs of alcohol and other drug impairment in persons operating motor
   vehicles.
   12.3. Prepare the DD Form 1920, Alcohol Incident Report, or other form which adequately
   documents sobriety testing of an individual.
   12.4. Perform standard field sobriety tests. The standard Air Force field sobriety test
   consists of the one leg stand, the walk and turn, and the horizontal gaze nystagmus. Also
   consider any local or state sobriety test requirements in addition to the above standard Air
   Force tests.
   12.5. Determine to a reasonable and practicable degree when a person appears intoxicated,
   but is actually physically or mentally ill and requires prompt medical attention.
   12.6. Understand the operation of breath-testing devices.
   12.7. If the installation uses breath testing devices, the CSF will ensure operators of these
   devices are chosen for integrity, maturity, and sound judgment.
   12.8. Meet installation, and where possible, state certification standards.
   12.9. Use only breath-testing devices listed on the approved National Highway
   Transportation Safety Administration (NHTSA) conforming products list published in the
   Federal Register.
13. Detection, Apprehension, and Testing of Intoxicated drivers.
 22                                                             910AWI31-218 17 APRIL 2014


   13.1. Most of the time Security Force personnel will detect impaired drivers by observing
   unusual or abnormal driving behavior. Stop these drivers and determine the cause of their
   unusual driving behavior. If Security Force personnel reasonably conclude that the
   individual in control of the vehicle is impaired, they will perform field sobriety tests. The
   DD Form 1920, Alcohol Influence Report, is used in examining, interpreting, and recording
   results of such tests.
14. Off-installation Traffic Activities.
   14.1. Civil authorities enforce traffic laws in areas not under military control. Likewise,
   security forces often investigate on-base accidents and incidents of interest to local
   authorities. Consequently, the 910 Security Forces will share and exchange information with
   civil authorities IAW the Federal Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and the Federal
   Privacy Act. 910 SFS/S5 will be responsible for receiving, processing, and securing of
   traffic and related incident reports received from other investigative agencies.
15. Compliance with Local and State Laws.
   15.1. The Installation Commander must ensure drivers comply with state and local laws
   when operating government vehicles on or off base.
   15.2. Commanders must coordinate with the proper local, county, state, or other civil law
   enforcement agencies before moving government or property that requires special handling
   or exceed legal limits such as weight, length, width, or other hazard standards.
   15.3. The Installation Commander should maintain a close liaison with civil enforcement
   agencies and encourage the following:
       15.3.1. When possible, the prompt release of government vehicles and operators
       involved in accidents or incidents.
       15.3.2. Prompt notice to military authorities when military or drivers of government
       motor vehicles are involved in traffic accidents or detained for serious violations of civil
       traffic laws.
       15.3.3. Prompt notice of any state or local action to suspend, revoke, or restrict the
       driving privileges of personnel assigned to the installation.
16. Driving Records and the Traffic Point System.
   16.1. Driving Records.
       16.1.1. Use SFMIS or the AF Form 1313, Driver Record, to record vehicle traffic
       accidents, moving and parking violations, suspension or revocation actions, and traffic
       point assessments involving military and DoD civilian personnel, their family members,
       and other personnel operating motor vehicles on the installation. In filling out the form,
       use the following codes in the “accident classification” block:
       16.1.2. Identify individuals who are principals in a motor vehicle accident as “S” subject
       or “V” victim.
       16.1.3. Identify accidents appropriately with “MVA” minor vehicle accident; “NLD” no
       liability determined; “PD” property damage; “PI” personal injury; “G” government; “P”
       private; “V” vehicle, and “FO” fixed object.
910AWI31-218 17 APRIL 2014                                                                       23


Table 1. Suspension or Revocation of Driving Privileges.
Assessment: 1. Two-year revocation is mandatory on determination of facts by Installation
Commander.
Violation: Driving while driver’s license or installation driving privileges are under suspension
or revocation.

Assessment: 2. One-year revocation is mandatory on determination of facts by Installation
Commander.
Violation: Refusal to submit to or failure to complete chemical test (implied consent).

Assessment 3. One-year revocation is mandatory on conviction.
Violation:
1. Manslaughter (or negligent homicide by vehicle) resulting from the operation of a vehicle.
2. Driving or in physical control of a motor vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating
liquor 0.08% or greater.
3. Driving a motor vehicle while under the influence of any narcotic or while under the
influence of any other drug (including alcohol) to the degree rendered incapable of safe vehicle
operations.
4. Use of a motor vehicle in the commission of a felony.
5. Fleeing the scene involving death or personal injury (hit and run).
6. Perjury or making a false statement or affidavit under oath to responsible officials relating to
the ownership or operation of motor vehicles.
7. Unauthorized use of a motor vehicle belonging to another, when the act does not amount to a
felony.

Assessment: 4. Suspension for a period of six months or less or revocation for a period not to
exceed one year is discretionary.
Violation:
1. Mental or physical impairment (not including alcohol or other drug use) to the degree
rendered incompetent to drive.
2. Commission of an offense in another state which, if committed on the installation, would
establish grounds for suspension or revocation.
3. Permitting an unlawful or fraudulent use of an official driver’s license.
4. Conviction of fleeing or attempting to elude a police officer.
5. Conviction of racing on the highway.
6. Excessive parking and other non-moving violations.
       16.1.4. When imposing a suspension or revocation because of an off-installation offense,
       the effective date is the same as the date of the civil conviction or the suspension or the
       revocation date of state driving privileges. This effective date can be retroactive.
       16.1.5. No points are assessed solely for revocation or suspense actions. Except for
       implied consent violations, base revocations on a conviction by a civilian court, military
       courts martial, non-judicial punishment under Article 15 of the Uniform Code of Military
       Justice (UCMJ), or a separate hearing as otherwise addressed in this instruction. If
       revocation for implied consent is combined with another revocation, such as one year for
       intoxicated driving, revocations may run consecutively (total of 24 months) or
 24                                                             910AWI31-218 17 APRIL 2014


       concurrently (total of 12 months). Apply the Installation Commander’s policy
       systematically and not on a case-by-case basis.
   16.2. The Traffic Point System.
       16.2.1. The traffic point system provides a uniform administrative device to impartially
       judge personnel’s driving performance. This system is not a disciplinary measure or a
       substitute for punitive action. Further, this system is not intended to interfere in any way
       with the reasonable exercise of the Installation Commander’s prerogative to issue,
       suspend, revoke, deny, or reinstate installation driving privileges.
       16.2.2. Point system application.
           16.2.2.1. The use of the point system and procedures prescribed herein are
           mandatory. The point system applies to civilian personnel operating government
           vehicles on and off the installation and to their POVs driven on-base. It applies to
           military personnel operating GOVs and POVs on or off the installation and to
           dependents, civilian employees, and all other individuals subject to this program
           operating POVs on the installation. Unless an individual submits a rebuttal, assess
           points according to the table below. Also assess points to individuals found guilty by
           a military or civilian court, or upon payment of fine or forfeiture of pay and
           allowances, or posted bond or collateral. Do not use the point system for non-moving
           violations.

Table 2. Point Assessment for Moving Violations.
                                                                                          Points
Violation                                                                                 assessed
Reckless driving (willful and wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property.     6
Owner knowingly and willfully permitting a physically impaired person to operate the
owner’s motor vehicle.                                                                    6
Fleeing the scene (hit and run)-property damage only.                                     6
Driving vehicle while impaired (blood-alcohol content more than 0.05% and less than
0.08% or lesser amount when assimilating a local or state standard.                       6
Speed contests (racing).                                                                  6
Speed too fast for conditions                                                             2
Speed too slow causing potential safety hazard.                                           2
Failure of operator or occupants to use available restraint system devices while
moving (operator assessed points).                                                        2
Failure to properly restrain children in a child restraint system while moving (when
child is 4 years of age or younger or the weight of the child does not exceed 50
pounds), where the state uses a more stringent standard, the Air Force will assimilate    2
the more stringent standard. (See Para 16.2.2.4. below.)
1 to 10 miles per hour over the posted speed limit.                                       3
Over 10 but not more than 15 miles per hour over the posted speed limit.                  4
Over 15 but not more than 20 miles per hour over the posted speed limit.                  5
Over 20 miles per hour above the posted speed limit.                                      6
Following too closely                                                                     4
Failure to yield the right of way to emergency vehicle                                    4
910AWI31-218 17 APRIL 2014                                                                        25


                                                                                             Points
Violation                                                                                    assessed
Failure to stop for school bus or school-crossing signals.                                   4
Failure to obey traffic signals or traffic instructions of an enforcement officer or
traffic warden, or any official regulatory traffic sign or device requiring a full stop or
yield of right of way; denying entry; or requiring direction of traffic.                     4
Improper passing                                                                             4
Failure to yield (no official sign involved).                                                4
Improper turning movements (no official sign involved).                                      3
Wearing of headphones/earphones while driving motor vehicles (two or more                    3
wheels).
Failure to wear an approved helmet and/or eyewear while operating or riding on a
motorcycle, MOPED, or a three or four-wheel vehicle powered vehicle.                         3
Improper overtaking                                                                          3
Other moving violations (involving driver behavior only).                                    3
Operating an unsafe vehicle (See Para. 16.2.2.3. below.)                                     2
Using a cell phone, without hands free device, while operating a motor vehicle               2
Operating a radar detection device to indicate the presence of speed recording
instruments or to transmit simulated erroneous speed (prohibited on DoD                      3
installations).
Driver involved in accident is deemed responsible (only added to points assessed for
specific violations).                                                                        1
Improper Parking. (See Para 16.2.2.5. below.)                                                2
           16.2.2.2. When two or more violations are committed on a single occasion, assess the
           points for the offense having the greater value.
           16.2.2.3. Use this measure for other than minor vehicle safety defects or when a
           driver or vehicle registrant fails to correct a minor defect (i.e., a burned out headlight
           not replaced within the grace period on a warning ticket).
           16.2.2.4. Applies to not using or improper use of a child restraint device, i.e., car
           seat, infant carrier, booster seat/strap modification (when required by manufacturer),
           etc. Assess four points when no restraint system of any kind is used.
           16.2.2.5. When designated in a the local parking plan (i.e., double-parked, parking in
           reserve parking, parking against the flow of traffic, parking for an extended period of
           time in areas not designated as long term.)
   16.3. Point System Procedures:
       16.3.1. Consult AFMAN 31-201, Vol. 7 and AFI 33-364 for processing and rebuttal
       information.
       16.3.2. Reports of moving traffic violations recorded on DD Form 1408 will serve as a
       basis for determining point assessment.
       16.3.3. On receipt of DD Form 1408, US Armed Forces Traffic Ticket, or other military
       law enforcement report of a moving violation (e.g., AF Form 3545, Incident Report) the
26                                                           910AWI31-218 17 APRIL 2014


     unit commander or designated supervisor will conduct an inquiry. The commander will
     take or recommend proper discipline or administrative actions.
     16.3.4. Distribute citation copies and process point assessments.
     16.3.5. The Installation Commander may require the following driver improvement
     measures as appropriate: Advisory letter through the unit commander or supervisor to
     any person who has acquired six traffic points within a six-month period.
     16.3.6. Counseling or driver improvement interview by the unit commander of any
     person who acquires more than 6 points but less than 12 traffic points within a six month
     period.
     16.3.7. Referral for medical evaluation when a driver, based on a reasonable belief,
     appears to have mental or physical limits that had or may have an adverse effect on
     driving ability.
     16.3.8. Attendance at a Driver Improvement Program (DIP) to improve driving skill,
     awareness, or attitude.
     16.3.9. After coordination with the SJA, unit commanders will direct drug and/or alcohol
     testing within 24 hours of suspected alcohol related motor vehicle/traffic incidents or
     misconduct, episodes of aberrant or bizarre behavior or where there is reasonable
     suspicion of drug use and the member refuses to provide consent for testing.
     Commanders are also encouraged to ensure Blood Alcohol Tests (BAT) are taken as soon
     after the incident as possible to determine the level and intensity of alcohol involvement.
     For additional information refer to AFI 31-218(I).
     16.3.10. The Installation Commander may suspend or revoke privileges as provided by
     this program regardless of whether these improvement measures are accomplished.
     16.3.11. Notify in writing, anyone whose driving privileges are suspended or revoked
     (for 1 violation or an accumulation of 12 traffic points within 12 consecutive months, or
     18 traffic points within 24 consecutive months).




                                          JAMES D. DIGNAN, Colonel, USAFR
                                          Commander
910AWI31-218 17 APRIL 2014                                                                  27


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-245, Antiterrorism (AT), 30 March 2009
AFI 31-101, The Integrated Defense, 8 October 2009
AFI 31-201, Security Forces Standards and Procedures, 31 March 2009
AFI 31-218_IP, (Inter-Service Publication) Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, 22 May 2006
AFI33-332, Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program, 5 Jun 2013
AFMAN 31-116, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, 9 May 2012
AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense, 7 July 2009
AFMAN 32-1017, DoD Transportation Engineering Program, 17 November 2003
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 36-810, Substance Abuse Prevention and Control, 22 July 1994
AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, 1 May 2006
AFI 44-121, Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment (ADAPT) Program, 26
September 2001
AFI 51-905, Use of Magistrate Judges for Trial of Misdemeanors Committed by Civilians, 1
June 1998
AFI 91-207, USAF Traffic Safety Program, 22 May 2007
Adopted Forms
AF Form 533, Certificate of Compliance - Private Motor Vehicle Registration
AF Form 75, Visitor/Vehicle Pass
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1313, Driver Record
AF Form 1315, Accident Report
AF Form 2293, US Air Force Motor Vehicle Operator Identification Card
AF Form 3545, Incident Report
CVB Form 1805, United States District Court Violation Notice
DD Form 1920, Alcohol Influence Report
DD Form 2220, DoD Registered Vehicle Decal
DD Form 1408, Armed Forces Traffic Ticket
DD Form 2507, Notice of Vehicle Impoundment
 28                                                    910AWI31-218 17 APRIL 2014


Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigation
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
ATV—All-Terrain Vehicle
CE—(910AW/CE) Civil Engineer
DFC—(910SFS/CC) Defense Force Commander
DBIDS—Defense Biometric Identification System
DIP—Driver Improvement Program
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DRMO—Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office
ECC—Emergency Control Center
FMB—(Financial) Funds Management Board
FO—Fixed Object
FOUO—For Official Use Only
FPCON—Force Protection Condition
G— (US) Government
GOV—Government Owned Vehicle
MAJCOM—Major Command
MSF—Motorcycle Safety Foundation
MSG—(910MSG) Mission Support Group
MVA—Motor Vehicle Accident
MWR—Morale, Welfare and Recreation
NHTSA—National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
NLD—No Liability Determined
ORV—Off - Road Vehicle
P—Private
PD—Property Damage
PI—Personal Injury
910AWI31-218 17 APRIL 2014                                                                    29


PII—Personal Identification Information
POV—Privately Owned Vehicle
SFMIS—Security Forces Management Information System
SJA—Wing/Base Staff Judge Advocate
S5L—(910SFS) Security Forces Police Services
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
U.S.C.—United States Code
V—Vehicle

Terms
Dual—Block Angle Parking–A parking spot displaying painted lineage and or containing two
concrete blocks set on an angle to guide vehicles to proper alignment in the spot when both
wheels touch the marked lines or stationary blocks.
Fire Lane—Fire lanes are those avenues adjacent to buildings which would be used by fire
protection equipment in the event of fire. Fire lanes would include the roadways adjacent to and
around buildings.
Loading Zone—Loading zones are areas set aside to allow individuals to load and unload
vehicles.
Wide—Single Block Parking–A parking spot displaying lineage and or containing one single
concrete block set to guide vehicles to a proper alignment in the spot when both wheels touch the
block.
 30                                                    910AWI31-218 17 APRIL 2014


                                   Attachment 2
                 EXAMPLE, DEPLOYED/TDY PARKING PERMIT

Figure A2.1. Example, Deployed / TDY Parking Permit, Part 1
910AWI31-218 17 APRIL 2014                                   31


Figure A2.2. Example, Deployed/TDY Parking Permit, Part 2.
