BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             910TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
910TH AIRLIFT WING                                                             31-217

                                                                                   19 JULY 2011

                                                                                         Security

                                                                      CONTRACTOR ACCESS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 910 SFS/S3L                                                       Certified by: 910 AW/CC
                                                                    (Col Stephen J. Linsenmeyer)
                                                                                         Pages: 4


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directives (AFPD) 31-1, Integrated Defense. It
establishes the policies and procedures for the issue, use, and collection of contractor access at
Youngstown Air Reserve Station (YARS). This instruction applies to all personnel assigned to
the 910th Airlift Wing. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force Information Management Tool (AF
IMT) 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMTs 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

1. The 910 AW contracting officer/administrator will complete request form and forward
to Security Forces office of Police Services, at least fourteen (14) days prior to the schedule
contract start date, for processing.
   1.1. Upon receiving the appropriate paper work from the contracting officer, 910th Security
   Forces Squadron (SFS) Pass and Registration section will issue a contractor ID. Contractor
   ID’s at YARS will consist of an electronically generated 910 AW Form 12, Contractor
   Identification Card, which will contain individuals name, sponsor, company name, and valid
   times for access, destination and vehicle information.
   1.2. The 910th Security Forces Pass and ID Section will be the sole issuing authority for
   Contractor IDs.
 2                                                                 910AWI31-217 19 JULY 2011


2. Contractors working on base will be issued contractor identification cards (IDs). The
contractor ID, as well as visitor ID cards issued by the Pass and Registration Section.
Authorization to receive a contractor ID from the Pass and Registration Section requires a
Contracting Officer/Administrator to endorse (signed e-mail or fax/with telephonic confirmation)
requesting contractor IDs. The Pass and Registration Section will only accept requests from
individuals/sections on the installation authorized to act as Contracting Officers/Administrators.
     2.1. The Contracting Officer/Administrator is responsible for forwarding all information
     listed below for contractors requiring IDs. The Contracting Officer/Administrator will also
     forward any add-ons to original lists. Information for all requests will require the following.
        2.1.1. Contract Number
        2.1.2. Work Site (Location On The Installation)
        2.1.3. Period Of Performance
        2.1.4. Contracting Officers Point Of Contact (POC)
        2.1.5. Name of Company/Complete Address/Phone Number
        2.1.6. Project Manager’s Name And Phone Number (Mobile Preferred)
        2.1.7. Days/Hours of work-including weekends if applicable
     2.2. All requests for access will be forwarded on a 910 AW Contractor Access Request
     form.
     2.3. When a contractor is from another base, the security manager from the YARS unit to
     which they are assigned will act as the requesting official for their ID cards. Security
     managers will follow the same guidelines as listed in para 1.2 to prepare the request letter.
     Security managers will have contract verifications forwarded to them for security clearance
     purposes. A sample signature is not required due to security managers already having a
     sample signature letter on file.
     2.4. For any vendor, sales representative or any other “business associated” individuals, the
     on base sponsor must provide an e-mail explaining the circumstances why this person
     requires base access. All pertinent data concerning the individual and period of access
     should be included. The maximum time period for this type of pass is one year. For all
     passes issued to contractors, vendors and visitors, the Pass and Registration clerk will check
     the individual’s driver’s license, registration and proof of insurance before issuing a pass. If
     the individual cannot provide a valid driver’s license, registration or proof of insurance, a
     vehicle pass will not be issued. The individual may still be picked up by a sponsor but may
     not operate a vehicle on the installation.
     2.5. Contractor IDs will be required for all contractors operating on the installation for more
     than 30 days. All contractors, whether they posses an ID or not, will be required to possess a
     valid, Air Force (AF) Form 75, Visitor/Vehicle Pass for each individual/vehicle requiring
     access to YARS.
     2.6. Anyone accepting a pass acknowledges consent to the search of any vehicle they
     operate while on Installation. While at the Pass and Registration Section, the recipient of the
     pass will put his/her initials on the back after consent to search is read and understood by the
     bearer.
910AWI31-217 19 JULY 2011                                                                       3


   2.7. Contractors that require access to any restricted area on base will report to Pass and
   Registration after acquiring the appropriate paperwork from their responsible
   military/civilian unit security manager. The unit security manager will annotate in section III
   of AF Form 2586, Unescorted Entry Authorization Certificate, and the expiration date of the
   contract.
   2.8. When the restricted area badge is issued to the contractor, the Pass and Registration
   clerk will type the expiration date of contract on the AF Form 1199, Air Force Entry Control
   Card. A contractor will be required to have a 910th AW Contractor ID if a restricted area
   badge is issued. The only exception to this is if the contractor is retired military or civil
   service and possesses a DoD identification card. Restricted area badges will not be issued for
   convenience purposes or TDY purposes. In Accordance With (IAW) Air Force Instruction
   (AFI) 31-101, Integrated Defense, for an individual to receive a badge, he/she must be
   working in the restricted area on a weekly basis. For Temporary Duty (TDY)’s, it is the
   security manager’s responsibility to coordinate with the TDY base to establish restricted area
   entry procedures for contractors. For any further guidance on the issue of restricted area
   badges, refer to AFI 31-101.
   2.9. Upon termination, resignation or the completion of a contract, the contractor will return
   his/her contractor ID card, restricted area badge (if applicable) and vehicle decals (if
   applicable) to Pass and Registration for out-processing procedures.
3. Any contractor employee may be denied access or badge issuance if convicted of any of
the following felony offenses in the last 10 years and misdemeanors in the last 5 years:
   3.1. Murder
   3.2. Assault With Intent
   3.3. Espionage
   3.4. Sedition
   3.5. Kidnapping
   3.6. Rape or Aggravated Sexual Assault
   3.7. Unlawful Possession, Use, Sale, Distribution, or Manufacture of an Explosive or
   Weapon
   3.8. Extortion
   3.9. Distribution or Intent to Distribute a Controlled Substance
   3.10. Illegal Possession of a Controlled Substance
   3.11. Any Felony Conviction Involving:
      3.11.1. Armed or Unarmed Robbery
      3.11.2. Arson
      3.11.3. Acts Involving a Threat
      3.11.4. Willful Destruction of Property
      3.11.5. Importation or Manufacture of a Controlled Substance
 4                                                                  910AWI31-217 19 JULY 2011


        3.11.6. Burglary or Theft
        3.11.7. Dishonesty, Fraud, or Misrepresentation
        3.11.8. Possession or Distribution of Stolen Property
        3.11.9. Aggravated Assault
        3.11.10. Bribery
        3.11.11. Violence at International Airports
     3.12. Any active warrant of any type.
4. Contractors That Are Foreign National Visit Requests.
     4.1. Official Visit Requests. The sponsor of foreign nationals, completing contract work at
     YARS, must contact the Police Services (S3L) Office (609-1096), at least 30 days in
     advance, to obtain approval from the 910 AW/CC. The sponsor will initiate the request by
     forwarding DD Form 254, Contract Security Classification Specification, and will ensure the
     foreign national is escorted at all times while on the installation. Once the request is approved
     by the 910 AW/CC the request will be returned to 910 SFS/S3L for coordination.
     4.2. Local area checks and National Agency checks will be completed prior to the access
     request being forwarded to the 910 AW/CC. Local area checks will be completed by 910
     SFS/S3L while Nation Agency checks will be completed by AFOSI.




                                               STEPHEN J. LINSENMEYER, JR., Col, USAFR
                                               Commander
