BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             910TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
910TH AIRLIFT WING                                                             91-301

                                                                                23 MARCH 2012

                                                                                           Safety

                                                    YOUNGSTOWN AIR RESERVE STATION
                                                             WING SAFETY PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 910 AW/SEG                                                        Certified by: 910 AW/CC
                                                              (Colonel Stephen Linsenmeyer Jr.)
                                                                                       Pages: 13


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 91-2, Safety Programs, and
AFPD 91-3, Occupational Safety and Health. It establishes procedures that govern the
Youngstown Air Reserve Station (ARS) Safety Program. This publication applies to all
personnel assigned or attached to the 910th Airlift Wing (910AW), Youngstown Air Reserve
Station, Vienna, Ohio. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s
chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

1. Policy. This instruction establishes base guidance for Unit Safety Representatives, Official
Safety Bulletin Boards, base mishap reporting procedures, the local safety awards program,
supervisor safety binders, and unit safety representatives’ safety binders.
2. Unit Safety Representative (USR). These individuals represent their commanders for unit
level safety support and they also represent the Safety Office as another trained professional by
observing daily operations and performing safety briefings and safety inspections within their
unit. As commander’s reps, their function is to know if the safety programs within their units are
meeting Air Force standards. They perform this task by conducting spot inspections on
supervisor’s safety programs, such as the AFOSH Lesson Plan or their Supervisor’s Safety
Binder and working with the Wing Safety Office. USR spot inspections aid Safety staff to assist
 2                                                               910AWI91-301 23 MARCH 2012


commanders in determining the condition of work areas, degree of compliance with standards,
and safe work practices. In addition, USR’s are responsible for the following:
     2.1. Attend USR training and meetings held by the Wing Safety Office.
     2.2. Brief their commander periodically on the status of their safety program within the unit.
     2.3. Document safety reviews and put in their USR Safety Management Binder.
     2.4. Conduct and document inspections/surveillance. Checklists provided by Wing Safety
     may be used. If possible, correct hazards on the spot.
     2.5. Notify supervisors of identified hazards.
     2.6. Distribute mishap prevention information received from the Wing Safety Office or
     higher headquarters. Be sure to document your distribution.
     2.7. Give a periodic safety briefing and document topics covered.
     2.8. Maintain the USR Safety Management Binder.
     2.9. Provide current safety information for Safety Bulletin Boards.
     2.10. Verify the Wing Safety Office is notified immediately of all unit mishaps and assist in
     the investigation of the mishaps. Ensure the supervisor starts preparing the 910 AW Form 4,
     Ground Mishap Report, immediately; see Attachment 1 for instructions and Attachment 2 for
     example of 910AW FORM 4, Ground Safety Mishap Report.
     2.11. Maintain a copy of all unit mishap reports for at least one year.
3. Safety Bulletin Boards: Safety Bulletin Boards provide an avenue for disseminating safety-
related information and educating workers. There will be at least one official Safety Bulletin
Board for each facility with permanent workers routinely occupying the facility during a normal
duty day. The bulletin board will be located in a well-lit, easily accessible area, with a high
traffic flow for the facility. Official Safety Bulletin Boards will be used to post only mishap
prevention and other SAFETY related information. Information posted should be clearly
identified, current, neat, and of interest to the target audience; this will also help to determine the
size of bulletin board required.
     3.1. Official Safety Bulletin Boards for facilities will be identified as ―OFFICIAL SAFETY
     BULLETIN BOARD‖. Bulletin Boards used to display material from more than one
     functional area of Safety (Ground, Explosive, or Flight) may be divided into appropriately
     identified sections. Functional area supervisors may maintain their own safety bulletin boards
     within their areas and all information on them must be current.
     3.2. The Wing Safety Office, upon request, will provide USR’s, facility managers and/or
     supervisors with sufficient quantity of appropriate material to reflect safety program
     activities.
     3.3. The following items will be displayed at a minimum on each Official Safety Bulletin
     Board:
        3.3.1. Wing Commander’s Mishap Prevention Letter.
        3.3.2. 910th Airlift Wing Safety Office (SE) Personnel Listing
910AWI91-301 23 MARCH 2012                                                                      3


       3.3.3. Air Force Visual Aid (AFVA) 91-307, Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
       Program.
       3.3.4. AF Form 457, USAF Hazard Report, and a guide for completion.
       3.3.5. Individual functional areas have additional requirements, such as Hazardous Air
       Traffic Reports (HATR) for Base Operations or BIO Surveys for Industrial Shops.
       3.3.6. Additional SAFETY information or posters for the functional area served.
4. Mishap Reporting Procedures: The following steps shall be accomplished when a ground
mishap involving injury or property damage occurs. However minor the mishap may seem, the
potential for it to have been more serious requires all mishaps to be reported. The purpose of
mishap reporting is mishap prevention.
   4.1. The first individual aware of a mishap or injury should immediately notify appropriate
   authorities; Fire Department (911 or 330-609-1117 by cell phone) for fires, spills or injuries,
   Security Forces (1277) for all mishaps requiring any emergency response or damage report,
   Vehicle Maintenance (1759) for government owned or leased vehicles, and Civil Engineering
   Customer Service (1339) for equipment and real property damage. For all medical assistance
   on base dial 911 using base phones or 330-609-1117 by cell phone.
   4.2. After assistance has been administered by Base Fire Department Emergency Medical
   Technicians, if further treatment is required a local ambulance may be requested. The Base
   Fire Department is the primary office authorized to request ambulance service to base.
   4.3. Supervisors notified of a mishap will immediately notify their unit commander, unit
   safety representative, Military or Civilian Personnel Office (as appropriate), and the Medical
   Squadron if the injured is a reservist.
   4.4. Unit commander ensure the Wing Safety Office and the Wing Commander, if
   appropriate, have been notified when there is a possibility of a reportable mishap.
   4.5. For a civilian injury, the Civilian Personnel Office will furnish the Safety Office with a
   copy of an OSHA Form 301, Injury and Illness Incident Report, in either an electronic or
   hard copy. For a military injury requiring a Line of Duty (LOD) determination, the Medical
   Squadron will provide a checklist to the individual with the Safety Office as one of the
   necessary stops.
   4.6. Unit commander/functional managers will review and sign each ground mishap report
   before submission to ensure proper investigation, identification of causes and appropriate
   corrective actions are being taken. The reports will be routed through the unit safety
   representatives to the Wing Safety Office. Reports must be submitted to the Safety Office
   within three workdays of occurrence.
   4.7. All ground mishaps will be investigated.
       4.7.1. A mishap resulting in a nonfatal injury requiring no more than first aid medical
       treatment will be investigated by the supervisor and reported using the 910 AW Form 4.
       The Safety Office staff will than conduct an appropriate follow-up investigation.
       4.7.2. A mishap resulting in an injury requiring treatment greater than first aid will be
       investigated by either the immediate supervisor, a member of the Safety Office staff, or
 4                                                              910AWI91-301 23 MARCH 2012


        both. A 910 AW Form 4 will be submitted to the Safety Office. The Safety Office staff
        will conduct an appropriate follow-up investigation.
5. Safety Awards Program: Nominations for safety awards may be made by any member of
the wing and should be made by letter to the Chief of Safety or Ground Safety Manager.
Nominations must include detailed reasons for the nomination to include specific actions by the
individual which qualify him/her for the award. Awards will normally be presented at Wing
Commander’s Call and will consist of a certificate, plaque, or other awards deemed appropriate
by the Commander.
     5.1. Wing Safety Award. A Wing Safety Award will be considered for all nominations of
     individuals or groups whose actions reflect positively on the 910th Airlift Wing and or on the
     Air Force. The criteria for these actions is they be above and beyond their normal duty and
     resulted in the prevention of loss of life, limb, property or equipment. The award is limited to
     all 910th personnel, but their action may also involve situations which have occurred outside
     the wing or off base.
        5.1.1. All nominations must be submitted to the Safety Office, who will evaluate the
        nomination for validity and content. After review by the Safety Office the nomination
        will be presented at the next scheduled Quarterly Safety Committee Meeting for their
        recommendation.
        5.1.2. All safety award winners will also be considered and/or submitted for the
        appropriate higher command(s) and Air Force awards.
     5.2. Unit Safety Representative of the Year, one civilian and one military. The Wing Safety
     Office staff will evaluate each USR on meeting attendance and participation, unit safety
     program evaluation to include meeting AFOSH Standards, and USR Management Binder.
6. Supervisor’s Safety Binders:
     6.1. Functional Area Supervisor’s Safety Binder. The primary purpose of the Safety Binder
     is to have one resource to go to in case of an emergency situation. A Functional Area is a
     work unit where all personnel are responsible for the same type duties and are exposed to the
     same type hazards, such as Military Personnel who all perform office duties while Avionics
     Personnel have different specialties within each section exposed to different hazards. In each
     functional area at least one Supervisor’s Safety Binder will be maintained. Binders may be
     shared by supervisors where there are multiple supervisors all sharing the same duties,
     responsibilities, work areas and hazards, such as shift work or multi-tasked office/shop areas.
     Again the purpose is to have one resource for safety without duplicating other items such as
     facility manager duties.
     6.2. Mandatory Items for binder.
        6.2.1. Emergency Numbers. A generic list is available from the Safety Office Home
        page. All supervisors will completed their specific listing based on this guidance.
        6.2.2. Mishap Notification Procedures. A generic guide is available on the Safety Office
        Home page. All supervisors will tailor this guide to their specific areas.
        6.2.3. Applicable Forms and Directives. 910 AW Form 4, CA-1, Federal Employee
        Notice or Claim of Injury, CA-2, Federal Employee Notice of Occupational Disease and
910AWI91-301 23 MARCH 2012                                                                        5


       Claim for Compensation, and CA-16, Authorization for Treatment, and/or procedures,
       NAF-Forms, and AF Form 348, Line of Duty Determination.
       6.2.4. Completed 910 AW Form 4 on mishaps reported within the last two years.
       6.2.5. Supervisor Safety Spot Inspections. A periodic safety inspection conducted by the
       supervisor. This may be as part of a walk-thru or a specific observation of a task.
       Documentation of a safety inspection with comments, positive and negative is required.
       This is a way to develop trends in shops, such as use of personal protective equipment
       (PPE).
       6.2.6. Safety Briefings. Monthly or periodic briefings conducted by the supervisor. A
       good source for subject material is spot inspections.
       6.2.7. Annual Review. Yearly documenting a review of the binder and its’ contents for
       currency. Recommend at least a name and date conducted. Where multiple supervisors,
       such as traditional reservists on military status, share one binder a review by all should be
       documented.
   6.3. Optional items, not a comprehensive list, for binder.
       6.3.1. Operational Risk Management (ORM).
           6.3.1.1. Completed ORM Processes, shop specific.
           6.3.1.2. Unit Implementation & Sustainment Plan
       6.3.2. Safety Checklist(s) from AFOSH Standards or other sources.
       6.3.3. 24 Point Lesson Plan.
       6.3.4. Occupational Physical Exam Requirement.
7. USR Safety Management Binders: At a minimum, the USR Safety Binder which may be
shared by both the full-time and the military reserve USRs will include the following. Some
items such as policy letters may be kept electronically by referencing their location instead of a
hard copy kept in the binder.
   7.1. Letters of Appointment – USR current appointment letter(s).
   7.2. List of Applicable Directives and Forms.
   7.3. Emergency Phone numbers and Mishap Notification Procedures for the unit.
   7.4. Completed 910 AW Form 4s for the unit for the past year at a minimum.
   7.5. Documented Safety Reviews.
   7.6. USR Safety Inspections - Maintain a copy of all unit safety representative inspections as
   described in USR guidance. A log of inspections with a backup of electronic inspection
   reports is acceptable.
   7.7. Copies of Safety Checklists pertinent to the unit or documentation of availability and
   location of checklists.
   7.8. Mishap prevention information received from Wing Safety Office or Higher
   Headquarters.
6                                                         910AWI91-301 23 MARCH 2012


    7.9. Periodic Safety Briefing documentation. A summary of the briefing or complete copies
    should be maintained for at least a year.
    7.10. USR Management Book Review Log - Document annual review and updates.




                                           STEPHEN J. LINSENMEYER, Colonel, USAFR
                                           Commander
910AWI91-301 23 MARCH 2012                                                         7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 91-2, Safety Programs, 28 September 1993
AFPD 91-3, Occupational Safety and Health. 27 September 1993
AFVA 91-307, Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Program,
Prescribed Forms
910 AW Form 4, Ground Safety Mishap Report
Adopted Forms
AF Form 348, Line of Duty Determination
AF Form 457, USAF Hazard Report
CA-1, Federal Employee Notice or Claim of Injury
CA-2, Federal Employee Notice of Occupational Disease and Claim for Compensation
CA-16, Authorization for Treatment, and/or procedures

Abbreviations and Acronyms
910AW—910th Airlift Wing
AF—Air Force Form
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFVA—Air Force Visual Aid
ARS—Air Reserve Station
HATR—Hazardous Air Traffic Reports
LOD—Line of Duty
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORM—Operational Risk Management
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SE—910th Airlift Wing Safety Office
USR—Unit Safety Representative
 8                                                            910AWI91-301 23 MARCH 2012


Terms
Unit Safety Representative (USR).—The individual(s) appointed in writing by the unit
commander as the Unit Safety Representative(s) for their unit. A copy of this appointment letter,
following the format established by the Wing Safety Office, will be maintained by the Wing
Safety Office as confirmation of the appointment(s).
Safety Bulletin Board.—A designated bulletin board used exclusively for safety information
authorized by the Wing Safety Office.
Mishap.—An unplanned or unsought event or series of events, resulting in death, injury,
occupational illness or damage to, or loss of, equipment or property. Cost is not a requirement in
defining a mishap.
910AWI91-301 23 MARCH 2012                                                                         9


                                             Attachment 2
               INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING THE 910AW FORM 4

A2.1. 910 AW Form 4 is to be used to report all ground mishaps. Remember, the purpose of this
form is to help prevent future similar occurrences. This form is fact-finding, not fault-finding.
910 AW Form 4 should be completed by the supervisor.
A2.2. The supervisor will forward the form to their Commander/Functional Manager for their
input. It will then be forwarded through the Unit’s Ground Safety Representative (for record
keeping purposes) to the Wing Safety Office (910 AW/SE) located in Bldg. 128, phone
extension 1391. This form must be completed the same day the accident/injury/mishaps occurs,
and delivered to 910 AW/SE no later than 3 workdays from the accident date, if feasible.
Complete one form for each individual involved.
Block 1. Name of the individual involved in the mishap. (First name, Middle Initial, Last name)
Do not use nick names.
Block 2. Grade of the individual involved in the mishap. If an ART, duty grade, civilian or
military, at time of mishap.
Block 3. Organization the individual is assigned to.
Block 4. Duty AFSC. (Military only)
Block 5. Individual’s job assignment at time of mishap.
Block 6. Age of the individual.
Block 7. Indicate male or female.
Block 8. Enter the date the mishap occurred. Include Year, Month, Date, and day of the week
(i.e., Monday)
Block 9. Enter local time (military time).
Block 10. Show the amount if known, otherwise leave blank.
Block 11. Indicate the number of days if known, otherwise leave blank. This will normally be
reported by the examining physician.
Block 12. Indicate if the mishap occurred on or off base premises. Describe the exact location the
mishap occurred in the box.
Block 13. Describe the injury to the individual as best as possible, or the damage caused by the
mishap.
Block 14. Answer all questions in this block. The Written Instructions can be Tech Orders,
AFOSH Standards, Local OIs, or shop specific training plans and JSAs.
Block 15. If equipment was involved (was it a causal factor in the mishap, or was it damaged in
the mishap), list the condition prior to the mishap.
Block 16. Indicate if supervision of the tasks (s) was provided and adequate.
Block 17. The supervisor should describe in detail as to how the mishap occurred and why. The
―how‖ should be facts only. If there are any witnesses, they should be interviewed separately by
 10                                                            910AWI91-301 23 MARCH 2012


the supervisor (in private, one-on-one) to ascertain the facts. Statements from witness should be
on separate papers. Contact the SAFETY Office if you need assistance or additional training in
this regard.
Block 18. The supervisor should provide information on preventative measures to be taken to
prevent further injury or loss. Briefing the troops is not normally the only response available. Try
to develop realistic solutions. If additional assistance from other agencies, squadron, units, etc.,
is necessary, indicate so in this block.
Block 19-23. Completed by available supervisor for the incident.
Block 24. The unit Commander and/or Functional Manager must review the form. Make any
additional comments, and concur, or make further recommendations.
NOTE: Supervisors make a copy for your records. The original goes to the 910 AW/SE. If you
need assistance, please contact the SAFETY Office at 1391. All supervisors, functional
managers and unit/squadron commanders should be familiar with this form.
910AWI91-301 23 MARCH 2012                          11


                                   Attachment 3
                             SAMPLE 910 AW FORM 4

Figure A3.1. Ground Mishap Report (Front).
12   910AWI91-301 23 MARCH 2012
910AWI91-301 23 MARCH 2012                     13


Figure A3.2. Ground Mishap Report (Reverse).
