BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               910TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
910TH AIRLIFT WING                                                               10-701

                                                                                     19 JULY 2011

                                                                                         Operations

                                                                      OPERATIONS SECURITY

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 910 OSS/OSX                                                           Certified by: 910 OG/CC
                                                                                   (Col Craig Peters)
                                                                                           Pages: 10


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD 10-7), Information Operations
and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 10-701, Operations Security (OPSEC). It establishes
responsibilities and guidelines for conducting the 910th Airlift Wing (910 AW) Operations and
Security (OPSEC) Program. It applies to all base operating support (BOS) contractors and units
assigned or attached to Youngstown Air Reserve Station (YARS). Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to 910th Operations Support Squadron (910 OSS/OSTX),
Youngstown Air Reserve Station (ARS) using the Air Force Form (AF) 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication; route AF 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s
chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This is the initial publication of 910th Airlift Wing Instruction 10-701
1. The Goal of OPSEC. The goal is to identify information, primarily unclassified that relates
to the 910 AW daily and wartime operation which could give an adversary an advantage if
exploited. In conjunction with this identification process is determining the threat against this
critical information and the ways in which this information could be exploited. In assessing the
level of damage that would occur if this information is successfully exploited of the acceptable
or not level of damage (Risk management) must be determined. If this level of damage is not
acceptable then finding ways of preventing the adversary from exploiting the information and
 2                                                               910 AWI 10-701 19 JULY 2011


applying the countermeasures of denying them this advantage. OPSEC is a continuous process.
It is a process which should be used in all operational activities and the planning of those
activities.
2. General Guidelines.
     2.1. OPSEC should be closely coordinated with the security disciplines in the Wing to
     include Computer Security (COMPUSEC), Communications Security (COMSEC),
     Emissions Security (EMSEC) and Information Protection (IP).
     2.2. Commanders at every level in the Wing must take an active role in the program to
     ensure its success.
     2.3. Coordinating with the BOS to ensure all contractors and civilian employees review good
     OPSEC procedures upon commencing activities initially and periodically when tasked.
     2.4. All OPSEC Unit Coordinators must continuously review their programs and critical
     information lists to mitigate the dispersion of unclassified information that could affect the
     unit’s mission or personnel.
3. Wing Program Manager (PM).
     3.1. The 910 AW Commander will appoint an OPSEC Program Manager and an alternate.
     3.1.1. The Program Manager will attend the Signature Management Course within 90 days
     of appoint.
     3.2. The 910 AW PM will:
        3.2.1. Develop the wing’s OPSEC procedures and guidelines, and ensure compliance of
        these directives.
            3.2.1.1. Update the 910 AWI 10-701 as required incorporating any changes
            submitted.
        3.2.2. In coordination with Information Protection Management Office and the Exercise
        Evaluation Team (EET) evaluate the wing’s vulnerability during exercises.
            3.2.2.1. Utilize OPSEC Surveys and assessments with the working groups assistance
            in updating the units Critical Information Lists (CILs) in mitigating this information.
        3.2.3. Advise the 910 AW Commander on OPSEC issues and manage the integration of
        OPSEC measures into daily operations and exercises to increase the wings’ operational
        effectiveness.
        3.2.4. Chair the OPSEC working group meetings and provide minutes from those
        meetings.
        3.2.5. Annually review and update the wing’s critical information list and indicators.
        3.2.6. Provide training to the contractor managers and provide assistance to all the
        OPSEC Unit Coordinators with their programs. All new Unit Coordinators will be
        trained within 90 days of their appointment.
        3.2.7. Ensure newly assigned personnel receive training within 90 days of arrival as a
        part of their Newcomer’s Briefing.
910 AWI 10-701 19 JULY 2011                                                                3


      3.2.8. Complete the wing OPSEC self-inspection checklist annually.
      3.2.9. Annually submit the 910 AW OPSEC Program Report to HQ AFRC/A3XX and
      22 AF/A3V.
      3.2.10. Update the 910 AW Program Manger Continuity Book.
      3.2.11. Update and distribute information through the 910 AW OPSEC COP to the Unit
      Coordinators.
      3.2.12. Order and update OPSEC training materials from the Interagency OPSEC
      Support Staff (IOSS).
4. The 910 AW Unit Coordinators (UC).
   4.1. The OPSEC Unit Coordinator and their alternate will be appointed by the unit
   commander in writing. Either the primary or alternate will be an Air Reserve Technician
   (ART) within the unit. This individual must be thoroughly familiar with day to day
   operations of the unit.
   4.2. The UC will:
      4.2.1. Advise the unit commander and their staff on OPSEC issues.
      4.2.2. Ensure their unit is complying with all OPSEC directives.
      4.2.3. Ensure annual refresher training is accomplished in conjunction with Information
      Protection Computer Based Training (IP CBT) on the Advanced Distributed Learning
      Services (ADLS).
      4.2.4. Provide periodic good OPSEC reminders throughout the year for unit members.
      4.2.5. Update and review their unit’s CIL annually and post any updates on the unit’s
      bulletin boards and on the 910 AW OPSEC Community of Practice (CoP).
      4.2.6. Assist in any OPSEC surveys and assessments which affects the unit.
      4.2.7. Forward any OPSEC issues to the wing program manager and the OPSEC
      working group.
      4.2.8. Complete the unit OPSEC self-inspection checklist annually.
      4.2.9. Each September provide the wing program manager an assessment of their
      program to include annual training accomplished.
      4.2.10. Maintain their unit’s continuity book.
5. Civil Engineering Contracting.
   5.1. The Program Unit Coordinator and their alternate will:
      5.1.1. Be appointed by letter. They must be in position which allows them to oversee
      their sections which play a role in the daily and wartime operations of the wing (i.e.
      contracting projects, etc)
      5.1.2. Pass any recommendations it may have to the appropriate wing, group or unit
      agency.
      5.1.3. Be a member of the 910 AW OPSEC Working Group.
 4                                                                 910 AWI 10-701 19 JULY 2011


        5.1.4. Provide OPSEC awareness training annually to their employees.
        5.1.5. Provide reminders throughout the year for members to practice good OPSEC.
        5.1.6. Train all new fulltime Civilian Civil Engineer (CE) personnel on OPSEC practices
        and thoroughly brief them on the 910 AW Critical Information List and counter
        measures.
        5.1.7. Assist in any OPSEC surveys or assessments which affect the CE contracting.
        5.1.8. Complete an OPSEC self-inspection checklist annually.
6. Public Affairs (PA).
     6.1. The 910 AW Public Affairs Office has a unique position in protecting Critical
     Information while at the same time complying with the Department of Defense (DoD)
     Principles of Information, the PA core competencies as well as PA’s role in Information
     Operations. Open communication between the OPSEC Program Manager and the Chief of
     Public Affairs must be maintained to have an effective OPSEC Program.
     6.2. Public Affairs will appoint a primary and alternate OPSEC representative in writing to
     help protect Critical Information during the day-to-day operations.
     6.3. Public Affairs will inform the OPSEC Program Manager of higher headquarters policy
     and guidelines (PAG) on critical information approved for release to the public and the
     media.
     6.4. The PA OPSEC representative will ensure media releases do not contain Critical
     Information outside of the scope of information approved for release by higher headquarters
     as outlined in 6.3. The Chief of Public Affairs will consult with the Wing OPSEC Program
     Manager prior to release of critical information, not included in 6.3. The protection Of
     Critical Information is always important and risk management must be utilized when the
     release of Critical Information is vital to the mission.
     6.5. The OPSEC “5 Step Process” will be used to mitigate risk.
     6.6. Public Affairs has specific and current guidance pertaining to information releasable to
     the public. It is paramount to the OPSEC program that other 910 AW personnel continue
     protecting Critical Information as published. Critical Information is released only under the
     910 AW Commander’s discretion.
7. EAST Corporation Manager (BOS).
     7.1. The Program Unit Coordinator and their alternate will:
        7.1.1. Be appointed by letter. The manager must be in position which allows them to
        oversee their sections which play a role in the daily and wartime operations of the wing
        (i.e. base operations, transportation.etc)
        7.1.2. Pass any recommendations it may have to the appropriate wing, group or unit
        agency.
        7.1.3. Be a member of the 910 AW OPSEC Working Group.
        7.1.4. Provide OPSEC awareness training annually to their employees.
910 AWI 10-701 19 JULY 2011                                                               5


     7.1.5. Provide reminders throughout the year for BOS members to practice good
     OPSEC.
     7.1.6. Train all new fulltime BOS personnel on OPSEC practices and thoroughly brief
     them on the 910 AW Critical Information List and counter measures.
     7.1.7. Assist in any OPSEC surveys or assessments which affect the BOS contractor.
     7.1.8. Complete an OPSEC self-inspection checklist annually.
8. OPSEC Working Group.
  8.1. The OPSEC working group will be appointed by memorandum from the installation
  commander. The working group will meet semi-annually; during initial planning phase of
  any 910 AW exercises, deployments, and major events; or as directed by the installation
  commander. It is the wing’s forum for OPSEC issues. In addition, the working group will:
  8.2. Periodically review the wing’s critical information list.
  8.3. Assist in any OPSEC surveys or assessments.




                                            STEPHEN J. LINSENMEYER, Col, USAFR
                                            Commander
 6                                                       910 AWI 10-701 19 JULY 2011


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Joint Pub 3-54, Joint Doctrine for Security Operations
AFPD 10-7, Information Operations
AFI 10-701, Operations Security (OPSEC) Instructions
AFI 33-106, Managing High Frequency Radios, Personal Wireless Communication Systems, and
the Military Affiliate Radio System

Abbreviations and Acronyms
910 AW—910th Airlift Wing
AFI—Air Force Instruction
ADLS—Advanced Distributed Learning Services
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
ART—Air Reserve Technician
CE—Civil Engineer
CILs—Critical Information Listings
COMSEC—Communications Security
COMPUSEC—Computer Security
CoP—Community of Practice
DoD—Department of Defense
EMSEC—Emission Security
EET—Exercise Evaluation Team
HQ AFRC/A3XX—
IP—Information Protection
IP CBT—Information Protection Computer Based Training
OPSEC—Operations Security
PA—Public Affairs
PAG—Policy and Guidelines
PM—Program Manager
UC—Unit Coordinators
YARS—Youngstown Air Reserve Station
910 AWI 10-701 19 JULY 2011   7
 8                                                                910 AWI 10-701 19 JULY 2011


                                         Attachment 2
                      CRITICAL INFORMATION ITEMS GUIDANCE

Table A2.1. Critical Information.
NOTE: This table provides general guidance concerning 910 AW Critical Information items
Individuals should review and familiarize themselves with the following listing and their unit-
specific Critical Information items. Each Unit/Group OPSEC Coordinator should develop
specific Critical Information listings for their organization.


CRITICAL                         INDICATORS                         COUNTERMEASURES
INFORMATION
Specific location of core        Commander’s daily schedule   Limited distribution of
facilities, key personnel and                                 documents/100% policy of old
                                 Upcoming events calendar
their activities                                              documents/use Encrypted e-
                                 Protocol calendars and       mail and verifier receivers
                                 schedules                    need to know. Use Computer
                                 CE and Readiness minutes and network access protections
                                 notes                        (firewall, password, etc.)
                                                              Disseminate reminders of
                                 Work Orders/Unfunded         secure communications to
                                 requirement documentation    avoid OPSEC violations.
                                 Using insecure               Request secure nodes of
                                 communications nodes such as communication when risk is
                                 blackberry                   determined unacceptable
Specific mission itineraries,    Contents of exercises/EET          Limit distribution - Do not
objectives and status            scenarios after action reports     share information (phone, E-
                                                                    mail) unless you verify
                                                                    receiver’s need-to-know. Use
                                                                    Encrypted e-mail
Status of implementing           CAT/ ICC/EOC                       Limit ICC EOC and TWG on
conditions (INFOCON,             communications.                    strict need-to-know basis -
DEFCON, FPCON, weather)                                             Computer network access
                                 Threat working Group
                                                                    protections (firewall, other
                                 discussion and findings
                                                                    network software employed,
                                 Emergency actions and
                                                                    passwords, etc.) - Do not leave
                                 response.
                                                                    documents in open public
                                                                    view or unprotected in the
                                                                    office - Properly dispose of
                                                                    (e.g. shred) when obsolete -
                                                                    Do not share information
                                                                    (phone, E-mail) unless you
                                                                    verify receiver’s need-to-
910 AWI 10-701 19 JULY 2011                                                                  9


                                                               know. Use Encrypted e-mail
Computer program passwords     Hard copy information           Do not leave documents in
and user IDs                                                   open public view or
                                                               unprotected in the office -
                                                               Properly dispose of (e.g.
                                                               shred) when obsolete - Do not
                                                               share information (phone, E-
                                                               mail) unless you verify
                                                               receiver’s need-to-know. Use
                                                               Encrypted e-mail
Specific mobility requirements Reporting Instructions,         Do not leave documents in
                               OPORDS, SPINS                   open public view or
                                                               unprotected in the office -
                                                               Properly dispose of (e.g.
                                                               shred) when obsolete - Do not
                                                               share information (phone, E-
                                                               mail) unless you verify
                                                               receiver’s need-to-know. use
                                                               Encrypted e-mail
Privacy ACT FOUO               Civilian and Military Orders,   Do not leave documents in
                               40A’s, travel vouchers recall   open public view or
                               rosters, Alpha rosters key      unprotected in the office -
                               personnel lists                 Properly dispose of (e.g.
                                                               shred) when obsolete - Do not
                                                               share information (phone, E-
                                                               mail) unless you verify
                                                               receiver’s need-to-know
Accident/Mishap details        Exercise and Evaluation Team    Limit ICC EOC and TWG on
                               exercises, ICC/EOC              strict need-to-know basis -
                               communications, Battle Staff    Computer network access
                               Directives                      protections (firewall, other
                                                               network software employed,
                                                               passwords, etc.) - Do not leave
                                                               documents in open public
                                                               view or unprotected in the
                                                               office - Properly dispose of
                                                               (e.g. shred) when obsolete -
                                                               Do not share information
                                                               (phone, E-mail) unless you
                                                               verify receiver’s need-to-know
                                                               Do not leave documents in
                                                               open public view or
                                                               unprotected in the office -
                                                               Properly dispose of (e.g.
 10                                                         910 AWI 10-701 19 JULY 2011


                                                              shred) when obsolete - Do not
                                                              share information over the
                                                              phone unless you verify
                                                              receiver’s need-to-know
Significant Issues/Problems   Newspaper and TV coverage       Ensure all media information
(military related) that are   of Political DV visits, Air     is approved through Public
getting media attention       show /Open House                Affairs prior to release
