BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                             911 AW INSTRUCTION 32-1021
911 AIRLIFT WING                                                                      5 OCTOBER 2002

                                                                                       Civil Engineering

                                                         REVIEW OF CONSTRUCTION PLANS AND
                                                                           SPECIFICATIONS



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 911 AW/CECE (Kirby Manchand)                          Certified by: 911 AW/CC (Col Carl E. Vogt)
Supersedes 911 AWI 32-1021, 16 July 2001                                                     Pages: 2
                                                                                      Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities. It establishes policies and proce-
dures for performing review of construction plans and specifications by installation agencies to ensure
that design errors or omissions are identified and removed before contract bids are obtained.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.




1. Responsibilities. The following agencies will be responsible for performing the review for all Military
Construction Projects. Operations & Maintenance Projects and Simplified Acquisitions of Base Engineer-
ing (SABER) projects.
   1.1. Communications
   1.2. Safety
   1.3. Bioenvironmental Engineering
   1.4. Security Forces
   1.5. Fire Protection
   1.6. Using Agency
   1.7. Base Civil Engineering – CER
   1.8. Base Civil Engineering – CEV
   1.9. Base Civil Engineering – CEC
2                                                                    911AWI32-1021 5 OCTOBER 2002


    1.10. The using agency will verify functional adequacy with specific emphasis incorporating all later
    or incomplete requirements. All agencies will verify that the design provides for, and does not violate,
    requirements established by regulations pertaining to their functions. Review by BCE functions will
    eliminate conflict between in-house and contract work and improve maintainability and standardiza-
    tion of equipment, controls and Real Property Installed Equipment (RPIE).

2. Procedures:
    2.1. Design reviews will be performed at the 35, 90 and 100 percent design levels for all Archi-
    tect-Engineer (A-E) designed projects. Design review for SABER Projects will be performed, as a
    minimum, at the 100% design level.
    2.2. All agencies will be notified by letter or e-mail that project plans and specifications are available
    for review in the Engineering Flight of Civil Engineering, Building 333. Addressees will be allowed
    ten calendar days from the date of the letter to perform their review.
    2.3. Each agency will provide written comments separately for each project to the Base Civil Engi-
    neer. Comments shall be made by e-mail, memo or by AFRC Form 59, Design/Construction Review
    Comments. Project designer will be notified to incorporate all comments at the next design stage or
    before design documents are sent to contracting, as applicable. Written negative replies (no com-
    ments) are required. Comments not intended to be included in the design will be answered in writing
    to the agency by the Engineering staff.
    2.4. The title block of all drawing sheets will include a review coordination block with a space for sig-
    nature and date. The reviewer will sign and date this block at the time of their review to denote that
    they have been given the opportunity to review the plans and specifications. Before the final drawings
    and specifications are reproduced for release to Base Contracting, the reviewer will sign the review
    coordination block on each sheet of the mylar (reproducible) drawings. At this time all previous com-
    ments made by the reviewer should have been incorporated into the final design documents. A sepa-
    rate “8 ½ X 11” certification form will be used for SABER projects due to the informal nature of the
    plans and specifications of these projects.



                                                       CARL E. VOGT, Colonel, USAFR
                                                       Commander
