BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                               911TH AIRLIFT WING
911TH AIRLIFT WING                                                       INSTRUCTION 13-201

                                                                                   4 JUNE 2010

                                                          Space, Missile, Command and Control

                                                                     AIRFIELD OPERATIONS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 911 AW/SBAR                                                        Certified by: 911 OG/CC
Supersedes: 911 AWI 13-201,                                               (Col Daryle Hartman.)
            9 May 2006                                                                   Pages: 7


This instruction implements AFPD 13-2 Air Traffic Control, Airspace, and Range Management.
It establishes and outlines responsibilities and procedures in support of flying operations of the
911 Airlift Wing. This instruction applies to all members assigned to 911 Airlift Wing. Refer
any recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force Form (AF) 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF 847 directly to 911 AW/SBAR, Pittsburgh IAP Air Reserve Station, PA.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Paragraphs 2, 8.2, and
9.2 were rewritten. The Pittsburgh ARS Instruction was updated to incorporate numerous
changes mandated by AFI 13-204, Functional Management of Airfield Operations.
1. The Base Airfield Operations Board (AOB). The purpose of the Base Airfield Operations
Board is to provide a forum for discussing, updating and tracking various activities in support of
the wing flying mission.
2. AOB Membership. The designated chairperson for the Board is the 911 Operations Group
(OG) Commander. Membership of the AOB as determined by the Operations Group Commander
is as follows:
 2                                                                  911AWI13-201 4 JUNE 2010


                        911 OG/CC, Chair
                        758 AS/DO, Operations Officer
                        911 OSF/CC, Operations Support Flight Commander
                        911 AW/SEF, Flight Safety Officer
                        911 OG/OGV, Chief, Standardization Evaluation
                        911 CONTRACTOR, Airfield Manager
                        911 SPTG/CE, Civil Engineers
                        911 AW/SC, Communications Manager
                        911 MXG/CC, Maintenance Group, Commander
                        911 OSF/OSK, Airspace Manager/Tactics Chief


     2.1. The Operations Group Commander directs that the following representatives will be
     invited to attend each quarterly meeting:
                        FAA Air Traffic Control Tower Representative
                        Allegheny County Airport Authority
                        Pennsylvania Air National Guard

     2.2. Other representatives will be invited to attend meetings as directed by the Operations
     Group Commander.
3. Agenda for the Airfield Operations Board. The Airfield Manager will prepare an agenda
and record minutes of the AOB. The following mandatory items will be included in the agenda,
along with any other items deemed appropriate in support of the Wing flying mission:
     3.1. Airspace (terminal, en route, and special use airspace) requires annual review.
     3.2. ATC/Flying Procedures (new, revised, rescinded and seldom used). Requires annual
     review, or as changes occur.
     3.3. Military, FAA, and County Aviation concerns.
     3.4. Airfield Operation Flight-Staffing and proficiency
     3.5. Air Traffic Control and Landing Systems (ATCALS) (Flight inspection schedules,
     problems, status, and upgrades)
     3.6. Airfield Environment. Review airfield activities, problems and programs.
     3.7. Aircraft Parking Plan. Review annually or as required.
     3.8. Status of Airfield Driving Program
     3.9. Hazardous Air Traffic Reports (HATR)
     3.10. Air Traffic System Evaluation Program (ATSEP)
     3.11. Annual Review of applicable Base Instructions, Base airfield operations instruction,
     Letters of Agreement, Operations Letters, OPLAN tasking:
                -Review of local aircraft priority procedures. Requires annual review
                -Review NOTAM circuit and weather system reliability
911AWI13-201 4 JUNE 2010                                                                      3


              -Alternate ATC procedures (if applicable)

4. Meeting Schedule. An annual meeting schedule will be published by the Airfield Manager,
annotating the quarterly meeting in which items requiring annual review will be on the agenda.
5. Meetings of the AOB. The Air Field Operations Board will meet quarterly in the Operations
Group Conference Room of Building 419 and at such other times as determined by the
Operations Group Commander.
6. Meeting Minutes. Minutes will be published within 15 days of the meeting and distributed
to local agencies and HQ AFRC. A list of key personnel will be included in the minutes
forwarded to HQ AFRC in accordance with AFI 13-204, Functional Management of Airfield
Operations, para 4.7.3.3.
7. OPERATIONS:
   7.1. Supervisor of Flying (SOF) Program: The SOF is the primary decision making
   authority to insure the safe and effective launch and recovery of all 911 AW flight
   operations. All members performing SOF duties will be current and qualified by the 911 AW
   SOF Training Program conducted by the Supervisor of Flying (SOF) Program Monitor.
   7.2. Daily Events Log: The AF 3616, Daily Record of Facility Operation, will be
   maintained in the Airfield Management Operations area to record significant events on each
   day scheduled aircraft launches/recoveries occur at Pittsburgh ARS. In addition to opening
   and closing the events log, significant items such as scheduled mission deviations, Secondary
   Crash Net (SCN) checks, and any other important events occurring before, during, and
   immediately after aircraft launches and recoveries from Pittsburgh ARS, will be recorded in
   accordance with AFI13-213 by the Airfield Management personnel.
   7.3. Primary Crash Alarm System procedures: The Primary Crash Alarm System
   (PCAS) is an emergency system operated by the Allegheny County Airport Authority. 911
   AW Command Post, Airfield Operations, Commander, or DOD Security Forces after-hours
   emergency notification system, will receive notification for emergencies affecting 911 AW
   resources or situations requiring 911 AW assistance only. Upon receipt of the Primary Crash
   Net notification, the recipient (Airfield Management Operations, Command Post, DOD
   Security Forces, or Wing Commander) will initiate the appropriate Quick Reaction Checklist
   or take other action as required by the situation.
   7.4. Secondary Crash Net: The Airfield Management Operations section will conduct a
   test of the Secondary Crash Net (SCN) once each operational day including primary Unit
   Training Assembly (UTA) week-end as required by AFI 13-213, Airfield Management. The
   Airfield Operations Coordinator will record the check in the AF 3616, along with any
   problems attendant to the SCN system.
8. AIRFIELD INSPECTION PROGRAM.
   8.1. Airfield Inspections: The Airfield Manager will publish a list of personnel qualified to
   conduct daily Airfield Inspections. The list will be approved by the Operations Group
   Commander, reviewed annually, and updated as required.
   8.2. Daily Inspections: An airfield inspection will be conducted by the Airfield Manager,
   or his designated Airfield Management personnel, on each operational day 1 hour prior to the
4                                                                911AWI13-201 4 JUNE 2010


    first aircraft departure/arrival. On UTA weekends, the inspections will be conducted by
    qualified Contractor Airfield Management personnel. The locally created form will be used
    to conduct the inspections. The completed forms will be forwarded to the Airfield Manager
    and maintained on file for one (1) year. Problems noted on the inspection will be briefed to
    the OG/CC immediately. Problems creating a safety hazard will be attended to immediately
    to render the situation safe and then notifications through supervisor channels made as soon
    as feasible.
    8.3. Joint Airfield Inspection: A Joint Airfield Inspection will be conducted semi-annually
    by the following agencies: Airfield Manager, Operations, Civil Engineer, Safety and
    Security.
       8.3.1. Results of the inspection will be summarized by the Airfield Manager and
       forwarded to 911 OG/CC for his review/approval.
       8.3.2. Reports will be maintained for a period of 2 years by the Airfield Manager.
9. AIRSPACE MANAGEMENT:
    9.1. Airspace Manager: The OG/CC will appoint a primary and alternate Airspace Manager
    in writing. These appointees should attend the Air Force Airspace Management Course at
    Keesler AFB, within 6 months of appointment.
    9.2. Airspace Management/Air Operations Board: The 911 AW does not have an Air Traffic
    Control function or control any Special Use Airspace. To manage Wing drop zones, SR
    training routes, and LATN areas, the Airspace will be discussed during the Air Operations
    Board Meeting.
    9.3. Documentation: The Airspace Manager will maintain the computerized 2 year file on
    the above tactical routes, areas and drop zones. Data relating to routes, DZ, areas scheduled
    versus used and reason for non-use will be forwarded by the (current operations) Tactics
    office, SOF and mission schedulers to the airspace manager so the pertinent information can
    be input into the computer file or this information can be extracted by comparing the weekly
    flying schedule with the AF Form 3616. Documentation will be maintained by the Airspace
    Manager on the scheduling and utilization of the areas for a period of 2 years.
10. AIRFIELD DRIVING PROGRAM: See AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations
    10.1. Aircraft Movement Area: The aircraft movement area at Pittsburgh ARS is defined as:
    those areas of the Pittsburgh International Airport including all taxiways and runways not a
    part of the Air Force Reserve ramp and maintenance aircraft parking areas bounded by the
    911 AW property line and the hold lines at Taxiways Echo and November 2. Ground
    vehicles operating beyond 911 AW boundaries and into the Aircraft Movement Area is
    prohibited. Contact Airfield Management or Allegheny County Airport Operations if access
    to these areas is necessary.
    10.2. Light Gun Signal Training/Testing: See AFI 24-301 Vehicle Operations.
    10.3. Flightline Decals: The following 911 AW officials are permitted to operate privately
    owned vehicles (POVs) on the Aircraft Parking Ramp outside of the restriction zone.
               Wing Commander, 911 AW/CC
               Operation Group Commander, 911 OG/CC
911AWI13-201 4 JUNE 2010                                                                      5


     Maintenance Group Commander, 911 MXG/CC
  10.4. POVs will be registered, as required for Pittsburgh ARS, and a flightline decal/pass
  issued by the Airfield Manager will be affixed to the vehicle. Operators will have their 911
  AW line badge and AF Form 483, Certificate of Competency, when operating their POV on
  the Pittsburgh ARS flightline. The Airfield Manager will review the list of officials holding
  POV Flightline decals, and temporary flightline passes issued to contractors annually to
  insure only those with a valid requirement are continued.
     10.4.1. Operation of non-government vehicles on the flightline will be kept to the
     minimum required to accomplish the mission in accordance with this paragraph and other
     applicable directives.
  10.5. TDY/Contractor Personnel Flightline Driving Requirements: As a minimum, all
  contractor, supervisors will receive the TDY/Contractor Flightline Briefing set forth in the
  AFI 24-301 conducted by the Airfield Manager. Military/TDY personnel will receive the
  briefing by the VCO'S of the unit hosting the TDY personnel. Additionally, for contract
  personnel, access to the flightline areas will be limited to the absolute minimum areas
  required to accomplish the contract provisions by the host unit commander.
     10.5.1. For TDY military personnel, a copy of the orders annotated by the host unit
     VCO/VCNCO, will be carried by the TDY individual along with their home base issued
     AF Form 483, Certificate of Competency.
     10.5.2. For contractor personnel, a letter signed by the unit commander, and approved by
     the Airfield Manager, outlining the limits on flightline driving and certification that the
     TDY/Contractor Flightline Briefing has been completed.
11. TOWING PROCEDURES:
  11.1. Towing speed is 5 MPH for all aircraft and two or more maintenance stands. Towing
  speed for one maintenance stand is 10 MPH. Vehicle operators will not approach within 50
  feet of an aircraft being towed.
  11.2. The maximum towing speed for Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) such as
  compressors, ground power units, oxygen carts, and similar equipment is 15 MPH. General
  Purpose Vehicles must not be used to tow this equipment unless properly equipped with
  hitches that our designated for that purpose. Pintle hook safety or cotter pins will be used
  during all towing operations. Safety chains are not required to tow AGE. Towing allowances
  will be in accordance with AFOSHTD 91-100, Aircraft Flightline Ground Operations and
  Activities.
12. FLIGHT PLANNING:
  12.1. Flight Planning Room: The Airfield Management section, 911 OSF, will maintain the
  Flight Planning room. The Airfield Management personnel will conduct checks of the Flight
  Planning room as necessary to insure the required mission support requirements set forth in
  AFI 13-213 are available.
  12.2. Flight Information Publications (FLIP): The Airfield Manager will develop a system
  to make distribution to the basic recipients of new and replacement FLIP publications as set
  forth in AFI 13-213. Distribution of incoming FLIP publications will be made as soon as
  practical to the basic recipient distribution point.
 6                                                               911AWI13-201 4 JUNE 2010


     12.3. National Imaging and Mapping Agency (NIMA) Report: The annual customer review
     of DOD FLIP automatic initial distribution requirements will be reviewed by the Airfield
     Manager or Operations Support Flight commander prior to submission each year.
     12.4. Flight Plans: All Flight Plans must be filed in person with the Airfield Management
     personnel. The original Flight Plans will be kept on file in the Airfield Management Office
     for one year.

13. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 483, Certificate of Competency
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 3616, Daily Record of Facility Operation




                                             GORDON H. ELWELL JR., Colonel, USAFR
                                             Commander
911AWI13-201 4 JUNE 2010                                                           7


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 13-2, Air Traffic Control, Airspace, and Range Management, 7 AUG 2007
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 MAR 2008
AFI 13-204, Functional Management of Airfield Operations, 10 JAN 2005
AFI 13-213, Airfield Management, 29 JAN 2008
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, 1 NOV 2008
AFOSHTD 91-100, Aircraft Flightline Ground Operations and Activities, 1 MAY 1998

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AOB— Base Airfield Operations Board
ATCALS— Air Traffic Control and Landing Systems
HATR— Hazardous Air traffic Reports
ATSEP— Air Traffic System Evaluation Program
SOF— Supervisor of Flying
PCAS— Primary Crash Alarm System
SCN— Secondary Crash Net
UTA— Unit Training Assembly
FLIP— Flight Information Publications
NIMA— National Imaging and Mapping Agency
