BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  911 AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 21-110
911TH AIRLIFT WING                                                                      31 AUGUST 2006
                                                                        Certified Current on 7 March 2013
                                                                                             Maintenance

                                                              COMPOSITE TOOL KIT PROCEDURES




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 911 MXG/MXQ                                      Certified by: 911 AW/CC (Colonel Randal Bright)
Supersedes 911AWI21-110, 14 March 2005                                                      Pages: 9

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, and
Air Force Instruction (AFI) 21-101, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management. This instruction
establishes specific procedures that provide security, control, positive accountability, and custodial care
responsibilities of Composite Tool Kits (CTK). Group commanders, squadron commanders and mainte-
nance officers are responsible for ensuring compliance with the contents of this instruction. It is applica-
ble to all personnel in the 911 Airlift Wing.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
Paragraph 1.3., 1.5., 3.6., and 4.1. have been rewritten. Paragraph 1.3.1. and 7.1. has been deleted and all
have been renumbered. Attachment 1 TMDE, W1MT have been deleted. A bar (|) indicates changes
since the last edition.


1. General Information.
   1.1. All work centers that dispatch tools and equipment to the flight line/aircraft maintenance areas,
   or work on equipment that are destined for use on the flight line or aircraft will follow CTK proce-
   dures.
   1.2. When a depot team, factory representative, or contract field team performs maintenance on
   equipment within this Wing, they will follow this instruction for tool accountability. If the contractor
   or team has not made provisions for tool control and accountability, the team leader/supervisor will
   coordinate with the Quality Assurance Representative (QAR) to develop a program. The guidelines
   developed will be put in letterform and signed by the team leader/supervisor and the QAR. The team
   Leader/supervisor and QAR will maintain a copy of the letter for the duration of the team's stay.
   1.3. Tool Pouches. Canvas or other non-metal tool pouches are authorized, if used tool pouches will
   be part of the CTK and marked accordingly. Personnel may remove tools from a properly inventoried
2                                                                    911AWI21-110 31 AUGUST 2006


    location and place them in a tool pouch. A complete CTK inventory will be accomplished in accor-
    dance with (Section 2) of this instruction. Return the tools to their shadowed positions. Tool rooms
    will not issue tools individually from dispatch able CTKs.
       1.3.1. The use of tools not identified with a CTK designation will not be authorized for on or off
       equipment maintenance or operating tasks.
    1.4. Foreign Objects (FO) Pouches. FO pouches will be maintained with every dispatchable CTK and
    tool pouch. FO pouches will be shadowed, inlayed or attached to the CTK; they will be included in the
    inventory list.
    1.5. Keys for CTKs and equipment will have the CTK number etched on the key and will be attached
    to a spring ring or common key rings. CTKs without a built-in lock will use a keyed padlock.
    1.6. CTKs used in an off-equipment environment and not dispatched may be left open for all person-
    nel to use during a shift. Ensure contents of non-dispatch able CTKs (cabinets) are opened and inven-
    toried at the beginning and end of each shift.

2. Responsibilities.
    2.1. Maintenance and Operations Group Supervision is responsible for executing an effective tool
    room program outlined in AFI 21-101, AFRCSUP 1, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Manage-
    ment.
    2.2. CTK Custodians will be identified by appointment letter and will be responsible for the following
    actions:
       2.2.1. CTK custodians are responsible for tool control within their respective areas.
       2.2.2. File a master copy of the CTK content list. A copy of the CTKs content list remains in each
       CTK at all times for inventory purposes. Content lists are broken down by drawer/section indicat-
       ing the total number of items in each drawer/section of the CTK. All changes to the CTK content
       list will be annotated in ink, initialed, and dated by the CTK custodian.
       2.2.3. File a master copy of all keys, locks, and their appropriate markings or combinations used
       in the section.
       2.2.4. Develop a continuity folder/book for all tool rooms. The folder/book will contain at a min-
       imum letters of appointment, inventory, inspection forms, and the CTK/shadow board master list.
       2.2.5. Keep all documented inspections and inventories on file for at least 1 year after completion.
       2.2.6. The individual performing the inventory ensures all CTKs and personal protective equip-
       ment are on hand or accounted for. Document beginning and end-of-shift inventories on an AFRC
       IMT 177, Consolidated Tool Kit Inventory and Control Log. When the AFRC IMT 177 is full,
       initiate a new form and discard the completed form after at least one beginning and one
       end-of-shift inventory is recorded on the new form.
       2.2.7. Inventory all replacement tools at least quarterly. The quarterly inventory of all on-hand
       replacement tools will be documented and kept on file in accordance with paragraph 2.2.5.
    2.3. All Maintenance Group and Operations Group Personnel will:
       2.3.1. Be responsible for the care, cleanliness, proper use, and accountability of tools and tool-
       boxes assigned to them.
911AWI21-110 31 AUGUST 2006                                                                                3


       2.3.2. Be responsible to secure all CTKs outside of the tool storage area.
       2.3.3. Be responsible to inventory tools and equipment before leaving the tool room area and prior
       to turn-in. Do not store trash or Foreign Objects (FO) in a tool box. A FO bag will be a part of each
       flight line dispatchable tool box. Inspect and clean FO bag each time the toolbox is checked in or
       out.
       2.3.4. Account for all tools, equipment, personal items, and hardware immediately upon comple-
       tion of each task.
       2.3.5. Follow lost tool/object procedures for all lost items. NOTE: See Maintenance Operating
       Instruction (OI) 91-204, Aircraft Improvident Procedures, for lost tools.

3. Identification.
   3.1. To identify items tracked in Tool Accountability System units will use a standard nine-digit
   Worldwide (WW) Identification (ID) Code as the Equipment Identification Designator (EID). The
   first two letters of the WW ID will be the first two letters of the wing’s Personnel Assignment System
   Code. Pittsburgh ARS is designated as W1. The third and fourth characters are designated as the unit
   or the first two digits of the office symbol. Each unit establishes the remaining five characters for tool
   and equipment identification. (See Attachment 2)
   3.2. Special purpose kits; i.e.., tire change kits, (Liquid Oxygen) LOX service kits, etc. will be identi-
   fied, and controlled as a CTK in accordance with this instruction.
   3.3. Each CTK is individually numbered. Units with multiple cabinets may elect to identify all cabi-
   nets as one CTK. Tools contained in a CTK are marked with the assigned CTK number.
   3.4. Tools will have only one CTK number. Dual etchings are not authorized.
   3.5. Dispatchable CTKs will be marked with the CTK designator.
   3.6. Items that are maintained in special repair kits must meet the “shadow concept” outlined in
   para.4.
   3.7. Mark mobility toolboxes according to AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution.
   3.8. Mark and control tools or equipment that a work center assigns to an individual in accordance
   with this instruction. At a minimum mark last name, unit, and employee number. Personnel not issued
   man numbers will use the last six digits of SSN.
   3.9. Aircrew and life support section tool rooms that dispatch equipment, tools, and CTKs to the
   flight line will follow guidelines listed in this instruction. Aircrew members inventory all equipment
   and personal items prior to flight and account for them after flight. Document any lost item in the air-
   craft AFTO IMT 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document on a RED X.
   3.10. Crash recovery equipment, tools, and CTKs that are permanently stored or located in trailers or
   vehicles will follow guide lines listed in this instruction.
   3.11. Mark hand grease guns, dispensing cans, spray bottles, pump oilers and similar containers with
   the type of grease, fluid, or other liquids and military specification (MILSPEC) of the contents.
NOTE: If containers are used to hold or apply substances classified as hazardous materials, ensure label-
ing requirements of AFOSHSTD 161-21, Hazard Communication, and local directives are accomplished.
4                                                                     911AWI21-110 31 AUGUST 2006


4. Shadow Concepts.
    4.1. Design CTKs to provide a quick inventory and accountability of tools. Develop a simple inven-
    tory method, a “show” (e.g. a shadow of the tool) and “know” (knowledge of tool of kit location) con-
    cept.
    4.2. Shadow boards. Shadow boards can be used to store tools and equipment in a controlled area.
    Shadow boards will be assigned their own CTK identifying number and have an authorized tool list-
    ing.

5. Inventory and Inspection.
    5.1. Unit CTK custodians will establish a program to manage and inventory tool/equipment and
    deployment kits.
    5.2. At least annually, when the CTK custodian changes, or when the CTK Custodian deploys for 90
    days or longer conduct a comprehensive inventory of all tools, equipment, and CTKs. The purpose of
    this inventory is to perform an extensive inspection of all tools and equipment, to include condition,
    identification markings, and accuracy of the Master Inventory List (MIL). Inspect all tools for service-
    ability according to TO 32-1-101, Maintenance & Care of Hand Tools. CTK custodians document
    these inventories and maintain the most current inventory documentation on file. “See paragraph
    2.2.5.”

6. Broken Tool Replacement and Management.
    6.1. Limited quantities (quantities will be determined by work center supervisors) of replacement
    tools may be maintained in tool rooms, support flights, sections, or work centers. These tools are used
    to replace broken, worn, or missing tools to prevent unnecessary work delays. Strict control is manda-
    tory because to spare and consumable tools are highly pilferable and pose an increased fraud, waste,
    and abuse potential. A MIL is required for all replacement tools. Inventories of replacement tools will
    be accomplished in accordance paragraph 2.2.7.
    6.2. Replacement tools will not be issued until all the pieces of a broken/damaged or documentation
    indicating the tool is lost (see paragraph 8.) are presented to the CTK custodian. Replacement tools are
    marked with the CTK number prior to issue.
    6.3. Damaged or broken tools will be stored in a separate secure location. All permanently removed
    tools (i.e. broken) will be de-etched. Account for all damaged or broken tools until processed for dis-
    posal. Documentation should include, at a minimum, tool name, CTK # removed from, date/time
    turned in for storage, name of person turning in the item, and date/time turned in for disposal with the
    CTK custodian’s initials.
    6.4. If one item of a set is unserviceable, the item will be removed and handled as a broken tool and
    annotated on AFRC IMT 175, Missing/Removed Tools and Equipment.
    6.5. The AFRC IMT 175 is used to annotate all removed/missing tools and equipment and action
    taken on these items. A separate AFRC IMT 175 is maintained for each CTK. When replacement
    tools are placed on order, the document number or invoice number if tool is local purchased will be
    entered in the reason block of the form. Items removed for calibration are entered on this form. When
    the AFRC IMT 175 is full, initiate a new form and transfer all open entries to the new form.
911AWI21-110 31 AUGUST 2006                                                                               5


   6.6. The AFRC IMT 175 will never be used as the primary source to inventory the CTK during
   turn-in. This form will not be used to document discrepancies with serviceable tools.

7. Tool Accountability and Control.
   7.1. Items will be tracked in TAS or the AFRC IMT 177, will be used for accountability and control
   of CTKs and tools. The form remains in the tool room support section, or work center. A separate,
   AFRC IMT 177 is maintained for each CTK this form is used to record CTK/tool transactions (check
   in/check out). Completion of each line of the AFRC IMT 177 denotes a complete inventory of con-
   tents. The "out time/signature" block is annotated by the person signing out/assuming responsibility
   for the CTK/equipment. The "in" block is annotated by the tool CTK custodian/alternates or desig-
   nated representative when the CTK/equipment is returned by the user. The person annotating the
   "out" block is not the same person annotating the "in" block. Single man shops will get an individual
   from another shop or a supervisor to annotate the “in” block.
   7.2. Ensure a secure area is designated to store CTKs when not in use. The area is capable of being
   locked and provides protective measures, such as monitoring or controlled key access, to preclude
   access by unauthorized personnel.
   7.3. Dispatched CTK’s are locked and secured to an immobile object when left unattended. CTK’s
   locked and located within the restricted access area do not need to be secured to an object.
   7.4. Equipment and accessories that do not present a FOD potential and are not dispatched from a
   work center, support section, or tool room, need not be included in a CTK; however, this equipment
   must have designated storage locations for accountability and listed on the MIL.
      7.4.1. If industrial shop machinery and non-dispatchable CTK’s are used during the shift; inven-
      tory prior to task and at completion.
   7.5. CTKs stored outside of tool room are subject to this instruction.

8. Lost Tool/Object Procedures.
   8.1. AFRC IMT 174, Lost Tool/Object Report is completed for each lost tool/object unless the item
   is immediately recovered. The CTK custodian will maintain a copy of AFRC IMT 174 on suspense
   and will provide QA with the original for control log purposes. Destroy suspense report when it has
   been on file for 1 year. Segregate copies “recovered” and “not recovered”.
   8.2. The person issued the CTK/equipment must search the immediate work area for the item. After a
   thorough search, immediately initiate an AFRC IMT 174. The wing FOD NCO or MXG/MXQ will
   issue a control number for the lost tool/object report. The squadron maintenance officer/superinten-
   dent or production supervisor ensures a thorough search is conducted to include utilizing x-ray, bore-
   scope, and other state of the art equipment to locate tools/objects in inaccessible areas if required.
   8.3. If an item is missing after on aircraft/equipment maintenance, the Maintenance Operations Cen-
   ter (MOC) and QA will be informed. The MOC will notify 911MXG/CC or his/her representative of
   the missing tool immediately if it is mission impacting (any delay in launch sequence i.e.: preflight,
   end of runway, take-off time, etc.). If non-mission impacting the 911MXG/CC or their representative
   will be notified immediately unless loss occurs after 2300 hours local; then notify within the first hour
   of the next duty day.
6                                                                       911AWI21-110 31 AUGUST 2006


    8.4. The Quality Assurance Section ensures that an AFRC IMT 174 tracking log is maintained to con-
    trol and track all lost tool reports for the unit.
    8.5. If the item is not recovered, an entry is placed in the aircraft active forms (red X) stating what was
    lost and the suspected area. A copy of the completed report is given to QA/Wing FOD NCO. There
    will be an entry into the forms upon notification of the missing tool. Ref: AFI21-101, paragraph
    13.8.1.2.
    8.6. QA will segregate completed AFRC IMT 174, “recovered” and “not recovered.” These forms
    will be maintained on file for 1 year.
       8.6.1. Limit authorization to clear red X’s for lost tools to no lower than Maintenance Supervi-
       sion.
    8.7. Lost Tool/Object Procedures for Taxied Aircraft:
       8.7.1. If a tool or object is discovered missing and the affected aircraft has taxied, the following
       procedures to hold or recall the aircraft are followed:
           8.7.1.1. The person making the discovery will immediately notify the MOC through the most
           expedient means possible. Additional notifications are made to the expediter or work center
           supervisor, and the maintenance officer/supervisor on duty.
           8.7.1.2. The MOC notifies the Command Post. The Command Post/squadron operations cen-
           ter instructs the aircrew to return to the parking spot. If the aircraft is airborne at the time of
           notification, the aircraft is directed to return to base with minimal maneuvering.
           8.7.1.3. Once aircraft has landed initiate Lost Tool/Object investigation Report and follow the
           procedures in Para 8.

9. Rag Control Procedures.
    9.1. Rag control applies to organizations and personnel performing on-equipment aircraft mainte-
    nance/off-equipment aircraft maintenance and jet engine maintenance. While marking or identifying
    each rag with a CTK number is not necessary, issue and receipt procedures will be established to
    ensure positive control. Rags of uniform size and colors, such as those available through commercial
    contract suppliers must be used to facilitate control procedures. Some recommended methods of rag
    control include:
    9.2. Issuing rags on a one-for-one swap.
       9.2.1. Issuing rags in pre-packaged containers with the number of rags marked on each container.
    9.3. Rags will be treated like tools and will be controlled by TAS, AFRC IMT 177. Lost tool/object
    procedures will be followed for missing or lost rags.
    9.4. The CTK custodian will establish procedures to ensure how many rags are on hand (segregate;
    clean and dirty/oily rags).

10. Locally Manufactured or Developed Tools and Equipment.
    10.1. Locally manufactured tools and test equipment must be approved for manufacturer by QA. QA
    will maintain record of all locally manufactured tools. See 911 MOI 21-110 for local manufactured
    tool guidance.
911AWI21-110 31 AUGUST 2006                                                                             7


11. Warranted Tools.
   11.1. CTK custodian will track warranted tools by TAS or AFRC IMT 177. Damaged or broken war-
   ranted tools will be stored in a separate secure location.
   11.2. All removed tools will be de-etched. Account and track all damaged or broken tools until
   replaced by contractor. Documentation should include, at a minimum tool name, CTK # removed
   from, date/time turned in for warranty, date/time replaced by contractor, name of person turning in the
   item, and contractor.
   11.3. All other broken tools aspects are outlined in Para 6. of this instruction.



                                                RANDAL L. BRIGHT, Colonel, USAFR
                                                Commander
8                                                             911AWI21-110 31 AUGUST 2006


                                         Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning
AFI 21-101, AFRC Sup 1, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management
AFOSHSTD 91-100, Aircraft Flight Line-Ground Operations and Activities
AFOSHSTD 161-21, Hazard Communication, Foreign Object Damage Prevention Program
T.O. 32-1-101, Maintenance & Care of Hand Tools

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A/R—Aerospace Repair
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
CTK—Composite Tool Kits
FO—Foreign Object
HAZMAT—Hazardous Material
IAW—In Accordance With
ID—Identification
LOX—Liquid Oxygen
MIL—Master Inventory Listing
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
MOO—Maintenance Operations Officer
MXG—Maintenance Group
MXQ—Quality Assurance
NCO—Non Commissioned Officer
QA—Quality Assurance
QAR—Quality Assurance Representative
TAS—Tool Accountability System
TDY—Temporary Duty
TO—Technical Order
911AWI21-110 31 AUGUST 2006                             9


                                   Attachment 2

                       WORLDWIDE IDENTIFICATION CODES
Accessories
W1ME ElectroEnv
W1MF Fuel Systems
W1MH Hydraulics
Inspection Section
W1MZ ISO Dock & Repair/Rec
Propulsion
W1MP Propulsion
AGE
W1MG Aero Space Ground Equipment
Avionics
W1MA ACGS
W1MB Munitions
W1MD ECM
W1MC COM/NAV
Fabrication
W1MU Structural
W1MM Metals Tech
W1MN NDI
W1MS Survival Equipment
Flight Line
W1FL Flight Line
W1FS Support Section
Quality Assurance Section
W1MQ Quality Assurance
758th
Load Masters Section
W1LM
Flight Engineers
W1FE
Life Support
W1LS
