BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 911 AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 24-302
                                                                                          1 APRIL 2005

                                                                                          Transportation

                                                                  VEHICLE ACCIDENT AND ABUSE




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 911 LRS/LGTO                                          Certified by: 911AW/CC (Col Carl E. Vogt)
                                                                                           Pages: 7

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 24-3, Operation, Maintenance, and Use
of Transportation Vehicles and Equipment. It outlines responsibilities and procedures for an effective
vehicle accident and abuse program with the visibility and emphasis placed at the unit level and under the
direct control of the unit commander. It explains examples of vehicle abuse (Attachment 2), prescribes
procedures for reporting vehicle accident (Attachment 3) and or abuse damage (Attachment 4) example
of a Memorandum for Release (Attachment 5). This instruction is applicable to all persons operating
government motor vehicles or equipment (GMV/E) assigned to 911 Airlift Wing which are loaded in the
On Line Vehicle Interactive Management System (OLVIMS).


1. Responsibilities:
   1.1. The Commander, 911 Airlift Wing is the authority for establishing the wing’s vehicle accident
   and abuse prevention program. The Wing Commander is the final decision authority to resolve all
   conflicts concerning the Accident and Abuse Program
   1.2. The Vehicle Maintenance Flight (911 LRS/LGTM) implements and administers the wing’s vehi-
   cle accident and abuse programs and policies.

2. Policy: The using organization may not be the assigned organization (e.g., U-Drive-It vehicles from
Transportation or a loaned vehicle from another organization).
   2.1. Accident reporting:
       2.1.1. When an accident happens, the vehicle will not be moved unless it is causing a safety haz-
       ard. The following agencies and persons will be notified immediately to report to the scene; Secu-
       rity Forces, Safety, Fleet Management, and the Using Organization VCO. A copy of the SF91,
       Operator’s Report of Motor Vehicle Accident will be provided to Fleet Management and Base
       Safety, within 24 hours so an Open Accident File may be initiated.
2                                                                        911AWI24-302 1 APRIL 2005


3. Procedures:
    3.1. 911 LRS/LGTM will:
       3.1.1. Identify vehicle damage caused by accident and or abuse.
       3.1.2. Provide memorandum of accident or abuse notification (Attachment 3 or Attachment 4),
       to the squadron commander of the assigned organization (may not be the unit responsible for the
       damage) with a copy of the repair estimate work order. Also, copies will be sent to the vehicle con-
       trol officer and the group commander of the assigned organization. If the assigned organization is
       not responsible for the damage, it is the responsibility of the assigned organization to notify the
       organization responsible for the damage.
       3.1.3. Repair vehicle upon receipt of Memorandum of Release (Attachment 5) from the respon-
       sible unit (may not be the assigned organization), or after 5 workdays days from notification,
       whichever is earlier.
       3.1.4. Maintain accident and abuse case files to track quantity and repair cost data.
       3.1.5. Provide AF IMT 20, Repair Cost and Repairable Value Statement, when requested by
       the assigned or using organization.
    3.2. The Vehicle Operations Flight (911 LRS/LGTO) will:
       3.2.1. Withhold replacement vehicle for vehicles involved in accident and or abuse actions until
       Memorandum of Release is received by 911 LRS/LGTM.
    3.3. Assigned or Using Organizations will:
       3.3.1. Report all vehicle damage to 911 LRS/LGTM within 24 hours unless it is a safety item.
       Safety write-ups must be turned in at once. Failure to do so may constitute Vehicle Abuse.
       3.3.2. Forward a copy of the Memorandum of Release to 911 LRS/LGTM when vehicle is no
       longer needed for the investigation, or within 5 calendar days from notification.
       3.3.3. Investigate the accident and or abuse according to procedures outlined in Air Force Manual
       (AFMAN) 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property.



                                               CARL E. VOGT, Colonel, USAFR
                                               Commander
911AWI24-302 1 APRIL 2005                                                                            3


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Terms
Fair Wear and Tear—The normal expected deterioration of the vehicle or equipment based on its age,
usage, and life expectancy.
Vehicle Abuse—Any act or omission that has caused damage, or may cause damage that cannot be
attributed to fair wear and tear, accident, or incident. Some examples of vehicle abuse are listed in
Attachment 2.
Vehicle Accident—Any situation where a GMV/E strikes or is struck by another GMV/E and or object,
structure, or animal where action by any participate vehicle operator could have prevented the outcome.
Vehicle Incident—Any situation where a GMV/E sustains damage where the action by any participate
vehicle operator could not have prevented the outcome (e.g., act of nature).
4                                                                        911AWI24-302 1 APRIL 2005


                                              Attachment 2

                                 EXAMPLES OF VEHICLE ABUSE

A2.1. Vehicle abuse action will be initiated for vehicle and equipment damage or failure resulting from:

A2.2. Tampering with governors or distributors.

A2.3. Operating vehicles with insufficient oils or coolants or failure to check levels, according to estab-
lished requirements, or failure to monitor dash instrumentation.

A2.4. Operating vehicle with applied/dragging parking brakes.

A2.5. Improper distribution or failure to secure loads properly in cargo areas of vehicle or not following
established loading/unloading procedures.

A2.6. Using a vehicle for other than its intended designed purpose (e.g., 6K F/L used to transport a
10,000 pound pallet).

A2.7. Failure to clean or maintain vehicle’s interior and or exterior to meet corrosion control and appear-
ance requirements.

A2.8. Unauthorized wiring, marking, modification or added special equipment in or on vehicle.

A2.9. Operating a vehicle with improperly inflated tires.

A2.10. Operation of a vehicle or equipment in conflict with published Department of Defense (DoD), Air
Force Occupational Safety and Health (AFOSH), Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) standards,
Air Force Instructions, Manuals, and Technical Orders, or Public Law concerning vehicle safety.

A2.11. Other situations where vehicle abuse action may be initiated:
Failure to report malfunctions, defects in or damage to a vehicle to Vehicle Maintenance within 24 hours.
Failure to bring a vehicle or equipment to Vehicle Maintenance for scheduled preventative maintenance
before an overdue condition exists. Pre-approved rescheduling due to mission requirements is exempt.
911AWI24-302 1 APRIL 2005                                                                                  5


                                              Attachment 3

                    ACCIDENT NOTIFICATION MEMORANDUM (SAMPLE)
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
Air Force Reserve Command
(Date)
MEMORANDUM FOR XXXX/CC
FROM: 911 AW FLEET MANAGEMENT
SUBJECT: Vehicle Accident, Case No. XXXXX
1. On DD MM YY, Air Force vehicle XXXXXXXX, assigned to your organization, was turned in to Vehi-
cle Maintenance with accident damage (see attached SF 91). The attached work order indicates the dam-
age and an estimate of the repairs necessary to return the vehicle to a serviceable condition.
2. Request your office initiate an investigation as required by AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air
Force Property, Chapter 18. All completed case files must be forwarded to 911 LG/CC and 911 Fleet
Manager, within 14 days from the date of this letter.
3. We also require a repair release from you or your representative as soon as the vehicle is no longer
required for the investigation, but not later than 5 workdays from the date of this letter. According to
AFMAN 24-307, Procedures for Vehicle Maintenance Management, unless otherwise notified, repair
action will commence after that period of time.
4. If an individual has been found liable or voluntarily accepts liability, your unit VCO/VCNCO may
request, in writing, an AF IMT 20, Repair Cost and Repairable Value Statement, from Vehicle Mainte-
nance.
5. Any questions concerning the repair, release, or AF IMT 20 can be referred to Maintenance Control and
Analysis at ext. 8203. Thank you in advance for your prompt attention of this matter.


SIG. BLOCK
Commander
Attachment:
AF IMT 1823-1, Vehicle and Equipment Work Order Repair Estimate.
cc:
911 LRS/LGTO
911 AW/SE
6                                                                         911AWI24-302 1 APRIL 2005


                                              Attachment 4

         SUSPECTED VEHICLE ABUSE NOTIFICATION MEMORANDUM (SAMPLE)
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
Air Force Reserve Command
(Date)
MEMORANDUM FOR
FROM: 911 AW/CC
SUBJECT: Vehicle Abuse, Case No. XXXXX
1. On DD MM YY, Air Force vehicle XXXXXXXX, assigned to your organization, was turned in to Vehi-
cle Maintenance with damage that cannot be attributed to normal fair wear and tear. The attached work
order indicates the damage and an estimate of the repairs necessary to return the vehicle to a serviceable
condition.
2. Request your office initiate an investigation as required by AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air
Force Property, Chapter 18. All completed case files must be forwarded to 911 AW LG/CC and 911 Fleet
Manager within 14 days from the date of this letter.
3. We also require a repair release from you or your representative as soon as the vehicle is no longer
required for the investigation, but not later than 5 workdays from the date of this letter. According to
AFMAN 24-307, Procedures for Vehicle Maintenance Management, unless otherwise notified, repair
action will commence after that period of time.
4. If an individual has been found liable or voluntarily accepts liability, your unit VCO/VCNCO may
request, in writing, an AF IMT 20, Repair Cost and Reparable Value Statement, from Vehicle Mainte-
nance.
5. Any question concerning the repair, release, or AF IMT 20 can be referred to Maintenance Control and
Analysis at ext. 8203. Thank you in advance for your prompt attention of this matter.
SIG. BLOCK
Commander
Attachment:
AF IMT 1823-1, Vehicle and Equipment Work Order Repair Estimate.
cc:
911 LRS/LGTO
911 AW/JA
911 AW/FM
911 AW/SE
911AWI24-302 1 APRIL 2005                                                                               7


                                             Attachment 5

                            MEMORANDUM OF RELEASE (SAMPLE)
DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
Air Force Reserve Command
(Date)
MEMORANDUM FOR 911 LRS/LGTM
FROM: (Assigned/Using Organization)
SUBJECT: Memorandum of Release
1. Vehicle (Reg Num), which (is assigned to our organization/was used by our organization), was
involved in an (accident/abuse). Our investigation is now complete and the vehicle is released to mainte-
nance for repairs.
VCO/VCNCO/Unit Commander Signature Block
