BY THE ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                911 AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 33-101
                                                                                             4 MARCH 2008

                                                                          Communication and Information

                                                                    FREQUENCY MANAGEMENT AND
                                                                       ELECTRONIC COMPATIBLITY



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available for downloading and ordering on the
                        e-Publishing website at www.publishing.af.mil/
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on the publication.


OPR: 911 MSG/SC                                                                  Certified by: 911 AW/CC)
                                                                             (Colonel Gordon H. Elwell JR.)
Supersedes 911 AWI 33-101, 3 December 2004                                                         Pages: 4

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-1, Information Resources Manage-
ment. It assigns responsibility and provides procedures and information concerning the management of
the electromagnetic spectrum. Instruction is applicable to all personnel, military, and civilian, while on
this installation. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Pri-
mary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, as pre-
scribed by AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manual Program (FMP). Route AF Form 847 to the 911 AW/SC at
Pittsburgh IAP-ARS, PA. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publi-
cation are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https:/
/afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
Paragraphs 2.2.4., 3., 4.1. – 4.1.5., 5. have been rewritten. A ( | ) indicates revision from the previous edi-
tion.


1. Terms Explained:
   1.1. Electromagnetic Capability. The condition which prevails when telecommunications equip-
   ment is performing its individual designed function in a common electromagnetic environment with-
   out causing or suffering unacceptable degradation due to unintentional electromagnetic interference to
   or from other equipment in the same environment.
   1.2. Electromagnetic Interference. An electromagnetic phenomenon that directly constitutes degra-
   dation in the performance of an electronic receiver or system.
2                                                                     911AWI33-101 4 MARCH 2008


    1.3. Electromagnetic Spectrum. The total range of frequencies over which any form of electromag-
    netic radiation occurs.
    1.4. Frequency Allocation. The designation of frequency bands for use in performing specific func-
    tions or services.
    1.5. Frequency Assignment (FA ). The process of designating a specific frequency for use at a par-
    ticular station for special operating conditions.
       1.5.1. FA, Regular. An assignment effective for an indefinite period of time.
       1.5.2. FA, Temporary. An assignment effective for a period of time greater than 90 days but less
       than five (5) years.
       1.5.3. FA, Short Term. An assignment for a period of time less than 90 days.
    1.6. Low-Power Communication Device. A restricted radiation device, exclusive of those employ-
    ing conducted or guided radio frequency techniques, used for the transmission of signs, signals
    (including control signals), writing, images, and sounds of intelligence of any nature by radiation of
    electromagnetic energy. Examples: a wireless microphone, a phonograph oscillator, a radio-controlled
    garage door opener, radio-controlled models.
    1.7. Radiation Hazards. RADHAZ is of two types. One deals with effects on the human body of
    ionizing radiation caused by exposure to high-power transmitters on x-ray producing electronic equip-
    ment. The other type deals with the danger of accidentally detonating explosive devices or igniting
    fuels by means of radio frequency transmission.
    1.8. Jamming. The deliberate radiation, re-radiation or reflection of electromagnetic energy with the
    objective of impairing the use of electrical devices, equipment or systems. For example, the transmis-
    sion of a tone burst that blocks the transmission of information on a frequency.
    1.9. Interference. All causes of unintentional degradation of electronic devices, equipment or sys-
    tems resulting from electromagnetic energy. Interference may be the result of natural phenomena, fre-
    quency spectrum congestion, poorly designed equipment, poor installation/sitting practices, or any
    number of other factors.

2. Responsibilities:
    2.1. Installation Commander. Responsible for all electromagnetic radiation emanating from the
    installation and from those outlying activities hosted by the installation. The installation commander
    will appoint an installation frequency manager. (The base communication manager is responsible for
    all communications services including management of radio frequencies).
    2.2. The Frequency Manager will:
       2.2.1. Make sure that users understand all parameters of their assigned frequencies and verify that
       usage is in accordance with those parameters.
       2.2.2. Keep current frequency assignment records for all radiating devices on the installation and
       for those outlying activities for which the installation commander is responsible.
       2.2.3. Resolve interference problems at the local level if possible. Request electromagnetic com-
       patibility and measurement service through HQ AFRC/SC when necessary.
911AWI33-101 4 MARCH 2008                                                                               3


       2.2.4. Satisfy coordination frequency requirements of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-118, Elec-
       tromagnetic Spectrum Management, for any proposed frequency actions originating at this instal-
       lation.
       2.2.5. Provide frequency management guidance in all stages of planning that involves electro-
       magnetic devices at Pittsburgh ARS, PA (AFRC).
       2.2.6. Submit frequency requests for new or revised requirements to HQ AFRC/SC.
       2.2.7. Submit a frequency deletion request to HQ AFRC/SC when an assignment frequency is no
       longer needed.
       2.2.8. Submit Meaconing, Instrusion, Jamming and Interference (MIJI) Report in accordance with
       AFI 10-707, Spectrum Interference Resolution Program.
       2.2.9. Act as a single point of contact for all frequency management matters for the host base and
       tenant units to assist with frequency actions and requirements.
   2.3. Using activity will:
       2.3.1. Ensure that the operation of equipment that radiates radio frequency energy complies with
       the authorization limitations and tolerances.
       2.3.2. Ensure that this directive is available and being followed.
       2.3.3. Keep records and accomplish reports as prescribed by this instruction.
       2.3.4. Submit reviews no later than 90 days before the date shown in SFAF item 142 to ensure the
       frequency assignment is updated and current by the review date, and submit frequency deletion
       request when frequencies are no longer required.
       2.3.5. Provide the frequency manager with the name of the land mobile radio custodian who will
       act as the focal point for all frequencies matters.
       2.3.6. Report all MIJI incidents to the frequency manager for action.

3. Meaconing, Intrusion, Jamming and Interference (MIJI) Reporting. AFI 10-707 establishes pro-
cedures for reporting of MIJI incidents to Air Force equipment or systems, which radiate or receive elec-
tromagnetic energy. The user of intra base radios must take all possible measures to identify, report, and
reduce jamming or interference incidents. Report all incidents to the Base Frequency Manager at ext.
8299.

4. Frequency Allocations and Assignments:
   4.1. Requests for frequency allocations and assignments will be submitted to the base communica-
   tions manager via e-mail message by unit LMR custodian/manager. On this installation, the following
   units or functions are assigned frequencies:
       4.1.1. Security Forces
       4.1.2. Civil Engineering/Santa Barbara Applied Research (SBAR)
       4.1.3. Maintenance Group (A/C Maintenance)/Maytag (Fuels)
       4.1.4. Command
4                                                                    911AWI33-101 4 MARCH 2008


       4.1.5. Public Affairs/Military Personnel Flight (MPF)
    4.2. A list of frequencies and license assigned are maintained by the base frequency manager.
    4.3. Submit requests for temporary frequency/frequencies in support of AFRC generated exercises no
    later than 90 calendar days before use.

5. Requesting Maintenance. The unit focal point for frequency matters, LMR (land mobile radio custo-
dian); will report all equipment troubles to 911 Communication Maintenance Section (SCM) at ext 8299.
The communication maintenance representative will validate the need for repairs and instruct the LMR
custodian how to obtain contractor service for maintenance with their Government Purchase Card (GPC).



                                              GORDON H. ELWELL JR., Colonel, USAFR
                                              Commander
