BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                               911 AW INSTRUCTION 31-501
911TH AIRLIFT WING                                                                     14 MARCH 2005

                                                                                                 Security

                                                                PERSONNEL SECURITY PROGRAM
                                                                              MANAGEMENT



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 911 SFS/SFA (Montell B. Ashby)                   Certified by: 911 AW/CC (Colonel Carl E. Vogt)
Supersedes 911 AWI 31-501, 8 May 2000                                                      Pages: 6
                                                                                    Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 31-5, Personnel Security Program Pol-
icy, Air Force Instruction (AFI) 31-501/AFRC Sup 1, Personnel Security Program Management, Depart-
ment of Defense (DoD) 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, DoD 5200.2-R, Personnel Security
Program. It establishes procedures for the efficient management of the Base Personnel Security Program.
It is applicable to all members of the 911 Airlift Wing.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Implements guidance in the
newest instruction; mandates the use of Base Wide Security Tracking System in HTML PITMETRICS
(paragraph 2.1.); requires the organizations Security Manager (SM) to interview personnel prior to assign-
ment and submit AF IMT 2583, Request for Personnel Security Action, to the Medical Squadron (para-
graph 2.2.1.); mandates the requirement for recruiters to initiate and complete a personnel security
investigation package on all newly recruited personnel through 911 SFS/SFAI (paragraph 2.3.); SM(s) are
responsible for completing the 911 AW Security Manager’s Certification Training Program within 90
days of appointment (paragraph 4.1.)


1. Responsibilities: The 911 SFS/SFA and 911 SFS/SFAI, (security specialist), are directly responsible
for the oversight management of this program. The 911 SFS/SFAI is the primary office of primary respon-
sibility (OPR) for the installation concerning this program.
   1.1. This is a Wing commander’s installation security program.
   1.2. Organization Commanders/Division Chiefs are directly responsible for management of this pro-
   gram within their respective organizations/divisions.
   1.3. It is an organizational commander/agency chief’s responsibility to ensure that the Organization
   Manning Document (UMD) reflects the correct security access requirements (Position Codes) on the
2                                                                     911AWI31-501 14 MARCH 2005


    UMD for all assigned personnel. Security managers SM(s) have an annual requirement to ensure an
    annual review of security access requirements are conducted on all personnel listed on the UMD.
    Position Codes should reflect the correct security clearance and access level required for the duty
    position on the UMD. Over inflating Position Codes may be construed as Fraud, Waste, and Abuse.
    1.4. Organizational/Division security managers SM(s) are the designated point of contact (POC) and
    official representative by memorandum of appointment for this program within their respective orga-
    nizations/divisions. Security managers are responsible for completing the 911 AW Security Man-
    ager’s Certification Training Program within 90 days of appointment. This program is self paced and
    located in HTML PITMERTICS on the Base Local Area Network System (LANS).
       1.4.1. Highly personal and sensitive information is handled and processed by SM(s) for the issu-
       ing of security clearances for fulfilling access requirements. Strict compliance with the Privacy
       Act of 1974, along with those procedures outlined in accordance with AFI 31-401/AFRC Sup 1,
       Information Security Program Management and AFI 31-501/AFRC Sup 1 when handling and
       processing sensitive information will be adhered to at all levels of the Personnel Security Investi-
       gation (PSI) process.

2. Procedures. The guidance in DoD 5200.2-R, AFPD 31-5 and AFI 31-501/AFRC Sup 1 drive the
administration of this program; this instruction identifies the major duties and responsibilities mandated
by those publications, and establish procedures unique to this installation.
    2.1. Administrative Management Tools Required: PC workstation with LANS access, (Computer
    support programs) Electronic Personnel Security Questionnaire 2.2 version, Netscape Communicator
    Browser 4.9 version, Joint Personnel Access System (JPAS)/Joint Clearance Access Verification Sys-
    tem (JCAVS), 911 Base-wide Security Clearance Tracking System (HTML PITMETRICS), Wing
    Security Program Support Webpage (HTML PITMETRICS).
    2.2. Personnel Security Investigation (PSI) Process.
       2.2.1. All organizational/division security managers must interview the personnel upon assign-
       ment and/or in-processing into the 911 Airlift Wing organizations, to get their service information
       required for processing PSI(s) for clearances, and then security managers are required to submit
       AF IMT 2583, Request for Personnel Security Action, to the Medical Squadron; when Local
       files Check (LFC) records are completed, and the form is completed, it is then forwarded to 911
       SFS/SFAI.
       2.2.2. Security Managers are responsible for notification, submittal, tracking and processing of
       initial investigations and periodic reinvestigations for the organization/division of assigned per-
       sonnel.
       2.2.3. Assigned personnel, once notified, are required to submit a PSI package within (3) UTA(s)
       and/or (2) months. Failure to respond in a timely manner could result in the development of a Spe-
       cial Information File and suspended clearance/access to classified information/sensitive areas.
    2.3. 911 AW Recruiters have a requirement to initiate and complete a personnel security investigation
    package on all newly recruited first term Airmen (and prior service personnel with a 24 month
    break-in service), 911 SFS/SFA and SFS/SFAI have coordinated with the 911 AW recruiters to have
    these PSI packages pipelined directly to 911 SFS/SFAI for PSI(s) to be processed and submitted to
    OPM. NOTE: Security managers through review of the Base Security Clearance Tracking System
    will validate submittal of PSI packages for assigned personnel.
911AWI31-501 14 MARCH 2005                                                                              3


     2.3.1. The 911 AW Recruiters and 911 SFS/SFA are not responsible for initiating recertification
     of security clearances. Security managers conduct the recertification process with approval and
     finalization by 911 SFS/SFAI.
  2.4. It must be noted and understood that prior service individuals, that have less than a 24 month
  break in service, will not show up on the Base Clearance Tracking System charts. The organization/
  division security manager is responsible for ensuring that these individual’s security clearances are
  checked and validated using the Joint Clearance Access Verification System (JCAVS), reference sec-
  tion 2.1.1., of this instruction.
  2.5. The initial personnel security investigation (PSI) packages consist of the endorsed hard copy
  Electronic Personnel Security Questionnaire application for security clearance, with 3.5 Floppy Disk,
  fingerprint cards, and AF IMT 2583, Request for Personnel Security Action, this is for an initial
  security clearance package.
     2.5.1. The reinvestigation personnel security investigation (PSI) packages consist of the endorsed
     hard copy Electronic Personnel Security Questionnaire application for security clearance, with a
     3.5 Floppy Disk, and AF IMT 2583 this is for a periodic reinvestigation security clearance pack-
     age.
     2.5.2. Along with the PSI package the following information is required the name of the submitter
     (Recruiter or Security Manager), phone number, type of clearance requested, organization that the
     individual is entering, grade/rank of individual, name of the file, and for top secret clearances the
     name and number of the individual’s supervisor.
     2.5.3. Make sure that you have 3 signatures pages endorsed/signed in the package, (Hard Copy of
     EPSQ application) along with:
         2.5.3.1. Individual’s Certification,
         2.5.3.2. Authorization to Release Information, and
         2.5.3.3. Authorization To Release Medical Information. Timely submission is important as
         the dated of signatures expire in 120 days.
     2.5.4. The PSI package(s) must be complete. 911 SFAI will not process any partial packages, PSI
     packages will be returned to the submitter for corrections. Validate the information being submit-
     ted.
  2.6. All 911 AW personnel are authorized to use the local Base Wide Security Clearance Process
  Tracking System located in HTML PITMETRICS Mission Support Index, under the Security Forces
  section for process management. This tracking system ensures all personnel are submitted for and
  receive initial security clearances and periodic reinvestigations by providing the status of PSI package
  submittals. This tool was especially develop for security managers in their daily requirements for
  management of PSI packages.
  2.7. Verification of security clearance information for personnel is required by the security managers
  utilizing the Joint Personnel Access System (JPAS); and the Joint Personnel Clearance Verification
  Access System (JCAVS) it is the real time, real world security clearance program for both military and
  civilian personnel which must be reviewed to determine if personnel have valid security clearance(s)/
  investigation(s). This is the only official verification system accepted by AF for documentation and
  management of security clearances and investigations.
4                                                                      911AWI31-501 14 MARCH 2005


       2.7.1. Security Managers upon completion of the JPAS/JCAVS training within the Wing Security
       Manager’s Certification Training Program, will be issued a JPAS/JCAVS account. This account
       will be issue to the ART or full-time employee (member) that is appointed security managers
       duties. Each organization will be authorized one account, reference 911 AW Instruction 31-401
       sections 1.1.1, 1.1.2. and 1.1.3.
    2.8. If an individual has not applied for or does not have a valid security clearance, complete the
    requirements outlined in section(s) 2.2.1., 2.5., 2.5.2. and/or 2.5.3. to ensure completion of the appro-
    priate form(s), and submit the request for investigation to 911 SFS/SFAI.
    2.9. After the subject’s security clearance are posted in JCAVS and a matter of official record, the
    copies of PSI package(s) files being maintained by the security manager, 911 SFAI, and recruiters
    must be disposed of by providing the package(s) directly to the subject required to submit the PSI
    package or properly destroyed.

3. Events that drive the submission of investigations are: enlistments, upgrading or downgrading a clear-
ance, periodic reinvestigations every five years for top secret, every ten years for secret with access
requirements, and/or when directed by higher authority, and hiring of Federal Government Employees.
    3.1. Top Secret Clearance requires a periodic reinvestigation every five years for personnel in a criti-
    cal sensitive position civilian or military personnel who hold a top secret clearance and requires access
    to top secret classified information/material. If the incumbent of the position requires a higher clear-
    ance than possessed for the position, requiring access to Top Secret classified information, the individ-
    ual must be resubmitted, (for an SSBI), to upgrade the clearance to the appropriate level.
    3.2. Secret Clearance with Access requires a periodic reinvestigation every ten years and/or when
    directed by higher authority for civilian personnel in a non-critical sensitive position (ANACI
    INVEST). All military personnel require at minimum a secret security clearance (NACLC INVEST).
    3.3. Hiring Practices for Federal Government Employees. Position Sensitivity Codes must be prop-
    erly identified and documented by supervisors and Civilian Personnel Office (DPC) when processing
    employees for hire. This ensures the proper PSI packages are submitted for the correct security clear-
    ance for the assigned position. Failure to do so can cause additional cost and time in employee pro-
    curement and performance.

4. INTERIM SECURITY CLEARANCE REQUEST.
    4.1. Organizational Commanders/Division Chiefs are authorized requestors for interim security clear-
    ance(s) for assigned personnel. The requirements of section 2.2. above must be satisfied first. Then
    following section 2.7. above to identify that the investigation is initiated and open by DSS/OPM uti-
    lizing JPAS/JCAVS. Interim security clearance must only be requested when an unusual circumstance
    threatens mission accomplishment.
    4.2. Organizational Commanders/Division Chiefs must submit a Memorandum of Request for an
    interim security clearance which will provide for secret security clearance eligibility based on the sub-
    mittal of the PSI package and the investigation being initiated. This memorandum can be drafted by
    the designated representative (security manager) of the organizational Commander/Division Chief but
    must be endorsed by the organizational Commander/Division Chief.
    4.3. This Memorandum of Request must be forwarded In-Turn for review and validation by 911 SFS/
    SFAI through the adjudication process and recommended for approval to the Wing Commander.
911AWI31-501 14 MARCH 2005                                                                                5


       4.3.1. The Wing Commander reserves the right of requiring an interview with the individual who
       is the subject of the interim clearance request prior to approving any interim clearances.
   4.4. Civilian appointment for employment and suitability for secret security clearance eligibility for
   hire can be requested by a supervisor through DPC. All requirements of section 2.2. in this instruction
   must be satisfied. Then a Memorandum of Wavier of pre-employment investigation requirements is
   prepare by the commander/chief or designated representative when such action is necessary and in the
   national interest. The interim clearance can not be granted until the Memorandum of Wavier is signed,
   in accordance with AFI 31-501/AFRC Sup 1, section(s) 3.6, 3.11.2.3, 3.11.2.4, 3.11.3, and 3.11.4,
   review attachment 6 for sample memorandum.
   4.5. The same process is followed for Top Secret interim security clearances and eligibility as stated
   in AFI 31-501/AFRC Sup 1 section 3.11.

5. JOINT PERSONNEL ACCESS SYSTEM (JCAVS).
   5.1. All Federal Government Full-Time Employee(s) or Air Reserve Technician (ARTs) that are
   appointed to the position of security manager are required to apply for a JPAS/Joint Personnel Clear-
   ance Access Verification System account. This is the official Air Force system for recognition and
   validation of security clearance information. 911 SFS/SFAI and/or 911 SFS/SFA requires certificate
   of completion of official JPAS/JCAVS training, Security Management course, located at the host
   web-site for JPAS/JCAVS.
   5.2. SM(s) upon receipt of a JCAVS account will take independent actions to administer/manage the
   AF personnel security program requirements. Determining and reviewing the need for personnel secu-
   rity investigations PSI(s), Standard Form (SF) 312, Classified Information Nondisclosure Agree-
   ment (Jan 2000), accomplishment, when necessary, validate clearances for assigned personnel and
   visitors, provide hard copies of security clearance history summaries and rosters for personnel being
   deployed or requiring same for TDY assignments, and identifying incorrect data concerning personnel
   security clearance information.
   5.3. The 911 SFS/SFA or 911 SFS/SFAI will check organizational rosters during annual security pro-
   gram reviews, and periodically address how to utilize the functions within the JPAS/JCAVS during
   security manager meetings or as required.
   5.4. As personnel security information is received SM(s) are required to coordinate documented
   actions taken, and correct error/remarks directly or through 911 SFS/SFAI within JPAS/JCAVS.

6. Special Information File (SIF).
   6.1. SIF(s) are established when an employee or reservist is involved in activity of a criminal nature,
   or are the subject of information, which leads a prudent person to question their loyalty, reliability or
   trustworthiness. Files may be established at base level or by the 497 IG/INSA.
   6.2. When files are established, (document that contains criminal act/violation, notification to Subject
   of Intent to establish SIF), JPAS/JCAVS functions/rosters are annotated to reflect that the subject’s
   security clearance eligibility is pending adjudication.
   6.3. When the required documentation (file) is obtained, and the SIF has been coordinated with the
   appropriate base agencies, the organizational commander/division chief makes a recommendation to
6                                                                     911AWI31-501 14 MARCH 2005


    the 497 IG/INSA as to whether the individual’s security clearance should be revoked or reinstated to
    complete the package for processing SIF.

7. Personnel/Information Security Briefs:
    7.1. The Intelligence section of Operations (DOI) is the OPR for Foreign Travel Briefings such as
    NATO, and deployments for foreign country travel. Special Access Program (SAP) briefings are gen-
    eral conducted by the owing organization. These types of briefings are required to be documented on
    AF IMT 2583 (Request for Security Action).
       7.1.1. There is a requirement for all personnel that have received the type of briefings identified
       in paragraph 7.1., to receive a debriefing and it be annotated on the AF IMT 2583 that was exe-
       cuted, after mission completion. The security manager can conduct the debriefings concerning
       foreign travel and NATO. However, the debriefing is usually conducted by a member of the mobil-
       ity organization or owner of the Special Access Program.
    7.2. Non-Closure Agreement (NDA) SF Form 312 is required to be briefed to all personnel and then
    endorsed by the personnel briefed. Witnessed and endorsed by someone other than the individual
    administering the briefing, then endorsed by the security manager or the designated representative.
       7.2.1. Attestation Form of SF Form 312 is required to be administered to all personnel requiring
       access to top secret and special access programs then endorsed by the personnel briefed. Wit-
       nessed by then endorsed by someone other than the individual administering the briefing, then
       endorsed by the security manager or the designated representative.
       7.2.2. These will also be completed during “In-Processing” by the gaining organization’s security
       manager for all newly assigned personnel.
    7.3. Security Termination Statement, AF IMT 2587, will be briefed to all personnel and endorsed by
    them during “OUT PROCESSING” for TDY assignment for more than 60 days, PCS personnel, and
    personnel that are administratively discharged, or upon resigning/retirement. Witnessed by then
    endorsed by someone other than the individual administering the briefing, then endorsed by the secu-
    rity manager or the designated representative.
    7.4. These documented Briefing Forms are to be maintained within a security file/personnel records
    as required according to directive, guidelines, and instructions set forth by AF MAJCOMS, NAF, and
    Government Agencies.

8. Program Management. Security managers and officials who support this program do so as an addi-
tional duty. Because they perform this position along with their regularly assigned duties, care is given to
ensure that all aspects of the Personnel Security Program are administered in an assistance oriented man-
ner in accordance with DOD 5200.2-R, AFPD 31-5, and AFI 31-501/AFRC Sup 1. The Security Special-
ist must be positive in his or her approach to the organizations they serve. This is an organizational
commander/division chief program responsibility to support the 911 Wing Commander’s installation
security programs (911 ISP).



                                                CARL E. VOGT, Colonel, USAFR
                                                Commander
