BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 911TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
911TH AIRLIFT WING                                                                 31-101

                                                                                 1 NOVEMBER 2012

                                                                                               Security

                                                   CONTROL OF PRIVATELY OWN WEAPONS


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 911 SFS/CC                                                            Certified by: 911 AW/ATO
                                                                                      (Justin A. Briley)
                                                                                               Pages: 5


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 31-1, Integrated Defense, and Air Force
Instruction (AFI) 31-101, Integrated Defense. It establishes the policies and procedures for the use,
transportation, registration, storage and re- issue/deregistration of privately own weapons (POWs) at
Pittsburgh International Airport Air Reserve Station (IAP ARS). This instruction applies to all personnel
assigned, contracted to perform work, and visitors to Pittsburgh Air Reserve Station. Failure to observe
the prohibitions and mandatory provisions of this instruction by persons subject to the Uniform Code of
Military Justice (UCMJ) is a violation of the UCMJ, Article 92, Failure to Obey Order or Regulation.
Violations by civilian employees may result in adverse administrative disciplinary action without regard
to otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for violations of applicable laws. Violations by
contractor personnel will be handled according to federal law and the terms of contract. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located
at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm.” Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force Form
(AF Form) 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through
the appropriate functional chain of command. See Attachment 1 for a Glossary of Reference and
Supporting Information.


1. POW Control. In order to ensure the safety of all military and civilian personnel assigned to
the 911 Airlift Wing (AW), the possession of privately owned weapons on the installation is
controlled. In order to foster a “Culture of Compliance” Group and Unit Commanders and
civilian directors will ensure that guidance and procedures in this instruction are disseminated
down to the lowest level.
 2                                                         911AWI31-101 1 NOVEMBER 2012


     1.1. Privately owned firearms may only be brought onto the installation for the following
     reasons:
        1.1.1. When authorized by the 911 AW/CC for an event or function taking place on base.
        1.1.2. When they are in the possession of a civilian police officer, federal agent/federal
        criminal investigator who possesses firearms in the conduct of official duties.
        1.1.3. When they are to be temporarily stored in the Security Forces (SF) Armory in
        building 221 as a courtesy service to reserve or transient military/DoD personnel who are
        legally authorized by applicable federal, state, county, and/or municipal statues, laws,
        rules, and/or guidance/instructions to possess and transport a firearm. Temporary storage
        will not exceed 180 days unless otherwise authorized by the Defense Force Commander.
        Due to the limited storage availability, Security Forces retains the right to refuse storage
        of privately owned weapons. In the event that Security Forces are unable to store a
        privately owned weapon, the owner will be escorted off base with their weapon(s) and
        they will have to make other arrangements for the storage of their POW(s).
     1.2. The only authorized storage location of privately own weapons on Pittsburgh IAP ARS
     is the Security Forces Squadron (SFS) Armory in building 221. Privately own weapons will
     not be stored in transient quarters/billeting or in vehicles.
     1.3. State issued “concealed firearm permits” do not authorize individuals to carry concealed
     or unconcealed weapons on Pittsburgh IAP ARS. In addition, off duty or retired law
     enforcement personnel are not allowed to carry open or concealed weapons on Pittsburgh
     IAP ARS.
2. Declaration of Possession of Firearm, Ammunition, or Dangerous Weapon(s). Anyone
who brings a firearm and/or dangerous weapon(s) onto Pittsburgh IAP ARS or causes a firearm
and/or dangerous weapon(s) to be brought unto the installation must, at the time of entry, notify
the installation entry controller (gate guard) that such firearm, ammunition and/or dangerous
weapon(s) is being brought onto the installation and comply with entry controller directions
regarding the transportation, security, and storage of such firearm or dangerous weapon(s).
Firearms transported onto the installation in route to the armory shall be unloaded and locked in
the trunk of the vehicle or a lockable container in a vehicle that does not have a trunk.
     2.1. Civilian law enforcement officials who are granted access to the installation in the
     conduct of their official duties are assumed to be armed and are exempt from this notification
     requirement.
     2.2. Civilian law enforcement officials who are reserve members of the 911 AW should not
     bring private or duty weapons when reporting for inactive duty or active duty tours of any
     type. If private or duty weapons must be brought onto the installation, they will be stored in
     the SFS Armory in building 221.
3. Registration/Storage of POW(s) (includes both firearms and/or ammunition). Weapon
registration is required for individuals storing POWs on the installation. Registration will consist
of the name of the person and contact information; record of firearm manufacturer, model, serial
number, and caliber/gauge; and location where weapon will be stored. Prior to registration,
applicable SF personnel may conduct a National Crime Information Center (NCIC) check to
verify that the individual is lawfully in possession of a privately owned weapon. Use AF Form
911AWI31-101 1 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                      3


1314, Firearms Registration to register POWs to be stored in the SFS Armory in building 221.
The AF Form 1314 may be used to register up to five weapons per individual. More than five
weapons will require additional AF Forms 1314. Individuals registering/storing their POWs
shall, at the time of registration, complete and sign DD Form 2760, Qualification to Possess
Firearms or Ammunition to verify that they are in compliance with the Lautenberg Amendment
to The Gun Control Act of 1968 (18 USC § 922). SF shall maintain the signed DD Form 2760
with the file copy of the AF Form 1314, and return it to the registrant when firearms are de-
registered on the installation IAW DoDI 6400.6 and 18 USC 922.
   3.1. Note: The individual requesting to store their POW(s) shall proceed directly to SFS
   building 221 to store their POW(s) once the weapon(s) has/have been declared to the access
   controller at the main gate and the individual is advised by SFS personnel that they may
   proceed to the SFS Armory. Likewise, upon drawing their POW(s) from the SFS Armory
   the registrant must directly exit the installation without making any additional stops except in
   the event of an emergency.
4. Entry Denials/Firearm Possession Prohibition. Entry onto the installation with a firearm,
ammunition, and/or explosives shall be denied Moon Township Police shall be notified if the
individual is in violation of the Lautenberg Amendment to the 1968 Gun Control Act (18 U.S.C.
§ 922[g][1-9]).
   4.1. Specifically, 18 U.S.C. § 922[g][1-9] prohibits the following individuals from
   possessing firearms, ammunition, or explosives:
       4.1.1. a person convicted of a crime punishable by imprisonment exceeding one year;
       4.1.2. a person who is a fugitive from justice;
       4.1.3. a person who is an unlawful user of or who is addicted to a controlled substance,
       as defined in Section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. § 802);
       4.1.4. a person who has been adjudicated as a mental defective or who has been admitted
       to a mental institution;
       4.1.5. an alien who is unlawfully in the United States or who has been admitted to the
       United States under a nonimmigrant visa;
       4.1.6. a person who has been discharged from the Armed Forces under dishonorable
       conditions;
       4.1.7. a person who, having been a citizen of the United States, renounces his
       citizenship;
       4.1.8. a person subject to a court order that was issued after a hearing in which the
       person participated, which order restrains the person from harassing, stalking, or
       threatening an intimate partner or partner‟s child, and which order includes a finding that
       the person is a credible threat to such partner or partner‟s child, or by its terms prohibits
       the use, attempted use or threatened use of such force against such partner or partner‟s
       child;
       4.1.9. a person who has been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence.
5. Definitions:
4                                                           911AWI31-101 1 NOVEMBER 2012


    5.1. Firearm: means any weapon (including a starter gun) which will or is designed to or
    may readily be converted to expel a projectile by the action of an explosive; the frame or
    receiver of any such weapon; any firearm muffler or firearm silencer; or any destructive
    device. Such term does not include an antique firearm (See para 5.5).
    5.2. Dangerous Weapon: “ means a weapon, device, instrument, material, or substance,
    animate or inanimate, that is used for, or is readily capable of, causing death or serious bodily
    injury, except that such term does not include a pocket knife with a blade of less than 2 1/2
    inches in length.”
    5.3. Ammunition: means ammunition or cartridge cases, primers, bullets, or propellant
    powder designed for use in any firearm.
    5.4. Destructive Device: means any explosive, incendiary, or poison gas (i.e. bomb, grenade,
    rocket having a propellant charge of more than four ounces; missile having an explosive or
    incendiary charge of more than one-quarter ounce; mine, or similar device).
    5.5. Antique Firearm: as defined in 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(16) the term “antique firearm” means
    —
       5.5.1. any firearm (including any firearm with a matchlock, flintlock, percussion cap, or
       similar type of ignition system) manufactured in or before 1898; or
       5.5.2. any replica of any firearm described in subparagraph above if such replica —
           5.5.2.1. is not designed or redesigned for using rimfire or conventional centerfire
           fixed ammunition, or
           5.5.2.2. uses rimfire or conventional centerfire fixed ammunition which is no longer
           manufactured in the United States and which is not readily available in the ordinary
           channels of commercial trade; or
       5.5.3. any muzzle loading rifle, muzzle loading shotgun, or muzzle loading pistol, which
       is designed to use black powder, or a black powder substitute, and which cannot use fixed
       ammunition. For purposes of this subparagraph, the term „antique firearm‟ shall not
       include any weapon which incorporates a firearm frame or receiver, any firearm which is
       converted into a muzzle loading weapon, or any muzzle loading weapon, which can be
       readily converted to fire fixed ammunition by replacing the barrel, bolt, breechblock, or
       any combination thereof.




                                              CRAIG C. PETERS, Col, USAFR
                                              Commander
911AWI31-101 1 NOVEMBER 2012                                              5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 31-1 Integrated Defense , 28 Oct 2011
AFI 31-101 Integrated Defense, 8 Oct 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,1 Mar 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 1314, Firearms Registration, 19 Oct 2005
DD Form 2760, Qualification to Possess Firearms or Ammunition, Dec 2002
AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF Form—Air Force Form
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AW—Airlift Wing
CC—Current Commander
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
FOUO—For official use only
IAP ARS—International Airport Air Reserve Station
IAW—In Accordance With
NCIC—National Crime Information Center
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POW—Privately Owned Weapon
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SF—Security Forces
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
U.S.C. §—United States Code Section
