BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER 911                    911 AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 36-3009
AIRLIFT WING
                                                                                     9 MAY 2012

                                                                                        Personnel

                                                        EMERGENCY FAMILY ASSISTANCE
                                                            CONTROL CENTER (E-FACC)




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 911 FSS/FSF                                         Certified by: 911 AW/CC (Col Patrick S.
                                                                                          Ryan)
                                                                                       Pages: 7


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-30 Military Entitlements.
This instruction outlines procedures for operation of the Emergency Family Assistance Control
Center (E-FACC). The E-FACC is a facility staffed with disaster-response trained professionals
and volunteers who provide community assistance in crisis situations which involve (or
potentially involve) a large number of casualties. The E-FACC serves as a focal point for victim
and family assistance services. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
Https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm               Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms
847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. See Attachment 1
for a Glossary of References and Supporting Information.


1. Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR). The 911th Force Support Squadron Airman and
Family Readiness Center (A&FRC), has responsibility for oversight of E-FACC operations,
including development of operating instructions and ensuring appointment and training of E-
FACC members.
2. General. In mass casualty situations, the 911 Airlift Wing Commander (911AW/CC) will
determine whether existing base agencies are able to accommodate the expected number of
family and community members needing assistance and information. In the event that base
agencies become (or have the potential to become) overwhelmed, activation of the E-FACC is an
 2                                                                   911AWI36-3009 9 MAY 2012


option for leadership. In those situations in which the anticipated needs are beyond the capability
of the agencies primarily tasked to provide immediate crisis intervention, the E-FACC may be
activated. Crises involving a relatively small number of casualties (e.g., accidents involving two
cars or the loss of a single-seat aircraft) can generally be managed in an effective manner through
services provided by 911AW Public Affairs Office (911AW/PA), Chaplains (911AW/HC),
911ASTS Mental Health (911th ASTS/SGH) professionals and or the Allegheny County
American Red Cross (ARC) in conjunction with the Allegheny County Mental Health and Stress
Programs. When crises involve large numbers of potential casualties (e.g., a report that a wide-
body aircraft has been damaged) existing services may be quickly overwhelmed, the E-FACC
provides a consolidated facility through which the families of potential casualties can receive
supportive services. The E-FACC will be established at the direction of the 911 AW/CC for
SAFE HAVEN purposes to aid members and families utilizing the base as an intermediate or
final destination in the event of evacuation. Services will include:
     2.1. Initial Response and Assistance. The E-FACC will serve as a central gathering point for
     families awaiting information about the crisis. Families and community members will be
     directed to report to the E-FACC for the most up-to-date information. E-FACC staff will
     provide a supportive environment for individuals remaining at the A&FRC. Sign-in and sign-
     out logs will be maintained to keep track of the location of family members who may prefer
     to wait for information at their own homes or in alternate locations. Progress reports will be
     provided at the E-FACC through appropriate senior leadership or representatives of the 911
     AW/PA. The E-FACC will establish a Volunteer Control Center to match volunteers with
     identified needs (e.g., manning phones, child care, and logistic support). Private facilities will
     be maintained for individuals in need of one-on-one support. The designated E-FACC
     personnel will be on hand to provide supportive counseling services for those needing
     emotional support. Following receipt of confirmation of casualties, E-FACC can also serve
     as the centralized location for management of incoming calls from individuals seeking
     information on the crisis and from those offering assistance. The E-FACC will be housed in
     building 300, rooms 111 and 112. If overflow space is required use of the Deployment
     Processing Center located in building 312 may also be implemented. Family Members will
     be encouraged to use the Perksburg Café as waiting area and the facility will remain open, as
     required, to provide E-FACC support.
     2.2. Long-Term Assistance. After initial arrangements are made for the affected families, the
     focus of the E-FACC will shift to long-term assistance. This assistance will include
     continued grief counseling, assistance with funeral arrangements, entitlement briefings,
     financial assistance, and legal assistance. Counseling support for grieving family members,
     services to non-casualty families, survivors, “first responders,” staff and volunteers will also
     be provided. Continued coordination of support services and completion of an after-action
     report will be accomplished.
3. Responsibilities. Once the E-FACC is activated the A&FRC staff transitions to 24-hour
operations and the Chief, A&FRC assumes duties as the E-FACC Director. In practical terms
this will entail tasking reservists assigned to the installation. The A&FRC Readiness
noncommissioned officer (NCO), a traditional reservist, serves as the E-FACC
noncommissioned officer in charge (NCOIC). Due to the specialized structure of the reserves, a
designated alternate Air Reserve Technician (ART) may be appointed. In addition to the A&FRC
personnel (traditional reservists), E-FACC staffing should include assigned representatives from
911AWI36-3009 9 MAY 2012                                                                        3


911 AW/PA, 911 AW/HC, Legal Office (911 AW/JA), Mental Health (911 ASTS/SGH), the
Sexual Assault Response Coordinator (in reserves is a social worker) and the American Red
Cross (ARC) in coordination with Allegheny County Mental Health and Stress Response
personnel. Volunteers, i.e. A&FRC, Key Spouse and Retiree Affairs) will provide additional
support. Representatives from 911 FSS Manpower and Personnel Flight (911FSS/FSM), the 911
AW Comptroller (911 AW/FM), the 911 Logistics Readiness Squadron (911 LRS), and the 911
Aeromedical Staging Squadron (911 ASTS) will provide services at E-FACC as required by the
specific casualty situation. Responsibilities of the E-FACC staff will be executed in accordance
with current position descriptions and current union agreement and will include:
   3.1. E-FACC Director. The Director will be responsible for the overall operation of the E-
   FACC during the crisis. The Director will ensure that rosters of personnel assigned to the E-
   FACC are current and that recall procedures are in-place. The Director will ensure that E-
   FACC staff is trained in disaster response and that E-FACC operations are exercised at least
   annually. Included in the training will be rumor control techniques, role-playing, telephonic
   response and information retrieval techniques, and sensitivity training. Upon activation of the
   E-FACC, the Director will ensure that E-FACC staff members are recalled and that
   arrangements are made for coverage of shifts for a 24-hour operation. The Director will serve
   as a consultant to the Emergency Operations Center (EOC) regarding needs of the families
   and community. The Director will implement and coordinate appropriate community
   responses after consultation with Wing leadership.
   3.2. E-FACC NCOIC. The E-FACC NCOIC will assist the E-FACC Director and be
   responsible for coordinating logistical support for the E-FACC. The NCOIC will ensure that
   adequate communication assets are available for E-FACC operations, especially in the call
   center. Additionally, the NCOIC will ensure that adequate supplies are available to facilitate
   efficient operations and that details are coordinated to ensure the safety and comfort of E-
   FACC staff and the family members seeking assistance and information.
   3.3. 911 AW/PA (Public Affairs). 911 AW/PA will be responsible for ensuring widespread
   dissemination of information regarding activation of E-FACC. 911AW/PA representative to
   the E-FACC will be responsible for clearing of all information released through the E-FACC
   pertaining to the crisis. If 911 AW/PA cannot provide a representative to the E-FACC
   location due to manning and mission requirements, 911 AW/PA will perform these
   responsibilities from their main office and send updates and information cleared by phone,
   email or PA courier as appropriate.
   3.4. A&FRC. The A&FRC will train all staff in E-FACC operations and detail them to the
   E-FACC for the duration of E-FACC operations. A&FRC traditional reserve personnel will
   be responsible for providing manpower to work check-in stations, coordinate task
   assignments of volunteers, provide Air Force Aid Society assistance, and supervise details, as
   needed. A&FRC traditional reservist staff will augment other agencies in providing
   supportive and grief counseling, when appropriate. If long-term assistance is needed,
   A&FRC staff will assist 911 ASTS personnel in coordinating Traumatic Stress Response
   (TRS) assistance and support.
   3.5. 911 AW/HC (Chaplin). At least one chapel representative will be assigned to the E-
   FACC to provide emotional and spiritual support to family members and affected community
   members.
4                                                                  911AWI36-3009 9 MAY 2012


    3.6. 911 ASTS (Aeromedical Staging Squadron). A representative from the Mental Health
    Clinic will be available to provide supportive services and to serve as consultant in situations
    in which family members may require medical/mental intervention. In the event that no
    Mental Health personnel are available, the most senior medical Air Reserve Technician
    (ART), or senior traditional reservist (TR) on military orders will serve in this capacity.
    911ASTS will have primary responsibility for organization of TRS services. The
    representative will request assistance from other helping agency personnel to accomplish
    this, as needed.
    3.7. ARC. ARC will assist A&FRC in Disaster Response training and execution. Financial
    assistance will be provided, as needed, as outlined in the ARC Disaster Relief financial
    assistance guidelines.
    3.8. 911 AW/JA (Jag). 911 AW/JA staff will provide legal assistance to affected families.
    3.9. 911 AW/FM (Comptroller). Representatives from 911 AW/FM will be available to
    provide financial information and assistance.
    3.10. 911 LRS (Logistics). Representatives from 911 LRS will be available to assist family
    members with travel and relocation assistance.
    3.11. 911 ASTS (Aeromedical Staging Squadron). Representatives from 911ASTS will be
    available to address emotional and physical needs of families of potential Department of
    Defense (DOD) casualties and DOD personnel affected by the disaster.
    3.12. The 911 CS (Communications). 911CS will be available to provide telecommunication
    support.
    3.13. 911 AW/CCK. The Sexual Assault Response Coordinator, a trained social worker, will
    augment the 911 ASTS/SGH in providing services to affected members and families.
    3.14. 911 FSS/FSMPS (Casualty). The 911 FSS/FSMPS will act to provide assistance to
    families impacted by casualties and will augment the E-FACC in handling other
    administrative responsibilities as required.
    3.15. 911 FSS/FSM (Manpower and Personnel Flight). The 911 FSS/FSM will provide
    augmenters to assist in the operation of the E-FACC.
    3.16. 911 FSS/SV (Services). The 911 FSS/SV will, as needed, ensure on base food service
    is available for military members and civilians manning the E-FACC. Additionally actions
    to ensure food service is available for purchase for those not assigned but who are using
    services would be beneficial. They will accept food related donations, if forthcoming, and
    will catalogue other items directly donated for “victims” and release them for distribution.
    They will coordinate child care services; if feasible.
    3.17. Service liaisons will ensure that health services, postal delivery and utilities providers
    are notified of needs.
    3.18. Client Services will include: legal counsel; banking services; service relief fund;
    insurance claim services; travel assistance (trains, planes and automobiles); school/child care
    representatives; counseling services, chaplain/religious support services, and housing
    referral.
911AWI36-3009 9 MAY 2012                                                                         5


   3.19. The 911 SFS (Security Forces) will provide security requirements to the E-FACC and
   the A&FRC for non-Department of Defense Personnel access to the installation/within the
   installation.
   3.20. The following teams and services will be generated including the aforementioned
   members as needed: Mass Care registration team; personnel accountability liaison; volunteer
   management service; donations management service; services for non-English-speaking;
   hearing impaired and physically impaired populations.
4. Procedures.
   4.1. The 911 AW/CC, Incident Commander, or EOC Director, directs the activation of E-
   FACC.
   4.2. The primary location of the E-FACC is the A&FRC, building 300 with over-flow to
   building 312. Alternative facilities will be used if the scope of the crisis is likely to exceed
   the capacity of A&FRC.
   4.3. E-FACC configuration ideally includes a space for informational briefings, a command
   and control area, a call center, a business center, private counseling rooms, resting rooms, a
   child care area, and food service/eating areas. Facilities are a limiting factor at the 911th.
   4.4. The E-FACC will be open 24 hours a day during the initial crisis response period.
   Immediate availability of traditional reservists to implement this plan is a limiting factor.
   4.5. 911 CS/COMM support will ensure the E-FACC has the availability of internet
   connections, phone lines with 1-800 number support for the call center, ideally two
   unpublished phone lines for use by service provider staff, volunteers, and family members to
   ensure that outgoing lines remain open and available.
   4.6. All service provider staff and volunteers should be clearly identified with a badge.
   Badges will provided by the Director.
   4.7. E-FACC sign-in and sign-out logs will be utilized to capture such information as full
   names of service member and family members, relationship of waiting parties to potential
   casualty, and phone numbers and locations where family members may be reached.
   4.8. All entrances and exits to the E-FACC should be monitored to ensure the safety and
   privacy of all family members and friends. Assigned staff will share in implementing this
   responsibility.
   4.9. In large scale disasters continuity of operations may occur if disaster size exceeds scope
   and capabilities of 911th AW in-house assets, higher headquarters will be engaged for
   allocation of additional regional assets as appropriate.
   4.10. E-FACC personnel will release no information regarding the disaster without clearance
   from 911 AW/PA. No information will be released on the status of casualties until
   confirmation is received that next-of-kin have been notified by the Casualty Notification
   Officers and the names of casualties are released by 911 AW/PA.
   4.11. The E-FACC Director will advise the EOC or 911 AW/CC when the need for
   specialized service provider assistance from other installations is indicated.
6                   911AWI36-3009 9 MAY 2012




    JAMES B. FINNEY, Colonel, USAFR
    Commander
911AWI36-3009 9 MAY 2012                                             7


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-30, MILITARY ENTITLEMENTS, 2 AUG 1993
AFMAN 33-363, MANAGEMENT OF RECRDS, 1 MAR 2008
Adopted Forms
AF From 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ARC—American Red Cross
A&FRC—Airman and Family Readiness Center
ART—Air Reserve Technician
NCO—Noncommissioned Officer
NCOIC—Noncommissioned Officer In Charge
DOD—Department of Defense
EOC—Emergency Operations Center
TR—Traditional Reservist
