BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       911th AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 90-201
911TH AIRLIFT WING
                                                                                    4 MAY 2011

                                                                                       Command

                                                              SELF-INSPECTION PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 911 AW/CCO                                                         Certified by: 911AW/CC
                                                                      (Col Jeffrey T. Pennington)
Supersedes:    911AWI90-201,                                                            Pages: 10
               13 November 2003


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-2, Inspector General – The
Inspection System, Air Force Instruction (AFI) 90-201, Inspector General Activities, and AFI 90-
201_AFRCSUP_1, Inspector General Activities. It establishes responsibilities for the 911th
Airlift Wing (AW) Self-inspection (SI) program. It provides guidance and procedures for
managing deficiencies found during various inspections, unfavorable trends, recommendations
noted by the Inspector General (IG), and promotes the use of SI as a management tool. It applies
to all units and activities assigned to the 911 AW, but does not apply to the Air National Guard.
Refer any recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force Information Management Tool (AF IMT) 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMTs 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records                 Disposition              Schedule             (RDS)                located
athttps://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims/cfn. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references, abbreviations, acronyms, and terms.

This supercedes publication 911 AWI 90-201, dtd 13 November 2003.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
 2                                                                 911AWI90-201 4 MAY 2011


1. Background.
     1.1. AFRC no longer supports Self-inspection Tracking System (SITS) as the Self-inspection
     Program. Management Internal Control Toolset (MICT) is now AFRCs chosen program for
     self-inspection. MICT will support all self-inspections and tracking answerables for all
     inspections such as the Unit Compliance Inspection (CI), Health Services Inspection (HSI),
     Logistics Compliance Assessment Program (LCAP), Expeditionary Operation Readiness
     Inspection (EORI), and Nuclear Operational Readiness Inspection (NORI).
     1.2. The MICT program, found through the AF Portal on the ReserveNet website,
     https://www.my.af.mil/reservenetprod/mic/mict/mymictview.aspx is required for all
     wings, groups, and squadrons to perform SI processes online. MICT enables commanders,
     supervisors, higher headquarters, and other external agencies the capability through various
     access levels (permissions) to view all self-inspections.
     1.3. MICT is an automated tool that has replaced hard copy processes and is a stand-alone
     program. In order to be an efficient process, the units are discouraged from maintaining a
     manual process instead of moving forward to the automated MICT process or reversing to a
     manual process. Additionally, units should readily review Crossfeed/Crosstell and Joint
     Lessons Learned Information System (JLLIS) website at https://www.jllis.mil.usaf for
     updates and information sharing command-wide.
     1.4. Unit SI monitors will input discrepancies into the MICT program online in MICT and
     update their status on a periodic basis or as needed.
2. Objectives and Responsibilities.
     2.1. The 911 AW supports self-inspection (SI) as the critical process for readiness and
     compliance for all missions. Each unit member and unit functional area manager (FAM)
     must take responsibility to assess accurately for compliance and improve his or her self-
     inspection programs, according to the applicable AFRC FAM checklist, or unit checklist.
     AFRC has chosen MICT as the IG self-inspection tool for accomplishing and reporting self-
     inspections. Managing the MICT application will require continuous updates to ensure
     readiness and compliance.
     2.2. Each FAM checklist has an associated frequency for self-inspection, which the
     commander may increase.
     2.3. Commanders and senior members of each organization/unit/work center will
     automatically serve as primary Self-inspection Monitors (SIM) and receive unit admin
     permissions, unless otherwise authorized. Commanders, supervisors, and designated SIM are
     responsible for the overall management of the SI program.
     2.4. Commanders must appoint in writing a primary and alternate SI program manager. Send
     a copy of the appointed primary and alternate SI program manger to the Group SIM (if
     applicable), and to the wing SI program manager. (See Attachment 2). The primary and
     alternate SI responsibilities include developing procedures, overseeing compliance with the
     wing SI program and managing the MICT application.
3. Procedures.
     3.1. Each functional area should perform a self-inspection at least once each year or as
     directed. This instruction does not supersede or supplant other functional guidance requiring
911AWI90-201 4 MAY 2011                                                                       3


  more than an annual inspection. The inspection will consist of a review, inspection, and
  reporting on all applicable HQ AFRC/IG checklists and the Common Core Checklists within
  MICT. The Common Core Compliance Checklists established in MICT represent group and
  squadron checklists for all 911 AW units. The common core checklists will be maintained
  and updated by the 911 AW/CCO office.
  3.2. The MICT database will be the sole source for holding, identifying, and reporting for all
  discrepancies. Most, if not all, FAM applicable checklists are loaded in MICT for each
  Functional Area, and Staff Agency.
  3.3. Each group, squadron, flight or work-center appointed SI monitor is required to have a
  self-inspection program, using MICT. The self-inspection binder should be accessible for
  review by the group monitor and available in the event that the network enterprise (Internet,
  AF Portal or Local Area Network (LAN)) is unavailable, such as during a communications
  outage. An alternate plan should be in place for possible LAN outages and alternate
  mediums, such as hard copies, with CDs/DVDs of self-inspections in place for viewing in a
  continuity binder.
  3.4. MICT does provide MICT Guest permissions for viewing self-inspections, provided
  given access by the SI monitor. A good program could include the following:
     3.4.1. Section I. Unit guidance, this OI and unit OIs (if applicable).
     3.4.2. Section II. Self-inspection Checklists - common core and or functional checklists
     in MICT.
     3.4.3. Section III. Discrepancies – An audit trail in MICT of all open discrepancies until
     closure. This should include follow-up date, status, OPR and estimated date of
     completion.
     3.4.4. Section IV. Previous inspections accomplished at the 911 AW such as CIs, NORI,
     , EORI or Numbered Air Force (NAF) Staff Assistance Visit (SAV) excerpts that are
     applicable to the SIMs level of responsibility.
     3.4.5. Section V. Crossfeed newsletter/reports.
     3.4.6. Section VI. Any additional information deemed necessary.
  3.5. As the SIM completes the self-inspection in MICT, all discrepancies must be identified
  and suspended for review and completion.
     3.5.1. When entering a discrepancy into MICT, provide as much detail, such as thorough
     comments and documentation, and a get-well date with a corrective action plan.
     3.5.2. Open discrepancies should be reviewed and updated periodically to note any
     progress made toward completion/closure.
     3.5.3. All discrepancies tracked in MICT require leadership oversight to ensure all open
     discrepancies meet the annotated completion time and to reduce stagnation. Open
     discrepancies should be reviewed by the Commander/Section Chief/Unit SI Monitor at
     least quarterly and should be an agenda item at Unit Executive/Senior Staff Meetings.
 4                                                                  911AWI90-201 4 MAY 2011


     3.6. The SI program is a continuous process that includes all areas noted in this instruction.
     All new discrepancies found should be entered in MICT, assigned, and tracked for
     completion.
     3.7. In MICT, *discrepancies will be closed by a member assigned with MICT Supervisor
     permission. Prior to closure, comments need to be added in the discrepancy field and or
     documentation needs to be uploaded in the support section by the OPR stating how the
     discrepancy was remedied and what process is in place to prevent the discrepancy from
     repeating. (*A Root Cause Analysis may be required and included as Crossfeed/Crosstell in
     JLLIS. Ratings received as Unsatisfactory, must support all answerables with documentation
     and root cause analysis. The SIM will ensure the latest information is in MICT before
     completing the update.)
     3.8. Findings found during HSI, CI, SAV, NORI, LCAP and and based on the area
     reviewed will be entered into MICT. The SIM should inspect and account for all FAM
     checklists tracked in MICT. Prior to SI closure, make sure that comments are completed in
     the discrepancy field and documentation required.
        3.8.1. All discrepancies must be documented for remedy.
        3.8.2. All discrepancies must have an identified root cause and corrective actions to take
        place to prevent the discrepancy from repeating. Once the discrepancy is ready for review
        by the clearing/closing agency, inform the Wing Self-inspection Program Manager
        (AW/CCO) via the MICT suspense feature.
     3.9. The Wing Self-inspection Program Manager (911 AW/CCO) will track all findings,
     observations, and discrepancies identified during the Formal Inspections/SAVs to ensure
     timely closure and approval by HQ if required.
     3.10. The Wing SI Program Manager (911 AW/CCO) will conduct SI Monitor Meetings, SI
     Executive Meetings, and MICT training periodically and on an as needed basis.
4. Requirements.
     4.1. The wing self-inspection program manager (911 AW/CCO) will:
        4.1.1. Maintain a copy of all current group level appointments within the wing.
        4.1.2. Ensure the SI program meets directives and communicate changes or unique
        inspection elements.
        4.1.3. Coordinate permissions (administrative rights) for use of the MICT program for all
        authorized monitors based on appointment letters.
        4.1.4. As required, appoint an OPR for each Special Interest Item (SII) to accomplish,
        research and report findings/results back to the wing SI program manager. Additionally,
        monitor the status of all SIIs and report to higher headquarters as directed.
        4.1.5. Ensure each group establishes an effective process for tracking and closure of
        discrepancies identified for unit developed checklists for SAVs, EORIs, NORI, LCAP, ,
        CIs and SIIs.
911AWI90-201 4 MAY 2011                                                                     5


     4.1.6. Routinely review pertinent external CI reports, Crossfeed/Crosstell and JLLIS to
     determine how such discrepancies would affect the wing. Electronically distribute to
     group level for dissemination.
     4.1.7. Communicate to commanders and group monitors through e-mail or other
     electronic media, changes or unique program elements found on the HQ AFRC/IG web
     pages.
     4.1.8. Monitor all group discrepancies using the MICT database.
     4.1.9. Review the results of self-inspections and ensure GP/CC has vetted. Certify group
     inspections are complete. (See Attachment 3).
     4.1.10. The wing SI manager will then forward self-inspection results to the wing
     commander.
     4.1.11. Provide training and assistance as requested by group, squadron, flight or work-
     center monitors.
  4.2. The Group SIM will:
     4.2.1. Reinforce to squadron managers the use of the Crossfeed/Crosstell program; using
     other units compliance inspection reports. Monitor discrepancies and suspense dates
     using MICT.
     4.2.2. Notify the appropriate group commander of discrepancies identified by
     subordinate organizations, which require assistance.
     4.2.3. Review IG Crossfeed/Crosstell material periodically. Communicate pertinent
     material benchmarking information to all squadron and work-center SI monitors.
     Periodically remind SI monitors to check the HQ AFRC/IG website for updates to their
     programs.
     4.2.4. Ensure appointment letters are on file for all group, squadron, flight or work-
     center SIM.
     4.2.5. Ensure self-inspections are in compliance as directed according to guidance. Sends
     a letter certifying entire Group inspections are complete to the wing SI program manager.
     (See Attachment 4).
     4.2.6. Provide training and assistance as requested by squadron, flight or work-center
     monitors.
  4.3. Squadron, flight or staff agency SIM will:
     4.3.1. Review pertinent inspection documents such as HSI, CI, SAV, NORI, LCAP, ,
     and other external compliance reports. Determine how discrepancies affect the functional
     area.
     4.3.2. Input discrepancies into the MICT database. Review open discrepancies monthly
     to include changing the follow-up or estimated completion date, if required.
     4.3.3. Ensure self-inspections comply with guidance as directed. Complete a letter
     stating annual inspections are in compliance with and file in the appropriate location.
6                                                             911AWI90-201 4 MAY 2011


    Send a copy of the letter and the results to the group monitor and courtesy copy the wing
    SI monitor.
    4.3.4. Inform CC’s and unit managers of results and recommendations for corrective
    action.




                                         JEFFREY T. PENNINGTON, Col, USAFR
                                         Commander
911AWI90-201 4 MAY 2011                                               7


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 90-201_AFRCSup_I, Inspector General Activities, 10 Mar 2007
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities, 17 Jun 2009
AFPD 90-2, Inspector General - The Inspection System, 26 April 2006
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—- Air Force
AFMAN—- Air Force Manual
AFPD—- Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—- Air Force Reserve Command
AMW—- Air Mobility Wing
CCC—Common Core Compliance
CCCA—- Common Core Compliance Area
CCO—- Wing Process Manager
CI—- Compliance Inspection
ECD—- Estimated Completion Date
EORI—- Expeditionary Operational Readiness Inspection
FAM—- Functional Area Management
FAV—- Functional Assistance Visit
FM—- Financial Management
GP/CC—Group Commander
HHQ—- Higher Headquarters
HSI—Home Station Inspection
IAW—In accordance with
IG—- Inspector General
JLLIS—- Joint Lessons Learned Information System
LAN—- Local Area Network
LCAP—Logistics Compliance Assessment Program
 8                                                             911AWI90-201 4 MAY 2011


MICT—- Management Internal Control Toolset
NAF—Numbered Air Force
OPR—- Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—- Point of Contact
RDS—- Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
SAV—- Staff Assistance Visit
SI—- Self-inspection
SII—- Special Interest Item
SOA—- Statement of Assurance

Terms
Crossfeed/Crosstell—Term used to compare and share information from one unit to another.
The purposes are to gain collectively insight through knowledge management, thereby increase
level of understanding of an issue that may lead to corrective action.
Vetted— The process of examining and evaluating for possible approval or acceptance.
911AWI90-201 4 MAY 2011                                                                       9


                                       Attachment 2
                           SAMPLE APPOINTMENT LETTER

                          DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                               AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND




                                                                                        Date

MEMORANDUM FOR 911 AW/CCO

FROM: Unit

SUBJECT: Appointment of (Group/Squadron/Functional Area/Flight/Work Center) Self-
Inspection Monitor

1. IAW 911 AWI 90-201, Self-inspection Program (Draft), request the following individual(s)
be appointed as Self-Inspection Monitor for (insert unit/functional area) and granted
Administrative Permissions in MICT for area identified in this appointment letter:

       Primary:
       Alternate:

2. POC with any concerns in this matter is 911 AW/CCO at 474-8205. This memorandum
supersedes previous memorandums same subject.




                                                  Susan B. Anthony, Lt Col, USAFR
                                                  Commander



cc:
Individual(s)
 10                                                              911AWI90-201 4 MAY 2011


                                        Attachment 3
               COMPLIANCE WITH AFI 90-201, AFRC SUP 1, PARA 5.7

                                                                         Date

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

FROM: 911 AW/CCO, Wing Self-inspection Monitor

SUBJECT: Compliance with AFI 90-201, AFRC Sup 1, para 5.7

1. I certify 911 AW Group/Unit Name Self-inspection Checklists are/are not complete. The 911
   AW Group/Unit Name has XX checklists to review, and XX of them redundant or non-
   compliance according to the instruction/regulation.
2. Checklists were briefed and vetted through the Group Commander (Group Commander’s
   Name). The following items out of control are ―XX‖ and have been elevated for the next level
   of authority to review. The Group Name/Unit is exclusively using Management Internal
   Control Toolset (MICT) for their self-inspection program.
3. Our next inspection is scheduled YYYYMMDD.
                                           Sincerely,



                                           Susan B. Anthony, Lt Col, USAFR
                                           Commander
