BY ORDER OF THE                                     911TH AIR WING INSTRUCTION 91-202
WING COMMANDER 911TH AIRLIFT
WING                                                                      24 DECEMBER 2009

                                                                                          Safety

                                                 GROUND SAFETY MISHAP PREVENTION




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 911 AW/SEW                                                       Certified by: 911 AW/CC
Supersedes: 911AWI91-202, 16 April                                   (Col. Gordon H. Elwell Jr.)
            2001                                                                        Pages: 6


This instruction implements AFPD 91-2, Safety Programs and AFI 91-301, Air Force
Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection and Health (AFOSH) Program. It
establishes a threefold Mishap Prevention Program. The first layer is to provide the safest work
environment for personnel. The second is to ensure safety is a primary consideration in all
operations and third, is to ensure the appropriate safety education is provided to all employees.
The Mishap Prevention Program, when aggressively supported by all individuals, will reduce or
eliminate many of those on and off duty incidents that cause damage to resources or injury to
personnel. It applies to all members assigned to the 911 Airlift Wing (AW). Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the Air Force Form (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF
847 directly to 911AW/SE. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is updated to reflect changes in guidance and procedures dealing with the AFI
91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection and Health
(AFOSH) Program and AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, outline
specific responsibilities for Commanders, Functional Managers, Supervisors and individuals. In
short, mishap prevention requires the dedicated efforts of everyone in the unit.
2                                                        911AWI91-202 24 DECEMBER 2009


1. Duties/Responsibilities:
    1.1. Commanders and Supervisors at all levels will develop and implement safety, risk
    management, and health programs that integrate hazard reduction and safety policy into all
    on-duty and off-duty operations and activities.
    1.2. Specific duties related to safety and mishap prevention for commanders and functional
    managers:
       1.2.1. Group and subordinate commanders (or functional equivalents) will appoint a
       primary and alternate Unit Safety Representative (USR). he minimum rank for the
       primary USR will be MSgt or above; and SSgt and above for alternates (civilian
       equivalencies are acceptable). Appointment letters will be provided to the 911 AW/SE.
       1.2.2. Implement safety and health program elements into unit or area of responsibility.
       1.2.3. Provide safe and healthful workplaces for all employees.
       1.2.4. Ensure all employees receive necessary job safety training.
       1.2.5. Ensure all appropriate hazard abatement actions are implemented and follow-up
       actions are accomplished. Follow-up will be documented every 30 days and continue
       until hazard is corrected.
       1.2.6. Keep safety staff updated on all abatement actions.
       1.2.7. Ensure the principles of Operational Risk Management (ORM) are actively
       implemented and utilized within the unit at all levels.
    1.3. Specific duties related to safety and mishap prevention for Supervisors:
       1.3.1. Must be knowledgeable of the safety and occupational health standards that apply
       to their areas.
       1.3.2. Will use ORM techniques referenced in AFI 90-901, Operational Risk
       Management, Job Safety Analysis (JSA’s), and Occupational Hazard Analysis (OHA)
       referenced in AFI 91-301, to analyze their job environments for hazards and hazardous
       tasks. Once hazardous tasks are identified, ORM will be used to minimize risk. The
       remaining risk will be mitigated by developing standard work practices and training
       employees.
       1.3.3. Shall enable each worker to participate in the workplace risk management
       processes.
       1.3.4. Will develop job safety standards or job safety training outlines (JSTO) for their
       assigned work areas. Ensure these JSTOs are developed and maintained as required by
       AFI 91-301 and this directive.
       1.3.5. Will train personnel on safety and health standards, procedures, and requirements
       of the job. This training must be documented.
       1.3.6. Will exercise control over job tasks to ensure personnel correctly follow all
       precautions and safety measures, including the proper use and care of personal protective
       equipment.
911AWI91-202 24 DECEMBER 2009                                                                    3


       1.3.7. Will train section personnel in the identification, reporting and elimination of
       hazards through the use of AF Form 457, Hazard Reporting System. Route all AF Form
       457 to the Unit Safety Representative and the safety office.
       1.3.8. Will post notices of hazards when received from Safety and brief all employees of
       the hazard and document.
       1.3.9. Will take appropriate actions to promptly eliminate safety and health hazards and
       correct deficiencies at the lowest possible level.
       1.3.10. Will ensure all work areas comply with occupational safety and health standards.
       1.3.11. Will immediately report all mishaps that occur in their work area to the safety
       office. Also, inform civilian personnel section (911AW/DPC) if a mishap involves a
       civilian employee. Forward copies of the 911AW Mishap Worksheet for both civilian
       and military personnel to the USR and the Safety Office as soon as possible (preferably
       within 24 hours.).
       1.3.12. Will ensure safety briefings, facility spot inspections, AF Form 55, Employee
       Safety and Health Record, training and mishaps are properly documented in the section
       safety binder or electronic data base.
   1.4. Specific Duties Related to Safety and Mishap Prevention for Individuals:
       1.4.1. Will comply with work standards, instructions, job guides, technical orders, and
       operating procedures.
       1.4.2. Must be able to identify, correct, and or report hazards.
       1.4.3. Must use protective clothing or equipment when required.
       1.4.4. Individuals must use risk management to identify, reduce, or eliminate risk in
       activities on and off-duty.
       1.4.5. Individuals will notify supervision about any job-related injury, any suspected or
       actual exposure to chemicals or hazardous materials, as well as impaired health that may
       impact job performance.
   1.5. Unit Safety Representatives (USR’s) will:
       1.5.1. Serve as a point of contact for commanders, supervisors and safety office
       personnel on safety issues.
       1.5.2. Promptly ensure injuries and mishaps are reported to 911 AW/SEG.
       1.5.3. Assist personnel in the identification, reporting and elimination of hazards and
       how to utilize the AF Form 457.
       1.5.4. Will attend the quarterly USR meetings and assist in the implementation of
       various safety and health programs.
       1.5.5. Ensure monthly safety briefings and spot inspections are being performed and
       documented.
2. Training Requirements: Proper training is absolutely vital to mishap prevention.
Supervisors are already aware of the training each of their sections are required to have, and the
frequency of that training. Equally as important to training is the documentation of that training.
4                                                       911AWI91-202 24 DECEMBER 2009


In the past, AF Form 55, was the preferred method of documentation. It is the 911 Airlift Wings
goal, supported by HQ AFRC to evolve from documenting safety training on the AF Form 55 to
an automated process. Hence, the following procedures briefly outline the procedures for this
automation process: Detailed procedures can be obtained by contacting the safety office.
    2.1. In accordance with AFI 91-301, automation is the preferred method of documenting
    safety training. The intent is to ensure that all newcomers are briefed on all hazards and
    emergency procedures associated with their sections, and that all employees are kept aware
    as changes are made. In the past, we have been directed to document our safety training on
    the AF Form 55, then again in various databases. This dual documentation leads to
    documenting errors as well as many additional hours of work. To simplify this process,
    commanders and supervisors should automate the documentation process with the procedures
    outlined herein.
       2.1.1. Supervisors/Instructors will use the AF Form 2426, Training Request and
       Completion Notification, or a sign in roster as a means of identifying employee
       attendance for safety training.
       2.1.2. Once the AF Form 55’s have been automated, follow disposition requirements
       outlined in Air Force Records Information Management Systems (AFRIMS).
    2.2. Awareness of hazards and emergency procedures is vital to mishap prevention.
    Supervisors are the key to mishap prevention as they are directly involved in the day to day
    operations of their sections. Consequently, supervisors will review and document the Safety,
    Fire Protection and Health on the Job Training guide (SFHOJT) {also known as the Job
    Safety Training Outline (JSTO)} annually and brief /train their employees on all changes.
    2.3. In accordance with AFI 91-301, personnel whose primary duties are administrative in
    nature are not required to maintain AF Form 55’s. Do not misinterpret the intent of this
    exception, all personnel, regardless of their work, are exposed to some hazards. These
    hazards must be placed in the JSTO/SFHOJT briefing and reviewed annually by supervisors
    for necessary changes. These changes must be briefed to all administrative personnel as they
    occur.
3. Documentation of Monthly Spot Inspections: Supervisors are required to perform monthly
spot inspections of their duty sections. Checklists should be developed and used during spot
inspections. Maintain documentation of these inspections covering a 12 month period. A spot
inspection log will be maintained identifying the following information:
    3.1. Date of the inspection.
       3.1.1. Discrepancies encountered. If no discrepancies are noted, document (None found.)
       3.1.2. CE work order number as necessary.
       3.1.3. The status of the close out action.
4. Documentation of Monthly Safety Briefings: Monthly safety briefings will be conducted
by the supervisor or a designated representative. The supervisor should select a topic based on
the work environment or current seasonal conditions. The 24 items listed in the JSTO can also
be used for briefing unit personnel.
911AWI91-202 24 DECEMBER 2009                                                                   5


   4.1. It is understood that supervisors in some duty sections requiring working shifts or
   involved in high operations tempo duties may not have the opportunity to brief all personnel
   collectively. Therefore, the read and initial method may be used as an exception to formal
   briefings from the supervisors.
   4.2. Documentation of briefings will be locally developed logs identifying the following
   items:
       4.2.1. Date of the safety briefing.
       4.2.2. Names of the persons receiving the briefings.
       4.2.3. Topic of safety briefing.
       4.2.4. Name of person conducting the briefing if applicable.
5. Mishaps and injuries will be reported to the safety office as soon as possible. When an
injury occurs, first seek medical attention as necessary by calling the security forces desk
sergeant at 911 on any base phone or 412-474-8250 on any cell phone.
   5.1. The supervisor and or USR will ensure the 911AW Mishap Worksheet has been
   completed and remitted to the Safety staff for any mishap occurring in their work area.
   5.2. The section which an injured individual is assigned will maintain a log showing the date
   of the mishap, the name of the injured, and a description of the injury. The description should
   state what happened, and what was done to prevent recurrence. Logs will stay posted in the
   section safety binder for trend analysis.
   5.3. The safety office will investigate all mishaps. Section Safety Representatives and Unit
   Safety representatives may be tasked to assist in the investigation.

6. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 457, Hazard Reporting System
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record
AF Form 2426, Training Request and Completion Notification
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                             GORDON H. ELWELL JR., Colonel, USAFR
                                             Commander
6                                                     911AWI91-202 24 DECEMBER 2009


                                       Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFEERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 91-2, Safety Programs
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection and Health
(AFOSH) Program
AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program
AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
AFI— Air Force Instruction
USR— Unit Safety Representative
ORM— Operational Risk Management
OHA— Occupational Hazard Analysis
JSTO— Job Safety Training Outlines
SFHOJT— Safety, Fire Protection and Health on the Job Training Guide
JSTO— Job Safety Training Outline
