BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                911th AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 48-101
911TH AIRLIFT WING                                                                            13 May 1999

                                                                                      Aerospace Medicine

                                                           RESPIRATORY PROTECTION PROGRAM




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE : This publication is available digitally on the HQ AFRC WWW site at http://
www.afrc.af.mil. and the AFRCEPL (CD-ROM), published monthly.


OPR: 911 SPTG/SGPB (Stephen R. Welk)                     Certified by: 911 AW/CC (Col F. Baxter Lane)
                                                                                             Pages: 8
                                                                                      Distribution: F

This instruction implement AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program. It establishes local procedures and
guide line and will be used in conjunction with 29 CFR 1910.134/139, Respiratory Protection, and
AFOSH Standard 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program. All organization in which personnel wear
respirators of filtering face piece devices are required to maintain this instruction.



1. Responsibilities. Responsibilities are defined in AFOSH Std 48-137. Additional responsibilities are:
   1.1. The Base Program Administrator shall be the Bioenvironmental Engineering (BEE) (911 SPTG/
   SGPB), or a trained individual from the BEE designated by the Wing Commander.
   1.2. Supervisors:
       1.2.1. Contact Bioenvironmental Engineering (BEE) for information and guidance regarding the
       respiratory protection program.
       1.2.2. Contact BEE to schedule initial and annual respiratory protection training and fit-testing for
       personnel under their supervision who wear respirators.
       1.2.3. Contact BEE to schedule initial Supervisor Respiratory Protection Training for all supervi-
       sors who have the responsibility of overseeing work activities of one or more persons who must
       wear respirators.
       1.2.4. Maintain this instruction and AFOSH Std 48-137 in work areas where respiratory protec-
       tion is used. These documents are part of your work area written program. Maintain a work area
       Respiratory Protection Program Operating Instruction for you specific work area covering the fol-
       lowing items for all areas where respiratory protection is either required or recommended. The
       operating instruction and any modifications must be approved by BEE. BEE can provide an OI
       template and most of the technical information required below.
2                                                                          911AWI48-101 13 May 1999

           1.2.4.1. Describe the situations or operations in which respiratory protection is required or
           recommended.
           1.2.4.2. Include specific information regarding respiratory selection. Include a reasonable
           estimate of employee exposure. The name, chemical state and physical form of the contami-
           nant must be specified.
           1.2.4.3. Specify respirators approved by BEE for use in each situation/operation.
           1.2.4.4. Describe specific procedures for the proper use of respirators. Include mandatory
           user seal check procedures.
           1.2.4.5. Specify procedures and schedules for respirator inspecting, cleaning, disinfecting,
           storing, repairing, discarding, and otherwise maintaining respirators. Include criteria workers
           are to use to determine when filters, cassettes, or cartridges must be changed. Ensure repira-
           tors are cleaned and disinfected using procedures in Appendix B-2 of 29 CFR 1910.134/139 or
           procedures recommended by the manufacturer if equivalent in effectiveness. Ensure all fil-
           ters, cartridges, and canisters used in the workplace are labeled and color-coded with the
           NIOSH approval labeling.
           1.2.4.6. Where atmosphere-supplying respirators (airline or SCBA) are used, specify proce-
           dures to ensure adequate quality, quantity and flow of breathing air.
           1.2.4.7. Include training requirements in the respiratory hazards to which personnel are poten-
           tially exposed during routine and emergency situations. A copy of the lesson plan must be
           attached unless the OI is used as the lesson plan and covers all required items.
           1.2.4.8. Include training requirements in the proper use of respirators, including putting on the
           removing them, any limitations on their use, and their maintenance. A copy of the lesson plan
           must be attached unless the OI is used as the lesson plan and covers all required items.
           1.2.4.9. Procedures for regularly evaluating the effectiveness of the program.
           1.2.4.10. Requirements and procedures for medical clearance and fit testing.
       1.2.5. Contact BEE to request an evaluation of potentially hazardous airborne substances due to
       personnel experiencing irritation or other symptoms from chemical use, changes in work prac-
       tices, inoperative engineering controls, substance substitution, or newly acquired chemicals.
       1.2.6. Provide initial and annual training IAW the lesson plan at Attachment 1 for individuals
       who elect to wear filtering face piece devices.
    1.3. Base Supply:
       1.3.1. Ensure BEE has approved all respiratory protection requests before issuing respirators or
       parts.
       1.3.2. Ensure a "suitable substitute" for a particular respirator or respirator part is not issued or
       allowed.
       1.3.3. Ensure all respirators and respirator parts are IEX coded "9".
    1.4. Any agency conducting breathing air sampling must send BEE a copy of the sampling results no
    later than two weeks after results are received.
911AWI48-101 13 May 1999                                                                                3

2. Base Program Elements:
   2.1. Procedures for Selecting Respirators. Respiratory protection will be selected and approved by
   the BEE prior to purchase. Respirators will be selected to protect against the specific inhalation haz-
   ard/s present in the work area. NIOSH-certified respirators will be selected and used in compliance
   with their certification conditions. Specific selection procedures will be maintained in a written
   instruction in the BEE.
   2.2. Medical Evaluations of Employees:
      2.2.1. A medical evaluation to determine each employee’s ability to use a respirator is required
      prior to fit testing or use of respiratory protection.
      2.2.2. Part A of the questionnaire from Appendix C of 29 CFR 1910.134/139 will be completed
      by each employee who will wear respiratory protection (obtain from the Physical Exams Section,
      7-3067). Note that personnel who were fit tested between April 1997 and March 1998 will not
      need to reaccomplish medical screening until their annual fit tests are due. Questionnaires should
      be turned in to the Physical Exams Section (PES) at the Clinic. Questionnaires will be kept confi-
      dential.
      2.2.3. Each employee has the right to discuss the results of the medical questionnaire and exam
      with the provider. Contact PES to schedule an appointment if desired.
      2.2.4. The medical provider will provide a written recommendation for each employee medically
      screened for the respiratory protection program. This will state any limitations on respirator use,
      and a copy will be provided to the employee.
      2.2.5. Additional medical evaluations will be required if:
          2.2.5.1. The employee has signs or symptoms related to their ability to use a respirator.
          2.2.5.2. A health care provider, supervisor or respiratory program manager determines
          another evaluation is necessary.
          2.2.5.3. Information from the respiratory protection program, including observations during
          fit testing and program evaluation, indicate a need for re-evaluation, or
          2.2.5.4. A change occurs in workplace conditions (e.g. physical work effort, protective cloth-
          ing, temperature) that may result in a substantial increase in the physiological burden placed
          on an employee.
      2.2.6. An abbreviated medical questionnaire may be required for annual medical surveillance.
      This will be determined on a case by case basis by the Occupational Health Working Group.
   2.3. Fit Testing Procedures:
      2.3.1. Fit test procedures in Appendix A to 29 CFR 1910.134/136 will be followed. A copy will
      be maintained in the BEE office.
      2.3.2. Fit tests will be done with the same make, model, size, and style of respirator to be worn.
      Personnel must consult with BEE to determine if they must bring their respirator face piece to the
      BEE for fit testing. Each individual must bring any glasses or other corrective lenses that will be
      worn with the respirator for the fit test.
4                                                                            911AWI48-101 13 May 1999

       2.3.3. Fit tests will be accomplished at the BEE prior to requiring any employee to wear any
       tight-fitting face piece respirator and at least annually thereafter. Additional fit tests are required
       if there are changes in physical condition (such as facial scarring, dental changes, cosmetic sur-
       gery, or obvious change in body weight) which could affect the fit.
       2.3.4. BEE will not fit test any individual without proof of medical clearance within the preceding
       12-month period. If BEE does not have a clearance letter from the Flight Surgeons’ Office (SFO),
       personnel need to bring their medical records showing this clearance to their fit test appointment.
       If any adequate fit test cannot be achieved, BEE will notify the Physical Exam Section.
       2.3.5. Fit tests will documented on AF Form 2772, Certificate of Respirator Fit Test. The orig-
       inal will be given to the employee and must be maintained with AF Form 55, Employee Safety
       and Health Record or equivalent until the next fit test is administered. A copy of each AF Form
       2772 will also be maintained in the case files at BEE with copy of available recordings of quanti-
       tative fit tests. BEE case file documentation is kept for the duration of employment.
       2.3.6. No one will be fit-tested without medical clearance, and personnel who do not have a cur-
       rent fit-test will NOT wear respirators.
    2.4. Procedures for Proper Use of Respirators in Routine and Emergency Situations:
       2.4.1. Tight-fitting face piece respirators will not be worn by personnel who have facial hair that
       comes between the sealing surface of the face piece and the face, or that interferes with valve func-
       tion.
       2.4.2. Tight fitting face pieces will not be worn by employees who have any condition that inter-
       feres with the seal of the face piece to the face.
       2.4.3. Corrective glasses, goggles or other personal protective equipment must be worn so that it
       does not interfere with the seal of the face piece to the face.
       2.4.4. A user seal check is required each time a tight-fitting face piece is put on.
       2.4.5. BEE will evaluate the respiratory protection program in each work area using respirators
       annually to determine whether exposure levels have changed significantly or other conditions
       affecting respirator effectiveness have changed.
       2.4.6. Employees will leave the respirator use area to wash their faces and face pieces as neces-
       sary, when vapor or gas breakthrough is detected (i.e., they smell chemicals), when breathing
       resistance changes (i.e., it becomes difficult or much easier to breathe), when there is leakage
       around the face piece, or when filtering elements are replaced. Required repairs/maintenance
       must be accomplished before returning to the work area.
       2.4.7. No 911 AW employee should enter an Immediately Dangerous to Life or Health (IDLH)
       atmosphere.
    2.5. Procedures and Schedules for Cleaning, Disinfecting, Storing, Inspecting, Repairing, Discarding,
    and Otherwise Maintaining Respirators:
       2.5.1. Routinely used respirators will be issued to individuals for use by one worker only. Exclu-
       sive use respirators will be cleaned and disinfected as often as necessary to maintained in a sani-
       tary condition.
911AWI48-101 13 May 1999                                                                             5

     2.5.2. Respirators used by different individuals will be cleaned before being worn by different
     individuals, except emergency use respirators, which are to be cleaned after each use.
     2.5.3. Routine use respirators will be inspected before each use and during cleaning
     2.5.4. Emergency use respirators will be inspected at least monthly, and will be checked for
     proper function before and after each use.
     2.5.5. Emergency escape respirators will be inspected before being placed in the work area.
     2.5.6. All inspection, maintenance, and cleaning shall be documented on AF Form 1071, Inspec-
     tion/Maintenance Record, and initialed by person conducting the task. The AF Form 1071 shall
     accompany all individual respirators utilized by personnel.
  2.6. Procedures to Ensure Adequate Air Quality, Quantity, and Flow of Breathing Air for Supplied
  Air Respirators. Compressed-breathing air shall meet at least the requirements for Type 1-Grade D
  breathing air. Other requirements of 29 CFR 1910.134/139 will be met, and will be addressed in work
  area RPP OIs.
  2.7. Training of Employees in Respiratory Hazards and Proper Use of Respirators, to include donning
  & Doffing, Limitations & Maintenance. Training is required at least annually. BEE will administer
  training in conjunction with annual fit testing. Employees will be required to demonstrate knowledge
  of the following:
     2.7.1. Why the respirator is necessary and how improper fit, usage, or maintenance can compro-
     mise the protective effect of the respirator.
     2.7.2. What the limitations and capabilities of the respirator are.
     2.7.3. How to use the respirator effectively in emergency situations, to include situations when
     the respirator malfunctions.
     2.7.4. How to inspect, put on and remove, use, and check the seals of the respirator.
     2.7.5. What the procedures are for maintenance and storage of the respirator.
     2.7.6. How to recognize medical signs and symptoms that may limit or prevent the effective use
     of respirators.
     2.7.7. The general requirements of the OSHA standards (29 CFR 1910.134/139).
  2.8. Emergency and Rescue Team (Fire Department) Respirator Training. This training will be con-
  ducted by the Fire Chief or designated trainer. A lesson plan must be attached to the Fire Department
  RPP OL BEE will provide consultation on request:
     2.8.1. Training of Supervisors of work areas where respiratory protection is worn: BEE will train
     all supervisors of areas where respiratory protection is worn. This is a one-time requirement.
  2.9. Procedures for Regularly Evaluating the Effectiveness of the Program:
     2.9.1. BEE will evaluate the work areas where respirators are worn annually. During these visits
     employees will be asked if there are any problems with the program, and checks will be made to
     ensure the written program is being properly implemented.
6                                                                       911AWI48-101 13 May 1999

       2.9.2. The Public Health Flight (PHF) will evaluate work areas during annual surveys and consult
       with employees to determine whether there are any problems with the respiratory protection pro-
       gram.
    2.10. Voluntary Use of Respirators where Respiratory Protection is not Required:
       2.10.1. Personnel must be medically cleared prior to use.
       2.10.2. Personnel must be trained on information from Appendix D of 29 CFR 1910.134/139
       (Attachment 1).
       2.10.3. The supervisor must establish a written respiratory protection program covering medical
       clearance and respirator cleaning, storage and maintenance.
    2.11. Voluntary Use of Filtering Face piece Devices (FFDs) (Dust Masks). Personnel will be trained
    on the information contained in Attachment 2, and FFD training will be documented on AF Form 55
    or equivalent.



                                        F. BAXTER LANE, Colonel, USAFR
                                        Commander
911AWI48-101 13 May 1999                                                                                  7

                                              Attachment 1

  INFORMATION FORM APPENDIX D OF 29 CFR 1910.134/139 FOR EMPLOYEES USING
         RESPIRATORS WHEN NOT REQUIRED UNDER THE STANDARD
Respirators are an effective method of protection against designated hazards when properly selected and
worn. Respirator use is encouraged, even when exposures are below the exposure limit, to provide an
additional level of comfort and protection for workers. However, if a respirator is used improperly or not
kept clean, the respirator itself can become a hazard to the worker. Sometimes, workers may wear respi-
rators to avoid exposures to hazards, even if the amount of hazardous substance does not exceed the limits
set by OSHA standards. If your employer provides respirators for your voluntary use, of if you provide
your own respirator, you need to take certain precautions to be sure that the respirator itself does not
present a hazard.
You should do the following:
   1.Read and heed all instructions provided by the manufacturer on use, maintenance, cleaning and
      care, and warnings regarding the respirators limitations.
   2.Choose respirators certified for use to protect against the contaminant of concern. NIOSH, the
      National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health of the US department of Health and Human
      Services, certifies respirators. A label or statement of certification should appear on the respirator
      or respirator packaging. It will tell you what the respirator is designed for and how much it will
      protect you.
   3.Do not wear your respirator into atmospheres containing contaminants for which your respirator is
      not designed to protect against. For example, a respirator designed to filter dust particles will not
      protect you against gases, vapors, or very small solid particles of fumes or smoke.
   4.Keep track of your respirator so that you do not mistakenly use someone else’s respirator.
8                                                                         911AWI48-101 13 May 1999

                                             Attachment 2

                  LESSON PLAN FOR FILTERING FACE PIECE DEVICE USERS
    1.Filtering face piece devices are not considered by the US Air Force to be respiratory protection for
        purpose of AFOSH Std 48-134, Respiratory Protection Program. These devices may be worn
        strictly for comfort purposes if an Air Force employee desires to wear them.
    2.Filtering face piece device users must be trained by their supervisor initially and annually on the
        limitations of these devices.
    3.Filtering Face Piece Device (FFPD) Limitations:
      3.1. FFPDs are approved by NIOSH for protection against dust and mists ONLY. That is, they
      remove some particles, but not gases and vapors.
         3.1.1. Some examples of things an FFPD will not remove include carbon monoxide, solvents (in
         paint, cleaning solutions, etc), fuel vapors, alcohol vapors, and acids.
         3.1.2. Some examples of things an FFPD may remove to a level that could increase your comfort
         include wood dust, cement dust, dirt (from sweeping or work that kicks up the soil), spray
         enamel mist (this pigment only), and fiberglass. This will only happen IF you are able to main-
         tain a good face-to-face piece seal.
      3.2. FFPDs are NEVER to be worn during tasks for which respiratory protection is required, as
      specified by the Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight (BEE).
      3.3. FFPDs are NEVER to be used in atmospheres that could be immediately dangerous to lift and
      health.
      3.4. FFPDs are NEVER to be used in atmospheres containing less than 19.5 percent oxygen.
      3.5. Follow the manufacturer’s instruction for replacing FFPDs. In general, if you detect breathing
      resistance (i.e., it becomes more difficult to breathe through the FFPD), you must replace the FFPD.
      3.6. The FFPD should be worn and maintained IAW the manufacturer’s instructions. The nose-
      piece and cup should be fitted to the face as closely as possible. Straps should be positioned IAW
      manufacturer’s instructions so that the FFPD does not shift around on the face. Straps will not be
      worn over head coverings or hard hats.
      3.7. An FFPD will provide little or no protection if the wearer is not clean shaven.
      3.8. If you suspect you or your co-workers may be overexposed to a particular chemical (for
      instance, if you are experiencing physical symptoms), you must contact BEE at extension 8466 so
      they can air sample and measure you exposure level. Of course, if you are experiencing a sus-
      pected occupational illness, that must be reported to Public Health at extension 8234 and investi-
      gated.
