BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  911 AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 21-107
911 AIRLIFT WING                                                                  23 NOVEMBER 2004
                                                                 Certified Current on 28 February 2013
                                                                                          Maintenance

                                                                                    RED BALL POLICY




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 911 MXS/MXQ (SMSgt Rick Dowd)                         Certified by: 911 AW/CC (Col. Carl E. Vogt)
                                                                                             Pages: 2
                                                                                      Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Managing Aerospace Equipment
Maintenance. It establishes procedures that will identify those maintenance actions. Red ball is an action
taken to prevent deviations, such as late take-off, cancellations and ground aborts. It also gives guidance
to personnel to provide maximum mission support. It is applicable to all personnel assigned to the 911
Airlift Wing (AW).


1. POLICY: The following conditions will warrant use of the “Red Ball” policy when identified by the
Maintenance Expediter:
   1.1. Aircraft with grounding or mission essential defects occurring between sorties, including air
   aborts.
   1.2. Aircraft ground abort.

2. The following actions will be required to support a “Red Ball”:
   2.1. The “Maintenance Expediter” and “Maintenance Operations Center (MOC)” will include the
   phrase “Red Ball” during specialist dispatch.
   2.2. The “Flight Line Expediter” will order the parts from supply Romeo/or Quebec, via land mobile
   radio. The ordering of parts will include the term “Red Ball”.
   2.3. Once the issue transaction is processed if there are assets available the paperwork will be turned
   over to a Supply Warehouse person for the property to be pulled from stock. If no stock is available
   then maintenance personnel will be notified and due-out actions will be determined at that time.
   2.4. Expediter/specialist trucks can pick up parts directly from the Supply Warehouse, should it rep-
   resent the most expeditious method.
   2.5. Adjustments to scheduled lunch hours or overtime, when authorized, are to be utilized in the
   interest of mission support.
2                                                               911AWI21-107 23 NOVEMBER 2004


    2.6. Break periods shall be adjusted to accommodate a “Red Ball” requirement.
    2.7. The Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) will inform the immediate Shop Chief or Flight
    Chief when their subordinates are dispatched on a “Red Ball”. Supervisors will lend all possible sup-
    port to the specialist.

3. One of the following may authorize “cannibalization”, but as a last possible resort.
    3.1. Flight Line Expediter.
    3.2. Aircraft Maintenance Superintendent
    3.3. Maintenance Superintendent.
    3.4. Maintenance Officer.
    3.5. Maintenance Group Commander.
    3.6. Production Superintendent.

4. One half hour is required for kit withdrawals. “Red Ball” status should be canceled when delivery
times cannot prevent mission cancellation.



                                               CARL E. VOGT, Colonel, USAFR
                                               Commander
