BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                911 AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 21-106
911 AIRLIFT WING                                                                 23 NOVEMBER 2004
                                                                       Certified Current on 3 June 2012
                                                                                          Maintenance

                                                            EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN &
                                                    PROCEDURES FOR FUEL TANK/CELL & DRY
                                                                           BAY ENTRIES

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 911 MXG/MXMCF                                        Certified by: 911 AW/CC (Col Carl E. Vogt)
       (MSgt Brent Pederson)
Supersedes 911MOI21-118, 20 June 2004                                                           Pages: 5
                                                                                         Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance. It establishes Emergency
Response Plans and Procedures in accordance with TO1-1-3 and AFOSH STD 91-25, Confined Space, in
the event that maintenance personnel are incapable of self-rescue from a fuel tank/dry bay. This publica-
tion applies to all personnel assigned to the 911 Airlift Wing.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. It was a 911 LG Office
Instruction and is now a wing instruction. A “|” indicates revised material since the last edition.


1. Policy: The Emergency Response Plan identifies the rescue team and defines individual responsibili-
ties. The primary responsibility to provide rescue will be with the rescue team. Local emergency
response agencies will provide emergency medical care and assist in removal not otherwise possible by
team members. The team, (attendant and runner) will consist of a minimum of three (3) qualified person-
nel.

2. Terms and Definitions:
   2.1. FUEL TANK – Refers to the aircraft internal wing tanks, the auxiliary fuel tanks, the external
   fuel tanks located under each wing.
   2.2. DRY BAY – Refers to the areas of the wing that contains fuel system plumbing and access to the
   fuel tanks.
   2.3. ENTRANT - Employee who is trained and authorized to enter a fuel tank/dry bay to perform
   maintenance.
2                                                                911AWI21-106 23 NOVEMBER 2004


    2.4. ATTENDANT - Trained individual outside of fuel tank/dry bay who observes entrant. They
    have overall responsibility for monitoring the entry area inside and outside the tank/dry bay including
    termination of the entry if unsafe conditions develop.
    2.5. EQUIPMENT MONITOR/RUNNER - Monitors equipment, calls emergency rescue team. If
    qualified assumes attendant’s responsibilities when attendant is performing rescue procedures
    2.6. AUGMENTEE - Selected individuals from other work centers who are trained and qualified to
    perform attendant duties.
    2.7. EMERGENCY RESCUE TEAM - Consists of the attendant, runner and augmentees until
    relieved by the Fire Department.

3. Rescue Situations:
    3.1. PHYSICAL INJURIES - Lacerations, broken bones.
    3.2. UNCONSCIOUSNESS - Excessive fumes, heart attack, blow to the head, oxygen deficient
    atmosphere.

4. Attendant Responsibilities:
    4.1. Alert runner of emergency situation.
    4.2. Determine nature of emergency and explains the circumstances to the runner.
    4.3. If the entrant is in a main fuel tank or dry bay, pull the duress alarm cord (building 416 only) to
    notify Security Police.
    4.4. continually assesses the atmosphere of tank/dry bay for sudden changes, such as excessive fuel
    fumes and fuel spillage.
    4.5. Ensure the tank/dry bay is properly ventilated.
    4.6. If possible, make any rescue attempt from outside the fuel tank/dry bay.
    4.7. If tank/dry bay entry is required for rescue, do so only when another qualified attendant/augmen-
    tee assumes the attendant position.
    4.8. If entrant is conscious, assist him/her in exiting tank/dry bay. Render any first aid and continue
    to monitor until trained paramedic arrives.
    4.9. If entrant is unconscious, remove the entrant out of the tank/dry bay by the most direct route.
    Assess the condition of the entrant and begin appropriate care (CPR, rescue breathing, etc.) and con-
    tinue until entrant is revived or trained paramedics arrive.

5. EQUIPMENT MONITOR/RUNNER RESPONSIBILITIES:
    5.1. After being alerted to an emergency situation or nature of emergency, call 911 immediately and
    state the following:
       5.1.1. Declare in clear terms that an emergency has occurred.
       5.1.2. Describe the nature of the emergency.
       5.1.3. Specify the location of the emergency.
911AWI21-106 23 NOVEMBER 2004                                                                               3


   5.2. Notify Maintenance Operations Center (MOC), Ext. 8177, that an emergency is in progress.
   5.3. Summon augmentees for assistance. Phone number will be listed on the field permit.
   5.4. Open hangar nose door for easier access by the Fire Department.
   5.5. Runner/Equipment monitor may or may not be attendant qualified. If attendant qualified, take a
   position at the fuel tank/dry bay and either assume responsibilities of the attendant, (stay outside of the
   entrance), or enter the fuel tank/dry bay to attempt a rescue and or administer CPR as outlined in atten-
   dant duties. Do so only after being replaced by another runner. If the Runner/Equipment monitor is
   not attendant qualified they will remain at their position. NOTE: The person who is acting, as atten-
   dant will remain outside the fuel tank/dry bay if runner is designated as rescuer.
   5.6. Remove any equipment blocking the tank/dry bay entrance while the attendants are rescuing the
   entrant.
   5.7. Direct emergency personnel to the scene upon their arrival.

6. Immediately Dangerous to Life and Health (IDLH) Rescure: Entry into an IDLH space is autho-
rized only in an extreme emergency such as a rescue. In the event a rescue from an IDLH space is
required, the rescuer will assess the tank /dry bay condition, ensure the space is being properly ventilated,
enter the tank/dry bay with an additional air supplied respirator and any additional equipment. If neces-
sary, the attendant will replace the entrant’s respirator. IAW TO 1-1-3, IDLH is considered to be a lower
explosive level (LEL) of greater than 20%, oxygen content of 19.5% or less or greater than 23.5%, or a
toxicity level of any chemical agents in the tank at or above the IDLH level specified by BES.

7. Failed Rescue Attempt: If the entrant cannot be readily removed form the tank/dry bay; render assis-
tance until the fire department arrives. If necessary, remove additional braces to allow extra space to
extract the victim from the tank. In the event the rescuer becomes incapacitated while trying to rescue the
entrant, the equipment monitor/runner will call the MOC to summon additional qualified personnel until
the fire department arrives. The tank atmosphere will be checked to ensure the LEL and oxygen content
is at safe levels. The air supply system will be checked for proper operation.



                                                CARL E. VOGT, Colonel, USAFR
                                                Commander
4                                                               911AWI21-106 23 NOVEMBER 2004


                                              Attachment 1

               CHECKLIST FOR THE MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS CENTER


                                                                                      YES   NO   N/A
1.1. AGENCIES TO CALL:


1.1.1. Fire Department to verify emergency.


1.1.2. Flight Line dispatch truck will direct the Fire Department to the hangar and
bring any needed additional help.


1.1.3. Maintenance Group Commander.


1.1.4. Quality Assurance.


1.1.5. Base Safety Office.


1.1.6. Bio Environmental Engineering (If over exposed to fumes personnel will
need blood work to document exposure level).


1.2. NATURE OF EMERGENCY:


1.3. LOCATION OF EMERGENCY:
911AWI21-106 23 NOVEMBER 2004                                                                        5


                                                                                    YES   NO   N/A
2. FIRE DEPARTMENT/EMERGENCY MEDICAL: The Fire Department,
upon arrival, will assess the situation and provide fire and emergency medical
assistance. In the event the rescue team (attendants and runner) is unable to
remove the entrant form the tank/dry bay, Fire Department personnel should
confer with the attendants, for technical information to determine how to proceed
with the rescue. Emergency medical personnel will provide emergency medical
care at the scene and arrange transportation of the victim to the appropriate
medical center for evaluation and treatment.


3. SECURITY FORCES: The Base Security Forces will keep unauthorized
personnel from approaching the accident scene. They will also secure the building
or ramp area until the investigation is completed.
