BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          911 AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 44-101
911TH AIRLIFT WING
                                                                                    26 JUNE 2014

                                                                                           Medical

                                                          DRUG ABUSE TESTING PROGRAM




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication is available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 911 AW/ASTS                                                       Certified by: 911 ASTS/CC
                                                                        (Colonel Sharon Colaizzi)
                                                                                          Pages: 6
Supersedes:    911AWI44-101,
               17 December 2001


This instruction implements AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations, and AFI 44-120, Air Force Drug
Abuse Testing Program Military Drug Demand Reduction Program. It establishes responsibility
for carrying out the program at the wing level. This instruction applies to all assigned active
duty Air Force Members; Air Force Reserve members; Air National Guard members when
receiving federal payments; applicants for the Armed Forces Academies, Advance Reserve
Officers’ Training Corp, regular Armed Forces, appointment or enlistment (or re-enlistment if
discharged more than 6 months earlier) in Active or Reserve Components. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance
with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm.” Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air
Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. See Attachment 1 for a Glossary of References
and Supporting Information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The instruction has been revised and must be completely rewritten. Major changes include those
that pertain to paragraph 2.5.2 provide credible observers who are SSgt (E-5) or above, no
pending UCMJ or administrative actions, not within one year of either separation or transfer
 2                                                                 911AWI44-101 26 JUNE 2014


from an active participation status, and who have not been selected for drug testing at the same
session.
1. Goals:
     1.1. Deterrence. Deter persons from drug and substance abuse.
     1.2. Identification. Identify persons who need treatment and rehabilitation services.
     1.3. Data Collection. Obtain data on the prevalence of drug abuse.
     1.4. Rehabilitation Support. Provide drug-testing services for rehabilitation.
     1.5. Disciplinary Action Support.         Develop evidence in support of administrative,
     rehabilitation services, separations, and actions under the Uniform Code of Military Justice.
     1.6. Commander Support. Design flexible testing programs that meet the above goals and
     help commanders maintain the morale, welfare and health of their commands.
2. Responsibilities:
     2.1. Wing Commander.
        2.1.1. Ensures cross-functional oversight of the drug testing program through
        coordination of the Cross-Functional Oversight Committee (CFOC). The committee
        shall be chaired by the 911 AW/CC or 911 AW/CV. Membership must include the
        following: Medical 911 ASTS/CC, Staff Judge Advocate, Security Police Forces
        member, Office of Special Investigations (OSI), Group Commanders or their suitable
        designees, 911 AW/CC, 911AW Chaplain, a representative from the First Sergeant’s
        council and other agencies involved in drug abuse control program.
        2.1.2. Ensures that all personnel assigned to the Wing are subject to testing, regardless of
        grade, status or position.
        2.1.3. Ensures commanders and supervisors understand the program.
        2.1.4. Ensures that testing is used in conjunction with investigation and law enforcement
        as a countermeasure to drug abuse.
        2.1.5. Ensures that commanders refer for drug testing all incidents of known or suspected
        drug abuse or indication of deterioration of duty performance or behavior such as
        aggressive behavior, destruction of government/personal property, and failure to obey
        orders.
     2.2. Medical Squadron Commander (ASTS).
        2.2.1. Serves as the OPR for the Wing drug-testing program.
        2.2.2. Notifies the Wing Commander of verified positive results.
        2.2.3. Appoints a Drug Demand Reduction Program Manager (DDRPM). This position
        is appointed by the Installation Commander.
        2.2.4. Appoints a Drug Testing Program Administrative Manager (DTPAM) and
        alternate. This position is appointed by the Installation Commander. One manpower
        position will be dedicated to drug testing. That person will serve as both the DDRPM
        and DTPAM.
911AWI44-101 26 JUNE 2014                                                                      3


     2.2.5. Appoints a primary and alternate medical review office. This will be a physician
     who is trained and certified to function as a MRO for the military drug testing program.
     2.2.6. Pre-UTA Fridays, informs Unit Commanders of personnel submitted for required
     drug testing.
  2.3. Drug Demand Reduction Program Manager (DDRPM).
     2.3.1. Briefs Unit Commanders, First Sergeants and supervisors on medical aspects of
     the drug abuse-testing program.
     2.3.2. Supervises, directs, and assists with the drug-testing program.
     2.3.3. Distributes minimum testing allocations to units according to Air Staff and
     MAJCOM guidance.
     2.3.4. Ensures prevention and education efforts are provided.
     2.3.5. Ensures less than one percent of specimens are untestable by the laboratory.
     2.3.6. Notifies Unit Commanders, and First Sergeants of no-shows and late arrivals for
     drug testing.
  2.4. Drug Testing Program Administrative Manager.
     2.4.1. The design of the Air Force Drug Testing Program requires that the person in this
     position be able to give the program first priority. In fulfilling their duties, the DTPAM.
        2.4.1.1. Ensures specimens are collected, packaged and transported to the testing
        laboratory according to the requirements of AFI 44-120.
        2.4.1.2. Verifies results are received for every specimen sent for testing.
        2.4.1.3. Notifies the OPR expeditiously of any positive results for verification.
        2.4.1.4. Through confidential means, makes notifications of any positive drug testing
        that are not medically excused/explained by the MRO to the following: Wing/CC,
        911 SFS/CC, Staff Judge Advocate, OSI representative, the member’s first sergeants
        or commander, and the ADAPT Program Manager (if applicable).
        2.4.1.5. Provides the randomly selected list of names to the Medical Unit First
        Sergeant Commander (see section 3 for name selection procedures) for distribution to
        Units on each Pre-UTA Friday.
  2.5. Unit Commanders.
     2.5.1. Ensures the wing drug-testing program is given top priority within the unit. May
     delegate notification of selected individuals to the unit’s First Sergeant.
     2.5.2. Provide credible observers who are: SSgt (E5) or above, not pending UCMJ or
     administrative actions, not within one year of either separation or transfer from an active
     participation status, and who have not been selected for drug testing at the same session.
     Units will be detailed on an equal basis to provide observers on a monthly UTA basis
     (refer to section 4). Each unit’s First Sergeant and one full-time staff are trusted agents.
     2.5.3. Ensures all members are subject to inspection testing.
 4                                                                 911AWI44-101 26 JUNE 2014


        2.5.4. Ensures unit members selected for drug testing are informed as soon as possible of
        the time and place of urine collection, and the need to present a valid military
        identification card or other picture ID at the time of urine collection. Members on crew
        rest, or otherwise unavailable due to mission requirements (e.g. flying), may be notified
        immediately after completing crew rest or becoming available for testing.
        2.5.5. Ensures that all members who are selected for testing report for specimen
        collection within two hours after the member’s notification. Members who are in TDY
        status will be notified and tested within two hours of the member’s notification on the
        next Unit Training Assembly (UTA). Time of notification must be recorded on the drug
        testing selection notice.
        2.5.6. Will receive the list of selected names for both UTA days and ensure that
        members are notified the morning of drug testing only. For example: if a member is on
        the list for testing on the Sunday of the UTA, the member will not be notified until that
        particular testing date. The only exception will be if it is known that the member will not
        be available during that date (such as an authorized reschedule, or TDY).
        2.5.7. Takes appropriate administrative or UCMJ action on personnel who fail to attend
        testing without a valid reason, such as TDY, or fail to attend within two hours.
        2.5.8. Ensures individuals who have submitted samples determined to be untestable,
        unfit for testing, or not consistent with human urine by the testing lab, due to adulteration
        or dilution shall be retested as an inspection by either consent or by direction of the
        commander.
     2.6. The Staff Judge Advocate.
        2.6.1. Ensures compliance with chain of custody collection procedures under applicable
        DoD directives and Air Force policy.
        2.6.2. Advises commanders, first sergeants, DTPAM, and other wing officials and
        agencies regarding legal aspects of the drug-testing program.
        2.6.3. Coordinates all requests for drug urinalysis inspections, commander directed
        examinations, and searches and seizures.
        2.6.4. Receives all copies of requests by service members for independent retests.
        2.6.5. Notifies the appropriate Air Force, Army DTL, or other certified laboratory to
        retain the specimen when a positive specimen needs to be retained beyond 60 calendar
        days for discharge or administrative action.
3. Procedures.
     3.1. Drug Test Selection.
        3.1.1. The DTPAM will utilize the computerized Air Force Drug Testing Program
        (AFDTP) for name selection. AFDTP randomly selects base personnel based upon an
        Air Force programmed randomized algorithm.
        3.1.2. The DTPAM will ensure the personnel database in AFDTP is updated prior to
        name selection by importing the most current base personnel roster received from
        Personnel Systems Management (PSM) office.
911AWI44-101 26 JUNE 2014                                                                     5


      3.1.3. Headquarter Air Force, Headquarter Air Force Reserve Command, or Wing
      Commander will determine the selection rate percentage of the base population required
      to submit to drug testing.
   3.2. Drug Testing.
      3.2.1. Drug testing will begin on Saturday at 0800 and end at 1300. The DTPAM must
      use the time prior to the start time to train observers, obtain necessary equipment and
      supplies, and set up the designated drug testing area. Unit Commanders must make sure
      the member is notified in sufficient time to so that the member will not exceed the two-
      hour window.
4. Observers.
   4.1. Must be a credible SSgt (E-5) or above who is not selected to submit to drug testing for
   that period. The observer must report to the DTPAM, located in the medical unit, NLT 0745
   of the day required. The observer will strictly follow direction received from the DTPAM.
      4.1.1. The DTPAM will train all observers on testing procedures and observer
      requirements.
      4.1.2. The DTPAM will release observers to report back to their units once determined
      all personnel required to submit to testing that day has been tested.




                                           JEFFREY S. KOZAK, Col, USAFR
                                           Commander
 6                                                         911AWI44-101 26 JUNE 2014


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations, 1 Sep 1999
AFI 44-120, Military Drug Demand Reduction Program, 3 Jan 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for change of publication, 22 Sep 2009
