BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                             911 AW INSTRUCTION 21-101
911 AIRLIFT WING                                                                 23 NOVEMBER 2004

                                                                                          Maintenance

                                                        JOINT PROCEDURES FOR FUNCTIONAL
                                                       CHECK FLIGHTS, OPERATIONAL CHECK
                                                      FLIGHTS AND HIGH SPEED TAXI CHECKS

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 911 AW/MXQ (SMSgt Richard Dowd)                 Certified by: 911 AW/CC (Colonel Carl E. Vogt)
Supersedes 911 AWI 21-101, 30 July 2003                                                   Pages: 3
                                                                                   Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance and
Air Force Instruction (AFI) 21-101, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management. It establishes pro-
cedures in the control and utilization of Functional Check Flights (FCF), Operational Check Flights
(OCF) and High Speed Taxi Checks. This instruction applies to all personnel in the 911th Airlift Wing.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
A minor change was made in paragraph 2.2. A bar (|) indicates a revision from the previous edition.


1. General:
   1.1. Functional Check Flights (FCF) to include Operational Check Flights (OCF) are performed to
   ensure an aircraft is airworthy and capable of accomplishing its mission. However, FCFs are not
   flown when a Maintenance Operational Check prescribed by a technical directive can determine the
   airworthiness of an aircraft. Requirements for FCFs, OCFs and High Speed Taxi Checks will be in
   accordance with T.O. 1-1-300, Acceptance/Functional Check Flight and Maintenance Operational
   Checks and T.O. 1C-130A-6 section11, part C, Functional Check Flights.
   1.2. Operational Check Flights are defined as flights to verify a maintenance condition or to provide
   additional information to maintenance in troubleshooting an aircrew identified discrepancy. OCFs
   will be flown by experienced aircrews (not required to be an FCF qualified aircrew) and will be
   accomplished following the same maintenance criteria as FCFs. Fly OCFs when an operational check
   is listed as a –1 or –2 requirement.
   1.3. High Speed Taxi Checks are defined as a maintenance request for aircraft ground taxi operations
   at higher than normal taxi speeds. These will be accomplished with Group Commander’s authoriza-
   tion. High Speed Taxi Checks will be accomplished with qualified FCF Aircrews. Aircraft will be
2                                                                911AWI21-101 23 NOVEMBER 2004


    configured with minimum fuel to minimize brake and tire wear. Aircrews will complete a take-off and
    data card to show the highest speed to ensure sufficient stopping distance.

2. Procedures:
    2.1. Maintenance Quality Assurance will provide the necessary communication and coordination
    between operations and maintenance activities. When notified by quality assurance that an aircraft is
    prepared for an FCF, OCF or High Speed Taxi Check, operations will provide a qualified flight crew
    as soon as possible.
    2.2. Operational Check Flights will be recommended by Maintenance Group Management, but will
    not take the place of –6 requirements. Maintenance will provide Quality Assurance with a history of
    maintenance actions and all AFTO Form 781, Document Discrepancies. QA will brief crews on the
    purpose and previous maintenance problems and discrepancies.

3. Responsibilities:
    3.1. Unit Aircraft Maintenance:
       3.1.1. Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) will keep Quality Assurance advised of FCF, OCF
       and High Speed Taxi Check requirements.
       3.1.2. Ensure that the required maintenance is completed including the preflight and other
       required inspections.
       3.1.3. Ensure that AFTO 781 series forms with completed maintenance action are closed out and
       forwarded to Quality Assurance. An individual having sufficient knowledge of the FCF, OCF or
       High Speed Taxi requirements and maintenance performed will accompany the forms.
       3.1.4. Review aircraft forms in sufficient detail to ensure that no outstanding discrepancies exist
       that would have an adverse effect on safety of flight or operation of equipment.
       3.1.5. Ensure appropriate corrective action is taken on noted FCF, OCF and High Speed Taxi
       Check discrepancies and that completed AFTO 781 series forms are processed by Quality Assur-
       ance.
    3.2. Maintenance Quality Assurance:
       3.2.1. Maintenance Quality Assurance will review the aircraft forms in sufficient detail to ensure
       that corrective action entries are complete and that no delayed or open discrepancies exist that
       would affect safety of flight.
       3.2.2. Review aircraft weight and balance documents.
       3.2.3. Initiate appropriate FCF checklist requirements.
       3.2.4. Provide the required briefing and debriefing of the flight crews in accordance with applica-
       ble directives. QA will ensure that the aircrew is briefed on the purpose of the FCF, OCF or High
       Speed Taxi Check and the previous maintenance problems. The aircraft forms will be retained in
       Quality Assurance and will be presented to the aircraft commander upon completion of the brief-
       ing.
911AWI21-101 23 NOVEMBER 2004                                                                        3


     3.2.5. Advise Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) upon completion of the FCF, OCF or High
     Speed Taxi Check. Return the completed FCF checklist to PS&D upon completion of the debrief-
     ing.
  3.3. Airlift Squadron:
     3.3.1. When notified by Quality Assurance, Operations will initiate the required action to assem-
     ble appropriate flight crews and coordinate with Quality Assurance on briefing and take off times.
     3.3.2. The Pilot and Flight Engineer will report to the Quality Assurance Section for the required
     briefing and to pick up the aircraft forms and the FCF checklist. Upon completion of the FCF,
     OCF or High Speed Taxi Check report to the Quality Assurance Section to complete the debrief-
     ing.
     3.3.3. The 758 Airlift Squadron will provide the Maintenance Group Quality Assurance (MXQ) a
     copy of the current FCF authorization list semi-annually January and July. The 758 AS will
     promptly notify MXQ if any changes are made to the current designated FCF area.
     3.3.4. An FCF release occurs upon the successful completion of all requirements as determined
     by the FCF crew.



                                            CARL E. VOGT, Colonel, USAFR
                                            Commander
