BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   914 AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 21-102
914 AIRLIFT WING
                                                                                           22 APRIL 2009
                                                                           Certified Current on 3 May 2013
                                                                                              Maintenance

                                                     FUNCTIONAL CHECK FLIGHT/OPERATIONAL
                                                           CHECK FLIGHT & HIGH SPEED TAXI
                                                                                  CHECKS

                   COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:              Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
                            publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY:              There are no releasability restriction on this publication.


OPR: 914 MXG/MXQ                                              Certified by: 914 MXG/CC (LTC Sharon M.
                                                                                             Johnson)
Supersedes:      914 AFI21-102, 2 April 2004                                                 Pages: 5


This instruction has been coordinated between the 914 MXG/CC, 914 OG/CC and provides a standard
procedure for accomplishment of all aircraft Functional Check Flight (FCF), Operational Check Flight
(OCF) and High Speed Taxi (HST) check requirements. It applies to all 914 Airlift Wing (AW)
personnel having duties involving FCF’s, OCF’s and HST checks. It also carries out the procedures in
AFI21-101 and AFRC Sup, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, T.O.’s 1-1-300,
Maintenance Operational Checks and Check Flights, 1C-130E(H)-6CF-1 Acceptance and Functional
Check Flight Manual, 1C-130A-6 Aircraft Scheduled Inspection and Maintenance Instructions and
T.O. 00-20-1 and AFRC Sup, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Inspection, Documentation, Policies,
and Procedures. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendations for Change of Publication; route
the AF Form 847 directly to 914MXG/MXQ. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
1. Definition:
   1.1. Functional Check Flights (FCF) that occur after inspections, maintenance, or acceptance of
   aircraft to ensure the aircraft is airworthy and capable of accomplishing the mission. Requirements
   are in accordance with TO 1C-130A-6 or a decision exercised by MXG/CC.
   1.2. Operational Check Flight (OCF): Check flights conducted after maintenance is performed to
   ensure aircraft mission specific equipment is operational and the aircraft is mission ready. It is
2                                                                    914AWI21-102 22 APRIL 2009


    preferred to conduct an OCF with an FCF certified aircrew, but can be accomplished with an
    experienced aircrew that will be approved by the OG/CC prior to each flight.
    1.3. High Speed Taxi Checks (HST): A check that requires aircraft movement at higher than normal
    taxi speeds to operationally check completed maintenance. High speed taxi checks will be
    accomplished by an FCF certified aircrew.
2. Responsibilities :
    2.1. The Operations Group Commander (OG/CC) is responsible for appointing an Officer in Charge
    (OIC) for supervision and administration of all Check Flights. The OIC is responsible for reviewing
    and ensuring qualified aircrews are performing the FCF and providing Quality Assurance with an
    authorized list of FCF crew members.
    2.2. The Maintenance Group Commander (MXG/CC), through Quality Assurance (MXQ), will
    coordinate with the OPS Group OIC for all Functional Check Flights (FCF) and/or Operational
    Check Flights (OCF).
    2.3. Maintenance Operation Center (MOC) informs Plans, Scheduling and Documentation (PS&D)
    of any FCF/OCF. PS&D will then coordinate the FCF/OCF with Quality Assurance and Operations
    Group to schedule the FCF/OCF.
3. Procedures:
    3.1. Referenced TO 1-1-300 Check flights will be conducted by the minimum aircrew required to
    perform check flight duties or accomplish in-flight requirements. Check flights will be
    accomplished without cargo and/or non-essential passengers. MXG/CC will coordinate with OG/CC
    if maintenance personnel are required to fly on check flights for trouble shooting.
    3.2. Inspection and Preparation of Aircraft Maintenance Records. After the preflight has been
    accomplished, the crew chief will provide Quality Assurance with the current and transcribed AFTO
    Form 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Documentation. Quality Assurance will review
    the records to determine that the necessary maintenance and inspections have been accomplished
    and the required entries and/or transcriptions have been completed.
    3.3. Weight and Balance. Quality Assurance will review aircraft weight and balance documentation.
    3.4. Scheduling of OCF’s and FCF’s. The MOC will notify Quality Assurance when the aircraft is
    ready. PS&D will coordinate with the Operations Group to schedule a crew. After the FCF aircrew
    has been scheduled, PS&D will confirm the date and time with the MOC and Quality Assurance.
4. Functional Check Flight (FCF)/ Operational Check Flight (OCF) / High Speed Taxi (HST)
Crew Briefs. The Aircraft Commander and Quality Assurance will coordinate a time for the entire
aircrew to report to Quality Assurance to review the forms and the planned flight profile. Quality
Assurance will brief the crew on items required by AFI 21-101, AFRC Sup and maintenance
discrepancies that are pertinent to the FCF/OCF/HST crew prior to release of the aircraft forms.
5. Control and Accomplishment of FCF/OCF/HST.
    5.1. Quality Assurance will determine the minimum T.O. 1C-130E(H)-6CL-1 FCF/OCF checklist
    items required to be accomplished in order to verify the aircraft system.
    5.2. The minimum crew complement to conduct an OCF will be determined by the OG/CC and will
    be accomplished following the same maintenance criteria as FCF’s.
914AWI21-102 22 APRIL 2009                                                                            3


   5.3. Each crew member will carefully evaluate each FCF checklist, T.O. 1C-130E(H)-6CL-1, item
   relative to crew position, record all discrepancies discovered on the AFTO Form781A, and sign the
   “Discovered By” block in accordance with TO 00-20-1. All discrepancies found must be annotated
   in the aircraft forms in detail to assist in the maintenance action. The Debrief and Dispatch section
   will assign job control numbers to discrepancies discovered during FCF. If another FCF/OCF HST
   attempt is required due to the failed FCF/OCF HST a WES will be used under the original Quality
   Assurance JCN for subsequent FCF/OCF HST attempts.
   5.4. HST checks will only be accomplished with Maintenance Group Commander’s and Operations
   Group Commander’s approval and are accomplished following FCF procedures.
6. Completion of the FCF .
   6.1. Upon completion of the FCF, the aircrew will report to Quality Assurance and return the
   completed checklist, T.O. 1C-130E(H)-6CL-1, and the aircraft forms. Quality Assurance will
   debrief the crew, review the checklist and aircraft forms for accuracy and ensure all required
   checklist items and AFTO forms have been properly documented by aircraft commander and crew
   members. If the Aircraft Commander has determined that all aircraft systems have met the criteria
   in T.O. 1C-130E(H)-6CL-1, then the Aircraft Commander will release the aircraft. Once the aircraft
   has been released, Quality Assurance will then forward the checklist to PS&D to be filed in the
   aircraft document file. If the Aircraft Commander does not release the aircraft, maintenance and
   aircrew will discuss the discrepancies and the aircraft will be scheduled for another FCF.
   6.2. Quality Assurance will review the AFTO Form 781As after corrective action for the FCF
   discrepancies are complete.
   6.3. Aircraft Disposition on Completion of FCF. In the event additional maintenance or flight
   checks are necessary, the aircraft will be returned to the responsible section (i.e., Flight Line,
   Inspection Section) through Quality Assurance.
   6.4. FCF Aborts. All ground aborts result in a non-release. An aircraft may be released for flight if
   a malfunction occurs during an FCF, which is not related to the condition generating the FCF, and
   the original condition checks good.
7. Transit Aircraft Requirements. The owning organization provides the FCF aircrews to accomplish
the FCF otherwise all rules apply to the transit aircraft as it would to unit aircraft.
8. Adopted Forms.
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AFTO Form 718A, Maintenance Discrepancy & Work Document




                                            REINHARD L. SCHMIDT, Colonel, USAFR
                                            Commander
4                                                                    914AWI21-102 22 APRIL 2009


                                           Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance,25 February 2003
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 29 June 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,1 March 2008
T.O. 00-20-1,Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Inspection, Documentation, Policies, and Procedures,
T.O. 1-1-300,Maintenance Operational Checks and Check Flights,
T.O. 1C-130A-6,Aircraft Scheduled Inspection and Maintenance Instructions,
T.O. 1C-130E(h)-6CL-1,Acceptance and Functional Check Flight Manual,

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AW—Airlift Wing
FCF—Functional Check Flight
HST—High Speed Taxi
JCN—Job Control Number
OCF—Operational Check Flight
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule

Terms
Adopted Forms—A form used (required) in a publication other than the prescribing publication.
Certifying Official—A minimum of one organizational level above the OPR, this individual certifies
the need for the publication, to include currency of information, applicability to the Air Force, and
propriety of content.
Directive Publication—Publication that is necessary to meet the requirements of law, safety, security,
or other areas where common direction and standardization benefit the Air Force. Air Force personnel
must comply with these publications. All publications in this category carry the following statement:
“COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY”.
Distribution—Defines the type of accessibility for each publication; to whom the publication may be
released.
e-Publishing- Central website for accessing, viewing, downloading, and printing electronic products;
physical products may be ordered from the e-Publishing website. Information on product development
914AWI21-102 22 APRIL 2009                                                                             5


and links to other agency publications are also provided on the e-Publishing website (www.e-
publishing.af.mil, which will convert to www.af.mil/e-publishing on AF Link).
Form—A tool used for the collection, recording, and/or extraction of information whereby a
predetermined set of data fields have been established and defined to meet a definitive Fir Force purpose
or objective.
Office of Primary Responsibility—The originating office for a publication; the aurhot of the
publication is an individual within the OPR. OPRs are solely responsible for the accuracy, currency, and
integrity of their publications and forms.
Publication—An officially produced, published, and distributed document issued for compliance,
implementation, and or information.
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)—The official schedule that authorizes/governs the disposition of
Air Forc records, which contains National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) approval
authority.
Records Management—The planning, controlling, directing, organizing, training, promoting, and any
other managerial activity related to records creation, records maintenance and use, and records
disposition for the sake of achieving adequate and proper documentation of the policies and transactions
of the Federal Government and effective economical management of agency operations.
Revised Publication—A publication that supersedes or changes a previous edition, related publications,
or portions of related publications in a given category.
