PRIVACY ACT NOTICE
Information Collection



AUTHORITY: 10 USC 8013, DoD 5400.11-R, Department of Defense Privacy Program, Air
Force Instruction 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 5 USC 522 of the Privacy Act of 1974.

INDIVIDUALS COVERED BY NOTICE: All current Air Force civilian and military employees
who require regular, ongoing access to facilities, information technology systems, including
applicants for employment or contracts, federal employees, contractors, students, interns,
individuals authorized to perform or use services provided in Niagara Falls Air Reserve Station
facilities (e.g., Credit Union, Fitness Center, etc.), and individuals formerly in any of these
positions.

The system does not apply to occasional visitors or short-term guests to whom will issue
temporary identification and credentials.

CATEGORIES OF RECORDS: Records relating to official travel including travel orders, per
diem vouchers, transportation requests, itinerary, travel charge card, civilian employer, and
supporting documentation. Necessary records for contractor to perform duty under a contract at
this facility. Records include name, address, Social Security Number, date of birth, employment
information, telephone numbers, information needed for identification verification, charge card
receipts, rank/grade, and any other related information.

ROUTINE USES: To disclose information to agency responsible for in/out processing of
individuals in preparation for recall notices and network access. Information may be disclosed to
individual’s employers to verify military duty. To disclose information to the bank contractor
providing issuance of government travel credit card. To apply for employment, school quotas,
and temporary duty travel (TDY).

DISCLOSURE IS VOLUNTARY: Disclosing this information is voluntary; however, not
providing the requested information may slow processing. Your social security number may be
requested to identify your records because other people may have the same name or birth date.




914 AW VA 33-301 1 MAY 09; Certified Current 4 May 2011                               OPR: 914 AW / SCOK
Prescribed By: AFI33-332                                            Supersedes 914 AW VA 33-301 1 Nov 04
Releasability: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication
