BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                    914TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 21-103
914TH AIRLIFT WING
                                                                                 27 JULY 2009
                                                              Certified Current, 12 JULY 2011
                                                                                  Maintenance

                                               TEST, MEASUREMENT, AND DIAGNOSTIC
                                                   EQUIPMENT (TMDE) CONTROL AND
                                                          SCHEDULING PROCEDURES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 914 MOF/MXOOL                     Certified by: 914 MXG/CC (Lt Col Sharon M. Johnson)
Supersedes: 914 AWI 21-103,                                                       Pages: 4
            5 August 2004



This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space
Maintenance, and T.O. 00-20-14, Air Force Metrology and Calibration Program. It applies to
914th Airlift Wing units and the Base Operation Services (BOS) contractor. This instruction
establishes procedures for the control and scheduling of Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic
Equipment (TMDE). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 directly to the 914 MOF/MXO at Niagara Falls ARS,
NY. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-61a/afrims.afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This is a revision do to minor changes and the location of the TMDE Coordinator.
1. Term Explained:
   1.1. TMDE Scheduler. Located at 88 Mission Support Group, Wright Patterson AFB, OH
   45433-5517.
   1.2. TMDE Coordinator. Located in the 914 MOF, Building 850, Material Supply (MSL).
   1.3. TMDE Monitors. Located in each owning workcenter of TMDE.
   1.4. TFCU. Transportable Field Calibration Unit.
2                                                              914AWI21-103 27 JULY 2009


1. 5. TMDE Schedules: Quarterly scheduling listing of Category III TMDE (items that are
calibrated by Wright Patterson).
    1.6. TMDE Inventories: Quarterly master ID listing of Category III TMDE.
2. Responsibilities. This instruction applies to all sections that process precision measurement
equipment laboratory (PMEL) through the TMDE coordinator. Each supervisor is responsible
for their workcenters overall TMDE requirements. The coordinator will notify workcenters of
the TMDE delivery/pick up schedule and the TFCU team arrival dates.
3. Procedures. Each supervisor is responsible for their workcenters overall TMDE
requirements. TMDE master ID Listings will be posted quarterly and forecast schedules will be
posted monthly on the Wright Patterson AFB (WPAFB) PMEL Community of Practice (COP)
located    within     the    Air      Force     Knowledge     Now      (AFKN)       website,
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=MC-LG-00-86               for TMDE
monitor access. The supervisor will delegate a TMDE monitor who will ensure that:
    3.1. Upon receipt of the TMDE schedules, any corrections, additions, or deletions are
    accomplished and coordinated with Wright Patterson, within three workdays.
    3.2. The current monthly inventory and schedule are maintained in the workcenter to verify
    the TMDE inventory, status, and calibration due dates.
    3.3. All Category III items due calibration are complete, clean, and properly packed when
    delivered to MSL one day prior to shipment, or as directed by the monitor.
    3.4. TMDE delayed beyond scheduled due date for shop backlog, lack of tool equipment or
    any other condition causing units to become unserviceable, will be condition tagged and
    scheduled for accomplishment.
4. Training.   To schedule newly appointed unit monitors for training, contact the TMDE
Coordinator.

5. Adopted Forms.

AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                            ALLAN L. SWARTZMILLER, Colonel, USAFR
                                            Commander
914AWI21-103 27 JULY 2009                                                                         3


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Record, 1 March 2008
AFPD-21-1, Air and Apace Maintenance, 25 February 2003
T.O. 00-20-14, Air Force Metrology and Calibration Program, October 2007

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFKN—Air Force Knowledge Now
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
BOS—Base Operation Services
COP—Community of Practice
MSL—Material Supply
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PMEL—Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratory
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TMDE—Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic Equipment
WPAFB—Wright Patterson Air Force Base

Terms
Adopted Form— A form used (required) in a publication other than the prescribing publication.
Approval Authority —Senior leader responsible for contributing to and implementing policies
and guidance/procedures pertaining to his/her functional area(s) (e.g., heads of functional two-
letter offices).
Authentication — Required element to verify approval of the publication; the approval official
applies his/her signature block to authenticate the publication. The signature block includes the
official’s name, rank, and title (not signature).
Certifying Official — A minimum of one organizational level above the OPR, this individual
certified the need for the publication, to include currency of information, applicability to the Air
Force, and propriety of content.
Directive Publication —Publication that is necessary to meet the requirements of law, safety,
security, or other areas where common direction and standardization benefit the Air Force. Air
force personnel must comply with these publications. All publications in this category carry the
following statement: “COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY.”
4                                                               914AWI21-103 27 JULY 2009


Distribution — Defines the type of accessibility for each publication; to whom the publication
may be released.
Functional Principal — Senior leader, generally at the two-level, who serves as the approving
official for publications.
Implementing Publication —A publication that creates processed and sets standards to
accomplish a goal, often by adding organization-specific material to a publication issued by a
higher headquarters.
Mandatory Coordination —Required review by selected offices prior to publication.
Mandatory coordinators review draft publications for specific functional and/or legal purposes.
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) —The originating office for a publication; the author
of the publication is an individual within the OPR. OPRs are solely responsible for the accuracy,
currency, and integrity of their publications and forms.
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) —The official schedule that authorizes/governs the
disposition of Air Force records, which contains National Archives and Records Administration
(NARA) approval authority.
Records Management —The planning, controlling, directing, organizing, training, promoting,
and any other managerial activity related to records creation, records maintenance and use, and
records disposition for the sake of achieving adequate and proper documentation of the policies
and transactions of the Federal Government and effective economical management of agency
operations.
Records Maintenance and Use —Any activity involving the location, storage, retrieval, or
handling of records kept at office file locations by or for the Air Force.
Records Professional —An individual trained and proficient in performing record management
responsibilities. This category includes personnel designated as Records Custodian (RC),
Functional Area Record Manager (FARM), Chief of Office of Record (COR), Base Record
Manager (BRM), and MAJCOM Record Manager.
Revised Publication —A publication that supersedes or changes a previous edition, related
publications or portions of related publications in a given category.
Technical/functional Coordination —Review of draft publications by technical/functional
experts prior to publication. The list of technical/functional coordinators changes with each
publication, based on the contents and applicability of the publication.
