BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          914 AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 36-801
914TH AIRLIFT WING
                                                                             8 FEBRUARY 2012

                                                                                        Personnel

                                                             ALTERNATE WORK SCHEDULE



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at www.E-Publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 914 MSG/FSMC                                                      Certified by: 914 MSG/CC
                                                                     (Colonel Timothy J. McCoy)
                                                                                          Pages: 7


This Instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-8, Employee Benefits and
Entitlements. This Instruction outlines information, definitions, and instructions essential to the
administration of Alternate Work Schedule (AWS) for employees assigned to 914 Airlift Wing,
Niagara Falls, NY, 14304-5000. The Civilian Personnel office (914 AW/FSMC) is responsible
for this instruction and will process any changes, additions or deletions approved by the Wing
Commander. The guidance contained herein complies with 5 CFR, Chapter 1, Part 610, Subpart
D, Flexible and Compressed Work Schedules, Defense Civilian Pay System (DCPS)-UM-04,
Time and Attendance User’s Manual, DoD 7000.14-R, Volume 8, DoD Financial Management
Regulation, Civilian Pay Policy and Procedures, AFI 36-807 and AFI36-807_AFRC Sup1
Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observances, AFRC Memorandum of
Agreement between 914 Airlift Wing and NAGE R2-33, and AFRCI 36-803, Air Reserve
technician Time and Attendance Procedures and Audits.          Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) at the 914 th
MSG/FSMC, Niagara Falls Air Reserve Station (ARS) NY. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

1. Objective: This Instruction will enhance the morale and quality of life, while maintaining
mission readiness/capability and will give employees the opportunity to balance work and family
responsibilities more easily. It shall remain in effect until otherwise rescinded, revised, or
superseded. If the agency determines that any portion of this plan has had an adverse agency
impact, it shall promptly take corrective action to reverse.
 2                                                         914AWI36-801 8 FEBRUARY 2012


2. Conditions and Regulatory Restrictions: The ―agency/organization unit‖ as a whole will
remain open for business five days per workweek. The Air Force administrative workweek
begins at 0001 Sunday and ends at 2400 on the following Saturday. Within these parameters, the
914 AW basic work week is established as Monday through Friday. The basic workday (not on
AWS) will commence at 0715, consist of one unpaid 45-minute meal period from 1115-1200,
and end at 1600, for a total of 8 working hours. Individual Group Commanders (Operations,
Logistics, and Support) will be responsible for developing and documenting alternate work
schedules within their respective groups to ensure adequate section/office coverage, as well as to
provide for customer service. Meal periods authorized under the AWS will range from a
minimum of 30 minutes to a maximum of two hours. Meal periods will occur between 1100 and
1300 hours.
2.1. This AWS Plan is designed to provide flexibility for both the employee and the
organization. Bargaining unit employees are eligible to participate in the AWS program.
However, no employee will be required to participate in this program.
3. Duty Hours: Core Hours are defined as those hours during each workday that an employee
on an AWS must be present for duty or in an appropriate leave status. For the normal day shift,
AWS core hours will be 0830 to 1430 hours. The agency’s bandwidth (earliest starting and
latest ending times) will be 0600 to 1800. During the specified core hours, employees must
either be present for duty or in an authorized leave status. Meal periods on any work schedule
will not be taken at the end of the workday in order to shorten the duty day, nor will they be
skipped in order to shorten the length of the duty day.
     3.1. Authorized Work Schedules are:
        3.1.1. Standard Schedule (Not on AWS) – Report time of 0715 with lunch from 1115-
        1200 (45 minutes) depart time of 1600 each day (DCPS Code is ―0‖).
        3.1.2. Flexitour (AWS-1) – Flexitour is a work schedule in which an employee, once
        having selected starting and stopping times within the bandwidth hours (0600-1800),
        continues to adhere to these times. Meal periods may vary from thirty minutes to two
        hours (DCPS Code is ―1‖). Credit Time may be earned and used under this schedule.
        3.1.3. Gliding (AWS-2) – A flexible schedule in which an employee has a basic work
        requirement of 8 hours each day and 40 hours each week. Employees may select an
        arrival time each day and may change that arrival time daily as long as it is within
        established bandwidth (0600-1800) and core (0830-1430) hours. Meal periods may vary
        from thirty minutes to two hours (DCPS Code is ―2‖). Credit Time may be earned and
        used under this schedule.
        3.1.4. Compressed (AWS-6) – A compressed schedule is a fixed schedule which enables
        the full-time employee to complete the basic work week of 80 hours in fewer than 10 full
        workdays in a bi-weekly period. There are no flexible times in a compressed schedule;
        employees’ time of arrival, meal period and departure from work are set. The
        compressed schedule at 914 AW will be the 5-4/9 schedule (eight-9 hour days, one-8
        hour day and one scheduled day off (SDO) in a pay period). The meal period must be
        fixed but can range from thirty minutes to two hours. Credit time may ―not‖ be earned
        under this type schedule.
914AWI36-801 8 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                     3


   3.2. Work schedule changes must be requested through the timekeeper for approval by the
   individual’s supervisor. The work schedule will remain in effect unless a change is
   submitted and approved. The employee will be required to sign the DCPS Work Schedule
   Change form before submission to the supervisor. Work schedule changes must be mission
   driven and not done to avoid taking leave. Any variations must be approved by the
   supervisor. Work schedule changes must be submitted to timekeepers by the Friday before
   the beginning of the affected pay period.
       3.2.1. Supervisors will make every reasonable effort to honor an employee’s request,
       subject to constraints such as work requirements, mission impact, and safety. If the
       supervisor cannot approve the employee’s request, the employee and the supervisor will
       discuss possible alternatives. Disapprovals will be explained to the employee.
       3.2.2. Civilian employee tours of duty will not be adjusted to avoid taking proper leave
       for personal convenience when performing military duties. An example of an
       inappropriate schedule change would be an employee’s request to change from a regular
       8 hour, five days a week tour of duty to a compressed work schedule to perform military
       duty, with no intention of ever working the schedule in a civilian status. Conversely,
       civilian employees on an approved compressed work schedule will not be required to
       change to a non-compressed schedule in order to perform military duties.
4. Credit Hours: Credit hours are those hours (can be earned and used in ¼ hour increments)
within a flexible work schedule that are in excess of an employee’s basic work requirement
which the employee elects (with supervisor approval) to work so as to vary the length of the
workday. Credit hours will not be earned while TDY for training. Credit hours will be recorded
in the Defense Civilian Pay System (DCPS).
   4.1. Credit hours may be worked only by employees on flexible (Flexitour and Gliding)
   schedule. Credit hours are distinguished from overtime hours in that management does not
   officially order them in advance. Credit hours are not authorized for employees on the
   standard or compressed work schedule. Credit hours must be earned before they are used.
   4.2. Work performed for credit hours may take place at anytime within the administrative
   work week (Sunday 0001 – Saturday 2400) to include hours outside the bandwidth (0600-
   1800). Verbal supervisor approval must be obtained prior to ―working/earning‖ credit hours.
   4.3. A full-time employee cannot carry more than 24 credit hours from one pay period to the
   next. There is no limit on the total number of credit hours which may be accumulated and
   used during any one biweekly pay period, however, any credit hours in excess of the 24
   hours maximum carryover must be taken during the pay period or they will be forfeited.
   Supervisors may limit the number of credit hours accumulated during the pay period. The
   employee will schedule the use of credit , like any other authorized leave, in advance and
   request it on the OPM 71. Final approval for use of credit hours is up to the supervisor and
   based on mission needs.
   4.4. The employee receives no additional pay for credit hours when they are credited to his
   or her account. Supervisors must maintain proper documentation of credit hours through
   their established time accounting method.           It is the employee’s and supervisor’s
   responsibility to zero out any credit time prior to employee transfer, or termination, or if the
   employee changes from a flexible schedule. Credit hours, not to exceed 24 hours total, shall
 4                                                        914AWI36-801 8 FEBRUARY 2012


     be paid at the employee’s current hourly rate when an employee is no longer subject to a
     flexible work schedule program or upon separation.
     4.5. Charges to Leave: There is no requirement for employees to use flexible hours for
     medical or dental appointments or other personal matters if the employee wishes to charge
     his time to other types of leave. An employee may choose to charge time off during flexible
     hours to the appropriate leave category or use credit time.
5. Management/Supervisory Responsibilities:
     5.1. Management/supervisors are to determine the number and kinds of employees on duty
     during any hours of any given day to ensure that essential work is accomplished. Where
     appropriate, management/supervisor will determine minimum/maximum number of
     employees on any given tour of duty within any given work section.
        5.1.1. If the supervisor cannot approve an employee’s request, the employee and the
        supervisor will discuss possible alternatives. Supervisors will make every reasonable
        effort to honor an employee’s request subject to constraints such as work requirements,
        mission impact, and safety.
     5.2. Management/supervisors may withdraw or alter an AWS to meet organizational mission
     requirements or due to employee abuse. Ensure compliance with the Negotiated Agreement.
     5.3. Management/supervisors determine the type of work schedule an employee will be on
     while TDY. If the AWS is changed for the TDY period, the employee has the option to
     revert to their former schedule upon return to home station starting the next pay period.
     5.4. Management/supervisors will consult with Civilian Personnel Office for further
     guidance and instructions.




                                             ALLAN L. SWARTSMILLER, Colonel, USAFR
                                             Commander
914AWI36-801 8 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                 5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
5 CFR, Chapter 1, Part 610, Subpart D, Flexible and Compressed Work Schedules, 06 Dec 2002
Defense Civilian Pay System (DCPS)-UM-04, Time and Attendance User’s Manual, 20 Nov
2011
DoD 7000.14-R, Volume 8, DoD Financial Management Regulation, Civilian Pay Policy and
Procedures, 23 Jun 1993
AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observances, 21 Jun 1999
AFI 36-807_AFRCSUP1, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observances,14
Nov 2007
Memorandum of Agreement between 914 Airlift Wing and NAGE R2-33, 11 Jan 2011
AFRCI 36-803, ART Time and Attendance, 28 Oct 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ARS—Air Reserve Station
ART—Air Reserve Technician
AW—Airlift Wing
AWS—Alternate Work Schedule
CC—Commander
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
CWS—Compressed Work Schedule
DCPS—Defense Civilian Pay System
DOD—Department of Defense
FM—Financial Management
IAW—In Accordance With
LWOP—Leave Without Pay
MSG—Mission Support Group
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
 6                                                       914AWI36-801 8 FEBRUARY 2012


RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SDO—Scheduled Day Off
TDY—Temporary Duty

Terms
Agency/Organizational Unit—914 AW, Niagara Falls ARS, New York
Administrative Workweek—The administrative workweek begins at 0001 Sunday and ends at
2400 on the following Saturday. The calendar day on which a shift begins is considered the day
of duty for that day even though the day of duty extends into the next calendar day or into the
following administrative workweek.
Alternate Work Schedule (AWS)—Any flexible or compressed work schedule which
differentiates from the standard, 8-hour day, 40-hour week, 80-hour biweekly pay period,
Sunday through Saturday administrative workweek.
Bandwidth—The bandwidth is normally that period of time between 0600 and 1800 hours,
allowing for a minimum 30-minute meal period; maximum two hour meal period.
Basic Workweek Requirement—The number of hours, excluding overtime hours, an employee
must work or otherwise account for by leave, credit hours, etc. A full-time employee must work
80 hours per biweekly pay period. The basic workweek shall normally be Monday through
Friday, unless changed by the employer to accomplish special work requirements.
Biweekly Pay Period—A two-week period for which an employee is scheduled to perform
work.
Compensatory Time—Compensatory time off under the General Schedule is distinguished
from credit hours in that compensatory time off derives from entitlement to pay for overtime
work. Entitlement to compensation in the form of credit hours derives from work, performed at
the option of the employee in excess of the employee’s basic work requirement. An agency may
grant compensatory time off in lieu of overtime pay at the request of the employee.
Core Time—That period of time during each workday when an employee must be present for
work or in an appropriate leave status (0830-1430).
Credit Hours—Any hours, or portions thereof, within a flexible schedule, and are in excess of
an employee’s basic work requirement, but within the tour of duty, which the employee elects to
work so as to vary the length of the work day, but with prior supervisory approval. Credit hours
are distinguished from overtime hours in that management does not officially order them in
advance. Credit hours are authorized only for employees on a flexible schedule.
Flexitour Schedule—A flexible schedule that consists of five 8-hour days, 40 hours each week,
and 80 hours biweekly. Once having selected starting and stopping times within the flexible
hours, employees continue to adhere to these times. Credit time may be earned and used. Meal
periods may vary from 30 minutes to two hours.
Gliding Schedule—A gliding schedule is a flexible schedule in which an employee has a basic
work requirement of 8 hours each day and 40 hours each week. Employees may select an arrival
time each day and may change that arrival time daily as long as it is within the established
flexible hours. Meal periods may vary from 30 minutes to two hours.
914AWI36-801 8 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                 7


Compressed Schedule—A compressed schedule is a normal 80-hour biweekly pay period that is
scheduled within less than the basic 10 days. A compressed schedule is one in which the
employee, having selected a 9-day pay period, continues to adhere to the approved schedule.
There are no provisions for the flexi time or gliding schedules under a compressed work
schedule. There is no provision for credit hours under a compressed work schedule.
Lunch/Meal Period—The specific meal period is to be determined by the day shift supervisor
for each function to occur within 1100 to 1300 hours. Employees on second shift will have their
meal period during the mid-shift time frame. Meal periods range from 30 minutes to 2 hours.
Employees are to be entirely free of the duties of his or her position during an unpaid meal
period.
Tour of Duty—The tour of duty comprises all hours and days for which flexible and core hours
have been designated. Agencies establish flexible and core hours.
Work Day—The basic administrative workday will normally consist of 8 hours with a minimum
30-minute meal period, subject to management approval, based on work requirements. Under an
AWS, workdays may be less than or exceed 8 hours, depending upon each employee’s particular
approved AWS.
