BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            914TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 91-303
914TH AIRLIFT WING                                                                      29 JUNE 2004
                                                                        Certified Current 15 June 2011
                                                                                                Safety

                                                                       SAFETY AWARDS PROGRAM




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 914 AW/SEW (MSgt Keith Lawson)                    Certified by: 914 AW/SE (Maj. Larry Kroeker)
                                                                                            Pages: 3
                                                                                     Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 91-3, Occupational Safety and Health.
These procedures are necessary to promote and stimulate an effective Wing Safety Awards Program. This
instruction applies to all personnel, civilian and military, assigned to the 914th Airlift Wing.


1. Procedures:
   1.1. The wing Weapons Safety Manager will monitor the wings safety awards program.
   1.2. All Safety Awards should be presented by the 914 AW/CC or the appropriate unit commander at
   Commanders Call.
   1.3. Nominating Procedures will be initiated through Safety in Action Cards.
       1.3.1. SAFETY IN ACTION CARDS– a means through which coworkers, supervisors or manag-
       ers can easily nominate individuals for safety awards. These “Safety in Action Cards” will be
       located at each facilities main safety bulletin board. Nomination procedures will include:
          1.3.1.1. Name and office symbol of nominee.
          1.3.1.2. A brief summary of the action. The action could be either a safe act other than those
          covered under normal written procedures that prevented injury to personnel or damage to
          equipment, engineering or design change of equipment or facilities that enhanced safety, or an
          idea that results in a program, policy or procedural change that promotes safety.
          1.3.1.3. Nominator signs and dates the card. The completed card is then placed into local dis-
          tribution or hand delivered to the 914th Wing Safety office.
          1.3.1.4. Once Wing Safety has categorized and validated the action, the individual will receive
          a reward of recognition and become a candidate for a categorized Safety Award.
2                                                                         914AWI91-303 29 JUNE 2004


2. General Information:
    2.1. QUARTERLY GROUND SAFETY AWARD- selected from Safety in Action recipients, this
    award recognizes the person who most significantly contributed to ground safety for the quarter.
    2.2. QUARTERLY WEAPONS SAFETY AWARD- selected from Safety in Action recipients, this
    award recognizes the person who most significantly contributed to weapons safety for the quarter.
    2.3. ANNUAL GROUND SAFETY AWARD- Selected from the Quarterly Ground Safety Award
    winners, this award recognizes the person who most significantly contributed to ground safety for the
    year.
    2.4. ANNUAL WEAPONS SAFETY AWARD- Selected from the Quarterly Weapons Safety Award
    winners, this award recognizes the person who most significantly contributed to weapons safety for
    the year.
    2.5. FLIGHT SAFETY AWARD- an award that recognizes a safe act other than those under normal
    written procedures that prevented injury to personnel or damage to equipment or ideas that result in
    programs, policies or procedural change that promotes flight safety. The Chief of Safety will approve
    this award on an as warranted basis.
    2.6. AMC FLYING HOUR AWARD- An award that recognizes Mishap-Free Flying hour milestone
    achievements. The Wing Flight Safety officer will administer the AMC Individual Mishap Free Fly-
    ing Hour Milestone Award IAW AMCI 36-2805, Safety Awards Program. Awards are available for
    crew members with 1,000; 1,500; 2,500; 3,500; 5,000; 6,500; 7,500; 8,500; 10,000; 12,500 military
    flying hours (including student hours).
    2.7. UNIT SAFETY REPRESENTATIVE AWARD- an award that is granted on an "as merited" basis
    to a Unit Safety Representative/Coordinator to recognize sustained superior performance in meeting
    safety program requirements at the unit level. Award Nominees are proposed by the Safety Staff and
    approved by the Chief of Safety.
    2.8. SAFETY IN ACTION AWARD- An award that recognizes an individual contribution to general
    safety awareness and practice. The award will be issued to groups or persons who have enhanced
    safety in a special way. The Chief of Safety will approve this award on an as warranted basis.
    2.9. SAFETY INNOVATION AWARD- An award that recognizes an individual whose dedication
    and commitment to service generates change that enhances a safety policy or program. Award nomi-
    nees are proposed by the Safety Staff and certified by the Chief of Safety.
    2.10. SHOP CHIEF SAFETY AWARD- an award that recognizes a shop chief who's work area con-
    tinuously employ's a safe work environment and who consistently strives to incorporate safe work
    ethics among his/her subordinates. The Chief of Safety will approve this award on an as warranted
    basis.
    2.11. SHOP SAFETY OF THE YEAR TROPHY- a trophy that recognizes a particular work area for
    outstanding contributions to safety. Items of interest could include: documentation of safety briefings,
    good house keeping, innovated ideas that promote or enhance safe practices, and inspection findings.
    The trophy will exhibit name plates of past recipients and rotate annually to it's new successor.
914AWI91-303 29 JUNE 2004                                                                3


3. Requirements: A copy of this Instruction will be maintained in all wing units.



                                                   JAMES B. ROBERTS JR, Colonel, USAFR
                                                   Commander
