BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                              914th AIRLIFT WING
914TH AIRLIFT WING                                                   INSTRUCTION 36-2803

                                                                               13 APRIL 2010

                                                                                    Personnel

                                                  WING COMMANDERS COIN PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS INSTRUCTION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 914 AW/CCE                                                      Certified by: 914 AW/CC
                                                                   (Col. Allan L. Swartzmiller)
                                                                                       Pages: 5


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-28, Awards and Decorations
Programs; and is a derivative of Headquarters Air Force Reserve Command (HQ AFRC) FY
2006, Planning and Policy Guidance. This instruction applies to all 914 Airlift Wing (AW)
personnel and provides for personal recognition and appreciation by representatives associated
with the 914 AW through use of a token coin. This coin is also referred to as a unit or
commander’s coin. The coin will be presented by Commanders, or designees, to military and
civilian personnel, who, by their dedicated individual effort, have facilitated the successful
accomplishment of a particular program, function, or mission. The purpose of this coin is to
provide leadership with an informal means to show special recognition of and appreciation for a
job well done. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for change
of Publication; route AF Form 847 directly to 914 AW/CCE at Niagara Falls ARS.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gess-af61a/afrims/afrims.

1. Responsibilities:
   1.1. The 914 Airlift Wing commander is responsible for the Coin Program.
   1.2. The Wing Executive Officer is responsible for managing the program, procuring and
   maintaining inventory of coins distributed by the Commander (CC) and Vice-Commander
   (CCV).
2                                                              914AWI36-2803 13 APRIL 2010


    1.3. Group Commanders are responsible for procuring and maintaining inventory of coins
    distributed by their associated Group.
    1.4. Unit Commanders are responsible for procuring and maintaining inventory of coins
    distributed by their associated Unit.
    1.5. Clarification concerning coin procurement, inventory and distribution will be
    coordinated through the Wing Executive Officer and all actions will be approved by the
    Wing Commander.
2. Procurement:
    2.1. Coins may be purchased using the Government Purchase Card with no limitations set to
    the amount, but coins should be reasonable in cost and be comparable to like items that are
    offered at the Base Exchange in design complexity, size, and cost. The funding or purchase
    of coins should only be considered after all operational requirements have been fully funded.
    2.2. It is highly recommended that when obtaining a source for coins, at least two vendors
    who specialize in coin fabrication are solicited for monetary quotes. Comparisons shall be
    reviewed by the using activity and the most economical quote shall be exercised.
    2.3. The annual amounts of expenditures need not breakout the cost by organization, but
    such information should be retained for any future requests for data.
    2.4. Organizational coins purchased by appropriated funds shall NOT be personalized. Do
    not personalize coins by stamping the presenter’s name after the coin has been cast. This
    privilege exists for the Secretary of the Air Force, Chief of Staff of the Air Force, Chief
    Master Sergeant of the Air Force, four (4) star general officers and four (4) star civilian
    equivalents. The coins are to be presented as cast from the die without further embellishment.
3. Inventory:
    3.1. Each unit will maintain an inventory, or log of coin issuance. This log shall contain the
    following information; Coin Recipient, Purpose of Award, and Date of Presentation.
    3.2. This inventory will be accessible to the Wing Historian and Public Affairs Offices to
    document and/or publish accordingly.
    3.3. Periodic inspections may be conducted by the Wing Executive Officer to insure
    compliance to this instruction.
4. Distribution:
    4.1. Coins are intended to be “near real time,” informal and in the vicinity of the recipient’s
    work center and/or peers.
    4.2. Airman or civilian personnel who have been identified by a unit commander, or their
    designate, may have their efforts of outstanding accomplishment in a particular program,
    function or mission be acknowledged with a unit or commander’s coin.
    4.3. To highlight the importance of reenlistment to the Air Force mission and the
    commitment of the member to that mission, coins may be presented to members reenlisting.
    4.4. Coins will not be issued as mementos and should not be presented merely for an
    individual’s normal performance of regularly assigned duties.
914AWI36-2803 13 APRIL 2010                                                3


5. Adopted Form:

Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                         ALLAN L. SWARTZMILLER, Colonel,
                                         USAFRCommander
4                                                              914AWI36-2803 13 APRIL 2010


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, 1 August 1997
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 36-2803, The Air Force Awards and Decorations, 15 June 2001
HQ AFRC FY 2006, Planning and Policy Guidance, 9 October 2001

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AW—Airlift Wing
CC—Commander
CCE— Executive Officer
CCV—Vice-Commander
FY—Fiscal Year
HQ AFRC—Headquarters Air Force Reserve Command
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule

Terms
Adopted Form—A form used (required) in a publication other than the prescribing publication.
Certifying Official—A minimum of one organizational level above the OPR, this individual
certifies the need for the publication, to include currency of information, applicability to the Air
Force, and propriety of content.
Form—A tool used for the collection, recording and/or extraction of information whereby a
predetermined set of data fields have been established and defined to meet a definitive Air Force
purpose or objective.
Mandatory Coordination—Required review by selected offices prior to publication.
Mandatory coordinators review draft publications for specific functional and/or legal purposes.
Office of Primary Responsibility—The originating office for a publication; the author of the
publication is an individual within the OPR. OPRs are solely responsible for the accuracy,
currency and integrity of their publications and forms.
Publication—An officially produced, published, and distributed document issued for
compliance, implementation and or information. Includes Policy and Guidance Memorandums.
914AWI36-2803 13 APRIL 2010                                                                5


Publication/Forms Manager—One who supervises and manages the local publications and/or
the forms programs. Is the focal point for publication and distribution issues.
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)—The official schedule that authorizes/governs the
disposition of Air force Records, which contains National Archives and Records Administration
(NARA) approval authority.
