BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                     914TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 33-103
914TH AIRLIFT WING
                                                                                26 JUNE 2009
                                                               Certified Current, 7 JULY 2011
                                                             Communications and Information

                                                COMMUNICATIONS AND INFORMATION
                                                                PLANNING FORUM


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 914 CS/SCX                                Certified by: 914 CS/SC (LtCol David P. Jaacks)
Supersedes: 914 AWI 33-103,                                                          Pages: 5
            14 January 2005



This instruction implements AFPD 33-1, Command, Control, Communications and Computer
(C4) Systems and AFI 33-104, Base-Level Planning and Implementation. It provides direction
for planning Communications and Information (C&I) systems by establishing a formal planning
forum at Niagara Falls Air Reserve Station (NFARS), called the C&I Planning Forum (CIPF).
This forum will be chaired by the installation commander. The CIPF meets to discuss current
and future issues affecting the C&I infrastructure and various systems it supports and to
formalize approval and endorsement of the C&I Systems Blueprint. The forum’s purpose is to
coordinate planning of the C&I infrastructure with a proactive, centralized, base-wide focus.
This instruction applies to all organizations at NFARS using C&I systems, including new
systems, changes to existing capabilities, or deletion of functions in a C&I system. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route the AF 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision changes office symbol for the Base Civil Engineer (BCE), para. 2.1.7. and changes
the Communications & Information Support Group (CISG) from convening semi-annually to
annually, para 2.3.
2                                                                914AWI33-103 26 JUNE 2009


1. General. The Communications Squadron Manager (914CS/SC), as the designated C&I
Systems Officer (CSO), is ultimately responsible for overall management of C&I systems. In
this capacity, the CSO reports to the installation commander, through the Mission Support Group
commander on all C&I related issues. The Communications Squadrons Plans Flight will
administer the C&I planning forum upon the direction of the CSO in accordance with Air Force,
Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and local procedures.
2. Communications and Information Planning Forum (CIPF). The CIPF is composed of
senior members of Niagara Falls Air Reserve Station, host and tenant organizations, who control
and manage information technology and C&I systems resources to support the mission. The
installation commander, through the CIPF, will review C & I Systems Blueprint initiatives and
provide formal endorsement as necessary. Through the CIPF, all unit commanders and their
staff will ensure appropriate exchange of information through the administrator that enables
proper planning of all C&I systems as a result of mission changes, new construction, or any other
activity that impacts C&I systems.
    2.1. CIPF membership
       2.1.1. Chair, Installation Commander (914th AW/CC)
       2.1.2. C&I System Officer, CSO (914th CS/SC)
       2.1.3. Administrator, 914th Communications Squadron, Plans Flight Chief (914th
       CS/SCX)
       2.1.4. Mission Support Group Commander (914th MSG/CC)
       2.1.5. Maintenance Group Commander (914th MXG/CC)
       2.1.6. Operations Group Commander (914th OG/CC)
       2.1.7. Base Civil Engineer (914th MSG/BCE)
       2.1.8. Base Civil Engineering Planning (914th MSG/CEC)
       2.1.9. Financial Management (914th AW/FM)
       2.1.10. Logistics Plans (914th LRS/LGRR)
       2.1.11. Contracting (914th MSG/LGC)
       2.1.12. Security Forces (914th MSG/SFS)
       2.1.13. Airfield Manager (914th SSI/OSA)
       2.1.14. Others as determined by individual unit or group commanders.
    2.2. CIPF Responsibilities:
       2.2.1. Provide a base wide focus of C&I infrastructure to assist NFARS in its mission to
       stay current, qualified and ready to fight. This includes computers, networking,
       telephones, land mobile radios, cellular telephones, air traffic control landing systems, or
       any other support provided to NFARS and its tenants, by the Communications Squadron.
       2.2.2. Ensures base users and base leadership are kept abreast of future communication
       system upgrades impacting future architecture to meet mission directives.
914AWI33-103 26 JUNE 2009                                                                   3


      2.2.3. Discuss C&I Systems Blueprint and obtain installation commanders endorsement
      of the plan including project implementation status, downward directed communication
      projects and programs, funding issues, civil engineering projects supporting
      communication initiatives, mission changes and taskings, and other issues as locally
      determined and or reflected in AFI 33-104, Base-Level Planning and Implementation.
   2.3. The CIPF will convene annually or as often as necessary to oversee and assess the
   continued achievement of C4 systems and infrastructure goals. Meetings may be called by
   the chair or CSO as needed. The CIPF may task external working groups to provide
   additional information in order to make a decision or complete a tasking related to the C&I
   responsibilities.
3. Adopted Forms..
AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                           ALLAN L. SWARTZMILLER, Colonel, USAFR
                                           Commander
4                                                                914AWI33-103 26 JUNE 2009


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 33-1, Command, Control, communications and computer (C4) System, 27 June 2006
AFI 33-104, Base-Level Planning and Implementation, 10 May 2001
AFMAN 33-363. Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
C4—Command, Control, Communications & Computer System
C&I—Communication and Information
CIPF—Communication & Information Planning Forum
CISG—Communication & Information Support Group
CSO—Communication & Information Systems Officer
NFARS—Niagara Falls Air Reserve Station
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule

Terms
Adopted Form-—A form used (required) in a publication other than the prescribing publication.
Certifying Official-—A minimum of one organizational level above the OPR, this individual
certifies the need for the publication to include currency of information, applicability to the Air
Force, and propriety of content.
Directive Publication-—Publication that is necessary to meet the requirements of law, safety,
security, or other areas where common direction and standardization benefit the Air Force. Air
Force personnel comply with these publications. All publications in this category carry the
following statement:
Form-—A tool used for the collection, recording and/or extraction of information whereby a
predetermined set of data fields have been established and defined to meet a definitive Air Force
purpose or objective.
Implementing Publication-—A publication that creates processes and sets standards to
accomplish a goal, often by adding organization-specific material to a publication issued by a
higher headquarters.
914AWI33-103 26 JUNE 2009                                                                    5


Mandatory Coordination-—Required review by selected offices prior to publication.
Mandatory coordinators review draft publications for specific functional and/or legal purposes.
Office of Primary Responsibility-—The originating office for a publication; the author of the
publication is an individual within the OPR. OPRs are solely responsible for the accuracy,
currency and integrity of their publications and forms.
Publication-—An officially produced, published and distributed document issued for
compliance, implementation and or information. Includes Policy and Guidance Memorandums.
Records Disposition Schedule-—The official schedule that authorizes/governs the disposition
of Air Force records, which contains National Archives and Records Administration (NARA)
approval authority.
Revised Publication-—A publication that supersedes or changes a previous edition, related
publications, or portions of related publications in a given category.
Technical/functional Coordination-—Review of draft publications by technical/functional
experts prior to publication. The list of technical/functional coordinators changes with each
publication, based on the contents and applicability of the publication.
