BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      914th AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 44-201
914TH AIRLIFT WING
                                                                                 26 JULY 2010
                                                                  Certified Current 9 July 2012
                                                                           Aerospace Medicine

                                                          FETAL PROTECTION PROGRAM



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS INSTRUCTION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 914 ASTS/SGA                                                   Certified by: 914 ASTS/CC
Supersedes: 914AWI44-201, 15 April                                    (Col Patricia A. Brunner)
            2002                                                                       Pages: 9


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 41-1, Health Care Programs
and Resources, Air Force Instruction (AFI) 44-102, Medical Care Management, and Air Force
Reserve Command Instruction (AFRCI) 41-104, Pregnancy of Air Force Reserve Personnel. It
establishes procedures to manage pregnant Reserve members assigned to the 914 Airlift Wing.
This instruction applies to all unit assigned reservists and active guard reserve (AGR) members.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision changes
rules governing reserve participation during pregnancy. Pregnant reservists may volunteer to
participate during Unit Training Assemblies (UTAs) and Reserve Management Periods (RMPs)
from the 34th week of pregnancy to term when the following criteria are met: the decision is
supported by the member, unit commander, the member’s obstetric care provider, a military
provider and the reservists home is located within 50 miles of the UTA location, and they
commute home during the UTA.
 2                                                                914AWI 44-201 26 JULY 2010




1. Responsibilities
     1.1. Wing Commander. Ensures all commanders, supervisors, Department of Defense (DoD)
     civilian employees, and reservists assigned to the wing are educated and knowledgeable
     about their responsibilities in the management of pregnant Reserve members.
     1.2. Supervisors of female DoD civilian employees when presented confirmation of
     pregnancy: 1.2.1. Provide information to the employee on workplace conditions and hazards,
     by completing the appropriate sections of AFRC Form 20, Pregnancy Workplace Evaluation,
     and refers the employee, with their AFRC Form 20, to Bioenvironmental Engineering (BEE)
     public health representative.
     1.3. Commanders and Supervisors of female reservists or AGRs are responsible for
     ensuring: 1.3.1. Each female member within their unit receives an initial briefing on the fetal
     protection program and is knowledgeable of their responsibilities during pregnancy.
        1.3.1. The Aero-Medical Staging Squadron (ASTS) is notified of a Reserve member’s
        pregnancy.
        1.3.2. The member is seen at the ASTS by a military medical provider.
        1.3.3. Pregnant reserve member’s military duties do not exceed the duty limitations or
        physical restrictions listed on the AF Form 469, Duty Limiting Conditions Report.
        1.3.4. Continued participation during inactive duty training (IDT) from the 34th week of
        pregnancy to term is discussed with the member.
     1.4. Pregnant reservists and AGRs will:
        1.4.1. Immediately notify their commander, supervisor, and ASTS when a medical
        provider confirms the pregnancy. Provide the ASTS with all civilian medical
        documentation relating to their pregnancy.
        1.4.2. Not be categorically excluded from workplace duties based solely on pregnancy
        status.
        1.4.3. Return to their civilian medical provider for follow-up appointments through the
        duration of their pregnancy and will discuss any need for further restrictions (as the
        pregnancy progresses) with the military medical provider.
        1.4.4. Honor all limitations of pregnancy profile restrictions.
        1.4.5. When provided with an AFRC Form 20 from ASTS, present that form to their
        supervisor for completion and return it to Public Health or BEE within two duty days.
        1.4.6. Immediately notify 914 ASTS if the pregnancy terminates.
     1.5. Flying Squadron Commanders. Work with the flight surgeon to determine if it is safe to
     allow pregnant aircrew members to continue flying during pregnancy in accordance with AFI
     48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards. Flying waivers are possible for aircrew during
     the second trimester (13-24 weeks).
914AWI 44-201 26 JULY 2010                                                                    3



2. 914th ASTS:
   2.1. Upon verification of pregnancy, a mobility and duty restricting AF Form 469 will be
   initiated by the Health Care Provider, which will serve as a temporary medical profile after
   review and signature by the Force Health Manager and Profile Officer.
   2.2. AF Form 469 will be distributed through Personal Information in Medical Research
   (PIMR) to the respective commanders for review and approval. If any discrepancies arise the
   respective commander will contact the SGP or Force Health Manager for additional
   clarification.
   2.3. Upon receipt of notification, the ASTS will initiate an AFRC Form 20 that must be
   completed by the member’s supervisor before the member returns it to the ASTS. It will be
   then be reviewed by the Public Health Officer (PHO)/NCO or medical technician. If the
   ASTS PHO/NCO or Technician is not available, the AFRC Form 20 will be reviewed by
   BEE public health representative.
   2.4. PHO will initiate SF 513, Consultation Sheet – Medical Record, after interviewing
   member. If the member works in a workplace with hazardous conditions, the PHO will refer
   the member to BEE for a detailed workplace evaluation. BEE may make additional duty
   restriction recommendations on the SF 513, based on workplace conditions and duties
   performed by the member.
   2.5. PHO will complete the Briefing Statement (attachment 2) and Letter to Member’s
   Supervisors (attachment 3).
   2.6. Track completion status of the pregnancy profile package. Overall profile completion
   times will be based on the date of the confirmed positive HCG (Human Chorionic
   Gonadotropin) pregnancy test. Completion times exceeding 7 duty days will be placed on
   non-compliance AF Form 469.
   2.7. Upon returning to duty, member must provide ASTS with release note from civilian
   provider. At this time the member may be taken off of the duty and mobility limiting AF
   Form 469, and will be able to participate. Those members who fail to comply will be
   managed administratively IAW AFRCI 41-104, Pregnancy of Air Force Reserve Personnel,
   dated 15 Jan 2006.
3. Bioenvironmental Engineering Services / Public Health representative will:
   3.1. Bio-Environmental Engineering (BEE) will evaluate workplace risks in conjunction
   with Public Health. BEE will advise the civilian employee of any identified risks, and report
   the risks with any recommended techniques for avoiding the risks to the employee and her
   supervisor.
   3.2. Consult with 914th ASTS on a patient-by-patient basis concerning environmental
   chemical hazard exposures for those pregnancies involving females working in industrial
   shops, when requested by the 914th ASTS.
   3.3. After receiving all required information, forward initial pregnancy profile
   recommendations to 914th ASTS by completing SF 513, when requested by the 914th ASTS.
 4                                                               914AWI 44-201 26 JULY 2010


     3.4. Continue to assess and document the potential for exposure to ionizing radiation, and
     heat stress, as well as chemical/ biological hazards in base industrial shops and will include
     such assessment comments on the SF 513.
     3.5. Ensure pregnant members exposed to ionizing radiation are monitored monthly through
     the use of TLD (Thermoluminescent Dosimetry) badges IAW AFMAN 48-125, Personnel
     Ionizing Radiation Dosimetry.
     3.6. Identify harmful fetal chemical exposures in the pregnant member’s workplace by
     referencing its previous case file exposure measurements TLV (threshold limit value) against
     the AIHA’s (American Industrial Hygiene Association) most current ORG (occupational
     reproductive guideline) threshold exposure value for harmful reproductive effects.
     3.7. Perform special surveys, as needed, to quantify previously unmeasured workplace
     chemicals or assess changes to workplace procedures for additional chemical exposure
     potential.
     3.8. After case file/special survey review, provide a written comment on the SF 513 for
     review by BEE depicting the specific fetal hazard(s), the ORG level(s) and potential for
     exposure based on the pregnant member’s job duties within the workplace.
4. The following forms will be used to generate the final pregnancy profile/provide
documentation of supervisor pregnancy briefings:
     4.1. AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record.
     4.2. AF Form 469, Duty Limiting Conditions Report.
     4.3. AFRC Form 20, Pregnancy Workplace Evaluation.
     4.4. SF 513, Consultation Sheet – Medical Record.
     4.5. SF 600, Chronological Record of Medical Care.
     4.6. Supervisors’ Statement of Work for Pregnant Employees.
     4.7. Duty Restrictions Notification Letter (DRNL).

5. Adopted Forms:

AF FORM 55, Employee Safety and Health Record, Apr 07
AFRC Form 20, Pregnancy Workplace Evaluation, Nov 06
AF FORM 469, Duty Limiting Condition Report, Oct 07
SF 513, Medical Record - Consultation Sheet, Apr 98
SF 600, Medical Record - Chronological Record of Medical Care, Jun 97




                                              ALLAN L. SWARTZMILLER, COL, USAFR
                                              Commander
914AWI 44-201 26 JULY 2010                                                               5


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, May 06
AFI 48-123, Medical Examination and Standards, Jun 06
AFI 48-145, Occupational and Environmental Health Program, Mar 08, incorporating Air Force
Guidance Memorandum, Jan 10
AFMAN 48-125, Personnel Ionizing Radiation Dosimetry , Aug 06
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program, Oct 05
AFRCI 41-104, Pregnancy of Air Force Reserve Personnel, Jan 06
American Industrial Hygiene Association (AIHA) Journal, A Screening Method for
Occupational Reproductive Health Risk, Jul 96

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRCI—Air Force Reserve Command Instruction
AGR—Active Guard Reserve
AIHA—American Industrial Hygiene Association
ASTS—Aero-Medical Staging Squadron
BEE— Bioenvironmental Engineering
CONUS—Continental United States
CWDE—Chemical Warfare Defense Equipment
DOD—Department Of Defense
HCG—Human Chorionic Gonadotropin
IDT—Inactive Duty Training
LOD—Line of Duty
ORG—Occupational Reproductive Guideline
PHO—Public Health Officer
PIMR— Personal Information in Medical Research
RMP—Reserve Management Periods
TLD—Thermoluminescent Dosimetry
TLV—threshold limit value
 6                                                               914AWI 44-201 26 JULY 2010


Terms
Adopted Form—A form used (required) in a publication other than the prescribing publication.
Approval Authority—Senior leader responsible for contributing to and implementing policies
and guidance/procedures pertaining to his/her functional area(s) (e.g., heads of functional two-
letter offices).
Authentication—Required element to verify approval of the publication; the approval official
applies his/her signature block to authenticate the publication. The signature block includes the
official’s name, rank, and title (not signature).
Certifying Official—A minimum of one organizational level above the OPR, this individual
certified the need for the publication, to include currency of information, applicability to the Air
Force, and propriety of content.
Directive Publication—Publication that is necessary to meet the requirements of law, safety,
security, or other areas where common direction and standardization benefit the Air Force. Air
force personnel must comply with these publications. All publications in this category carry the
following statement: “COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY.”
Distribution—Defines the type of accessibility for each publication; to whom the publication
may be released.
Mandatory Coordination—Required review by selected offices prior to publication.
Mandatory coordinators review draft publications for specific functional and/or legal purposes.
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)—The originating office for a publication; the author
of the publication is an individual within the OPR. OPRs are solely responsible for the accuracy,
currency, and integrity of their publications and forms.
Prescribed Form—A form designed to support the implementation of requirements in a
directive Air Force publication. Use and purpose of a prescribed form must be contained in the
publication it supports (also known as the prescribing publication).
Publication—An officially produced, published, and distributed document issued for
compliance, implementation, and or information. Includes Policy and Guidance Memorandums.
Publications/form Manager—One who supervises and manages the local publications and/or
the forms programs. Is the primary focal point for publication and distribution issues.
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)—The official schedule that authorizes/governs the
disposition of Air Force records, which contains National Archives and Records Administration
(NARA) approval authority.
Records Management—The planning, controlling, directing, organizing, training, promoting,
and any other managerial activity related to records creation, records maintenance and use, and
records disposition for the sake of achieving adequate and proper documentation of the policies
and transactions of the Federal Government and effective economical management of agency
operations.
Records Maintenance and Use—Any activity involving the location, storage, retrieval, or
handling of records kept at office file locations by or for the Air Force.
914AWI 44-201 26 JULY 2010                                                                 7


Records Professional—An individual trained and proficient in performing record management
responsibilities. This category includes personnel designated as Records Custodian (RC),
Functional Area Record Manager (FARM), Chief of Office of Record (COR), Base Record
Manager (BRM), and MAJCOM Record Manager.
Revised Publication—A publication that supersedes or changes a previous edition, related
publications or portions of related publications in a given category.
Technical/functional Coordination—Review of draft publications by technical/functional
experts prior to publication. The list of technical/functional coordinators changes with each
publication, based on the contents and applicability of the publication.
 8                                                               914AWI 44-201 26 JULY 2010


                                          Attachment 2
                                   BRIEFING STATEMENT

1. While pregnant, you may participate in a restricted status until your 34th week of pregnancy or
you may volunteer to participate in UTA status from the 34th week of pregnancy to term,
provided your home is located within 50 miles of the IDT location, you, the unit
commander/program manager, and obstetric care provider all support the decision for continued
participation.
2. A military physician may restrict you from Reserve participation at any time the physician
determines such action is appropriate.
3. You must bring in a letter from your obstetric care provider summarizing your current health,
physical restrictions and expected date of delivery.
4. A periodic medical progress report from your private physician will be required every 60 days
or more often if needed to determine continued fitness for military duties.
5. Military duty within CONUS performed away from home station must be cleared through this
medical unit by a military physician.
6. For military duty away from home station, a statement from your private physician,
accomplished within 30 days of departure, must be submitted through this medical unit to a
military physician for approval of travel.
7. The letter from your private physician must include potential or actual medical complications,
restrictions regarding physical activities, approval for travel, or any other facts deemed relevant
to your care.
8. Should you go into labor while on IDT, you will be transferred to a civilian medical facility as
soon as it is safe to do so, and you will incur any medical costs associated with delivery at the
medical treatment facility. Pregnancy is not considered to be a medical condition for the
purposes of a LOD determination.
9. After delivery and when cleared by your obstetric care provider you must come back to the
medical squadron for evaluation by a military physician to be cleared for return to military duty.

___________________________________                                  ______________________
Member’s signature                                                          Date

___________________________________                                  ______________________
Medical Interviewer                                                         Date
914AWI 44-201 26 JULY 2010                                                                           9


                                          Attachment 3
                          LETTER TO MEMBER’S SUPERVISOR

1. Subject member may participate in a restricted status while pregnant (see attached AF Form
469) unless restricted earlier by a military physician. She may participate until (enter date; her
34th week of pregnancy) or volunteer to participate in UTA status until term provided her home
is within 50 miles of the IDT location, the member, her commander/program manager, and
obstetric care provider all support the decision for continued participation.
2. Any duty away from home station will require a statement of the member’s current medical
status from her private physician. This statement must be submitted 30 days prior to departure to
the medical unit and travel approved by a military physician.
3. After delivery, and when cleared by her obstetric care provider, the member must return to the
medical unit for evaluation by a military physician and to be cleared for return to military duty.
4. Subject member is deferred from the fitness program for a period of 180 days after the date of
delivery.
5. Member will not participate in mask confidence training.
6. Wear of the CWDE will be dependent upon the ambient temperature until 20 weeks gestation
age or until the CWDE no longer fits.
6.1. If the ambient temperature is below 70 Fahrenheit, full participation is allowed.
6.2. If the temperature is greater than 70 degrees Fahrenheit, only mask, hood, and helmet are
worn. The flak vest is not worn or carried.
7. After 20 weeks gestation, the member will demonstrate proficiency in donning the mask at the
commencement of an exercise or training. After completing the proficiency demonstration, the
member will carry the mask but is not required to use it. The helmet, flak, vest, web belt, and
chemical protective suit will not be carried or worn.
Note: Members who have been determined to be pregnant are not to be placed on active duty
orders that will take them beyond the 34th week. For those who are on active duty for training
(ADT) or active duty for special work (ADSW) orders and subsequently become pregnant, they
are to be released from active duty by the 34th week. Pregnancy is not considered to be a
medical condition for the purpose of a LOD determination.


________________________
Medical Interviewer Signature

Attachment
AF Form 469
