BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                               914 AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 10-201
914 AIRLIFT WING
                                                                                                                  7 NOVEMBER 2013

                                                                                                                                   Operations

                                                                                EXERCISE EVALUATION PROGRAM



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 914 AW/CVZ                                                                                            Certified by: 914 AW/CC
                                                                                                            (Col Allan Swartzmiller)
                                                                                                                           Pages: 33


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-2, Readiness, Air Force
Instruction (AFI) 10-204, Readiness Exercises and After Action Reporting, Air Force Reserve
Command Instruction (AFRCI) 10-204, Air Force Reserve Exercise And Deployment Program,
Air Force Instruction (AFI), 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program
Planning and Operations, and Niagara Falls Air Reserve Station Installation Emergency
Management Plan, (IEMP) 10-2. It establishes responsibilities for the 914th Airlift Wing
Exercise Evaluation Program and the Exercise Evaluation Team. It provides guidance,
procedures, exercise responsibilities and the processes for evaluations, and the requirement for
analyzing the trends and lessons learned. It applies to all units, provides the functions of the
Exercise Evaluation Team (EET), and the members of EET. It establishes guidelines for
conducting exercises on Niagara Falls ARS, and unit members assigned to 914 AW, but not the
members of the Air National Guard. Refer any recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force Information
Management Tool (AF IMT) 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMTs
847 from the field through appropriate functional area manager’s (FAMs) chain of command.
Ensure all records created because of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition of Schedule (RDS) located at
https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.


       1.     General. ..................................................................................................................   2
       2.     Objectives and Responsibilities. ............................................................................                 2
 2                                                                                     914AW10-201 7 NOVEMBER 2013


        3.      Exercise Development. ..........................................................................................             5
        4.      Exercise Logistics. .................................................................................................        6
Table 1.        EET Materials. .......................................................................................................       6
        5.      Exercise Play. .........................................................................................................     7
        6.      Exercise Evaluation ...............................................................................................          9
        7.      Exercise Evaluation Team (EET) Staff. .................................................................                      9
        8.      Exercise Evaluation After Action Report. .............................................................                      10
        9.      Reporting. ..............................................................................................................   11
        10.     Remedial Action Program (RAP). .........................................................................                    12

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              14

Attachment 2—EXERCISE MISSION STATEMENT (EXAMPLE)                                                                                           18

Attachment 3—EXERCISE OBJECTIVES (EXAMPLE)                                                                                                  19

Attachment 4—NARRATIVE STATEMENT (EXAMPLE)                                                                                                  21

Attachment 5—MAJOR – MINOR EVENTS & EXPECTED ACTIONS (EXAMPLE)                                                                              22

Attachment 6—MASTER SCENARIO EVENTS LIST (MSEL) (EXAMPLE)                                                                                   23

Attachment 7—914 AW EXERCISE INPUT WORKSHEET (EXAMPLE)                                                                                      24

Attachment 8—914 AW EXERCISE DEVELOPMENT CHECKLIST                                                                                          26

Attachment 9—INSTALLATION EET EVALUATION WORKSHEET                                                                                          30

Attachment 10—914 AW - EXERCISE EVALUATION TEAM (EET) *SAMPLE*                                                                              32

Attachment 11—EXERCISE OBJECTIVES                                                                                                           33


1. General.
     1.1. Mission Readiness is a condition which requires continuous measurement of capabilities
     at all levels. Exercises provide a means to demonstrate prevention, response and recovery
     capabilities in a risk-free environment to assess and improve performance. A thoughtfully
     crafted exercise allows team and individual responders to demonstrate knowledge, skills, and
     abilities in a controlled setting, based upon mission essential task lists (METLs) and a master
     scenario events list (MSEL). Additionally, exercises provide a forum for the organization to
     test plans, policies, procedures, multi-agency jurisdiction interactions (from local to national
     levels) and agreements. Exercises should be built to validate the wing emergency
     management and contingency plans and identify and recommend areas for improvement.
     The ultimate goal is to enhance unit preparedness.
2. Objectives and Responsibilities.
914AW10-201 7 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                  3


  2.1. This instruction provides the procedures and criteria for establishing an Exercise
  Evaluation Program (EEP) and Exercise Evaluation Team (EET) to conduct, evaluate and
  grade installation exercises. This instruction provides the EET Chief the means to assess the
  Wing’s response to wartime and peacetime emergency and disaster situations.
  2.2. 914th Airlift Wing Commander:
     2.2.1. Is the approval authority for all wing exercises involving 914 AW personnel.
     2.2.2. Appoints the 914 AW/CVZ as EET Chief to organize and monitor the EET
     program.
     2.2.3. The Wing Commander is responsible to establish an EET program IAW this AWI
     and AFI10-2501 for the effective evaluation of the wing’s mission critical skills during
     peacetime and war. The EET program will measure the mission critical skills through
     exercises conducted at base and unit levels.
  2.3. Group Commanders will:
     2.3.1. Appoint primary and alternate EET members from their Groups.
     2.3.2. Ensure units take corrective action on EET findings reported in AAR’s, hotwashes
     and subsequently tracked in MICT as deficiency checklists.
  2.4. Unit Commanders/Functional Managers will:
     2.4.1. Appoint a unit primary EET POC and EET evaluator.
     2.4.2. Appoint in writing a primary and alternate EET member. This person will be
     responsible for attending planning meetings for exercises and will report to the EET
     chief. EET members are responsible for evaluating their respective squadron/unit during
     an exercise, to include providing exercise inputs and feedback during subsequent
     hotwashes, maintaining and tracking exercise results.
  2.5. EET Chief will:
     2.5.1. Organize and coordinate exercises on the installation.
     2.5.2. Interface with HHQ such as AF/IG or Joint Service Inspection teams, MAJCOM
     IG and community officials. Additionally coordinate with associate units on the
     installation during exercise construction to ensure maximum participation.
     2.5.3. Provide advice and educate EET members on creating, conducting and submitting
     evaluations, lessons learned, including input into the Joint Lessons Learned Information
     System (JLLIS) and the after action report (AAR) to applicable agencies.
     2.5.4. Work with Emergency Management (EM) to direct the EET team in the
     formulization of all aspects of the exercise, including planning meetings, exercise inputs
     and the coordination of all after action reports, evaluations, hot wash meetings and
     critiques.
     2.5.5. Publish an annual exercise schedule.
     2.5.6. Ensure EET members are appointed and trained through completion of Computer
     Based Training (CBT) and formal training IAW AFI10-2501 Tables 6.1. and 6.3.
     2.5.7. Plan, announce, conduct, evaluate, debrief, and document exercises.
4                                                          914AW10-201 7 NOVEMBER 2013


       2.5.8. Periodically brief the Wing and Group Commanders on the status of the EET
       program.
       2.5.9. Develop trend analysis and ensure that findings and trends from prior exercises are
       considered when developing new exercise objectives.
       2.5.10. Determine number and type of evaluators needed to properly evaluate the
       specific exercises per the mission essential task lists (METLs) or MSEL.
       2.5.11. Retain administrative files which will include the following:
          2.5.11.1. Current listing & training records of EET team members.
          2.5.11.2. Past exercise scenarios.
          2.5.11.3. EET AAR’s for the current and previous calendar years.
    2.6. EET Members will:
       2.6.1. Complete necessary EET training, IAW AFI 10-2501 Table 6.1 and 6.3.
       2.6.2. Keep their Commander informed of exercise scenarios and findings.
       2.6.3. Ensure units maintain a unit continuity folder.
       2.6.4. Review and consolidate unit corrective actions for Unit Commander’s review.
       2.6.5. Complete EET critique and EET evaluation for each exercise.
       2.6.6. Be functionally qualified in the area they evaluate.
          2.6.6.1. Function as representatives of the Wing Commander.
          2.6.6.2. Act with impartiality and remain above reproach.
          2.6.6.3. Operate with a degree of anonymity, free from coercion or intimidation from
          unit members.
       2.6.7. Evaluate with a “no fault” point of view.
          2.6.7.1. Evaluate an organization’s effectiveness and efficiency to accomplish
          mission objectives.
          2.6.7.2. Be subject matter experts and thoroughly familiar with functional area being
          evaluated.
       2.6.8. Take actions to prevent any safety or security violation from occurring.
       2.6.9. Observe the actions taken by players during the exercise and record the
       observations.
       2.6.10. Provide documentation necessary to provide a valid critique of the exercise and
       produce an exercise report.
       2.6.11. Keep the exercise on track, and not interfere with or prevent players from
       performing duties.
       2.6.12. Ensure exercise objectives are met and support requirements to enhance the
       evaluation, resulting in the appropriate level of activity to keep players occupied,
       challenged and paced according to the scenario.
914AW10-201 7 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                     5


      2.6.13. Attend planning meetings and perform requisite training as outlined in AFI 10-
      2501 and as directed by the EET chief.
      2.6.14. Be an active participant in the exercise planning process. Develop inputs and
      exercise input cards that will facilitate the objectives desired for your respective
      Emergency Support Function (ESF)/Unit Control Center (UCC).
      2.6.15. Provide instruction, corrective action, remediation or counsel when needed to
      avoid unnecessary punitive actions. If you can fix a small problem on the spot, fix it and
      document as appropriate.
3. Exercise Development.
   3.1. The exercise development process should include the following steps:
      3.1.1. Assess the installation’s likely hazards and vulnerabilities and determine type and
      scope for the exercise. Attachment 8.
      3.1.2. Review previous findings from previous exercises to determine whether to repeat
      an exercise element.
      3.1.3. Write an Exercise Mission Statement that describes the purpose, functions, units,
      level, type and event. Attachment 2.
      3.1.4. Develop exercise objectives by breaking down the goals into specific objectives
      that are specific, measurable, attainable, realistic and timely (SMART). The objectives
      should relate to the participant’s functional area and responsibilities. Attachment 3 and
      11.
      3.1.5. Write a Scenario Narrative. The narrative is a brief scenario that sets the stage for
      an exercise. The scenario provides the background information for the event/disaster and
      helps the participants demonstrate capabilities to respond to a real world event in an
      exercise condition. Attachment 4.
      3.1.6. Collect, consolidate and coordinate detailed exercise inputs from unit EET
      members. Attachment 5.
      3.1.7. Develop major events and detailed events. Major events are realistic problems that
      occur because of a disaster. The major event should motivate actions from the players
      accordingly during the course of the exercise. Major events drive the minor events and
      the expected actions. Attachment 5.
      3.1.8. Construct a MSEL. Attachment 6.
      3.1.9. List of Expected Actions. The point of the exercise is to get the players to think
      critically and act according to the expected results. The actions may be according to
      Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for the problems presented in the exercise. Each
      event designed should prompt one or more expected outcomes from more one or more
      agencies participating in the exercise. Attachment 5.
      3.1.10. Prepare messages and input cards for the players. Attachment 7.
      3.1.11. Give a Pre-Exercise briefing for EET members on the following:
          3.1.11.1. Scenario, date, time and location.
 6                                                         914AW10-201 7 NOVEMBER 2013


            3.1.11.2. Timing of events.
            3.1.11.3. Areas of evaluation.
            3.1.11.4. Situation cards, augmenters and props in the exercise.
            3.1.11.5. Evaluation checklists.
            3.1.11.6. Security of exercise information.
            3.1.11.7. Safety.
            3.1.11.8. Communications used during the exercise.
            3.1.11.9. Time and location for the exercise debriefing.
            3.1.11.10. Conduct and Operational Risk Assessment (ORM).
4. Exercise Logistics.
     4.1. In order to insure a successful exercise, the EET must identify the exercise player/EET
     member requirements and the materials needed. Below are examples of materials you need
     to plan for, meetings that will be beneficial to a successful exercise, and communications
     requirements.
        4.1.1. EET Materials:

Table 1. EET Materials.
                     ITEM                                              OPR
Administrative supplies                           CVZ
Base crash grid map and cordon overlay            CE
EET Identification                                CVZ
Exercise Checklists                               CVZ
Exercise Guide and Forms                          CVZ
Final MSEL, Sims and Lims                         EET
Medical Evaluation Cards                          CVZ
Medical Interactive Role Sheets                   ASTS/EET
Moulage Materials (clothing)                      ASTS/EET
Radios and call signs                             EM
Reflective Safety Vests                           CVZ
Smoke generators                                  EM
Vehicles for actors and EET                       As required and available
        4.1.2. EET Meetings:
            4.1.2.1. Exercise Scope and Objectives Development.
            4.1.2.2. MSEL Development/Input Review.
            4.1.2.3. Final MSEL Review, Logistics, Operational Risk Management (ORM) and
            Safety issues.
            4.1.2.4. Player Instructions Briefing (Exercise Objectives/Ground Rules).
            4.1.2.5. Post-Exercise Hot wash.
914AW10-201 7 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                        7


       4.1.3. Communications:
          4.1.3.1. Determine what frequencies the EET will use and assign radios and call
          signs.
          4.1.3.2. Complete radio tests with all evaluators prior to initiation of the exercise.
          4.1.3.3. Coordinate with PA for possible photography support.
          4.1.3.4. Coordinate with Fire Chief, Command Post, and Air Field Operations
          (Tower) prior to exercise start.
       4.1.4. Establish location for CAT and EOC as well as Exercise Control.
       4.1.5. Issue the EET identifiers, such as badges, hats, and vests and record names (or
       provide hand receipts).
       4.1.6. Establish number of personnel and acquire personnel (according to scenario) for
       mock casualties such as Mass Casualty Incident Exercise.
       4.1.7. Ensure coordination of local and tenant participation.
          4.1.7.1. Ensure review and coordination of MOA’s or MOU’s.
5. Exercise Play.
   5.1. Exercise Assumptions. The following assumptions, effective throughout the exercises,
   provide realistic training as much as possible to ensure exercise events progress in a logical
   and realistic manner and that exercise objectives are achieved during the exercise play.
       5.1.1. Exercise participants should thoroughly understand their own unit and office
       emergency action, response plans, and procedures.
       5.1.2. The term “participants” includes Exercise Evaluators, Actors, and Players.
       5.1.3. Players and Evaluators will use real-world data and information support sources to
       the extent practicable.
       5.1.4. Players will respond in accordance with existing plans, instructions, policies, and
       procedures. In the absence of appropriate written instructions, the expectation is for the
       players to apply individual initiative to satisfy response and recovery requirements.
       5.1.5. Implementation of disaster response plans, instructions, policies, and procedures
       during the exercise will depict actions expected to occur under actual (real world)
       response conditions to provide a sound basis for evaluation.
       5.1.6. Real-world response actions will take priority over exercise actions.
   5.2. Exercise Artificialities. Some artificialities and constraints will detract from realism;
   however, exercise evaluators should accept these artificialities as a means of facilitating
   accomplishment of exercise objectives.
       5.2.1. The exercise will be in near real time as much as possible, but in some instances
       and due to time constraints to meet exercise objectives, some preplanned events by
       participants are accomplished prior to the exercise and other events may be accelerated in
       time to ensure objectives are met during play. EET members should be prepared to make
       game-time decisions to move the scenario along if required.
8                                                            914AW10-201 7 NOVEMBER 2013


       5.2.2. Certain alert, notification, initial activation, emergency response procedures and
       some early response actions may not be part of the exercise.
       5.2.3. Responses obtained by players from simulations may not be of the quality or detail
       available from the real organization or individual. When this occurs, the EET member
       should capture the circumstances and be prepared to debrief the EET chief during the
       hotwash.
       5.2.4. Some personnel and equipment may be pre-positioned at exercise locations prior
       to the exercise rather than moved in real-time and may play a dual role by reentering play
       at a predetermined time different from pre-positioned location.
    5.3. Exercise Simulations. Simulation during exercises is required to compensate for
    nonparticipating individuals or organizations that would otherwise require a great deal of
    resources. Although simulations may detract from realism, simulations provide the means to
    facilitate exercise play. Simulations should be minimal. The EET from each unit will
    coordinate simulations with the EET Chief who will be the final approving authority.
    5.4. Exercise Ground Rules. Ground rules are an important part of any exercise, no matter
    what level or size. Ground rules ensure the safety of all participants and provide for a fair and
    balanced view of the exercise by EET members. Following are the Exercise Ground Rules:
       5.4.1. Contractor personnel may be exempt from participation in exercises.
       5.4.2. Exercises must not effect or disrupt personnel from performing operational
       missions or critical training.
       5.4.3. All vehicle operators must abide by speed limits and traffic control devices.
       5.4.4. Establish a clear and easily understood STARTEX and ENDEX method of
       communications for all exercises which will begin and end with the word “EXERCISE.”
       5.4.5. Ground Rules Common to Major Accident Response Exercises (MARE):
           5.4.5.1. Demonstrate the capability to restrict vehicle and pedestrian traffic in the
           cordon area.
           5.4.5.2. Terminate routine work inside the disaster cordon, such as routine
           maintenance.
           5.4.5.3. Evacuate buildings, offices and work areas.
       5.4.6. Do not conduct (at any time) simulated or actual penetration of Restricted Areas,
       surreptitious introduction of prohibitive devices and similar activities unless coordinated
       in advance with Security Forces.
       5.4.7. Ground Rules Common to Attack Response Exercises (ARE):
           5.4.7.1. Canteens or Hydration systems such as Camelbacks should only contain
           drinking water to prevent dehydration.
           5.4.7.2. Expended smoke canisters and ground burst simulators are not to be
           considered exercise unexploded ordinance (UXO).
       5.4.8. “Time Out” and “Knock it Off”:
914AW10-201 7 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                         9


          5.4.8.1. The term “Time Out” will be used to temporarily halt the entire exercise or
          just the events particular to an isolated area within the exercise. The term “Time Out”
          usually accompanies instructions, resolves ambiguity or eliminates a source of
          confusion that is unnecessarily degrading or slowing the exercise.
          5.4.8.2. The term “Knock it Off” will be used to immediately stop all aspects of the
          exercise. This call communicated to all players and evaluators overall communication
          devices available, including runners. When the call is made, this is to prevent or react
          to personal injury, property damage or an unsafe condition.
6. Exercise Evaluation
   6.1. Exercise evaluation is perhaps the most important component of an exercise. This is the
   collection of data and observations that will be used to create the evaluation or “lessons
   learned” report. (For Enterprise level lessons learned application, lessons learned will be put
   into the Joint Lessons Learned Information System—JLLIS.) While evaluating, use the
   checklist that includes expected actions to compare the actual actions against the objectives.
   Use an Exercise Evaluation Sheet to record observations. See Attachment 9 and
   Attachment 10 located on the 914 AW Base Share Drive.
      6.1.1. Evaluate for Condition, Cause, and Effect.
          6.1.1.1. CONDITION (Problem): May be difficult to identify or isolate. A deficiency
          that affects the efficiency of the operation (Might be complying with directives and
          still have a problem).
          6.1.1.2. CAUSE (Basis for the problem): May be difficult to identify or isolate and
          beyond local control. If you know the cause, go ahead and state the cause.
          6.1.1.3. EFFECT (Impact): What is the impact on the operation? (For this response,
          quantify whenever possible, which will better support analysis, easier to assess and
          avoids speculation). Determine the deficiencies in the area, supported by facts, and to
          what extent the deficiencies have contributed to degradation of mission
          accomplishment. Record any conditions that indicate the inability of personnel to
          perform assigned tasks (including lack of experience). Provide crossfeed of
          information that may impact other areas to the applicable evaluator.
          6.1.1.4. To prevent rumor control—do not discuss results until the hot wash or
          release of the Exercise Report.
7. Exercise Evaluation Team (EET) Staff. The EET staff will consist of the EET chief,
exercise evaluators, and actors.
   7.1. EET chief: Monitors the MSEL to ensure the exercise is progressing as planned and
   injects event facilitator messages into exercise play at the scheduled times. Injects messages,
   to include ad hoc messages, to support exercise objectives. Tracks the accomplishment of
   exercise objectives and records the responses of players.
   7.2. Exercise Evaluators: Monitor and evaluate exercise activities. Track the
   accomplishment of exercise objectives. Record and evaluate the responses of players. Inject
   messages to players to support exercise objectives. EET members must anticipate actions
   taken by the participants. If a potential safety or security violation is about to take place, team
   members must take immediate and vigorous action to prevent the inadvertent release of
 10                                                       914AW10-201 7 NOVEMBER 2013


   classified information, personnel injury or damage to equipment. Should an actual accident
   occur, or if a person incurs an injury during the exercise, any EET member can terminate or
   delay the entire exercise and render necessary aid. Any radio or telephone transmission will
   be prefaced with, “KNOCK IT OFF, KNOCK IT OFF, KNOCK IT OFF - THIS IS AN
   ACTUAL EMERGENCY.”
   7.3. Actors: Ensure there are enough “actors” to play out the role of terrorists, enemy troops,
   hostages, casualties, victims, etc. Talk the actors through the script to ensure they have a
   good understanding of what is expected. Determine what props or clothing the actors will
   need to make better their performance more realistic.
   7.4. Guidelines for Emergency Call-Off.
      7.4.1. The EET chief, emergency management (EM) representative or senior officer for
      the exercise may unilaterally suspend play or end the exercise at any time when it appears
      a real world disaster or unusual event may hamper exercise play or jeopardize the safety
      of exercise participants using the word, “KNOCK IT OFF”.
      7.4.2. Participating organizations also have the option of withdrawing any of their
      players from the exercise at any time to address matters or concerns directly related to
      their actual response missions. When any event occurs that requires (1) the withdrawal by
      a participating organization from the exercise or (2) the application of major resources by
      a participating agency to a real world event, the EET chief will review the impact of such
      actions on the exercise. If determined appropriate, the EET chief or EM representative or
      senior officer for the players will temporarily suspend or end the exercise by announcing
      the decision to suspend or terminate exercise play with an “EXERCISE SUSPENSION or
      ENDEX” message, and the message transmission will occur to all participating
      organizations.
   7.5. Exercise Inject: The EET members and evaluators will provide inputs to cause exercise
   events in progress. The Input Card may have the following injection methods: telephone, e-
   mail, radio, in person, video, fax and/or Internet.
   7.6. Problem Resolution.
      7.6.1. There will be times during the exercise when problems will arise that cannot be
      resolved by a particular evaluator. Evaluators should contact the EET chief to discuss
      these problems and develop corrective actions. Resolution might include modification of
      the MSEL. Evaluators should advise the EET chief of the action expected and what is
      required to support the evaluation. The EET chief will take the necessary action to correct
      the problem. Corrective actions may consist of direct coordination by an evaluator with
      an exercise player to determine the status of an action, possible deletion of an action
      because it has been overcome by events, or development of an ad hoc event message. All
      corrective actions will be coordinated with the EET to ensure there is no confusion.
8. Exercise Evaluation After Action Report.
   8.1. Exercise report validation will come from documented input from the exercise
   evaluation reports received from the EET. The EET chief will compile the report from the
   evaluation inputs provided by each EET member. The EET report will be distributed to all
914AW10-201 7 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                     11


   units and lessons learned will be identified and added to Joint Lessons Learned Information
   System (JLLIS) for sharing and building knowledge for future exercises.
   8.2. Meetings.
      8.2.1. When practicable, the EET will meet following the exercise to discuss
      observations and objectives. This exercise meeting is called a “Hot Wash” and it allows
      critical discussion among the EET. Care must be taken to explore causes for failure and
      honest, constructive criticism should be invited. Unusually good exercise comments must
      be reviewed just as critically to ensure maximum benefit is derived from the exercise.
      8.2.2. All Exercise Evaluation Team members should prepare for the hot wash by
      compiling their notes, evaluation forms, summary forms and photographs.
      8.2.3. The hot wash will provide sharing of information and provide a foundation for
      evaluators to get together to discuss “missing links” to the exercise. The EET members
      when evaluating same or like areas should coordinate and prepare findings to minimize
      conflicting findings in the hot wash. Following the hot wash, the EET will meet with the
      player leadership to discuss the exercise, to include major problem areas, outstanding
      performances and validated findings.
9. Reporting.
   9.1. The EET chief and EET members will assign offices of primary and collateral
   responsibility and assign a rating (if rated). The report will provide the type of exercise,
   summarize the scenario, identify findings, assign suspenses for replies and list ratings (if
   used).
   9.2. When EET members write their findings, they should write as the situation existed,
   without any embellishment; zero in on the CAUSE. The EET members are responsible for
   clearly identifying conditions, causes, effects (impacts) and recommendations in their write-
   ups. The importance of writing clearly and consistently cannot be overemphasized. The total
   evaluation effort requires support for management effectiveness and operational readiness;
   therefore, the inspected area requires accurate reporting of the portrayed exercise and not just
   verbal input. Complete and accurate notes during the evaluation will aid the rating process
   significantly. All communication should be written. All observations and findings written
   will document the exercise results to the best of your ability, but the EET chief may ask for
   clarification or request a re-write after review.
   9.3. Discrepancies.
      9.3.1. Units displaying deficiencies must monitor and document corrective actions.
      Deficiencies will be tracked as a deficiency checklist in the Management Internal Control
      Toolset (MICT) per paragraph 10.1. A reply of corrective actions will be coordinated
      with the EET chief and follow-up reports provided until the problem is resolved or
      included in future exercise for reevaluation. Evaluation reports will be analyzed to
      identify recurring or common deficiencies, and these deficiencies can be used as
      objectives in future exercises.
      9.3.2. If an exercise rates Unsatisfactory, the evaluation report will have the reason for
      failure clearly stated, including identification of the agencies that contributed to the
      failure. Isolated instances of deviation from written procedures will not be the sole basis
 12                                                        914AW10-201 7 NOVEMBER 2013


       for an overall exercise rating of less than Satisfactory, provided the deviation had no
       serious impact on the overall exercise performance. Errors and omissions should not
       register as the only basis for an Unsatisfactory rating, if rapid and effective corrective
       action is taken and satisfies the objective.
       9.3.3. The EET chief will ensure written reports reflect good actions taken as well as
       poor ones. Emergency deviations from established procedures will be permitted and
       commented on in the report, but not be cause for the failure of the exercise, if the desired
       outcome of the exercise, as tasked in various documents, has been met. As an example, if
       the mobile command post (MCP) is out of service and the Commander uses another
       resource instead, the absence of the MCP may be commented on, but the exercise result
       would not be downgraded because a different approach to the problem was used.
   9.4. The following five-tiered rating system will be used in all inspection reports. The EET
   chief will assign ratings that accurately reflect observed performance.
OUTSTANDING. Performance far exceeds mission requirements. Procedures and activities are
carried out in a far superior manner. Resources and programs are very efficiently managed and
are of exceptional merit. Few, if any, deficiencies exist.

EXCELLENT. Performance exceeds mission requirements. Procedures and activities are
carried out in a superior manner. Resources and programs are very efficiently managed, and
relatively free of deficiencies.

SATISFACTORY. Performance meets mission requirements. Procedures and activities are
carried out in an effective and competent manner. Resources and programs are efficiently
managed. Minor deficiencies may exist, but do not impede or limit mission accomplishment.

MARGINAL. Performance does not meet some mission requirements. Procedures and
activities are not carried out in an efficient manner. Resources and programs are not efficiently
managed. Deficiencies exist that impede or limit mission accomplishment.

UNSATISFACTORY. Performance does not meet mission requirements. Procedures and
activities are not carried out in an adequate manner. Resources and programs are not adequately
managed. Significant deficiencies exist that preclude or seriously limit mission accomplishment.

10. Remedial Action Program (RAP).
   10.1. After Action Reports (AAR) are formal reports prepared using a standardized format.
   Any findings which are deemed of serious enough nature require follow-up and remediation.
   Once the AAR is signed by the installation commander and submitted to the CCO, it will be
   uploaded in JLLIS (https://www.jllis.mil/USAF ). Each answerable finding will be recorded
   on the 914 AW RAP Tracker using a numbering system which identifies the RAP IAW the
   date it was recorded. See Attachment 11 located on the 914 AW Base Share Drive. The
   findingwill then be entered in MICT as a Deficiency Checklist and monitored by the
914AW10-201 7 NOVEMBER 2013                                                       13


  914/CVZ until closed at which time the deficiency checklist is archived in MICT per
  paragraph 9.3.1.




                                      ALLAN SWARTZMILLER, Colonel, USAFR
                                      Commander
 14                                                      914AW10-201 7 NOVEMBER 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 90-201_AFRCSup_1, Inspector General Activities, 10 March 2007
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities, 17 June 2009
AFPD 90-2, Inspector General - The Inspection System, 26 April 2006

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAR—After Action Reporting
ADLS—Advanced Distributed Learning Service
AF—Air Force
AFIMS—Air Force Incident Management System
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AMW—Air Mobility Wing
BSP—Base Support Plan
CAT—Crisis Action Team
CCO—Wing Process Manager
ECD—Estimated Completion Date
EET—Exercise Evaluation Team
EM—Emergency Management
EOC—Emergency Operations Center
ERO—Emergency Response Operations
ESF—Emergency Support Function
HAZMAT—Hazardous Material
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
IG—Inspector General
IGESP—In-Garrison Expeditionary Support Plan
JLLIS—Joint Lessons Learned Information System
MAA—Mutual Aid Agreement
914AW10-201 7 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                 15


MCS—Multiagency Coordination System
MCP—Mobile Command Post
MET—Mission Essential Task
METL—Mission Essential Task List
MSEL—Master Scenario Events List
MSEP—Maintenance Standardization and Evaluation Program
MICT—- Management Internal Control Toolset
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NRP—National Response Plan
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORM—Operational Risk Management
POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
SI—Self inspection
SII—Special Interest Item
SOP—Standard Operating Procedures
TIC—Toxic Industrial Chemicals
TIM—Toxic Industrial Materials
UCC—Unit Control Center
UCI—Unit Compliance Inspection

Terms
CBRN— Operations that include chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear, either
individually or in combination. Collectively known as WMD, CBRN replaces “NBC” when used
in reference to operations or incidents limited to NBC-only issues. Toxic Industrial Chemicals/
Toxic Industrial Materials (TIC)/TIM and HAZMAT are considered part of the “C” in “CBRN.”
CBRNE— Operations or incidents involving chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and
high-yield explosives, either individually or in combination. “CBRNE” is used anytime that
reference is not being made to WMD operations or incidents.
CBRNE Environment— condition of warfare in which an adversary possesses or uses
chemical,
 16                                                         914AW10-201 7 NOVEMBER 2013


biological, radiological, nuclear, or high—yield explosive weapons, by-products, infrastructure
and associated delivery methods.
CBRNE Hazard— Those CBRNE elements that pose or could pose a hazard to individuals.
CBRNE hazards include those created from accidental releases, toxic industrial materials (TIM)
(especially air and water poisons), biological pathogens, radioactive matter, and high-yield
explosives. Also included are any hazards resulting from the deliberate employment of WMD
during military operations.
CBRNE High Threat Area (HTA)— Friendly forces in these areas are at high risk for attack
with CBRNE weapons by state and non-state actors, such as terrorists and criminals also known
as transnationals. Potential adversaries within the region either possess or are likely to possess a
substantial stockpile of CBRNE weapons and weapons systems and may have special operations
forces capable of conducting sustained attacks on air bases. Actual or potential transnational
threats exist during peacetime or wartime. Forces are within immediate strike range of adversary
theater missiles, and CBRNE strikes using these weapons are assumed to be likely to occur. Air
Force personnel and units in or deployed to these locations will be organized, trained, exercised
and equipped to survive CBRNE attacks and conduct sustained combat operations in CBRNE
environments.
CBRNE Low Threat Area (LTA)— Friendly forces in these areas are at risk for attack with
CBRNE weapons by transnationals. Actual or potential transnational threats exist during
peacetime or wartime. Select personnel and other personnel identified in CEMP 10-2 are
organized, trained and equipped to continue critical missions and restore the primary mission.
All other personnel in these locations are trained to survive attacks.
CBRNE Medium Threat Area (MTA)— Friendly forces in these areas are at medium risk for
attack with CBRNE weapons by state and non-state actors, such as terrorists and criminals also
known as transnationals. Potential adversaries within the region either possess or are likely to
possess CBRNE weapons and weapons systems and may also have special operations forces
capable of conducting limited attacks on air bases. Actual or potential transnational threats exist
during peacetime or wartime. Forces may be within the extended range of adversary theater
missiles, but it is assessed that CBRNE strikes using these weapons are less likely to occur. Air
Force personnel and units in or deployed to these locations will be organized, trained, exercised
and equipped to survive CBRNE attacks and to conduct limited combat operations in CBRNE
environments.
Crossfeed/Crosstell— Term used to compare and share information from one unit to another.
The purpose is to gain collective insight through knowledge management, thereby increasing the
level of understanding of an issue, possibly leading to corrective action.
Emergency Operations Center (EOC)— For the purpose of AFIMS and the EOC is the
command and control (C2) support element that directs, monitors, and supports the installation’s
actions before, during and after an incident. The EOC is activated and recalled as necessary by
the Installation Commander. The EOC updates the CAT with ongoing incident status and seeks
support through the CAT when on-scene requirements surpass the installation’s inherent
capability and the installation’s cumulative capabilities acquired through MAAs. EOCs may also
support MCS and joint information activities. According to the NRP, the EOC is defined as “The
physical location at which the coordination of information and resources to support attack
response and incident management activities normally takes place. An EOC may be a temporary
914AW10-201 7 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                   17


facility or may be located in a more central or permanently established facility, perhaps at a
higher level of organization within a jurisdiction. EOCs may be organized by major functional
disciplines such as fire, law enforcement and medical services; by jurisdiction such as Federal,
State, regional, county, city, tribal; or by some combination thereof.”
Emergency Support Function (ESF)— ESFs are Groupings of capabilities into an
organizational structure that provides the support, resources, program implementation and
services most likely to be needed during an incident. ESFs also serve as the primary operational-
level mechanism that provides support during an incident.
In-Garrison Expeditionary Support Plan (IGESP)— The IGESP is primarily developed for
locations with a permanent Air Force presence and is fully developed by the collaborative
planning efforts of many functional experts with a deliberate planning time line. IGESPs were
formerly known as Base Support Plans (BSPs).
Vetted— The process of examining and evaluating for possible approval or acceptance.
 18                                                         914AW10-201 7 NOVEMBER 2013


                                          Attachment 2
                     EXERCISE MISSION STATEMENT (EXAMPLE)

EXERCISE MISSION STATEMENT (EXAMPLE)
The purpose of this disaster exercise is to test and evaluate the following emergency functions:
       Alert and Notification                          Emergency Response
       Base Infrastructure                             Evacuation and Sheltering
       Communications                                  Health and Safety
       Command and Control                             Resource Management
       Damage Assessment                               Self Aid and Buddy Care
       Emergency Public Information                    Ability to Survive and Operate

…by involving the following agencies and personnel:
      Crisis Action Team                         Wing Command Post
      Unit Control Centers                       Incident Commander/On Scene Commander
      Security Forces                            Fire Department
      Medical                                    Disaster Preparedness
      Engineering                                Communications
      Bioenvironmental Engineering               Environmental Engineering
      Safety                                     Public Affairs
      Legal                                      Contracting

…in a field exercise simulating a terrorist attack involving the detonation of an explosive
radiological dispersal device on _________Avenue.
914AW10-201 7 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                    19


                                        Attachment 3
                          EXERCISE OBJECTIVES (EXAMPLE)

EXERCISE OBJECTIVES (EXAMPLE)
1. Alert/Notification
        a. Notification of the Fire Department and Security Forces.
        b. Notification of the HazMat Response Team.
        c. Disaster Control Group (DCG) recalled.
        d. OPREP-3 report to HHQ and report to Disaster Control Group (DCG).
2. Base Infrastructure
        a. Emergency repairs to utilities and structures.
        b. Emergency repairs to airfield and vehicle pavement surfaces.
3. Communications
        a. All responding agencies able to communicate with their control centers.
        b. Incident Command radio frequency established.
4. Command and Control
        a. Incident Command System established.
        b. Emergency Operations Center/Crisis Action Team established.
        c. Unit Control Centers activated.
5. Damage Assessment
        a. Damage Assessment Team established and DAT reports up-channeled.
        b. Damage Assessment and Response Team (DART) established; DART reports up-
        channeled.
        c. Facility Manager/PAR Teams complete and up-channel accurate reports.
6. Emergency Public Information
        a. Base populace notified of correct actions to take (shelter-in-place or evacuate).
        b. Base populace notified of disaster or accident.
        c. Riverside Emergency Operations office contacted.
        d. Off-base population warned when in hazard area.
7. Emergency Response
        a. Security Forces and Fire Department respond in timely and effective manner.
        b. Off-base Riverside Fire Department and Emergency Response Operations respond.
        c. Off-base HazMat Response Team responds in timely and effective manner.
8. Evacuation and Sheltering
        a. Base or facility populace evacuates to appropriate location.
        b. Accountability for all evacuated personnel.
        c. Base or facility populace completes effective shelter-in-place operations.
9. Health and Safety
        a. Casualties treated and transported in a timely manner.
        b. Contaminated victims transported, eliminating cross contamination.
        c. Arrangements made for control of enemy patients.
        d. Player’s actions appropriate for safety requirements.
10. Resource Management
        a. Unit resources (manpower, vehicles, equipment, information) effectively used.
        b. All resources effectively tracked for available, assigned and out-of-service.
        c. Create a Wing Command and Control organizational setup.
 20                                                    914AW10-201 7 NOVEMBER 2013


        d. Establish and utilize rest and relief procedures.
        e. Develop a Facility Priority List and a Resource Priority List
11. Self Aid & Buddy Care
        a. Demonstrate competency at peacetime disaster mass casualty incident.
        b. Demonstrate competency at wartime first aid.
        c. Demonstrate competency at use of nerve agent antidote auto-injectors.
12. Ability to Survive and Operate
        a. Provide optimum active ground defense.
        b. Minimize the effects of an enemy attack by passive defense.
        c. Demonstrate competency in Nuclear, Biological and Chemical Warfare Defense.
        d. Demonstrate that unit can operate in an NBC environment.
        e. Complete required Counter-Chemical Warfare actions.
        f. Demonstrate that unit can effectively respond to a terrorist attack.
914AW10-201 7 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                   21


                                         Attachment 4
                         NARRATIVE STATEMENT (EXAMPLE)

NARRATIVE STATEMENT (EXAMPLE)
It is a seasonably warm August afternoon at Niagara Falls Air Reserve Base (NFARS), New
York. A line of thunderstorms have just pushed through the area from West to East, leaving all
runways wet with a Runway Condition Reading (RCR) of 12. The winds are _____. A C-130
from ______ en route to ______ is approaching _______. The aircraft is deploying to ______
and is loaded with 240 flares and carrying 1 pallet of grenades, 1 pallet of 5.56 mm (.223 cal)
ammunition, a baggage pallet, 12 Army personnel and a crew of 8 (includes 2 crew chiefs).
The aircraft has just experienced a maintenance condition, which necessitates shutting down the
#2 engine. The crew has declared an emergency and prepares to land at NFARB because of its
current proximity, length of runway and C-130 maintenance capability. The aircraft flies an
uneventful approach to runway __R, but upon landing and rollout, the #1 engine fails to go into
reverse, creating an asymmetric power condition. The aircraft departs the runway and travels into
the ditch north of runway __R, where it crashes to a stop and the right Wing quickly bursts into
flame. The copilot has sustained fatal head trauma; the remaining crewmembers in the flight
deck exit via the crew entrance door, with minor injuries. Both loadmasters and crew chiefs
suffer severe injuries. Several of the Army personnel are fatally injured and many more are
seriously injured. The cargo compartment is quickly filling up with dark black smoke, making it
impossible to see and very difficult to breathe.
 22                                                       914AW10-201 7 NOVEMBER 2013


                                         Attachment 5
           MAJOR – MINOR EVENTS & EXPECTED ACTIONS (EXAMPLE)

Table A5.1. MAJOR – MINOR EVENTS & EXPECTED ACTIONS (EXAMPLE).
1.1.1 Major Event                  1.1.2 Minor Event
Detonation of Dirty Bomb           Terrorists reveal that they have a radiological bomb
                                   The injured terrorist passes out and the bomb detonates.
                                   Fire Department responds to fire danger.
                                   Reporters arrive to take pictures and interview.
1.1.3 Expected Actions
CAT notifies EOC of radiological terrorist attack (simulated)
CAT requests the HazMat Response Team, to include EM and BIO.
CAT establishes a 500 ft Hot Zone and Decon Area.
EOC notifies FD of radiological contamination.
CAT notifies HHQ and State of radiological terrorist attack (simulated)
CAT holds contaminated victims and responders
CAT initiates decontamination procedures (area, personnel, vehicles)
EOC contacts State Radiation Officer (simulated)
914AW10-201 7 NOVEMBER 2013                                                          23


                                     Attachment 6
               MASTER SCENARIO EVENTS LIST (MSEL) (EXAMPLE)

Table A6.1. MASTER SCENARIO EVENTS LIST (MSEL) (EXAMPLE).

                     Inject                                              EET Inject  Inject
Event # Obj # Date   Time     Event Description                          OPR   To   Method
                              Terrorist vehicle operator shoots gate                 Player
  1     5.a.   SUN   1230                                                 SF  Gate
                              guard and speeds onto the base.                       Action
                              The driver-terrorist yells out that he has
                              a “radiological” bomb located in the car
                                                                                     Player
  2     12.c. SUN    1233     with a dead-man detonator. He will          SF  SFS
                                                                                    Action
                              explode the device if Security
                              approaches.
                              Wing & Vice Commander cannot be                        Phone
  3     4.a/b SUN    1235                                                DOC DOC
                              reached.                                              Message
  4     5.b. SUN     1235     Building xxx damaged by blast.             CES DART Input Card
                              Receive Command Post OPREP-3
  5     1.d. SUN     1340                                                DOC DOC      Fax
                              Report
 24                                                      914AW10-201 7 NOVEMBER 2013


                                       Attachment 7
                   914 AW EXERCISE INPUT WORKSHEET (EXAMPLE)

Table A7.1. 914 AW EXERCISE INPUT WORKSHEET (EXAMPLE).

Exercise Title           Bull Moose 09-01                                       MSEL Input #       1

Type of Exercise         ARE     MARE       NDRE          Level of Exercise     FTX       BSX

Date/Time/Duration       5 Sep/0920L/2 min

Worksheet POC            MSgt John Doe/914 SF/SF              Contact Info      Phone 236-1234

Input Provider (Name)    SSgt Jane Doe                        Input Location    Inside main gate

Units/Offices Affected   SF, CEF and AFT

                         Unknown individual fires a rifle at several CE troops in the CE Compound
Input Description
                         and then drops package over the perimeter fence and runs away.


                         SSgt Doe will yell out anti-military cat-calls just before throwing the package
Input Message            over the fence.



Special Instructions     Gain special permission to fire an M-16 rifle with blank ammo.


                         M-16 with blanks and blank adapter.
Equip/Supplies Needed    Cardboard box with radiological markings on the sides. Place a training
                         radioactive source on the outside of the box for player monitoring.


                         Simulate the need for EOD, unless XX wishes to participate.
Approved Simulations
                         Simulate contacting outside agencies.


                         Determine the effectiveness of field-to-control center communications.
Evaluation Goals         Determine if proper offices/units are notified and activated.
                         Review if proper handling procedures are taken regarding package.
914AW10-201 7 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                25



                        Security Forces will evacuate CE and establish disaster cordon.
Expected                EM and BIO are notified and respond with proper equipment.
Results/Actions         Radiological detection and contamination control measures taken.
                        Proper authorities notified (State Radiological Officer)


Coordination Required   Between SF, EM and BIO Evaluators
 26                                                      914AW10-201 7 NOVEMBER 2013


                                        Attachment 8
                   914 AW EXERCISE DEVELOPMENT CHECKLIST

914 AW EXERCISE DEVELOPMENT CHECKLIST


_____ 1. Select and contact Exercise Evaluation Team members BOS or Military, who will be
required to participate in the  ________________Exercise.

_____ 2. Schedule and hold an Exercise Planning Meeting to discuss the Exercise Scope/Purpose
Statement and brainstorm measurable Exercise Objectives.

_____ 3. Review Base Operations Plans to determine exercise requirement. For example:

1.     Niagara Falls Air Reserve Base (NFARS) Installation Emergency Management Plan
       (CEMP)10-2
2.     NFARS Anti-Terrorism (AT) Plan AFI 10-245
3.     914 AW Installation Security Instruction, 914 AWI 31-101

_____ 4. Review Air Force Instructions to determine exercise requirements – AFI 10-2501,
Table 7.1
               MARE/Conventional Munitions                  Annually
               MARE/Off-Base Response                       Annually
               MARE/Mass Casualties                         Annually
               MARE/Search and Recovery                     Annually
               MARE/Air Show Response                       Prior scheduled Air show
               ARE/Terrorist Use of WMD (Bio)               Alternate Year
               ARE/Terrorist Use of WMD (CRNE) Alternate Year
               ARE/Ability to Survive and Operate           Annually
               NDRE/Earthquake                              Annually
               Deployment                                   Every 15 months
               Terrorist Use of CBRNE guidance              Two Annually
               Operational Readiness                        Annually
               Operational Readiness (Low)                  Must reflect the most stringent
                                                              CBRN threats in place or that an
                                                              expeditionary force could face.
               Operational Readiness (Med)                  Every six months; May include
                                                              one table top exercise annually.
               Operational Readiness (High)                 Quarterly; May include one
                                                              tabletop exercise annually.
_____ 5. Determine what Emergency Functions should participate.

1.     Alert and Notification
2.     Base Infrastructure
3.     Communications
914AW10-201 7 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                   27


4.     Command and Control
5.     Damage Assessment
6.     Emergency Response
7.     Evacuation and Sheltering
8.     Health and Safety
9.     Public Information
10.    Resource Management
11.    Self Aid and Buddy Care
12.    Ability to Survive and Operate

_____ 6. Determine an Exercise Level of Play

1.     Tabletop
2.     Functional
3.     Full-scale
4.     Limited participation

_____ 7. Determine a place and time for the Exercise:

_____ 8. Determine what units, tenants, and local agencies will be required or requested to
participate.

1.     Crisis Action Team
2.     Command Post
3.     Disaster Control Group
4.     Intelligence
5.     Operations Group
6.     Maintenance Group
7.     Safety Office
8.     Medical Group
9.     BioEnvironmental Engineering/Environmental Engineering
10.    Logistics Support
11.    Services
12.    Civil Engineers
13.    Personnel (Military, Civilians, and Contractors)
14.    Communications
15.    Security Forces
16.    County of Riverside
17.    City of Riverside – Fire Department
18.    Local Hospitals and Emergency Response agencies in Riverside and Moreno Valley
19.    MEPS, Army Guard, 107 AW, etc

_____ 9. Review requirements and make a recommendation to the Wing Commander for
approval.

_____ 10. Assign an Exercise Title.
 28                                                         914AW10-201 7 NOVEMBER 2013



_____ 11. Provide an Exercise Scope/Purpose Statement for the EET.

_____ 12. Schedule and hold a meeting to develop a List of Functions and Objectives.

_____ 13. Write an Exercise Scenario Narrative.

_____ 14. Schedule and hold an Exercise Planning Meeting to develop Major Exercise Events
and Detailed Exercise Events.

_____ 15. EET members will submit Exercise Input Worksheets detailing Exercise objectives to
the EET chief.

_____ 16. Create a first draft MSEL for the EET exercise inputs.

_____ 17. Brief the installation Commander on the progress and extent of the Exercise.

_____ 18. Create a draft Exercise Briefing that will be used to brief the player leadership.
_____ 19. Determine inject methods for each MSEL Event Item.

1.     Message Card
2.     Sounds (sirens, explosions, etc.)
3.     Actions by Actors (media, wounded, terrorists, etc.)
4.     Injury Moulage and Casualty Information Cards
5.     Telephone or Fax
6.     Radio
7.     E-Mail
8.     Video

_____ 20. Schedule and hold an Exercise Planning Meeting to review and coordinate the MSEL.

_____ 21. Each EET member will draft the Input Message for each MSEL Event Item and
submit the message to the EET chief.

_____ 22. Create a final MSEL.

_____ 23. Schedule and hold an Exercise Planning Meeting to review and coordinate exercise
logistics.

1.     Select and role-play actors; aggressors, media, casualties, etc.
2.     EET Communications Plan
3.     Badge assignments
4.     Vehicle assignments
5.     Audiovisual support
6.     Generator support
7.     Smoke generator or exercise munitions support
914AW10-201 7 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                    29


8.     Moulage materials and old clothing for casualties
9.     Administrative supplies
10.    Base Disaster Grid Maps
11.    Evaluation Checklists
12.    Exercise Weather issues

_____ 24. Schedule and give an Exercise Briefing to the Player Leadership.

1.     Exercise Scope/Purpose Statement
2.     EET Roles; Controllers, Evaluators and Actors
3.     Assumptions and Simulations
4.     Safety and Ground Rules
5.     Reacting to Inject messages
6.     Hot wash Time and Location

_____ 25. Notify the Control Tower prior to any exercise that will impact flying operations.

_____ 26. Notify the Fire Chief at least 30 minutes prior to any exercise initiation.

_____ 27. Complete a radio check with all EET members.

                          EXERCISE EVALUATION CHECKLIST


_____ 1. Evaluators complete an Evaluation report on each functional area and/or input using the
NFARS Unit-Specific Exercise Objectives worksheet (Attachment 11).

_____ 2. All EET members will attend a post-exercise evaluation meeting to discuss
observations.

_____ 3. Evaluators turn in written reports with assessments to the EET chief. Reports will
contain assigned OPRs and a rating.

_____ 4. EET chief will conduct a hotwash meeting for the player leadership.

_____ 5. All EET members will attend the hotwash in order to answer any player questions.

_____ 6. The EET chief will complete a Final Exercise After Action Report and submit to all
EET members and player leadership.

_____ 7. The EET chief will send an Exercise Deficiency note to all OPRs who will be required
to document corrective actions.

_____ 8. The EET chief will update the Trend Analysis report, and enter identified lessons
learned into JLLIS and MICT as a Deficiency Checklist if applicable and provide follow up.
 30                                                914AW10-201 7 NOVEMBER 2013


                                   Attachment 9
                INSTALLATION EET EVALUATION WORKSHEET

Installation EET Evaluation Worksheet

Exercise:____________________________                         Date:__________

EVENT #:                        GOAL/OBJECTIVE:
AREA:                           MSEL INJECT:

EET MEMBER Name/SQ/OFF SYM and PHONE #: _______________________________

FINDING/OBSERVATION: Describe problems as well as processes that worked well.




RECOMMENDATIONS: Suggest how the processes may be improved upon.




TRAINING COMPLETED: On the spot training to improve readiness.




SAFETY CONCERNS: Suggest Safety issues/remedies.
914AW10-201 7 NOVEMBER 2013   31




Suggested OPR:
 32                                                            914AW10-201 7 NOVEMBER 2013


                                            Attachment 10
              914 AW - EXERCISE EVALUATION TEAM (EET) *SAMPLE*

                    914 AW - Exercise Evaluation Team (EET)
Unit:                                        Event: Ability to Survive and Operate (ATSO) Exercise
Evaluator:                                   Date:
INSTRUCTIONS: As an EET member, I would appreciate your feedback regarding the ATSO Exercise.
Your comments will help to assist in determining the training required towards completing the mission
essential tasks (METs) for your unit. Please indicate your level of agreement with each of the statements
below:

1- Strongly Agree    2- Agree         3- No Opinion            4- Disagree             5- Strongly
Disagree
   1     The EET CBT prepared me for EET duties and responsibilities.
                1               2                  3                   4                       5

   2     Unit personnel completed review of new Airman’s pamphlet.
                 1                 2                 3                      4                  5

   3      We had enough EET members to support the ATSO Exercise.
                1               2                   3                       4                  5

   4      As an EET member, I receive support from my Commander, and unit members.
                 1                 2                 3                4                        5

   5     Completing EET CBT, followed by other training courses can improve evaluation skills.
               1                 2                   3                  4                   5

   6     As an EET member and subject matter expert, all METs were identified for evaluation.
                1                2                    3                 4                    5

   7     When METs were not successfully completed, unit members received on-the-spot training.
               1                 2                  3                  4                   5

   8      The ATSO exercise was well structured and organized.
                1                2                    3                     4                  5

   9      All unit personnel were able to perform task qualification training (TQT).
                  1                  2                   3                    4                5

  10      As an EET member, the ATSO exercise prepared my unit for future attack and response
         exercise.
                 1               2                  3                   4                  5
914AW10-201 7 NOVEMBER 2013                                                    33


                                 Attachment 11
                           EXERCISE OBJECTIVES

     Please return to Lt Col Mark B. Ables, 914 AW/CVZ, Bldg. 800, ext. 2405
