BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         914 AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 21-108
914 AIRLIFT WING
                                                                             28 JANUARY 2014

                                                                                   Maintenance

                                                          CONSOLIDATED TOOL CONTROL
                                                                           PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS INSTRUCTION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no restrictions for the release of this publication.

OPR: MXS/MXM                                                         Certified by: 914 MXG/CC
                                                                    (Major Catherine A. Correa)
Supersedes:   NIAGARAFALLSARSI21-                                                      Pages: 12
              108, 23 August 2011


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space
Maintenance. This instruction extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 21-101,
AFRC SUP, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management, and AFI 11-2C-130 V3, C-130
Operations Procedures. It provides guidance and procedures for maximum security and control
of all tools assigned to the aircraft maintenance and operations functions of the 914 th Airlift
Wing (AW). It applies to all Maintenance Group (MXG) and Operations Group personnel.
Refer any recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
the form directly to the 914 MXS/MXM, at Niagara Falls ARS, NY. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be reviewed in its entirety. It has been
renamed from a Niagara Falls Air Reserve Instruction to a 914 Airlift Wing Instruction.
Paragraph 4.3 has been rewritten and remaining paragraphs have been renumbered. Paragraph
8.1 has been rewritten to identify missing tools. Paragraph 19.4.3 has been rewritten.
1. Definition. Composite Tool Kit (CTK) - A controlled area or container used to store tools or
equipment and maintain order, positive control, and ease of inventory. CTKs are assembled as a
kit and designed to provide quick, easy visual inventory and accountability of all tools and
 2                                                           914AWI21-108 28 JANUARY 2014


equipment. CTKs may be in the form of a toolbox, a shadow board, shelves, system of drawers
(Stanley Vidmar, Lista, etc.), cabinets, or other similar areas or containers. The CTK contains
tools and equipment necessary to accomplish maintenance tasks, troubleshooting and repair.
2. Responsibilities. The MXG Commanders and Supervisors at all levels must ensure
personnel assigned to their sections conform to the procedures established in this instruction and
other applicable directives. The Squadron Superintendents and Flight Chiefs shall be responsible
for the management of the CTK program.
3. Procedures.
     3.1. All Maintenance sections will use TCMax to the maximum extent possible based on
     current automated data processing equipment (ADPE) and inherent program limitations.
     3.2. CTK/Tool identification numbering will comply with AFI 21-101, Chapter 10, and will
     incorporate the World Wide Identification (WWID) U5-for the 914th AW and H6-for the
     107th AW and the two digit unit/shop identifier as per Attachment 2. The fifth through the
     ninth characters are for individual shops’ numbering decisions.
     3.3. Individually dispatchable tools must have a unique number which identifies the specific
     tool.
4. Accountability and Control.
     4.1. CTK Custodians, shop supervisors or assigned personnel will conduct a shift inventory
     of CTKs at the beginning and end of each shift. This is to verify that all equipment is
     accounted for, and must be recorded either in TCMax or on Air Force Reserve Command
     (AFRC) Form 177, Consolidated Tool Kit Inventory and Control Log, if TCMax is
     inoperative. Individual tool boxes need not be opened for internal inventory unless they have
     been opened or used since last shift inventory; this includes “maxi” kits.
     4.2. Tools and tool kits are required to be “signed out” anytime they are opened, used, leave
     the shop or tool room. This sign out will be in TCMax. If TCMax is not available, an AFRC
     Form 177 will be used on an interim basis. As part of the “sign out” procedure, the
     individual signing for kit will inventory the kit or equipment. Shop supervisors or assigned
     personnel, will conduct a thorough inventory upon return prior to “signing in” kit or
     equipment. All Foreign Object Damage (FOD) will be removed before signing in a kit.
     4.3. Remotely located CTK such as Propulsion ISO stand kits, and CTK’s stored on aircraft,
     will utilize the AFRC Form 177 located within the CTK to document daily/shift inventories
     whenever the CTK is opened. The mechanic must annotate opening inventory on the AFRC
     Form 177. It is also the mechanic’s responsibility to ensure another individual accomplishes
     the “sign in” inventory on the AFRC Form 177 prior to locking the CTK and returning the
     key to the appropriate tool room.
     4.4. Aircraft technical order (TO) G-files will be added to the aircraft tool box CTK master
     inventory list (MIL).
     4.5. All sections will create a master MIL file binder to be kept in that sections tool storage
     area. This binder will contain the following: A copy of each MIL for every separate CTK
     authorized by the flight chief/section NCOIC’s (or equivalents) for that section, the AFRC
     177 or TCMax equivalent containing the required annual inventory documentation, the spare
914AWI21-108 28 JANUARY 2014                                                                      3


   tool inventory and a copy of the most current CTK operating instruction (OI). Note: A
   separate copy of the MIL must be in every dispatchable CTK.
   4.6. Annual tool inventories will be documented on an AFRC Form 177 or TCMax product
   equivalent, and stored in the Master CTK/MIL binder. The annual inventory must state
   “Annual Inventory C/W”, by whom and the date the inventory was accomplished.
   4.7. Laminated warning tags that are part of a CTK will be included on the MIL. Laminated
   warning tags that are not part of a CTK with be controlled at the discretion of the shop
   supervisor. Laminated warning tags that are part of the paperless ISO process will be
   controlled IAW 914th Maintenance Group Supplement 1 to technical order (TO) 00-20-1,
   Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Inspection, Documentation, Policies and Procedures.
5. Warranted Tool Management. Supervisors and/or CTK custodians will manage any
warranted tool issues via direct contact with tool servicing agent.
6. Expendable and Consumable Control.
   6.1. Consumables (safety wire, string, solder, etc.) will be replaced, properly marked and
   placed back to the CTK as soon as possible upon depletion.
   6.2. Hazardous Material (HAZMAT) assigned to a CTK will be marked as a consumable.
   HAZMAT materials issued and stored in lockers within maintenance facilities that are
   dispatched will be marked and issued in TCMax. Items issued by the Pharmacy (Supply) are
   bar-coded and tracked by the Pharmacy, these items will be returned to the Pharmacy as soon
   as practical after completion of task.
   6.3. Shops are authorized to maintain a stock of spare tools, which will be loaded in TCMax.
   Spare tools must be stored in a secure location, separate from CTK and inventoried quarterly.
   A copy of the completed quarterly inventory will be reviewed and signed by the Flight Chief
   or designee and this inventory is kept in the master MIL file binder.
7. Job Site Transfer. Incoming and outgoing personnel will conduct a tool inventory together.
These job site transfers will be documented by way of TCMax.
8. Item/Tools Removed from CTK (e. g., Missing/Broken/Lost/PMEL) Procedures.
   8.1. When a tool is removed for any reason, the vacant position will be identified.
   Dispatchable CTK’s will be identified by tape only with pertinent information on the tape
   and placed over the empty spot.
9. Lost Tools.
   9.1. Supervisors will ensure all assigned personnel are familiar with lost tool procedures in
   AFI 21-101, Paragraph 10.8, if an item/tool or a portion of a broken tool is discovered
   missing.
   9.2. If a tool or object is reported missing and the aircraft is preparing to taxi or has taxied,
   the following procedures apply:
       9.2.1. If the aircraft has not taxied, the Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) will
       notify the expediter, who will notify the aircrew at the aircraft.
 4                                                          914AWI21-108 28 JANUARY 2014


        9.2.2. If the aircraft has taxied, but not yet airborne, MOC will notify the Command Post
        (CP) and request the aircraft is held pending the results of the investigation for the lost
        tool or object.
        9.2.3. If a tool/item is discovered missing after the aircraft has taken off, the individual
        making the discovery will immediately notify their supervisor. The supervisor, in
        coordination with the production supervisor, will attempt to make a determination of the
        severity of the situation based on the last known location of the tool. The supervisor will
        immediately pass along all known information to MOC and MXG/QA. MOC will
        immediately pass all pertinent information to the CP and in-turn the Aircraft Commander
        (AC). If there is any potential for the item to cause safety of flight concerns, the MOC
        will relay the information to the CP and request that the aircraft land immediately if it is
        in the local area. If the aircraft is out of the immediate area the AC will make the
        determination where to land and what procedures to follow.
10. Issue and Control of PPE. Issued personal equipment such as ear defenders,
communication headsets, reflective belts, etc., will be marked with equipment identifier (EID)
and controlled through normal CTK procedures. PPE will not be long term issued at home
station unless personnel are deploying/temporary duty (TDY) or assigned to an Administrative
office within MXG that is not associated directly with a maintenance work center. These
administrative offices will have their PPE loaded into a work centers TCMAX within their
squadron and long term issued.
11. Rag Control.
     11.1. Rag control applies to organizations performing on/off equipment aircraft
     maintenance. Supervisors are responsible for ensuring rags are controlled.
     11.2. All rags will have positive control upon receipt from supply or the contract vendor.
     Primary drop off/distribution point account custodians will manage and document assets on a
     one for one basis using a Rag Control Account Record (Attachment 4). Rags and reusable
     absorbent system (RAS) pads will be stored and separated by clean and dirty lockable
     containers. Account custodians will ratify, sign for and forward all invoices to MSL for
     accountability. MSL will coordinate with Contracting for payment utilizing Wide Area
     Work Flow (WAWF) or approved payment method.
     11.3. Work center distribution points may be established to distribute rags and RAS pads for
     remote or standalone work centers. The section supervisor or designated representative will
     obtain or exchange rags and RAS pads from drop off/distribution points utilizing the rag
     control account record.
     11.4. Work centers will use the following procedures for rag and RAS pad control and
     accountability. Rags and RAS pads will be issued and controlled utilizing TCMax, IAW
     AFI 21-101, AFRC Sup, Chapter 10. Rags may be issued in prepackaged containers, or as
     part of an existing CTK, or individually issued. The number of rags in prepackaged
     containers will be determined by the work center supervisor. Each container will be marked
     with the number of rags and the world wide identification (WWID).
     11.5. Lost rags will be treated the same as a lost tool. Personnel will follow the procedures
     in Section 8 of this instruction.
914AWI21-108 28 JANUARY 2014                                                                      5


12. Local Manufacture of Tools.
   12.1. Shop Chiefs provide requests for tools to the unit’s Government Purchase Card (GPC)
   holder for procurement.
   12.2. Locally manufactured or developed tools and equipment will comply with local
   Maintenance Group Instruction (MXGI) 21-108, Local Manufacture, as per AFI 21-101,
   AFRC Sup 1, Paragraph 10.2.1.11.
13. Depot Team, Factory Representative and Contract Field Team (CFT). Depot teams,
factory representatives and CFTs (to include wash contractors), when assigned, will be able to
show full accountability of tools per the applicable portion of the contract or will comply with
this instruction.
14. CDDAR Equipment.
   14.1. Positive control is required in the form of inventories at the start and stop of a
   procedure or at a minimum, daily when in use. TCMax inventories along with AFRC 177’s
   will be kept with CDDAR equipment and used during event.
   14.2. Hand tools fall under CTK program guidelines and will be marked and loaded in
   TCMax.
   14.3. Operating stock/materials need a master listing or other type of positive control.
15. Single Person Shift/Shop. In a single person shift/shop, the CTK will be signed in by an
individual from another area (e.g., crew chief, expediter, another person from same shift).
16. Tool Accountability System (TCMax). CTK’s and equipment in tool rooms and shops
will be secured anytime not attended by authorized personnel.
17. Flight Engineering .
   17.1. Flight engineer tool kits have been issued to all engineers IAW AFI 11-2C-130V3,
   Paragraph 6.2.10. They contain all the tools required to perform the emergency actions in
   Section 3 of the flight manual and hostile environment repair procedures (when combined
   with the contents of the Hostile Environment Repair Tool Kit).
   17.2. The kits and contents are numbered for accountability and will contain a unique seal
   number created by the operations squadron. A control log is maintained by the Chief Flight
   Engineer. Engineers will inventory the tool kit anytime it is opened/used. The kits will also
   be inspected by the flight engineer during pre-flight and the seal number will be verified.
   The seal number will be annotated on the AFTO Form 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and
   Work Document, note page.
18. Loadmaster .
   18.1. All loadmaster personnel are responsible for compliance with this section.
   18.2. Drop kits used for rigging of actual airdrop loads are located in Aerial Port. The kits
   and contents are numbered for accountability. They will be signed out to the Loadmaster
   prior to missions requiring their use (air drop). Drop kits will be inventoried prior to aircraft
   pre-flight, and re-inventoried prior to engine start. Any tool missing during initial inventory
   will be annotated and reported missing. Any tools missing after initial inventory and prior to
   engine start will be identified and reported to Operations Supervisor prior to engine start.
 6                                                            914AWI21-108 28 JANUARY 2014


19. Aircrew Flight Equipment .
     19.1. All Aircrew Flight Equipment personnel are responsible for compliance with this
     section.
     19.2. Procedures: In order to accomplish mission requirements and the prevention of foreign
     object damage (FOD), it is essential that a tool control program be established within the
     Aircrew Flight Equipment Section. Tools assigned to each section within the branch will be
     closely monitored by the section supervisor to prevent pilferage and FOD. The overall
     section tool program will be closely monitored by the CTK monitor and NCOIC.
     19.3. All toolboxes will be shadow boxed to provide a specific place for each tool. All tools
     will be engraved to identify the section to which it belongs. To maintain standardization
     within the section, the following identification numbers will be engraved on the outside top
     or front of each tool:
        19.3.1. ALS-1: To identify the Helmet/Mask Section Tool Box.
        19.3.2. ALS-2: To identify the Survival Kit Section Tool Box.
        19.3.3. ALS-3: To identify the Mobility Section Tool Cabinet.
        19.3.4. ALS-4: To identify the Flight-Line Section Tool Kit.
     19.4. The Section CTKs will be used for that area for shop equipment maintenance only.
     Each tool will be etched and stored in designated tool bin.
        19.4.1. Tools will be inventoried at the beginning and end of each shift.         A CTK
        Inventory and Control Log will be located in the CTK.
        19.4.2. Each individual is responsible for control over tools used within their section.
        All tools will be placed in the CTK when not in use. Tools will not be taken out of their
        section.
        19.4.3. Aircrew flight equipment personnel dispatched to the flight line will provide their
        units Flight Line CTK to correct any aircraft discrepancies.
     19.5. If tools are lost, stolen or damaged, notify your CTK monitor and NCOIC.
        19.5.1. Tools that are discovered missing after an aircraft has taxied; the following
        procedures will be used:
        19.5.2. The individual discovering the lost/missing tool will contact MOC. MOC will
        then notify the Command Post. The Command Post will immediately notify the
        Supervisor of Flying and unit operation. If aircraft is airborne, the Supervisor of Flying
        will take control of all actions.
     19.6. Consumables will be controlled in zip lock bags.




                                             WALTER O. GORDON , Colonel, USAFR
                                             Commander
914AWI21-108 28 JANUARY 2014                                                          7


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 11-2C-130V3, C-130 Operations Procedures, 23 April 2012
AFI 21-101/AFRC Sup, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management, 13 January 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 February 2003
MXGI 21-108, Local Manufacture, 31 October 2013
TO 00-20-1, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Inspection, Documentation, Policies and
Procedures, 15 June 2013
Adopted Forms
AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AFRC 177, Consolidated Tool Kit Inventory and Control Log
AFTO Form 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AC—Aircraft Commander
ADPE—Automated Data processing Equipment
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AW—Airlift Wing
AWI—Airlift Wing Instruction
CFT—Contract Field Team
CTK—-Composite Tool Kit
CP—Command Post
EID—Equipment Identifier
FOD—Foreign Object Damage
GSA—General Services Administration
GPC—Government Purchase Card
MSL—Maintenance Supply Liaison
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
 8                                                          914AWI21-108 28 JANUARY 2014


OI—Operating Instruction
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PMEL—Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratories
RAS—Reusable Absorbent System
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TCMax—AFRC Tool Accountability System
TO—Technical Order
WAWF—Wide Area Work Flow
WWID—World Wide Identification

Terms
Adopted Form—A form used (required) in a publication other than the prescribing publication.
Approval Authority—Senior leader responsible for contributing to and implementing policies
and guidance/procedures pertaining to his/her functional area(s) (e.g., heads of functional two-
letter offices).
Authentication—Required element to verify approval of the publication; the approval official
applies his/her signature block to authenticate the publication. The signature block includes the
official’s name, rank, and title (not signature).
Certifying Official—A minimum of one organizational level above the OPR, this individual
certifies the need for the publication, to include currency of information, applicability to the Air
Force, and propriety of content.
Directive Publication—Publication that is necessary to meet the requirements of law, safety,
security, or other areas where common direction and standardization benefit the Air Force. Air
Force personnel must comply with these publications. All publications in this category carry the
following statement:
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)—The originating office for a publication; the author
of the publication is an individual within the OPR. OPRs are solely responsible for the accuracy,
currency, and integrity of their publications and forms.
Publication—An officially produced, published, and distributed document issued for
compliance, implementation, and or information. Includes Policy and Guidance Memorandums.
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)—The official schedule that authorizes/governs the
disposition of Air Force records, which contains National Archives and Records Administration
(NARA) approval authority.
Records Maintenance and Use—Any activity involving the location, storage, retrieval, or
handling of records kept at office file locations by or for the Air Force.
Records Professional—An individual trained and proficient in performing record management
responsibilities. This category includes personnel designated as Records Custodian (RC),
Functional Area Record Manager (FARM), Chief of Office of Record (COR), Base Record
Manager (BRM), and MAJCOM Record Manager.
914AWI21-108 28 JANUARY 2014                                                            9


Repository—The AFDPO repository is the central server on which the aggregation of e-
Publishing product files are filed and maintained. The files are maintained in a directory
structure that is arranged by publishing organization.
Revised Publication—A publication that supersedes or changes a previous edition, related
publications, or portions of related publications in a given category.
 10                                                                    914AWI21-108 28 JANUARY 2014


                                               Attachment 2
                                       914TH WWID LISTING

Figure A2.1. 914th WWID listing.
                                               914TH Airlift Wing
                       DIGIT   DIGIT   DIGIT   DIGIT   DIGIT   DIGIT   DIGIT   DIGIT   DIGIT
      3rd Digit          1       2       3       4       5       6       7       8       9
 M = (MXS/MXM Shops)
   O = (AMXS Shops)                    Sqd
                          Unit                  Shop
                                       Shop
                                                Code
                                                        Individual Shop Numbering Decision
                        Identifier     Code


Comm/Nav                U       5       M       C
GICO                    U       5       M       G
Electronic Warfare      U       5       M       W
Munitions               U       5       M       U
AGE                     U       5       M       R
Propulsion              U       5       M       P
Metals                  U       5       M       M
Structural              U       5       M       T
NDI                     U       5       M       N
ISO/Refurb              U       5       M       S
Aero Repair             U       5       M       A
Hydraulics              U       5       M       H
Fuels                   U       5       M       F
Electro
                        U       5       M        E
Environmental
Sortie Support Equip    U       5       M        Q
Quality Assurance       U       5       M        Y
CTK Tool Crib           U       5       M        K
Flightline              U       5       O        1
914AWI21-108 28 JANUARY 2014                                                                   11


                                               Attachment 3
                                       107TH WWID LISTING

Figure A3.1. 107th WWID listing.
                                               107TH Airlift Wing
                       DIGIT   DIGIT   DIGIT   DIGIT   DIGIT   DIGIT   DIGIT   DIGIT   DIGIT
      3rd Digit          1       2       3       4       5       6       7       8       9
 M = (MXS/MXM Shops)
   O = (AMXS Shops)                    Sqd
                          Unit                  Shop
                                       Shop
                                                Code
                                                        Individual Shop Numbering Decision
                        Identifier     Code


Comm/Nav                H       6       M       C
GICO                    H       6       M       G
Electronic Warfare      H       6       M       W
Munitions               H       6       M       U
AGE                     H       6       M       R
Propulsion              H       6       M       P
Metals                  H       6       M       M
Structural              H       6       M       T
NDI                     H       6       M       N
ISO/Refurb              H       6       M       S
Aero Repair             H       6       M       A
Hydraulics              H       6       M       H
Fuels                   H       6       M       F
Electro
                        H       6       M        E
Environmental
Sortie Support Equip    H       6       M        Q
Quality Assurance       H       6       M        Y
CTK Tool Crib           H       6       M        K
Flightline              H       6       O        1
                                                                                                                                                             12




                           RAG CONTROL ACCOUNT RECORD


Employee   Date   Rags     Dirty rags   Clean rags balance   RAS pads rec’d   Dirty RAS        Clean RAS pad
Number            Issued   turned in                                          pads turned in   balance
                                        Initial Qty:______                                     Initial Qty_____
                                                                                                                  Figure A3.2. RAG CONTROL ACCOUNT RECORD.
                                                                                                                                                             914AWI21-108 28 JANUARY 2014
