BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         914 AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 91-202
914 AIRLIFT WING
                                                                                 8 JUNE 2011
                                                      Incorporating Change 1, 6 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                          Safety

                                                GROUND ACCIDENT/INJURY REPORTING


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 914AW/SEG                                                          Certified by: 914AW/SE
                                                                      (LTC George B. Hoffman)
                                                                                         Pages: 6
Supersedes:   914AWI91-202,
              20 February 2009


This instruction implements AFPD 91-2, Safety Program. It establishes procedures and
responsibilities for reporting ground accident/injuries and serious illnesses that occur on base.
Also, it is designed to assure a timely response by medically trained personnel and safety
personnel. Provides guidance concerning seriously ill personnel and defines major mishaps. It
applies to the 914 Airlift Wing (AW), Base Operating Services (BOS) Contractor, and all
tenants. Directives of the 107 AW take precedence for New York Air National Guard (NYANG)
personnel, where a conflict between directives exists. Refer recommend changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, and dispose of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change adds the NOTE: Use Supervisor’s Mishap Report Worksheet 914 AW Form
6 for mishap reporting to para 3.2 and replaces Attachment 1. A margin bar (|) indicates
newly revised material.
1. Ground Accidents:
 2                                                                   914AWI91-202 8 JUNE 2011


     1.1. All Personnel. Report all on-base mishaps to your immediate supervisor as soon as
     possible. In addition, comply with AFI 31-204, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision,
     if a government vehicle is involved in an accident. Do not disturb the scene of an accident
     until an investigation has been completed, unless a hazard to personnel exists or further
     destruction of property is probable.
     1.2. Supervisors. Notify base safety personnel, preserve evidence, identify witnesses, and
     prepare to assist Ground Safety in mishap investigation.
     1.3. All Personnel. When a person is injured or incapacitated due to illness, dial 911 on base
     phones or (716) 236-2117 on cell phones for the base fire department.
2. Personnel Injuries or Serious Illness:
     2.1. Provide fire department alarm communications center operator with the following
     information:
        2.1.1. Your name and telephone extension.
        2.1.2. A brief description of the problem.
        2.1.3. Location where first aid is needed.
        2.1.4. Number of persons requiring first-aid assistance.
        2.1.5. Implement Self-Aid and Buddy Care.
     2.2. Fire Emergency Services. The dispatched Fire Department Rescue Crew is required to:
        2.2.1. Evaluate condition of the patient.
        2.2.2. Provide patient with pre-hospital care at the scene, if necessary.
        2.2.3. Prepare patient for transport to a medical facility, if necessary.
        2.2.4. Request a commercial ambulance be dispatched, and complete a New York State
        Pre-hospital Care Report.
        2.2.5. The highest-level New York State Certified medical person at the scene of the
        injury or illness is considered to be the “competent medical authority” for purposes of
        this instruction, and is responsible for decisions involving patient pre hospital care. The
        Fire Emergency Services Incident Commander is in charge of the scene.
        2.2.6. If the competent medical authority at the scene determines that transportation by
        ambulance to a local hospital is necessary, the fire department dispatcher will be notified
        and an off-base ambulance will be summoned.
        2.2.7. If the competent medical authority determines an ambulance is not required for
        movement to the hospital; the patient’s supervisor should arrange an alternate suitable
        mode of transportation.
     2.3. Supervisors:
        2.3.1. Ensure that prudent first-aid measures are administered and assistance is
        summoned, if required. Provide copy of Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) for
        hazardous materials if applicable.
914AWI91-202 8 JUNE 2011                                                                         3


       2.3.2. Arrange for the employees transportation (during duty hours) to and from a local
       hospital, when fire department personnel determine an ambulance is not required or when
       a patient refues to be transported.
       2.3.3. Ensure employee’s who are in military status and receive medical assistance from
       a local hospital for an occupational illness or injury and report to the base clinic as soon
       as possible.
          2.3.3.1. Process the following forms as soon as possible following an injury:
          2.3.3.2. CA-1, Federal Employees Notice of Traumatic Injury and Claim for
          Continuation of Pay/Compensation or CA2, Occupational Disease. CA-1’s Notice
          of Traumatic Injury or CA-2 Occupational Disease are found on the CPMS home
          page (Department of Defense Civilian Personnel Manager Services); ICUC (Injury
          and Unemployment Compensation Division) web page; supervisors file claims
          electronically under (supervisors link)
https://www.cpms.osd.mil/icuc/icuc index.aspx.

          2.3.3.3. CA-16, Authorization for Examination and/or Treatment.
          2.3.3.4. CA-17, Duty Status Report.
       2.3.4. Personally brief the appropriate group (or wing) commander on the following
       items, as soon as possible, following a reportable personal injury.
          2.3.4.1. When, where accident occurred and extent of the injury.
          2.3.4.2. All extenuating circumstance.
          2.3.4.3. Apparent cause of the accident.
          2.3.4.4. What safety practices, if any, were violated?
          2.3.4.5. Recommendations to prevent a recurrence.
       2.3.5. Direct the injured employee to comply with paragraph 2.3.4, when able. This is in
       addition to the supervisor’s report.
       2.3.6. Retain notes related to briefing given to your group or wing commander,
       paragraph 2.3.5, for use by 914th AW Safety Office in preparing up-channel reports.
   2.4. Vehicle Operations Section (during duty hours):
       2.4.1. Provide U-drive vehicle to transport patient to and from the hospital, when
       requested by patient’s supervisor.
   2.5. Injured or Ill Employee. Following treatment at the hospital, apply these guidelines in
   arranging transportation to the base or your home, as appropriate.
       2.5.1. During duty hours or a workday, if you wish to return to the base, or proceed
       directly home, call your supervisor to assist you in arranging for transportation.
       2.5.2. If suitable transportation cannot be obtained through a supervisor, family, or
       friends within a reasonable period, it is suggested that you use a commercial cab service.
       Submitting for privately owned vehicle mileage reimbursement, when applicable, is
       authorized. To document cab use, obtain a receipt from the driver and file Form OWCP-
 4                                                                  914AWI91-202 8 JUNE 2011


        957, Medical Travel Refund Request, when you return to duty. This claim should be
        routed to the wing injury compensation program administrator (ICPA) in civilian
        personnel office.
        2.5.3. Advise employees to obtain treatment for all injuries regardless of severity. After
        normal duty hours, workers participating in base-sanctioned sports activities, sponsored
        by 914 Recreation Services will be offered treatment by 914 Fire Department (CEF)
        medical technicians. The physical condition of a worker may result in medical
        technicians recommending further medical treatment and transportation by commercial
        ambulance.
3. Reporting Procedures:
     3.1. Class A and B mishaps, as defined in paragraph 4, will be reported by the Base Fire
     Department:
        3.1.1. During duty hours, to the Ground Safety Manager or the Chief of Safety.
        3.1.2. After duty hours, to one of the following in the order listed:
            3.1.2.1. Ground Safety Manager.
            3.1.2.2. Chief of Safety.
            3.1.2.3. Group Commanders.
            3.1.2.4. Wing Commander.
     3.2. Other mishaps will be reported to base safety personnel as soon as practical, but not
     later than the next regular workday. If hazardous or toxic materials are involved, notify the
     Environmental Engineering Section. (NOTE: Use Supervisor’s Mishap Report Worksheet
     914 AW Form 6 for mishap reporting.)
4. Classification of Major Mishaps. Both class A and B mishaps require that higher
headquarters be notified within 8 hours of the accident. It is, therefore, imperative that
responsible reporting officials are notified without delay.
     4.1. Class A. A mishap resulting in any of the following:
        4.1.1. Total costs of injury, occupational illness and property damage of $2,000,000, or
        more.
        4.1.2. A fatality.
        4.1.3. Destruction of, or damage beyond economical repair to, an Air Force aircraft.
     4.2. Class B. A mishap in which resulting total costs of injury and/or property damage of
     $500,000 or more, but less than $2,000,000.




                                              ALLAN L. SWARTZMILLER, Colonel, USAFR
                                              Commander
914AWI91-202 8 JUNE 2011                                                                      5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 91-2, Safety Program, 28 September 1993
AFI 31-204, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, 14 July 2000
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
914AW6, Supervisors Mishap Report

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AW—Airlift Wing
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
BOS—Base Operating Services
CPMS—Civilian Personnel Manager Services
EDI/ICUC—Electronic Data Interchange/Injury and Unemployment Compensation Division
e-Publishing—the e-Publishing website (www.e-publishing.af.mil)
ICPA—Injury Compensation Program Administrator
MSDS—Material Safety Data Sheet
NYANG—New York Air National Guard
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OWCP—Office of Workers Compensation Program
POV—-Privately Owned Vehicle
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule

Terms
Accident—An unplanned occurrence, or series of occurrences, that results in damage or injury
and meets Class A, B, C, or D mishap reporting criteria in accordance with DoDD 6055.07 and
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, Chapter 1. Damage or injury includes: damage to
DoD property; occupational illness to DoD military or civilian personnel; injury to DoD military
personnel on- or off-duty; injury to on-duty DoD civilian personnel; damage to public or private
property, or injury or illness to non-DoD personnel caused by Air Force operations. Unless
otherwise indicated, the term ―accident‖ is used interchangeably with the term ―mishap
throughout this Instruction.
 6                                                                 914AWI91-202 8 JUNE 2011


Cause—A cause is an act, omission, condition, or circumstance that either starts or sustains an
accident sequence. It may be an element of human or mechanical performance. A given act,
omission, condition, or circumstance is a "cause" if correcting, eliminating, or avoiding it would
have prevented the mishap.
Competent—adept; capable; suitably skilled; well qualified.
Facility—A real property entity used and maintained by a DoD component (specifically, the Air
Force in the context of this AFI) consisting of one or more of the following: a building, a
structure, a utility system, pavement, and underlying land.
Fatal Injury—Injuries resulting in death, either in the mishap or at a later time, to include within
30 days subsequent to the medical discharge, retirement, or separation from the service, due to
complications arising from mishap injuries.
Ground Accident—An accident that occurs on land or a body of water and involves one of the
following categories of DoD accidents: aircraft ground operations where there is no intent for
flight, explosives and chemical agent accidents, directed energy accidents, afloat accidents,
motor vehicle accidents, ground and industrial accidents, and nuclear accidents
Injury—A traumatic wound or other condition of the body caused by external force or
deprivation (e.g., fractures, lacerations, sprains, dislocations, concussions, compressions,
drowning, suffocation, exposure, cold injury, and dehydration), including stress or strain, which
results from an unplanned event. An injury is identifiable as to time and place of occurrence, as
well as by part or function of the body affected. In addition, an injury is caused by a specific
incident or series of events or incidents in a single day or work shift.
