BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              914TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
914TH AIRLIFT WING                                                              32-9001

                                                                                  16 JUNE 2004
                                                          Incorporating Change 1, 31 JULY 2012
                                                                Certified Current, 31 JULY 2012
                                                                              Civil Engineering

                                                                       BUILDING MANAGERS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at: www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 914 AW/CER (Ms. Crystal Records)                                   Certified by: 914 AW/CE
                                                                            (Mr. Dermott Smyth)
                                                                                          Pages: 4
Supersedes:    914AWI 32-9001, 5 May 2001


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-90, Real Property
Management. It establishes the requirement, responsibilities and procedures for Real Property
Building Managers. It includes instructions for their assignment or relief there from, periodic
orientation, energy conservation, and fire protection. It applies to all 914 AW Real Property
Building Managers, Base Operating Services (BOS) Contractor and all tenants.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change updates the Utility, Energy Conservation procedures for the installation. A
margin bar (/) indicates newly revised material.
1. Your role as a Building Manager or Alternate. To maintain a record and monitor the
assignment of custodial responsibility vested in an individual who is responsible for real property
and real property equipment use, storage, custody or safeguarding and to ensure proper
utilization of unit facilities and buildings. Although the real property officer is responsible for
administering the building manager program, the base commander establishes the responsibilities
and procedures, including instructions for assignment of and relief there from, periodic
orientation, energy conservation and other items as deemed appropriate.
2. Appointment. The organizational commander, the occupants, and users are responsible for
the care, custody and protection of assigned real property. The organizational commander
assigns a building manager for all buildings under his or her control. The commander advises the
real property officer of the designation of a primary and alternate building manager for each
building assigned to the organization by providing the name, home phone, office symbol, facility
number, duty phone and manager’s signature. See the building manager’s guidebook for sample
 2                                                                914AWI32-9001 16 JUNE 2004


letter. In multipurpose buildings, the major user must assign a building manager. The sharing
user may be required to provide the alternate building manager. The building managers are the
organizational commander’s representative and should have the authority and ability to perform
their responsibilities. The building manager is the official contact whenever the building requires
civil engineering work, including key requests. In cooperation with all occupants and users of the
building, every effort will be exerted to safeguard the property from damage or loss.
     2.1. All appointment changes of primary and alternate building managers must be sent to the
     real property officer, Civil Engineering Resources (CER) ten (10) days prior to the effective
     change date.
     2.2. CER will prepare a building manager list from the data received from the organizational
     commander. Distribution of the list will be made to security police, fire department, and the
     service call desk, Base Operating Service (BOS). It may be made available to others who
     have a valid requirement. Only the lists given to security police and the fire department will
     contain privacy act information (home telephone numbers).
     2.3. Periodically, a listing of building mangers, grouped by using organization, will be
     submitted to the organization commander to confirm its correctness and/or take action to
     update it.
3. Facility Maintenance, Repair, Minor Construction and Self Help. With the exception of
emergencies, only the building manager (primary or alternate) can place a call to the BOS
service desk.
     3.1. Service calls are defined as the routine, urgent and emergency type repair and
     maintenance work required to keep the facility, exterior utility systems and installed
     equipment in such a condition that it may be utilized at its original design capacity and
     efficiency. Service includes maintenance, repair and replacement of parts and equipment.
        3.1.1. Emergency calls consist of correcting failures or deficiencies that constitute an
        immediate danger, health hazard to occupants, threatens to damage property, or directed
        by the Base Civil Engineer (BCE). The contractor shall respond within 10 minutes and
        initiate corrective action within 30 minutes of being notified of the emergency. The
        contractor shall notify the BCE as soon as possible of all emergency calls.
        3.1.2. Urgent calls consist of correcting failures or deficiencies which do not
        immediately endanger the occupants or threaten damage to property but would soon
        inconvenience and effect the health and well being of the occupants, or as directed by the
        BCE. Contractor shall respond within 24 hours and complete all work within five
        working days after receiving the calls.
        3.1.3. Routine calls are calls of less importance that do not meet the criteria of an
        emergency or urgent call. The contractor shall complete all routine service calls within 30
        calendar days after receiving the calls, after approval from 914 SPTG/CER.
     3.2. Submit AF IMT 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request to the BOS Contractor for
     all routine, new construction work, and self-help work. Attach any sketches or drawings to
     the AF IMT 332. This includes an entire new building, modifying, adding to, or otherwise
     altering the existing facility. Keep in mind if doing a self-help project to maintain a detailed
     list of materials, and coordinate it with the BOS Contractor. An AF IMT 332 needs to be
914AWI32-9001 16 JUNE 2004                                                                      3


   submitted for actions as simple as hanging pictures on walls. This is necessary to ensure
   compliance with asbestos and lead based paint regulations.
       3.2.1. Review AF IMT 332, Work Request, initiated by users of building, and submit
       with appropriate recommendations to the organizational commander. Approve or
       disapprove AF IMT 332 prior to submitting to the BOS Contractor. The building
       manager’s (primary or alternate) signature must be on the AF IMT 332.
       3.2.2. Maintain a building managers log of all work requested. These records provide
       information to follow up and determine the status of your work request as well as show
       trends in maintenance and repair requirements that may identify potential problem areas
       so CE can correct them before they become a major problem.
   3.3. Ensure occupants do not tamper, replace, repair or remove any related fixture or
   installed equipment.
       3.3.1. Conduct periodic inspections of the assigned building and its installed equipment
       to determine the condition of the property. Notify the BCE of needed maintenance and
       repair. Recommend a monthly inspection of the items listed in the building managers
       guidebook.
4. Security. Establish and post procedures for ensuring your facility is secure from illegal entry
at all times, this includes normal and after duty hours.
5. Keys. CE personnel are responsible for the initial issuance and control of the keys to building
managers. You must sign for and be responsible for the security of all keys that service your
facility. Changes in building mangers will require a full audit and accounting of all keys,
signature cards, and turn over of the custodial responsibility. Record all action involving key
control on a key control register.
   5.1. As directed by your organizational commander, submit all key requests in writing to the
   key control officer, Civil Engineering Resources (CER), Ext. 3108, using the sample letter
   found in the building managers guide book. Your request should identify the facility, room,
   key core number, quantity, justification and the name of the individual the key is to be issued
   or reissued to. Only the building manager is authorized to request keys for their facilities.
   5.2. Repossess all keys from personnel who are reassigned out of your organization.
   Redistribute these keys or turn them in to the key control officer. Keys issued to personnel
   going on extended leave or TDY for over 30 days should be held for safekeeping.
6. Fire Protection. The building manger is responsible for the fire safe condition of assigned
facility. He or she will accompany the fire inspector during scheduled inspections and follow-up
on all discrepancies that are noted during the fire and safety inspections to ensure corrective
action has been accomplished. The building manager is also responsible for compliance and
implementation of AFI 32-2001, Fire Protection and Fire Prevention Program.
7. Utilities, Energy Conservation. Responsibilities for energy management and conservation
are outlined in the Base Energy Management Plan, dated June 2012, located on the O:
drive/Facility Manager’s Guide, File 5 Handbooks. Efficient use of energy includes shutting off
lights after use, keeping windows and doors closed during the air conditioning and heating
season, shutting machines and equipment off after use, etc. The building manager should make
 4                                                              914AWI32-9001 16 JUNE 2004


the energy plan readily available to building occupants, and maintain a copy in their program
binder.
8. Recycling. Ensure that all occupants are complying with the Base Recycling Program.
Ensure blue bins are at designated location for weekly pick up.
9. Facility Utilization. All proposed changes in the use of building space must be initiated by
the organizational commander, coordinated through real property and approved by the Base
Facilities Board before the actual change takes place. The real property officer needs to be
notified prior to any moves or “swaps” of space between units so it may be presented to the
Facilities Board for approval. Facility utilization information is required to be maintained by the
real property officer.
     9.1. Participate in facility surveys and furnish justification to support alteration and
     modification projects resulting from changed missions.
     9.2. It is recommended that you attend pre-construction conferences pertaining to buildings
     under construction for your functional area. You will be notified by the CE project manager
     when and where meeting are scheduled to take place.
10. Building Manager Training. All building managers (primary and alternate) are required to
attend periodic building manager orientation when called by the real property officer.
11. Damages to Facility or Equipment. Assist in determining liability and preparation of
statement of charges or report of survey for any damages to the building and its installed
equipment by the occupants, users or others.
12. Appliances. Oversee the connection of non-government owned appliances within the
facility and ensure that a copy of the letter granting authorization to connect such appliances and
indicating ownership are on hand.
13. Termination. Ensure that the facility is left in an orderly and clean condition when vacated
by your organization. The building manager’s responsibilities will be formally terminated when
the property is completely vacated by the using organization and written notification given from
the organizational commander to the real property officer.
14. Room Numbering within Base Facilities. Room numbers are an integral part of our Base
Plans, maps and drawings, and computerized civil engineering software, as well as, being of
utmost importance for the Base Fire Station, and our Security Forces.
     14.1. Prepare an AF IMT 332, Work Order Request, with significant justification why the
     room numbers need to be changed. Please include any sketches, plans, diagrams,
     photographs, and any other information for the renumbering plan.
     14.2. In addition to the Building Manager or Alternate signing the AF IMT 332, it will also
     be required that you obtain your organizational commander’s signature.




                                             ALLAN L. SWARTZMILLER, Col, 914 AW/CC
                                             Commander
