BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        914 AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 10-2501
914 AIRLIFT WING
                                                                               20 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                      Operations

                                               M50 MASK ISSUE, TURN-IN AND STORAGE



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. (Use this one for
               public release)

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 914 MSG/CEX                                                           Certified by: MSG/CC
                                                                            (Col Alan Teauseau)
                                                                                          Pages: 4


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-25, Emergency Management
and AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations.
It establishes the procedures for issue, turn-in and maintenance of the M50 Joint Service General
Purpose Mask (JSGPM) for members assigned to the 914th Airlift Wing (914 AW). It applies to
all 914 AW personnel. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/

1. Responsibilities: Unit commanders have the overall responsibility to ensure that personnel
within their organization who are issued the M50 mask follow technical manual inspection and
maintenance procedures to include local logistic procedures contained in this AW instruction.
The Unit Emergency Management Representative is the point of contact for this action. Prior to
turn-in to the Individual Protective Equipment Element (IPEE) the Unit Emergency Management
Representative along with the unit member will jointly complete inventory of the mask, checking
parts and accessories using a checklist provided. Any lost or missing items will be charged to the
unit assigned and funds transferred to Base Supply. The 914th Emergency Management Office
will provide any training, technical assistance required for inspection and replacement of mask
parts, an area for cleaning and sanitization of the mask in the CAC Maintenance Building. The
 2                                                          914AWI10-2501 20 AUGUST 2014


Individual Protective Equipment Element (IPEE) will store, issue and complete mask leak test as
required.
2. Authorization: Unit mask authorizations will be assigned once annually NLT than 1 January
as directed in AFMAN 23-110, Vol. 2, Part2, Chap 26. The numbers provided will not change
throughout the year and no unit will be allowed to exceed their authorization. Units will
subsequently provide the IPEE changes to the names to be linked to the UTCs which will be
authorized a mask within 30 days. The names provided will not change throughout the year.
Additional Masks will be available from the 10% authorized stock of masks in the event of
personnel UTC changes or for other reasons.
3. Assignment: If a mask is not already assigned, newly authorized individuals must complete
a sizing sheet for a M50 mask and submit it to the 914th CEX. Once completed, the unit EM
Representative or ART submits an email to the IPEE requesting to have a mask assigned to that
individual. The individual will be temporarily issued the size mask requested. The Unit EM
Representative or Unit training monitor then schedules that individual for M50 mask training
with 914th MSG/CEX if required. Personnel that have recently completed Air Force Basic
Training have received M50 training and this is not required. Upon completion of M50 mask
training contact 914th Bio-Environmental Engineering to complete a mask fit test, 914th Bio-
Environmental Engineering will determine final correct size mask or adjustment to a different
size and coordinate with Base Supply and CEX to ensure process is completed and correct. Once
completed, the mask will be turned in to the IPEE for storage (sanitization not required).
Although not issued from the Mobile Inventory Control Accountability System (MICAS), the
IPEE will store masks assigned to individuals separately from the 10% authorized stock. Masks
which are assigned will not be issued to any other individual.
4. Storage: 100% of the 914th AW M50 masks will be stored at the IPEE. Masks which are
assigned will be stored by unit but not issued to the individual through MICAS. Assigned masks
will be properly stored and easily accessible by both IPEE personnel and Unit personnel. The
10% stock will be stored separately by size.
5. Maintenance and Inspection: The IPEE is responsible for leak testing all stored masks
when required. It is the individual’s responsibility to ensure their mask is inspected, cleaned and
sanitized at required intervals IAW Technical Order, T.O. 14P4-20-1. If the individual is not
available, the assigned unit’s responsibility to inspect, clean and sanitize the mask. NOTE;
Cleaning and Sanitization should not be confused with each other, they are different processes.
Refer to T.O. 14P4-20-1 for details.
6. Issue Process: The unit EM Representative or ART must provide an email request to the
IPEE when there is a requirement for a mask. The email request should include each the
individual(s) name, assigned mask serial number (if assigned), or size (if not assigned a mask),
date required, date to be returned and reason. Individuals without an assigned mask will be
issued a mask from the 10% stock. Issues will be processed through MICAS which will produce
a hand receipt to be signed by each individual. The signed copy of the hand receipt will be
retained by the IPEE and a copy will be given to the individual.
7. Turn-In Process: Masks are to be returned to the IPEE immediately upon completion of the
intended task. Masks which are assigned will not require sanitization but must be cleaned and
inventoried to include all the following items:
914AWI10-2501 20 AUGUST 2014                                                                   3


Table 1. Mask Turn-In Process Items.
Mask
M61 Filter Set
Mask Carrier
Individual Equipment Carrier
Clear Outsert Assy
Waterproof Bag
M50 Canteen Cap
Operator Card
Face form
8. Missing or Unserviceable Items. Missing or unserviceable items must be identified to IPEE
personnel prior to turn-in so items can be replaced (at the unit’s cost). Masks which are not
assigned must be cleaned, sanitized and inventoried prior to turn-in. Documentation of the
sanitization must be documented on the back side to the mask’s DD Form 1574. Once the mask
is accepted by the IPEE, a return will be processed through MICAS and the signed hand receipt
will be returned to the individual thus alleviating them of responsibility. The mask will then be
returned to its respective storage area.




                                            STEVEN B. PARKER, Colonel, USAFR
                                            Commander
 4                                                      914AWI10-2501 20 AUGUST 2014


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-25, Emergency Management, 26 September 2007
AFI 10-2501, Emergency Management Planning and Operations,24 January 2007
T.O. 14P4-20-1, Mask, Chemical-Biological Joint Service General Purpose, M50, 30 May 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management Of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 1574, Serviceable Tag

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AW—Airlift Wing
ART—Air Reserve Technician
EM—Emergency Management
IAW—In Accordance With
IDO—Installation Deployment Officer
IPEE—Individual Protective Equipment Element
JSGPM—Joint Service General Purpose Mask
MICAS—Mobile Inventory Control Accountability System
RDS—Records Distribution Schedule
UTC—Unit Task Code
