BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    916TH AIR REFUELING WING
916TH AIR REFUELING WING                                             INSTRUCTION 21-106

                                                                            9 JANUARY 2012
                                                 Incorporating Change 1, 17 DECEMBER 2012

                                                                                  Maintenance

                                                  COMPOSITE TOOL KIT AND PERSONAL
                                                           EQUIPMENT PROCEDURES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 916 MXG/MXQ                                                    Certified by: 916 MXG/CD
                                                                 (Lt Col Christine B. Schlacter)
                                                                                      Pages: 11


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space
Maintenance. This instruction extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 21-101 Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Supplement, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance
Management. This instruction applies to all 916th Air Refueling Wing (ARW) personnel who
perform duties on or near the aircraft flight line, (i.e. maintenance personnel, life support,
aircrew etc.) Additionally, any other 916 ARW personnel that may be dispatched to the flight
line must conform to this document. It is written with Air Force quality principles in mind to
provide guidance and to allow some workshop flexibility. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure all records created as prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rds

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim changes the procedures for Composite Tool Kit and Personal Equipment
Procedures. This changes the CTK Numbering System in Figure 1 and changes paragraph 6.3
in its entirety. Additionally, Section 13, Rag Control Procedures, has significantly changed and
should be reviewed in its entirety. A margin bar (|) indicates newly revised material.
1. General.
 2                                                          916ARWI21-106 9 JANUARY 2012


     1.1. This instruction outlines procedures for the management, control, and marking of
     Composite Tool Kits (CTK) and personal equipment that may be used on the flight line. In
     addition to the listed regulations in the purpose statement, it also implements the provisions
     from AFI 11-301 v1, Aircrew Life Support Equipment (AFE Program). Included is guidance
     for the use of the automated Tool Accountability System (TAS). This operating instruction
     applies to all personnel assigned to the 916th Air Refueling Wing (ARW) personnel who
     perform duties on or near the aircraft flight line, (i.e. maintenance personnel, life support,
     aircrew etc.) Additionally, any other 916 ARW personnel that may be dispatched to the
     flight line must conform to this document.
2. Definition.
     2.1. A CTK is a consolidation of common hand and special tools retained in a securable
     area, container, bag, or on a shadow board. A painted contrasting shadow, an inlaid shape, or
     a contrasting outline will identify the location of each tool within the container, shadow
     board, or CTK. Larger items can be outlined. The presence or absence of any tool,
     therefore, can be readily and easily determined by visually scanning the CTK.
     2.2. Personal equipment is any item issued to an individual separate from tools that
     personnel use to perform duties on the flight line. (i.e. personal protective equipment,
     communication headsets, protective gloves etc.)
3. Forms Used.
     3.1. AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt; AF Form 2411, Inspection Document; AFRC
     Form 174, Lost Tool/Object Report; AFRC Form 175, Missing/Removed Tools and
     Equipment, AFRC Form 177, Consolidated Tool Kit Inventory and Control Log.
4. Aircrew and Life Support Tool Accountability and Marking.
     4.1. Aircrew and Life Support may use the computer based TAS to track composite tool kits
     or they may be manually tracked in accordance with AFI 21-101 Chapter 10.
     4.2. Aircrew and Life Support will mark CTK‟s, issued personal equipment and personal
     protective equipment in accordance with Figure 1 in order to identify that equipment to each
     individual or shop. No personal tools or equipment that was not issued to the individual and
     marked are authorized on the flight line or onboard aircraft.
5. Tool Accountability System (TAS).
     5.1. TAS is a computer-based system, which uses a unique alphanumeric bar code to identify
     all tools and equipment. This is the preferred method for tool room operation. Only
     authorized personnel will have access to the TAS system. The data will be backed up at least
     once every 30 days to prevent loss of information in the event a power failure or computer
     malfunction. All CTK automated transaction information will be maintained for thirty days.
     Tool rooms that use TAS will have a paper backup system for tool control in the event the
     TAS system becomes inoperative. Units will maintain a paper inventory and a supply of
     required forms to be used for tool accountability in the event of a power failure or computer
     malfunction.
     5.2. TAS bar coding may be used to speed the issue and return of CTK‟s. This system does
     not replace the requirement for etching tools or marking CTK‟s. All individually issued tools
     and CTK‟s using bar coding are still required to be permanently marked or etched with the
916ARWI21-106 9 JANUARY 2012                                                                          3


    CTK designator in accordance with this instruction. When bar coding is employed, labels
    may be affixed in the location of the tool within the CTK or a master bar code book can be
    kept at the tool room issue area for tools too small in size to affix a label. Personnel using
    bar-coding equipment will receive training in its use and safety precautions. Supervisors
    will evaluate and control all hazards from this equipment in accordance with applicable
    directives.
6. CTK Tool Identification.
    6.1. CTK ID numbers are compatible with the TAS. Work centers will mark their CTK‟s
    and personal equipment to this numbering system in Figure 1

Figure 1. CTK and Personal Equipment Numbering System.
All CTK numbers will be nine characters in accordance with AFI 21-101.
The 1st and 2d characters, S2, will be the designators for Seymour Johnson Reserves.
The 3d characters will be derived from the squadron and the 4th from the shop.
A      916th Aircraft Maintenance Squadron
M      916th Maintenance Squadron
X      916th Maintenance Group/Maintenance Operations Flight
O      916th Operations Group
Tools assigned to aircraft will have the last 4 digits of the aircraft tail number plus 0 after the
squadron characters.
The last 5 characters are for shop use and can be any combination of letters and/or numbers.
Purpose being, to designate the location stored or the individual the item is assigned to.
The shop designation breakdown is as follows:
Shop            Definition       Shop             Definition       Shop             Definition
C               Avionics         X, L             Survival &       S                Sheet Metal
                                                  Life Support
                                                  (916 OSF)
D               Dash-            N                NDI              V                Machine Shop
                21/Sortie
                Support
E               Electrics/Env O                   Not used         A                Age Flight
                ironmental
F               Fuel Cell        P                Propulsion       911              911th ARS
G               Flight Line      Q                Quality          77               77th ARS
                                                  Assurance
H               Pneudraulics     R                Aero             SE               Stan Eval
                                                  Repair/Whee
    4                                                           916ARWI21-106 9 JANUARY 2012


                                                     l & Tire
I                           Inspection Section       M                       Mobility

        6.2. Each work center will etch or permanently mark each tool to reflect its CTK or tool
        room designation. In addition to this identification, work centers may use the TAS bar-
        coding system. Each shop will maintain a master list of their CTK numbers. They will
        comply with all other aspects of this instruction.
        6.3. Small items/tools that have been placed in a container in accordance with AFI21-101
        may be painted red except for the ends to aid in locating these items.
        6.4. Work centers that perform multiple “functional area” duties may elect to combine all
        tools and CTK‟s into one primary “functional area.” Under these circumstances all tools will
        be maintain in one TAS database. An overall POC will be assigned to maintain the database.
        In addition, one additional subject matter expert POC for each work center involved we be
        assigned to assist the overall POC with issues concerning their specific tools.
        6.5. CTK‟s will have streamers attached to the CTK lock key.
        6.6. Special purpose CTK‟s designed for specific maintenance tasks will comply with the
        CTK program. These kits may contain bench stock, consumable and specific hazmat items
        required for that task (HAZMAT handling and storage requirements must be followed for
        CTK). The type and quantity of these items will be identified on the Master Inventory List
        (MIL). Bench stock items will be replenished prior to turn in of the kit.
        6.7. Tools that are no longer part of the CTK or shadow board will have the respective
        cutout filled or shadowing removed. This will be accomplished by permanently filling in the
        tool cutout or by painting over the shadowed area with the appropriate background color of
        the shadow board.
        6.8. All mock-up or test-set tools, required by technical orders, will be marked to identify the
        equipment to which they belong. Work centers will maintain strict accountability, control,
        and issue of these types of tools and equipment.
7. Master Inventory List.
        7.1. Using AFI 21-101, work centers will develop and maintain the Master Inventory List
        (MIL). This listing will identify all items located in, or attached to, the container or CTK,
        including common tools, locks, foreign object bags, Custodian Authorization/Custody
        Receipt Listing (CA/CRL) items, locally manufactured items, tools and bench stock items
        (i.e., safety wire rolls, etc.). The container, board, foam, key, and the inventory list are not
        required to be included in the MIL.
        7.2. All tool kits will contain an inventory that agrees with the MIL of the kit. MIL will list
        all available tools and will be used for inventory requirements.
        7.3. Many hand tools are covered under warranty by a contractor (i.e. „Snap On‟). These
        hand tools should be replaced under this contract as needed. Other tools have a limited
        warranty ranging from several months to years.
           7.3.1. Unserviceable warranty tools will be turned in to the effected tool custodian/tool
           room.
916ARWI21-106 9 JANUARY 2012                                                                     5


      7.3.2. Tool will be entered into the TAS system using the CTK Entry Authorization
      Letter (EAL) status block and tracked using a replacement tool log. Log will note CTK
      number, date turned in and date returned to CTK.
      7.3.3. Custodian will arrange replacement of the tool with contractor.
      7.3.4. Upon receipt of replacement tool, TAS and tool log will be documented and tool
      returned to appropriate CTK.
   7.4. Tools that are replaced through attrition will be etched with the new CTK ID numbers.
8. Operation.
   8.1. Work centers will maintain strict accountability, control, and issue of tools and
   equipment.
   8.2. Each CTK must have a designated location for inventory accountability. Tool rooms
   cages and shops that store tools and equipment must complete an inventory at the beginning
   and end of each shift. This inventory will be documented on AFRC Form 177 or in TAS.
   8.3. Tool room attendant and the individual signing out or in the CTK or equipment are
   equally responsible for ensuring its completeness. CTK‟s will not be issued or turned in
   without a physical inventory of each item on the Master Inventory List.
   8.4. Individuals will sign out tools and CTK‟s on an AF Form 1297, AFRC Form 177 or bar
   code reader system for CTK and equipment accountability.
   8.5. An individual equipment CTK may be established for work center personnel in order to
   control individual equipment and tool items such as, headsets, communication cords, and ear
   defenders.
   8.6. Items that are carried in pouches or holsters (small pocket flashlight and multi-purpose
   tool) will have the pouch or holster marked with the CTK number on the exterior with
   contrasting letters. The tools will have the CTK number etched on it.
   8.7. Secure padlocks to CTK‟s with a non-removable lanyard or chain and etch the padlock
   and key.
   8.8. If a tool or piece equipment breaks or wears out while performing a task it will be
   returned to the tool custodian or alternate for replacement or warranty repair.
   8.9. When possession of tools is transferred from one individual to another on the flight line
   or at the job site, positive accountability must be maintained. Both individuals will inventory
   the CTK being transferred. This inventory and transfer will be documented in TAS, on an
   AF Form 1297, AFRC Form 177, or a combination of both forms. The person giving up
   possession will turn in the form to the tool room prior to the end of their shift. The tool room
   will then reassign possession to the gaining individual.
   8.10. One-man shops will inventory the CTK at the beginning of the shift and annotate the
   AFRC Form 177 or TAS product. At the end of the shift, the toolbox will be re-inventoried
   and anyone familiar with the CTK can sign it in. Once every month the Flight Chief will
   inventory the tool box and sign the appropriate out or in block.
   8.11. A canvas tool bag may be included in a CTK. The canvas bag will be used to carry
   tools removed from the CTK to a work site on the aircraft. The CTK that the canvas bag was
 6                                                          916ARWI21-106 9 JANUARY 2012


     removed from must be in the immediate work area. The bag will be marked with the CTK
     number on it in contrasting letters.
     8.12. Contract field teams, depot teams, and factory representatives, who work on equipment
     within the unit, will provide 916th Quality Assurance (QA) a copy of their CTK‟s equipment
     contents list. These teams will be briefed about this requirement upon arrival on station by
     QA and they must sign a statement that they were briefed on this requirement. They will
     comply with tool control as outlined in this operating instruction.
9. Replacement and Consumable Hand Tools.
     9.1. Maintenance officers and supervisors will ensure strict controls are established to
     prevent the pilferage of consumable tools and help control fraud, waste, and abuse. A stock
     of replacement tools is authorized, but must be kept to a minimum. Spare tools are used to
     replace broken tools.
     9.2. Replacement tools are not issued without receipt or return of the unserviceable tool, or
     lost tool documentation indicating the tool is has been reported lost.
     9.3. Replacement tools are marked with the CTK ID number prior to issue.
10. Lost Tool Procedures.
     10.1. Squadron commanders, superintendents, section chiefs and work center supervisors
     ensure all assigned personnel are familiar with lost tool procedures.
     10.2. The person who initially identifies a lost tool will immediately report to the Production
     Superintendent, and the Maintenance Operations Center (MOC).
        10.2.1. The individual reporting the lost tool will enter a Red X in the AFTO Form
        781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document, for all affected aircraft. Include in
        the discrepancy block a description of the lost item and area of suspected loss (if known).
        10.2.2. After a thorough search has been conducted and the tool/item is not found initiate
        an AFRC Form 174, Lost Tool/Object Report.
     10.3. The Production Superintendent will notify the Maintenance Group Commander,
     Squadron Maintenance Officer, Squadron Superintendent, the CTK custodian and the 916th
     Quality Assurance (QA) office of the lost tool/item.
     10.4. If equipment or aircraft impoundment is required, the maintenance officer or
     superintendent will follow 916ARWI21-101, Maintenance Investigations and Impoundment.
     10.5. If lost item is suspected to be on an aircraft that has taxied out or taken off, the
     production Superintendent will notify (through MOC) the 916 Operations Group Commander
     and Command Post.
        10.5.1. Command Post will notify the Aircraft Commander.
     10.6. Aircraft forms documentation.
        10.6.1. If tool/item is found clear the discrepancy IAW T.O. 00-20-1, Aerospace
        Equipment Maintenance Inspection, Documentation, Policy and Procedures.
        10.6.2. If tool/item is not found the MXG commander or designated representative will
        determine when the search may be discontinued. Authorization to clear Red X symbols
916ARWI21-106 9 JANUARY 2012                                                                    7


      when a tool/item cannot be found will be limited to the Maintenance Group Commander
      and personnel identified on the Special Certification Roster (SCR).
   10.7. A completed copy of the AFRC Form 174 will be forwarded to QA within 24 hours of
   the lost tool incident.
11. Disabled Aircraft Recovery Equipment.
   11.1. Disable Aircraft Recovery equipment permanently stored and or located in a trailer
   must be accounted for in accordance with the procedures in this operating instruction. All
   equipment stored in the trailer will be inspected every six months. Any tools unaccounted
   for or equipment missing from the trailer will be treated as a lost tool.
12. Local Manufacture Tools.
   12.1. Locally manufactured tools and equipment will be produced in accordance with 916
   MXG Operating Instruction 21-124, Local Manufacture Procedures. Upon completion,
   locally manufactured items will be controlled as outlined in instruction. Marking will be
   accomplished per Figure 1
13. Rag Control Procedures.
   13.1. All MXG work centers that perform on-equipment maintenance and off-equipment
   maintenance on aircraft, AGE or component maintenance, will have and use the type of
   controlled rags supplied by the MXG distribution point listed in para 13.2. These rags will
   be used for maintenance unless another product is directed by T.O. Each work center will
   control their authorized quantity of rags in accordance with this directive and any other
   applicable directives and adhere to the exchange procedures in this instruction. Additionally,
   absorbent pads/materials other than rags will be controlled in the same manner. ANY other
   T.O. directed materials (i.e. cheesecloth, tech-wipes, lint-free rags or equivalents) when used
   for any type of maintenance will be issued and controlled to ensure proper disposal. Any
   consumables of this nature used within shop maintenance practices or procedures will be
   controlled to the extent that proper disposal is assured when contaminated with a hazardous
   substance.
   13.2. Maintenance Squadron (MXS) Maintenance Flight Chief will be the MXG Rag
   Program Point of Contact (POC). The MXG program POC will coordinate required services
   with 4 FW/CEV Hazardous Waste relating to the rag cleaning contract. The contractor will
   pick up, clean, and deliver government owned industrial rags (color may vary) to be used in
   general industrial, shop, and flight line operations, to the MXS PE dock tool room weekly or
   as scheduled by contractor. The POC will maintain a MXG master rag inventory detailing
   each work center‟s total authorized quantity of rags. All changes to the master inventory
   will be coordinated through that work center‟s Squadron‟s Superintendent, then to the
   program POC. All MXG rags will be roughly 18”x 18” in size when new and may vary
   more after recurring cleaning.
   13.3. The PE dock CTK monitor will be the distribution point POC for all MXG work
   centers. Clean/dirty rags controlled as part of the exchange process will not be loaded in
   TAS as part of PE‟s CTK authorization. These rags will be logged in/out on a program log
   controlled by PE Dock CTK monitor as prescribed by the MXG Rag Program POC. All
   MXG work centers will exchange dirty rags for clean rags at the MXS PE dock CTK one for
 8                                                           916ARWI21-106 9 JANUARY 2012


     one. The MXS PE dock CTK monitor will log their name, date, quantity of rags exchanged
     and they will log the exchanging work center and employee name. Both employees will
     initial the log. If clean rags are not available for exchange, the MXS PE CTK monitor will
     issue a hand-receipt for that quantity of rags turned in. The employee will notify the work
     center‟s supervisor or CTK custodian and provide them the hand receipt.
     13.4. Rags for each work center will be bundled (5 each) then identified and tracked in the
     TAS or accounted for as an inventory item within any CTK. Work center CTKs will control
     the issue and turn in of rag bundles. Upon turn in, rags will be accounted for first, and then
     properly secured as clean or dirty. The issuing work center CTK will replace used rags and
     re-bundle for issue daily. When a work center removes any quantity of rags for cleaning
     exchange, they will check them out in TAS. If clean rags are not returned within that same
     shift, TAS will be annotated and the hand receipt kept on file until rags are available. Hand
     receipt will be kept in the CTK Program Binder.
     13.5. Ensure appropriate Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) is used when working with
     any product types referenced in this instruction that are known or suspected to be
     contaminated with any known or unknown hazardous chemical/substance. Ensure these
     materials are properly disposed of.
     13.6. UNCONTROLLED RAGS ARE NOT AUTHORIZED.
     13.7. Unaccounted for or lost rags are to be treated in the same manner as a lost tool. Lost
     tool investigation procedures will be accomplished by the responsible work center for any
     missing rags. Once the paperwork is complete, the CTK custodian may request a
     replacement rag from the program POC.
     13.8. Limited term (not to exceed one week) issue of absorbent material rags is authorized
     for MXS Pneudraulics shop, Aero Repair shop and Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE)
     back shop for fluid control use in drain or drip pans only. When aircraft is in a maintenance
     hanger, responsible shops may issue absorbent material rags for a limited term (not to exceed
     one week) to contain fluid in drip pans. Drip pans must be cleaned daily and contaminated
     rags replaced as necessary. Limited term issue is NOT AUTHORIZED outside of these
     specific work centers. Limited term will not exceed 1 week before the rags must be turned in
     and/or re-issued.
     13.9. Chemical wipes and Tech wipes are authorized to be used for non-hazardous general
     shop and aircraft interior cleanup only. These items and/or other absorbent pads/materials
     are not considered rags for the purpose of this instruction and are not a substitute for another
     product.
14. Serviceability.
     14.1. All tools will be serviceable, clean, and free of corrosion. Toolboxes will be in good
     condition with no rust. Foreign Object Damage (FOD) Bags will be in good repair with no
     holes. FOD will not be left in the CTK.
     14.2. All CTK‟s/Special tools will be inspected every six months for serviceability and
     accountability. Refer to AFI 21-101 section 10.4.2.2. This inspection will be tracked in
     TAS.
916ARWI21-106 9 JANUARY 2012                                                                    9


   14.3. Broken tools will be logged on AFRC Form 175, Missing/Removed Tools and
   Equipment, until replaced.
15. Security of CTK’s and Test Equipment in Vehicles and Golf Carts.
   15.1. Toolboxes stored in the rear of a golf cart and inside vehicles should be closed and
   locked when not in the restricted area. Pilferable items and small test equipment, i.e., meters
   and torque wrenches, should be temporarily stored in a toolbox out of view when in the rear
   of a golf cart.
16. Issue and Control of Personal Equipment.
   16.1. Supervisors are the focal point of all PPE issued. An inventory of all PPE issued,
   including storage location (if not kept in consolidated tool room) will be maintained. PPE
   will be identified to each individual in accordance with AFI 21-101 and AFRC Supplement.




                                            GREGORY S. GILMOUR, Colonel, USAFR
                                            Commander
 10                                                    916ARWI21-106 9 JANUARY 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
916ARWI 21-101, Maintenance Investigations and Impounds, 17 Aug 09
916MXG OI 21-124, Local Manufacture Procedures, 20 Aug 09
AFI21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 29 June 2006
AFI21-101_AFRC SUP_I, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 03 Feb 07
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 09
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 Feb 03
AFI 11-301, Volume 1, Aircrew Flight Equipment (AFE) Program, 25 Feb 09
T.O.00-20-1, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Inspection, Documentation, Policy and
Procedures
Adopted Forms
AFRC Form 174, Lost Tool/Object Report
AFRC Form 175, Missing/Removed Tools and Equipment
AFRC Form 177, Consolidated Tool Kit Inventory and Control Log
AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt
AF Form 2411, Inspection Document
AFTO Form 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AGE—Aerospace Ground Equipment
AMCI—Air Mobility Command Instruction
AMXS—Aircraft Maintenance Squadron
ARW—Air Refueling Wing
ARWI—Air Refueling Wing Instruction
CA/CRL—Custodian Authorization/Custody Receipt Listing
916ARWI21-106 9 JANUARY 2012           11


CC—Current Commander
CTK—Composite Tool Kit(s)
EAL—Entry Authorization Letter
FOD—Foreign Object Damage
FW—Fighter Wing
HAZMAT—Hazardous Material
ID—Identification
ISO—Isochronal Inspection
MIL—Master Inventory List
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
MXG—Maintenance Group
MXS—Maintenance Squadron
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—Point of Contact
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
QA—Quality Assurance
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SCR—Special Certification Roster
TAS—Tool Accountability System
T.O.—Technical Order
