BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              919TH SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING
919TH SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING                                      INSTRUCTION 34-101

                                                                                  16 JUNE 2011

                                                                                         Services

                                                     UNIT PHYSICAL TRAINING FACILITY
                                                                       MANAGEMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 919 SOW/XP                                                     Certified by: 919 SOW/CCE
                                                                         (1Lt Cassandra Nelson)
                                                                                        Pages: 8


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 34-1, Air Force Services
Combat Support Programs. This instruction extends the guidance of AFI 34-266, Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) Supplement (SUP), Air Force Fitness and Sports Programs, AFI 36-
2905, AFRC SUP, Fitness Program. It provides guidance and procedures for operating and
using the Unit Physical Training Facility (UPTF) (formerly Mini Fitness Center) located at the
919th Special Operations Wing (919 SOW). It applies to all 919 SOW units and all personnel
that utilize the UPTF. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate
functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

This is the initial publication of 919th Special Operations Wing Instruction (919SOWI) 34-101.

1. Operations.
   1.1. 919 SOW Unit Physical Training Facility (UPTF) Priorities. The primary mission is
   to support unit commander fitness programs which entails liaison with unit Physical Training
   Leaders (PTLs), support the Fitness Improvement Program (FIP) and provide on-site,
   interactive customer service with equipment and facility orientations. The secondary mission
   is to provide core fitness and sports programs to all authorized users. The third mission is to
2                                                                  919SOW34-101 16 JUNE 2011


    provide Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) and Automated External Defibrillator (AED)
    training to wing personnel.
    1.2. Funding. The 919 SOW UPTF is funded using AFRC and Unfunded Request (UFR)
    monies. Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) funding is not authorized.
    1.3. Fitness Center Hours of Operation. The UPTF is open daily for use from 0500-1700.
    Entrance is through the northern door in the central hallway of building 3053 between the
    Outpost and the UPTF. The door is set to open automatically during those times.
    1.3.1. After-Hour Use. Door entry cards may be issued to shift workers and others on a case
    by case basis and approved by fitness center staff.
       1.3.2. Alternate Services Fitness Facilities. Services facilities are located at Hurlburt
       Field and Eglin Air Force Base (AFB).
    1.4. Unit Physical Training Facility (UPTF) The Installation commander authorizes
    UPTFs (unit owned, funded and maintained fitness areas not operated by the Services
    squadron/division) when he/she validates the installation’s fitness facilities cannot meet the
    requesting unit’s requirements. This documentation is located in the 919 SOW UPTF
    Continuity Book.
       1.4.1. The 919 SOW has limited free weights that are not normally authorized in
       UPTF’s. Signage is posted that limits personnel to use this equipment only when a
       spotter is available.
       1.4.2. Rules and restrictions governing use of the UPTF have been developed and are
       posted at the sign in desk. Signage will include emergency phone numbers for medical
       assistance in the event of an emergency at each phone and on the UPTF bulletin board.
       These rules are in attachment 2.
       1.4.3. This publication has been developed in accordance with (IAW) AFI 34-266,
       AFRC SUP. The publication will be maintained in the UPTF continuity book.
    1.5. Personnel Authorized to utilize the 919 SOW UPTF. See Attachment 2, Personnel
    Authorized Use of the 919 SOW UPTF.
    1.6. Fitness Center Staff (FCS). Personnel include: one full-time civil service position and
    volunteers that like to help assist when necessary. Training includes: Cardiopulmonary
    Resuscitation (CPR)/Basic Life Support (BLS), and Automated External Defibrillator
    (AED).
    1.7. Uniforms. UPTF staff will wear appropriate civilian clothing or athletic attire and an
    athletic-type shoe may be worn.
    1.8. Customer Attire. Appropriate clothing must be worn to maintain a proper image in a
    military and family fitness facility. Inappropriate language or graphics are prohibited.
    Athletic attire and an athletic-type shoe must be worn in all activity and equipment areas.
    Military uniforms, or part thereof, casual slacks/shorts, and jeans are considered non-exercise
    attire and are not to be worn. Plastic/rubber suits are not authorized in any fitness facility, to
    include outdoor running tracks and fields.
    1.9. Locker Rooms. A small set of locker rooms are provided in both the male and female
    bathrooms. These are day use lockers only.
919SOW34-101 16 JUNE 2011                                                                    3


   1.10. Equipment and Supplies. Some tennis, basketball, volleyball and other equipment is
   available for sign out with the UPTF staff.
   1.11. Equipment. Ensure there is one foot between and two feet in front and behind all
   cardiovascular equipment pieces and two feet, all around, for selectorized/free weight
   equipment (an exception is specialty designs for programs such as a circuit format).
   1.12. Running Tracks. A running track is provided and encircles the tennis/basketball
   courts just to the west of building 3053 and is approximately 1/2 of a mile for one lap. Bob
   Davis Way is also an approved road used for the 1.5 mile run and one mile walk. It is posted
   for slower speeds when vehicles are passing pedestrians.
   1.13. Continuity Folder. Continuity binders will be maintained regarding UPTF Air Force
   Office of Safety and Health (AFOSH), Equipment, and UPTF programs.
   1.14. Lost and Found. A lost and found box is located under the sign in table for non
   valuable items. Valuable items will be held by the UPTF staff.
2. Facility Maintenance and Housekeeping.
   2.1. Annual Maintenance Plans. The UPTF Staff asks wing leadership for money annually
   to have equipment serviced an inspected.
   2.2. Cleaning and Appearance. High traffic/use areas command more frequent attention
   and inspections, especially during peak hours. High traffic/use areas include restrooms,
   showers, saunas, steam rooms, spas, cardiovascular, weight rooms, and locker rooms. A
   contract with the host base has cleaning personnel assigned to assist to maintain UPTF
   cleanliness.
   2.3. xercise Rooms and Court Floors. Exercise rooms are used to conduct a variety of
   exercise classes. Keep the exercise area and all equipment clean and ready for use by
   disinfecting daily.
   2.4. Exercise Equipment. The UPTF Staff will keep equipment records in continuity
   books.
       2.4.1. Customer Cleaning. The UPTF Staff should encourage customers to clean
       equipment after each use to provide a clean surface for the next user. The UPTF Staff
       will provide towels and cleaning solutions to sanitize equipment after use.
       2.4.2. Broken Equipment. When possible, the UPTF Staff should remove broken
       equipment from the area. If the equipment cannot be removed, an "Out of Order" sign
       should be placed on the machine. For equipment that is plugged into an electrical outlet
       “LOCK OUT TAG OUT” procedures are maintained in the AFOSH Binder.
   2.5. Laundry Rooms. Washer and Dryer in the UPTF will be utilized to clean fitness center
   towels.
3. Safety.
   3.1. Safety. Ensure that AFOSH and facility binders are maintained IAW wing procedures.
   3.2. Emergency Procedures. Address the following areas when developing an emergency
   plan:
4                                                               919SOW34-101 16 JUNE 2011


       3.2.1. Emergency care personnel must have access to all areas of the facility.
       3.2.2. Post emergency contact procedure near each telephone.
       3.2.3. Post evacuation procedures throughout the facility.
       3.2.4. Establish an effective communication system to contact emergency response
       personnel and post signs identifying locations throughout the facility.
    3.3. Incident reporting. Accidents will be reported IAW the safety instructions on the
    fitness center bulletin board.
    3.4. First Aid Equipment. The UPTF has a first aid kit and an AED. The UPTF Staff is
    AED/CPR/BLS certified.
    3.5. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). The UPTF staff will maintain PPE in
    accordance with requirements in the UPTF AFOSH plan.
    3.6. Customer Protection. The UPTF has a monitoring system installed in UPTF areas
    where staff does not have direct line of sight. This does not apply to changing rooms, rest
    rooms or showers.




                                            ANTHONY J. COMTOIS, Col, USAFR
                                            Commander
919SOW34-101 16 JUNE 2011                                                  5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-248, Fitness Program, 25 September 2006
AFI 34-266_AFRC SUP, Air Force Fitness and Sports Programs, 13 June 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 34-1, Air Force Services Combat Support Programs, 1 November 1997
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army, Air Force Exchange Services
AED—Automatic External Defibrillator
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSH—Air Force Office of Safety and Health
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
BLS—Basic Life Support
CES—Civil Engineer Squadron
CPR—Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation
FCS—Fitness Center Staff
FIP—Fitness Improvement Program
IAW—In Accordance With
ID—Identification
MSF—Mission Support Flight
NAF—Non-appropriated Fund
OPR—Officer of Primary Responsibility
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
 6                                           919SOW34-101 16 JUNE 2011


PTL—Physical Training Leader
RDS—Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
SOW—Special Operations Wing
SOWI—Special Operations Wing Instruction
SUP—Supplement
TDY—Temporary Duty
UFR—Unfunded Request
UPTF—Unit Physical Training Facility
919SOW34-101 16 JUNE 2011                                                                    7


                                        Attachment 2
               PERSONNEL AUTHORIZED USE OF THE 919 SOW UPTF

A2.1. All 919 SOW military, civil service, contractor, and Non-appropriated Fund (NAF)
personnel.
A2.2. All 919 SOW dependents that are 18 years of age or older with a valid dependent
identification (ID) card (Outdoor Recreation Services and Track use only, no indoor use of
UPTF).
A2.3. All military, civil service, contractor, NAF, and Army, Air Force Exchange Services
(AAFES) personnel assigned for duty on Duke Field.
A2.4. All personnel on orders for official business/temporary duty (TDY) to Duke Field residing
in 919th Mission Support Flight (MSF) Lodging.
A2.5. All Host Base personnel (i.e. the 96th Security force Squadron (SFS) and 96th Civil
Engineer Squadron (CES) Fire Department) that are at Duke working on a rotational basis (Only
on the days that they are working officially at Duke Field).
 8                                                                919SOW34-101 16 JUNE 2011


                                           Attachment 3
                                    RULES FOR UPTF USE

A3.1. All individuals must receive a UPTF orientation prior to use and sign in at sign in desk
each time the facility is utilized.
A3.2. Individuals will obey these rules and listen to the UPTF staff.
A3.3. Remember: Safety First!
A3.4. Proper athletic attire only, no uniforms or civilian clothes authorized or clothing with
zippers or other sharp objects.
A3.5. No equipment or training facility items will be removed from the UPTF.
A3.6. No personal athletic equipment will be brought into the fitness center.
A3.7. Lockers are for day use only. Do not leave personal items or soap and shampoo in the
locker room. Pick up after yourselves.
A3.8. Individuals will carry a personal towel for wiping off personal perspiration.
A3.9. Fitness center towels and spray bottles will be used to wipe off equipment after each use
on cardio equipment as well as strength training equipment.
A3.10. No eating or drinking is allowed in the UPTF. Water bottles and fitness drinks are
authorized.
A3.11. Do not let weight stacks or other equipment slam down. No roughhousing or abuse of
any equipment will be tolerated.
A3.12. After you are done working out on Hammer Strength and free weights you need to put
the weights back on the storage spindles/racks.
A3.13. Do not tie up any of the strength training equipment, use it in rotations and share with
others.
A3.14. Limit cardio equipment use to 30 minutes if all equipment is in use during peak periods.
A3.15. No Horseplay. Individuals are expected to maintain proper decorum and be responsible
for all their actions.
A3.16. Televisions and Stereos will be maintained at tolerable levels so that everyone may enjoy
their use.
A3.17. ID cards are required to be carried for identification as well as safety issues.
A3.18. Bring broken equipment and other concerns to the UPTF staff personnel or leave
concerns in the suggestion box if after hours.
