BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                919TH SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING
919TH SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING                                         INSTRUCTION 33-101

                                                                             26 FEBRUARY 2009



                                                               Communications and Information
                                                                  SOFTWARE MANAGEMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                        www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.


RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 919 CS/SC                       Certified by: 919 MSG/CD (Lt Col Patricia Brewer)
Supersedes 919SOWI33-1101, 28 May 2005                                        Pages: 6

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-1, Command, Control,
Communications, and Computer (C4) System. This instruction extends the guidance of Air
Force Instruction (AFI) 33-114, Software Management, and Executive Order (E.O.) 13103,
Computer Software Piracy. It provides guidance and assigns responsibilities for using and
managing the software program at the 919th Special Operations Wing (919 SOW). It applies to
all personnel assigned to the 919 SOW. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the wing through your
publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
SUMMARY OF CHANGES
Acronyms updated, Workgroup Manager (WM) has been replaced with Client Support
Administrator (CSA). Designated Organizational Representative (DOR) has been replaced with
Designated Agency Authority Representative (DAAR). The Functional System Administrator
(FSA) has been deleted. Paragraph 7.3 was deleted
1. Purpose: This instruction implements local guidance, procedures and requirements for all
919 SOW personnel in regards to the computer software program and identifies roles and
responsibilities for all computer system users, network administrators and the software manager.
2. Responsibilities of All Software Users: Supervisors are responsible for enforcing this
instruction as written. Users must account for all software issued to their offices by notifying
their unit Air Reserve Technician (ART) CSA to collect all software licenses and installation
2                                                          919SOWI33-101 26 FEBRUARY 2009


disks. The CSA will in-turn hand over the software to the Wing Software Manager (WSM). In
addition, the software users are:
2.1. Required to become familiar with the software license agreement for all software installed
on their systems.
2.2. Responsible for reporting all unauthorized or illegal software on their systems to their
respective unit’s CSA for resolution.
2.3. Responsible for reporting all software delivered directly to their functional office or special
programs; such as, Finance (FM), Intelligence Office (IN), Medical (MDS), and Personnel
(DPM), to the CSA immediately.
2.4. Responsible for ensuring all systems have the latest anit-virus software installed and
programmed for a daily scan.
2.5. Not authorized to use shareware or public domain software prior to coordination with their
CSA or 919 SOW DAAR approval. The 919 SOW Wing Commander (919 SOW/CC) is the
DAAR.
2.6. Not authorized to install or remove any software application without first coordinating with
their CSA.
2.7. Not authorized to download and install freeware, shareware or any other unapproved third
party software, for example screensavers, anti-spyware, and file share applications, without
coordination with their respective unit CSA, WSM and 919 SOW DAAR.
2.8. Not authorized to make any illegal copies of copyrighted software. The user is responsible
for ensuring copyright infringement will not occur from installation on government systems.
2.9. Not authorized to install personally owned software on government systems.
3. Responsibilities of assigned CSAs.
3.1. CSAs will collect and transfer all software license documentation and installation disks
from their respective offices of responsibility, to the WSM. All inventoried software will be
stored in the wing software manager’s library. CSAs, and the WSM must work together to
control software license documentation and installation disks.
3.2. CSAs are responsible for users’ awareness and training to prevent the misuse of authorized
software.
3.3. CSAs will coordinate on all new software requests using an AF Form 3215, IT/NSS
Requirements Document, through the 919th Communications Squadron Communication and
Information Systems (919 CS/SCBN), WSM, to the DAAR.
3.4. CSAs will keep a list of all software utilized by their area of responsibility.
3.5. CSAs must ensure software obtained from private or public venues (bulletin boards,
shareware disks) are not installed and used on 919 SOW computer systems without the prior
approval of the WSM or DAAR. The CSA will certify the equipment’s appropriateness and
perform testing of software for malicious logic.
3.6. CSAs are responsible for making sure all illegal software and games are removed from
computers within their area of responsibility.
919SOWI33-101 26 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                 3


4. Responsibilities of Wing Software Manager (WSM): The WSM will perform duties in
accordance with (IAW) AFI 33-114; in addition:
4.1. The WSM will provide the technical solution on all AF Form 3215 software requirement
requests. The forms will be coordinated through the 919 CS/SC and approved by the DAAR.
4.2. Before purchasing any software costing $5,000.00 or more, the software manager will
contact the Headquarters (HQ) Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) or Eglin Air Force Base’s
(AFB) software manager.
4.3. The WSM will collect and manage all software license documentation and installation
disks.
4.4. An annual software inventory will be conducted IAW E.O. 13103
4.5. The official wing authorized master software list will be maintained in the WSM’s office.
4.6. The wing approved software listing will be revalidated annually by the WSM and approved
by the DAAR.
4.7. Ensure old software is disposed of IAW procedures outlined in AFI 33-114
5. Software Installation.
5.1. CSAs will not authorize users to install software on any government owned system. CSAs
will be responsible for all software installations.
5.2. Adequate user rights shall be given to CSAs/WSM required to routinely install software.
5.3. In cases where the acquisition contract specifies vendor installation, the CSAs will
coordinate with both the user and the vendor to ensure proper installation requirements are
accomplished.
6. Software Management Accountability.
6.1. Software and accompanying documentation is accountable. Software (including shareware)
with an acquisition cost of less than $5,000 is accountable under the wing’s software inventory
management process. A software package, with an acquisition cost of $5,000 or greater with a
life expectance of two years or greater is accountable and will be tracked through the wing’s
Asset Inventory Management program (AIM). If the life expectancy of a software package is
unknown, the CSA will treat it as accountable.
6.2. Desktop Management (DTM)/Dameware will be used by the 919 SOW. This program will
be installed and managed by the CSAs. The WSM will request a listing from the host base each
month to identify all software currently installed and used by the 919 SOW. CSAs will perform
an audit of this listing to ensure all software applications are authorized by comparing it to the
wing’s approved master software list.
7. Excesses. Sections with excess software should contact their CSA or WSM for specific
instructions.
7.1. If determined to be unusable, disks containing software programs will be destroyed and the
manuals disposed of IAW with AFI 33-114, para 9.
7.2. Verify the software is not usable somewhere else within the wing.
4                                                       919SOWI33-101 26 FEBRUARY 2009


8. Viruses. A computer virus is a program which can destroy or erase data or lock up the
system. To minimize the risks associated with passing or receiving infections, the following
guidelines should be observed. Do Not:
8.1. Introduce, download, and/or play unauthorized computer games.
8.2. Introduce shareware or freeware unless approved in writing IAW AFI 33-114. See your
appointed CSAs/WSM if you have any questions.
8.3. Copy software beyond the limits of the licensed agreements.
8.4. Design, develop, and implement software outside of authorized program management
channels.
9. Fraud, Waste and Abuse of Software Resources.
9.1. The policy concerning the use of computer and software resources assigned to Air Force
activity states: all government acquired computer resources and their support materials are solely
for the authorized use of the Air Force and are subject to monitoring. Any abuse of these
resources is prohibited and failure to comply with this policy may result in disciplinary action.
9.2. No person will use government software resources for activities such as playing games,
producing unofficial products, or using storage media for items of personal gain or amusement.
All excess or unusable software is still government property and must be turned in or donated via
appropriate channels. Excess assets will not be given to individuals or organizations for personal
use.
9.3. No person will temporarily alter, damage, destroy, or attempt to damage or destroy
government software resources.
9.4. Any software developed or modified using government resources are the property of the
government and may be used for official business.
9.5. Beware of public domain software; it is not tested and documented with the thoroughness
associated with commercially developed software.
10. Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 3215, IT/NSS Requirements Document




                                                     STEVEN J. CHAPMAN, Col, USAFR
                                                     Commander
919SOWI33-101 26 FEBRUARY 2009                                                     5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION
References
AFI 33-114, Software Management, 13 May 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 33-1, Command, Control, Communications, and Computer (C4) Systems, 27 June 2006
E.O. 13103, Computer Software Piracy, 30 September 1998
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AIM – Asset Inventory Management
ART—Air Reserve Technician
CS—Communications Squadron
CSA—Client Support Administrator
DAAR—Designated Agency Authority Representative
DOR—Designated Organizational Representative
DPM—Personnel
DTM—Desktop Management
E.O. —Executive Order
FM—Finance
FSA—Functional System Administrator
HQ—headquarters
IAW—in accordance with
IN—Intelligence Office
MDS—Medical
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SC—Communications and Information
SOW—Special Operations Wing
6                           919SOWI33-101 26 FEBRUARY 2009


WM—Workgroup Manager
WSM—Wing Software Manager
