BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             919TH SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING
919TH SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING                                     INSTRUCTION 32-7001

                                                                               8 MARCH 2010

                                                                                 Civil Engineer

                                                    WORK PLACE HAZARDOUS MATERIAL
                                                             (HAZMAT) MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 919 MSG/EM                                                      Certified by: 919 MSG/CC
                                                                       (Lt Col Patricia Brewer)
                                                                                        Pages: 9


This publication implements 29 CFR 1910.1200, Hazard Communication, Air Force Instruction
(AFI) 32-7086, Hazardous Material Management, and AFI 32-7086, AAC Supplement 1,
Hazardous Materials Management. It provides guidance and procedures for handling hazardous
materials. It applies to all assigned 919th Special Operations Wing (919 SOW) personnel. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force Form (AF Form) 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

This is the initial publication of 919SOW 32-7001

1. General:
   1.1. A hazardous material (HAZMAT) issue point (IP), also referred to as HAZMART, has
   been established with in the 919 SOW to support all units assigned to the 919 SOW. The
   919 SOW Hazardous Material Issue Point (IP53), located in building 3032 and the primary
   issue point, is hereafter referred to as the Issue Point (IP53) or HAZMART. All
   Chemical/Hazardous Material Request Authorization (AF Form 3952) will be processed and
   all hazardous materials will be ordered, stored, issued, tracked, and reported by IP53.
 2                                                            919SOWI32-7001 8 MARCH 2010


     1.2. The 919 MSG Environmental Manager (EM) will provide support for all environmental
     issues concerning 919 SOW. The MSG EM will support the IP53 personnel on an as-needed
     basis.
     1.3. The point of contact for hazardous material issue concerns is the 919 SOW Issue Point
     Manager (IPM) at 883-6551/6620.
2. The Issue Point Manager’s (IPM), Responsibilities:
     2.1. Keeps the EM informed on all hazardous material management matters and represents
     the commander on such matters as directed.
     2.2. Ensure procedures are developed, implemented, and maintained to comply with the
     guidelines outlined in the Eglin AFB Hazardous Material Management Program.
        2.2.1. Maintain a working knowledge of the designated tracking and control computer
        system.
        2.2.2. Train all IP53 personnel and reservists as required on IP procedures.
        2.2.3. Develop and implement support procedures for all 919 SOW organizations.
        2.2.4. Ensure that ordering schedules are in accordance with minimum on-going usage
        requirements, to include shelf-life expirations.
        2.2.5. Ensure that quantities on hand are the minimum levels, which adequately support
        the work center requirements.
3. Issue Point Responsibilities:
     3.1. Load data and operate the computer system designed to track hazardous material usage.
     3.2. Establish and maintain an off-line control and tracking system (post-post log).
        3.2.1. Update HMMS at the next earlier opportunity from post-post log to ensure
        accuracy of all tracking and reporting requirements.
     3.3. Add, update, or delete users in each zone when in-processing/out-processing personnel
     and after being notified by the work center (zone) supervisor of any personnel re-alignment.
     3.4. Insures minimum quantities of items are on hand to ensure mission capabilities.
     3.5. Inputs all authorization requests submitted by zone supervisors into the HMMS.
        3.5.1. Ensures zone has copy of final approved request for the zones documentation
        requirements.
4. Policies and Procedures:
     4.1. Ensure current, accurate and pertinent data is loaded into the designated Hazardous
     Material Management database for tracking and control.
        4.1.1. Operate the computer system terminal, scale, barcode reader and data collector.
        4.1.2. Use the designed Hazardous Material Management tracking and control system to
        determine current authorization for personnel utilization of hazardous material prior to
        issue and also to record each receipt, issue, turn-in and disposal of material.
        4.1.3. Order, receive, store and issue hazardous materials for 919 SOW.
919SOWI32-7001 8 MARCH 2010                                                                           3


      4.1.4. Ensure that a copy of a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) for each item on hand
      is available for user access.
   4.2. Hazardous Materials will be issued out for no more than thirty days in shop kits only. At
   that point materials must be re-inventoried through HMMS. Single item issues must be
   returned at the end of each workday.
   4.3. The IP will run an in-use report when asked to do so for individual shops, to ensure user
   compliance of monthly and daily rule.
   4.4. The first duty day or upon computer availability, IP53 personnel will process all entries
   into the tracking system from post-post log.
   4.5. IP personnel will provide training to the production supervisors in the use of the post-
   post procedures for issuing of HAZMAT.
5. After Hours Issue Procedures:
   5.1. All personnel issuing materials from the IP during afterhours support operations will use
   a post-post type procedures.
   5.2. Only production supervisors will issue HAZMATs for mid and swing shifts along with
   weekends using the post-post procedures.
   5.3. Production supervisors will check the assigned personnel listing and Authorized Users
   List (AUL) to verify authorization of requested materials. If authorized, annotate the post-
   post control log with the required information for each item. Post-post log will be used to
   return items to the IP also.
6. Hazardous Material Kit Issue and Restocking Procedures:
   6.1. If a kit is required, IPM will assign each shop with a kit title and identification number.
   6.2. The individual work center determines the need for a kit. The IPM and shop personnel
   establish minimum quantities required to support the workload. The kit quantities shall not
   exceed an amount sufficient to support a monthly requirement.
      6.2.1. The work center requesting a new kit will provide a metal box for storage and
      transportation that can be secured in a way to prevent spillage and/or breakage. Storage
      compatibility must be considered when determining kit requirements.
   6.3. The IP53 will reconcile the entire kit monthly.
      6.3.1. The kits will be reconciled NLT 1200, Thursday on the following monthly
      schedule.
          6.3.1.1. Week 1: Services, Comm Radio, Dash 21, AGE, Comm Nav and ECM.
          6.3.1.2. Week 2: Guidance and Control, , Flight Line, Aircraft Kits, Fuels and
          Security Police.
          6.3.1.3. Week 3: Engine Shop, Life Support, Metals Tech, Structural Repair and
          Munitions.
          6.3.1.4. Week 4: Hydraulics, Aero Repair, Electro/Environmental, NDI, and Trans.
7. The Work Center (Zone) Supervisor's Responsibilities:
 4                                                            919SOWI32-7001 8 MARCH 2010


     7.1. Inform employees of all operating procedures for IP53.
     7.2. Ensure all HAZMATS for the zone are properly managed.
        7.2.1. Ensure all zone kits are inventoried every month in accordance with this operating
        instruction.
     7.3. Ensure all hazardous waste (HAZWASTE), for the zone is properly managed.
     7.4. Brief personnel on their workplace specific spill plan.
     7.5. Establish minimum on-going materials usage requirements and update the ZONES AUL
     as necessary.
     7.6. Ensure all assigned shop personnel receive all required training.
     7.7. Inform the IPM of any changes of employees in their zone. Review and validate AUL
     and employee assigned listings quarterly. Ensure all employees process in and out through
     the IP.
     7.8. Fill out a memorandum for record for unaccountable HAZMATs to explain why the
     shop cannot find the issued material and that it was disposed of IAW Federal, State, and
     Local laws. IP53 manager will track these and inform commanders if problems continue to
     exist.
8. The Zone User Responsibilities:
     8.1. Ensure the HAZMAT is used only in the process for which it has been approved and
     authorized.
     8.2. Zones are responsible for maintaining shelf life requirements for products in their
     respective kits.
     8.3. Return all materials, to include empty containers, to the issue point upon completion of
     use. If the container is empty, the IP53 personnel will process the appropriate transaction to
     clear the designated tracking system of issued material. Once the container is processed
     through the system it is disposed of according to local directives.
     8.4. All work center users will be responsible for the proper use, storage, and knowledge of
     all HAZMATs issued to them. The IPM will help customers with any problems or questions
     concerning HAZMATs or HAZWASTE.
9. Deployment Procedures:
     9.1. As soon as possible, IPM will be notified of deployment. The length of the deployment
     will determine the amount of hazardous materials to be deployed.
     9.2. If possible, two weeks prior to deployment, 919 MXS Mobility POC will give the
     compiled list of hazardous materials to the IPM. The issue point personnel and the
     designated deployed issue point manager will take action to ensure the required amount of
     hazardous material is obtained for the deployment.
     9.3. IPM will transfer all inventory to be deployed to IP53B (TDY material). All inventory
     consumed off station will be transferred to IP53C (consumed off station). Reconciled
     inventory will be transferred back to IP53 for shelving and reissue. These actions must be
     completed within three days after return.
919SOWI32-7001 8 MARCH 2010                                                                          5


   9.4. The Maintenance Group Commander will designate, by letter, a deployed issue point
   manager.
      9.4.1. The deploying Issue Point Manager will work with each shop to ensure proper
      documentation of shippers’ decks. Each shop will be responsible for signing this form as
      the certifying official. Each shop will be responsible for working with the deployed Issue
      Point Manager to ensure proper packing of hazardous materials.
      9.4.2. The deploying IPM will be responsible for making a complete inventory list and
      the re-inventory and turn in upon return. While deployed, the deployed IPM will be
      responsible for issuing, turn-in, replenish from home station when required, and proper
      disposal of the hazardous materials. NOTE: Deploying IPM is defined as "any person
      that the commander considers to be trained and qualified (in writing), IAW AFMAN 24-
      204, Preparing Hazardous Materials For Military Air Shipments, on packing and
      handling of the deployed HAZMATs.
10. Hazardous Materials for Self-Help Projects:
   10.1. No HAZMATs will be requested or ordered unless an approved AF Form 332 has been
   approved through all program requirements for Eglin AFB.
   10.2. When performing a self-help project that requires the use of hazardous materials,
   approval must be received through the IP before the items are requested from self-help. This
   is mandatory since only approved items will be issued to the zone.
   10.3. Civil Engineer (CE) Self-help will transfer the items to the appropriate IP at time of
   purchase. The user is then required to bring the items to the IP for issue through HMMS.
   10.4. Self Help GPC purchases are approved only through the IP and the HAZMAT Cell.
   10.5. All items will be cleared through the IP upon completion of the project.
11. Oil, Hydraulic Fluid, Freon, and Glass Cleaners Stored on Aircraft:
   11.1. Aircraft crew chiefs must inventory the fluids stored on the aircraft on a monthly basis.
   On the second week of each month, the crew chief is responsible for giving the IPM a list of
   all serial numbers, and shelf life date of the fluids stored on the aircraft. Aircraft glass cleaner
   must be brought to the HAZMART for proper weights to be entered into HMMS. (Upon
   request, an aircraft tail number list of currently assigned fluids can be furnished from the IPM
   to assist the crew chief in accomplishing an accurate inventory.)
   11.2. Prior to an aircraft leaving for depot or temporary duty away from home station
   (TDY), the crew chief is responsible for informing the IPM that the aircraft will be leaving
   home station and will not be available for inventory. All aircraft inventory must be
   transferred in HMMS to IP53B. An inventory will be done immediately upon aircraft return
   of the aircraft to home station. See para 9.3 this instruction
   11.3. If a sealed storage container has been opened, aircraft crew chief will immediately
   inventory fluids stored on the aircraft and provide IPM with a list of serial numbers of fluids
   that were used. Reseal container after replenishing. NOTE: The accuracy of this inventory
   is critical to maintain the required control and tracking of material that is issued for extended
   periods of time.
 6                                                      919SOWI32-7001 8 MARCH 2010


12. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                        JON A. WEEKS , Col, USAFR
                                        Commander
919SOWI32-7001 8 MARCH 2010                                                                 7


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
CFR 29 1910.1200, Hazard Communication 01 Jul 2003
AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Material Management 01 Nov 2004
AFI 32-7086, AAC Supplement 1, Hazardous Material Management 15 Aug 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAC—Air Armament Center
AUL—Authorized Users List
CE—Civil Engineer
CFR—Code of Federal Regulation
EM—Environmental Management
HAZCOM—Hazard Communication
HAZMART—A facility or location where HAZMAT is centrally managed
HAZMAT—Hazardous Materials
HAZWASTE—Hazardous Waste
HMMS—Hazardous Material Management System, the Standardized Air Force HAZMAT
Tracking System used by Eglin AFB
IP—Issue Point
IP53—919 SOW Issue Point
IP53B—Issue Point used in HMMS for items TDY
IP53C—Issue Point used in HMMS for items consumed TDY for tracking purposes
IPM—Issue Point Manager
MSDS—Material Safety Data Sheet
POC—Point of Contact
TDY—Temporary Duty
ZONE—Work Center

Terms
Authorized Users List (AUL)—The list of all completed AF Form 3952 authorizations, as
recorded in the standardized Air Force HAZMAT tracking system, for installation-level work
areas to use specific HAZMAT in specific processes (so long as the conditions described in the
AF Form 3952 authorization remain unchanged).
 8                                                           919SOWI32-7001 8 MARCH 2010


Hazard Communication (HAZCOM)—The OSHA Hazard Communication Standard found in
29 CFR 1910.1200 requires supervisors to inform the workers they supervise of the occupational
safety and health hazards of chemicals used in the workplace and the proper procedures and
equipment to use to minimize the risks of injury or sickness.
Hazardous Material (HAZMAT)—For purposes of this Air Force Instruction (AFI), the term
HAZMAT includes all items (including medical supply items with the exception of drugs in their
finished form and pharmaceuticals in individually-issued items) covered under the Emergency
Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act (EPCRA) (or other host nation, federal, state, or
local) reporting requirement, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)
Hazard Communication (HAZCOM) Standard, and all Class I and Class II Ozone Depleting
Substances (ODS). It does not include munitions.
Hazardous Waste (HAZWASTE)—Any material subject to the hazardous waste manifest
requirements of Environmental Protection Agency specified in 40 CFR Part 262 and meets the
definition in 40 CFR § 261.3 according to AFI 32-7042, Solid and Hazardous Waste
Compliance.
HAZMART—A HAZMART is the “customer service desk” for the IHMP, and is the only
entity on an installation authorized to issue government-owned HAZMAT. At a minimum, a
HAZMART is a facility or location where customers can receive support for obtaining
HAZMAT, and where HAZMAT are managed and tracked. A HAZMART is intended to be the
primary location on an installation where LRS personnel stock, store, issue and distribute
HAZMAT. Each installation must have at least one primary HAZMART established by, and
accountable to, the LRS commander. The HMMP team may designate additional unit-controlled
supply activities as HAZMARTs, performing all the functions of the primary HAZMART. The
HAZMART responsibilities include the receipt and entry of data on Government-wide Purchase
Card purchases of HAZMAT and the receipt and entry of data on contractor usage of HAZMAT.
Process—A uniquely defined “unit of work” bounded by (1) ESOH regulatory drivers, and (2)
hazard recognition, evaluation, and control. Shops provide the TO number, title, page, and
paragraph information that identify the work “step” in an overall process. However, this
information is captured only as a "driver" for the identified process; TO “steps” are not the sole
determinants in defining a process.
Process-specific Authorization—One of the two types of BE, SE, or CE approvals to authorize
the use of a given HAZMAT. Process-specific authorizations approve the use of a particular
HAZMAT in a given process in specified amounts.
Recycle—The process that transforms recovered materials into new or usable products.
Requiring Document—The document that requires the use of the requested HAZMAT in a
work area. The requiring document will be a TO, owner/operator manual, work specification, or
drawing.
User—Anyone or any organization utilizing hazardous material in the performance of their Air
Force mission.
Work Area—A definable location where personnel perform work. This can be outdoors (e.g., an
aircraft trim pad) or indoor; administrative or industrial; or any installation-level location where
919SOWI32-7001 8 MARCH 2010                                                              9


a hazardous material is used in the performance of a specific process. Synonymous with work
center.
