BY ORDER OF THE                                      919TH SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING
WING COMMANDER 919TH SPECIAL                                     INSTRUCTION 31-102
OPERATIONS WING
                                                                           11 OCTOBER 2005
                                                       Certified Current on 26 September 2012
                                                                                     Security

                                                            BASE WIDE CAMERA SYSTEM



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 919 SOW/CP                                                     Certified by: 919 SOW/CP
                                                                     (Lt Col Charles E. Busch)
                                                                                       Pages: 3


This instruction implements AFPD 31-1, Physical Security. This instruction supports AFI 33-
117 USAFSUPA1-1, Visual Information Management and DoD 5040.76-M-1, Decision and
Logic Table Instructions for Recording and Handling Visual Information Material. It establishes
procedures for personnel working with components of the Base Wide Camera System using the
AF Form 3215, IT/NSS Requirements Document. It establishes procedures for the general use,
funding, maintenance, warranty issues and additions to and deletions from the Base Wide
Camera System. Military personnel in violation of this instruction may be prosecuted under the
Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). This instruction applies to all units assigned to the
919th Special Operations Wing (919 SOW).

1. Definition: A Base Wide Camera System (BWCS) is installed at Eglin Field 3, (Duke Field)
to provide security for mission critical assets. These assets can be actively monitored and
recorded by agencies providing the appropriate justification for these capabilities.
2. Responsibilities:
   2.1. The 919 SOW Commander will act as final approval authority for any additions to,
   deletions from or major changes to the BWCS. The 919 SOW/CC will also be final approval
   authority for any BWCS surveillance requests.
   2.2. The 919 SOW Command Post (CP) Systems NCOIC will provide continuity for the
   BWCS. Systems NCOIC will also coordinate on all deletions and requests to move
   components of the BWCS. Systems NCOIC will coordinate on all contracting requests for
   additions and deletions to the BWCS.
 2                                                       919SOWI31-102 11 OCTOBER 2005


     2.3. The 919th Communications Squadron Communications & Information (CS/SCB) will
     report and insure network connectivity and compliance with Eglin’s Network Security
     Requirements.
     2.4. Group Client Support Administrators (CSA), formerly known as Workgroup Managers
     (WGM), will provide troubleshooting, updating, and warranty modifications for all BWCS
     components within their group. CSAs will go through the contractor for any required
     troubleshooting or warranty issues. Any issues that can not be resolved will be upchanneled
     to 919 CS/SCB.
     2.5. Users will report any outages or problems to their Group CSA. Any user with an
     operational need for software or additional BWCS components must submit their request in
     writing. Requests will be routed through the 919 SOW/CP Systems NCOIC for
     coordination. Once coordinated, requests will be forwarded to the 919 SOW Commander for
     final approval.
3. Workplace Privacy: Cameras will not be placed in a way that could impede workplace
privacy. Cameras will only be positioned in areas where employees have no reasonable
expectation of privacy. However, if any illegal or unauthorized activity is detected by the
BWCS, members can be expected to be prosecuted under the UCMJ.
4. Funding: If a camera or component of the BWCS fails and no warranty of the system exists,
the primary user of that camera/component is responsible for the cost of replacing or repairing
the inoperative part of the BWCS.
5. Recorded Material:
     5.1. BWCS records activities captured by all cameras. This visual information (VI) will be
     handled in accordance with AFI33-117 USAFSUP1-1, Visual Information Management. As
     the lifetime of these recorded images are command and control information displayed with
     weapons systems used normally less than one year, they are not considered Visual
     Information Products and therefore do not require the associated reports.
5.2. According to DoD 5040.76-M-1, Decision and Logic Table Instructions for Recording and
Handling Visual Information Material, a portion of the VI captured by BWCS will be routine
appearance, configuration, and operations of aircraft that may be used in future operations and is
considered FILE material by Decision Logic Table C5.T12. Copies will be provided to local and
major commands, as requested. FILE images will be kept no longer than 30 days unless
requested by higher headquarters.
        5.2.1. The majority of VI recorded by BWCS will be of routine local operations and is
        considered LOCAL. This VI is not sent forward and may be destroyed when appropriate.
        LOCAL VI will be kept for no longer than 30 days. All FILE and LOCAL VI will
        automatically be recorded over after the 30 day period, unless otherwise requested before
        the 30 days expires.
6. Purpose: Primary purpose of the BWCS is to provide security for wing assets. Camera
operators must focus their effort on capturing specific imagery related to security, and avoid
expending time and resources recording other imagery.
     6.1. The use of the AF Form 3215 will be used for miscellaneous requests (employee
     monitoring, illegal activities, etc). Use of BWCS monitoring and recorded VI will be
919SOWI31-102 11 OCTOBER 2005                                                                 3


  handled on a case-by-case basis. If a request does not involve the physical security of a wing
  asset, special approval must be requested. Specific instructions for completing the AF Form
  3215 can be found in AFI 33-103, Requirements Development and Processing, attachment 4.
  6.2. An AF Form 3215 must be completed and signed by unit commander stating the
  specific reason for camera monitoring or research into past recorded VI. For past recorded
  VI, please include specific time(s), location(s) and date(s). Include a statement that the
  request for recorded VI is for official use only and no private purpose for viewing the
  material exists. These requests will be submitted to the 919 SOW Commander for approval.
  Upon approval, 919 SOW/CP Systems NCOIC will provide the camera assets or recorded VI
  as requested.




                                           MARK A. KYLE, Colonel, USAFR
                                           Commander
