BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           919TH SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING
919TH SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING                                   INSTRUCTION 34-102

                                                                              13 MARCH 2014

                                                                                    Services

                                                   AIR FORCE OUTDOOR RECREATION
                                                        PROGRAMS AND PROCEDURES

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 919 FSS/FSV                                                  Certified by: 919 MSG/CD
                                                                     (Lt Col Kelly R. Gwin)
                                                                                     Pages: 5




This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 34-1, Air Force Services
Combat Support Programs. This instruction extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI)
34-110, Air Force Outdoor Recreation Programs and Procedures providing guidance for
managing Air Force outdoor recreation facilities and programs. It provides guidance and
procedures for 919th Special Operations Wing (919 SOW) members for use of the Recreation
Vehicle (RV) storage rental lot managed by the Force Support Squadron (FSS) Services (FSV).
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. Requests for
waivers must be submitted through chain of command to the OPR listed above for consideration
and approval. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the Air Force.


1. Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR). The RV storage rental lot will be managed by the
FSV Service Business Office (SBO).
 2                                                            919SOWI34-102 13 MARCH 2014


     1.1. The SBO shall maintain the RV lot relatively free of weeds and trash, identify space
     number, repair fence and gates as needed, assure reasonable access, and issue/account for
     gate access.
     1.2. The SBO will maintain and manage a waiting list.
2. User Responsibility. All authorized users of the RV storage rental lot, located on Duke
Field, are responsible for reading, understanding and complying with the provisions stated in this
instruction.
3. Definition. A recreational vehicle (RV) is defined as a boat/trailer combination, camper
(vehicle mounted on chassis), motor home or personal watercraft/trailer combination. Any
exceptions shall be at the discretion of the 919 SOW/CC.
     3.1. The Duke Field RV storage rental lot is located on South Drone Street adjacent to the
     water tower.
     3.2. Eligibility priorities are listed in AFI 34-110. Members of the 919th SOW have first
     priority for available sites. Once a spot is reserved to a customer, a two-day (48 hour) hold is
     put on that spot. After 48 hours, the customer’s name will be removed and the next person
     on the waiting list notified.
4. Storage Rental Procedures: Applications for assignment to an RV lot space are made at the
Services Business Office (SBO), Bldg. 3055, Room 121. Once assigned a spot, the applicant
shall complete an RV storage rental agreement/contract form in duplicate, and the RV gate
combination will be given at that time.
     4.1. Customers will park RV(s) in the designated space and secure all windows, vents, doors,
     exterior attachments, etc. Chock blocks are recommended to secure vehicles from accidental
     movement.
     4.2. A separate contract is required for each item stored. Each lot is authorized one item. A
     vehicle on a trailer is considered one item.
     4.3. If RV owners' equipment is improperly parked, placed, or accounts are delinquent, the
     SBO reserves the right to move such property, and/or block owners access to the lot. If
     owners cannot be readily contacted, the SBO has the right to arrange for the removal of
     property at the owner's expense.
     4.4. The United States Air Force and the 919th Force Support Squadron are not held liable
     for loss property or damaged to equipment placed in the RV storage rental lot. Any
     exceptions will be via legal office determination, 919 FSS/CC, or above.
     4.5. The RV lot gate combination will be changed quarterly.             It is the individual’s
     responsibility to obtain the new combination.
5. RV Storage Rental User’s Policy.
     5.1. Vehicles must either be personal property of authorized members with proper
     Identification (ID) with storage rental privileges or an authorized individual sponsored by
     the ID cardholder.
     5.2. Equipment must be parked and stored only in the space or area designated by SBO staff.
919SOWI34-102 13 MARCH 2014                                                                       3


   5.3. Customers will keep their assigned space clean and free from ancillary items (i.e.,
   wheels, seats, ropes, tarps, etc.).
   5.4. RV storage lot holders will not perform significant work on any vehicle within the
   confines of the storage lot or allow motor oil, fuel, or other potential contaminants to spill on
   the grounds. Drip pans are required to be placed under all motors, transmissions and
   differentials. Any fluids collected must be disposed of at an authorized fluid recycling
   center by the renter/special power of attorney designee. Drip pans will be checked monthly
   by renter/special power of attorney designee.
   5.5. Customers are responsible for the safekeeping of their property.            No person is
   authorized to stay overnight in the RV storage rental lot.
   5.6. No RV or equipment will be allowed to extend beyond the length of the parking space
   or otherwise impede traffic flow or access within the RV lot.
   5.7. Customers are required to maintain sufficient insurance to cover any loss or damage
   occurring within the RV storage rental lot. If theft or damage is noted, customer should
   contact Security Forces immediately at 883-7002.
   5.8. All vehicles should remain current on insurance and proper registration, both on-base
   and with the local government. Proof must be shown along with valid ID card upon annual
   renewal. A vehicle not in compliance will be removed at the owner’s expense.
   5.9. If an RV is sold the new owner has 2 days (48 hours) to remove the item or it will be
   removed by the SBO at the owner’s expense.
6. Fees: Fees shall be assessed for all personnel and approved by the Non-appropriated Funds
(NAF) Council or FSS Commander (CC).
   6.1. Payment is due on the 1st day of each month. Fees are based on a month-to-month
   basis. At the discretion of the Services Business Manager (SBM), a lesser period of time
   may be prorated to meet individual customer circumstances (i.e., Temporary Duty Away
   from Home station (TDY) personnel, personnel with known base departure date, etc.).
   6.2. Storage rental fees are assessed and collected upon issue of the site. In case of change
   in type or quantity of equipment, customer shall notify the SBO Staff. Any refund request is
   based on date customer notifies SBO Staff and removes item; not after the fact.
   6.3. The Services Business Manager has the discretion to determine eligibility criteria and
   appropriate fee schedule for a vehicle or property item not otherwise defined in this
   instruction.
   6.4. Customers wishing to terminate storage rental agreement must coordinate with the SBO
   for refund eligibility and to clear space for other personnel.
7. Delinquent Accounts. Accounts are considered delinquent after the 10th of each month.
   7.1. The SBO will attempt to contact the customer via telephone and/or email to request
   immediate payment. An additional $10 late fee will be added to the amount owed on the
   11th for each month payment is not received.
   7.2. If appropriate, when a payment is 30 or more days delinquent, a letter to the individual
   and the individual's commander and/or supervisor will be initiated.
 4                                                         919SOWI34-102 13 MARCH 2014


     7.3. If payment is 60 or more days delinquent, action to impound and dispose of customer's
     property shall begin. A military payment order (MPO) will also be initiated.
8. Abandoned or Unclaimed Private Property or Privately-Owned Vehicles. Any lost,
abandoned, or unclaimed private property will be processed IAW AFI 34-204, Property
Management, paragraph 5.10. Any lost, abandoned, or unclaimed privately-owned vehicles
(POVs) will be processed IAW AFI 34-204, paragraph 6.25.




                                            JAMES M. PHILLIPS, Col, USAFR
                                            Commander
919SOWI34-102 13 MARCH 2014                                                    5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 34-1, Air Force Services Combat Support Programs, 2 Nov 2012
AFI 34-110, Air Force Outdoor Recreation Programs and Procedures, 6 Jan 2012
AFI 34-204, Property Management, 27 Aug 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
CC—Commander
FSS—Force Support Squadron
IAW—In Accordance With
MPO—Military Payment Order
ODR—Outdoor Recreation
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
NAF—Non-appropriated
SBM—Services Business Manager
SBO—Services Business Office
SFS—Security Forces
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RV—Recreational Vehicle
TDY—Temporary Duty
