BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              919TH SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING
919TH SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING                                      INSTRUCTION 48-101

                                                                          15 NOVEMBER 2011

                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                   BLOODBORNE PATHOGEN EXPOSURE
                                                                   CONTROL PLAN

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 919 MDS/SGPM                                                    Certified by: 919 MDS/CC
                                                                      (Col Edward H. Seeliger)
                                                                                       Pages: 14


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 48-1, Aerospace Medical
Program. It provides a Bloodborne Pathogen Exposure Control Plan (ECP) for the 919th Special
Operations Wing (919 SOW). It establishes guidelines for the elimination or minimization of
employee exposure to blood and other potentially infectious material and is intended to comply
with the requirements of OSHA Standard 29 CFR 1910.1030, Occupational Exposure to
Bloodborne Pathogens. The Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act, Public Law 106-430
requires that this procedure be reviewed and updated at least annually and whenever necessary to
reflect new or modified tasks and procedures which affect occupational exposure and to reflect
new or revised employee positions with occupational exposure. The annual review shall reflect
changes in technology that eliminate or reduce exposure to bloodborne pathogens and document
consideration and implementation of appropriate commercially available and effective safer
medical devices designed to eliminate or minimize occupational exposure. It applies to all
reserve medical personnel regardless of Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) and all military and
civilian workers at the 919 SOW who may encounter routine or non-routine occupational
exposure to bloodborne pathogens including Hepatitis B Virus (HBV) and Human
Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Form Manual (AFMAN 33-
363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims. This instruction directs the collecting and
maintaining of information that is subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 55,
 2                                                      919SOWI48-101 15 NOVEMBER 2011


Medical and Dental Care; 10 U.S.C. 8013, Secretary of the Air Force; 29 CFR 1960,
Occupational Illness/Injury Reporting Guidelines for Federal Agencies; and E.O. 9397(SSN).
This instruction is subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 and the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA).                   Privacy Act Notice F044 AF SG R
http://privacy.defense.gov/notices/usaf/F044AFSGR.shtml applies to all Public Health created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication. This is the initial publication of 919 SOWI
48-101.

1. Overview. The Federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Bloodborne
Pathogens Standard covers all employees who could "reasonably anticipate", as the result of
performing their job duties, to have contact with blood and other potentially infectious materials.
"Good Samaritan" acts such as assisting a coworker with a nosebleed would not be considered
occupational exposure. For Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC), this includes personnel
designated by the commander as responsible for medical assistance as part of their job.
2. Applicability.
     2.1. 919th Medical Squadron (919 MDS): This Exposure Control Plan (ECP) applies to all
     reserve medical personnel regardless of Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC).
     2.2. 919th Civil Engineering Squadron (919 CES) Fire Fighters: 919 CES Fire Department
     personnel are trained to be first responders, but they do not respond to real world events on
     this base. Eglin Air Force Base (AFB) active duty personnel (96 CES) man the fire
     department for the 919 SOW. They are governed by their unit’s Bloodborne Pathogen ECP.
     2.3. 919th Security Forces Squadron (919 SFS): 919SFS personnel are not to respond to or
     render any medical assistance to personnel on Duke Field. The 96 SFS provides security
     personnel and are directed to follow their unit’s Bloodborne Pathogen ECP.
     2.4. Contracted employees serve as housekeepers for the 919 SOW Medical Treatment
     Facility (MTF). Contractors are responsible for implementation of OSHA Standard 29 CFR
     1910.1030, Occupational Exposure to Bloodborne Pathogens, for their personnel.
     2.5. Non-appropriated Fund (NAF) employees serve as housekeepers for the 919 SOW
     Lodging facilities. NAF is responsible for implementation of OSHA Standard 29 CFR
     1910.1030, Occupational Exposure to Bloodborne Pathogens for their personnel.
     2.6. 919th Services Flight (919 SVF): 919 SVF personnel are trained in mortuary affairs and
     search and recovery team duties, but they do not perform these duties on this base. Active
     duty personnel from Eglin AFB would provide mortuary and search and recovery services
     and they must follow their unit’s Bloodborne Pathogen ECP.
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. 919 SOW Wing Commander: The commander is ultimately responsible to ensure that
     all employees have a safe working environment; this includes protection from bloodborne
     pathogens (BBP).
     3.2. Unit/Squadron Commanders and Supervisors:
919SOWI48-101 15 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                3


     3.2.1. Ensure that exposed workers who are at risk for occupational exposure to blood or
     other potentially infectious materials are adequately protected, receive initial and annual
     training, and comply with established guidelines and requirements.
     3.2.2. Determine which employees have a potential for occupational exposures and
     document all tasks/procedures where exposures may take place. Exposure determination
     shall be made without regard to the use of personal protective equipment (PPE).
     3.2.3. Identify and document all positions with potential occupational exposure.
     3.2.4. Establish Operating Instructions (OIs) based on this plan to minimize or eliminate
     employee exposures. OIs will be reviewed and updated annually by each section.
     Annual reviews must include reviews of appropriate new commercially available and
     safer medical devices designed to eliminate or minimize occupational exposures. The
     safety devices should be evaluated based on the nature of the existing exposures and type
     of work performed.
     3.2.5. Train employees (initial and annual) that have reasonable potential for
     occupational exposure and complete documentation of training.
     3.2.6. Determine the Hepatitis B vaccination/immunity status of each new worker.
     Ensure Hepatitis B Vaccine is offered to at-risk personnel who previously have not been
     vaccinated.
     3.2.7. Promptly refer exposed workers (and, if possible, the source patient) to 919 MDS
     Public Health Office (SGPM).
  3.3. Public Health (SGPM):
     3.3.1. Responsible for overall exposure control plan surveillance and process
     improvements.
     3.3.2. Responsible for the implementation and management of the exposure control plan.
     3.3.3. Investigates potential or actual pathogen exposure, maintains exposure
     documentation, and monitors personnel during the post-exposure period. The Stand
     Form (SF) 558, Documentation of Medical Follow-up, Laboratory Results and other
     follow-up documentation will be kept in the individual’s medical record.
     3.3.4. Schedules follow-up lab studies, provides education/counseling to affected persons
     as needed, and refers the individual to a health care provider for care.
     3.3.5. Maintains a sharp injury log for the recording of percutaneous injuries from
     contaminated sharps. The information in the sharp injury log will be recorded and
     maintained in such manner as to protect the confidentiality of the injured personnel. The
     sharp injury log contains the type and brand of device involved in the incident, the
     department or work area where the exposure incident occurred and an explanation of how
     the incident occurred. SGPM shall report the previous year number of sharp injuries to
     the Safety Office by 15 January of each year.
     3.3.6. Annually reviews all 919 Unit Bloodborne Pathogen ECPs.
     3.3.7. Provides education and training assistance to workplace supervisors, upon request,
     to help fulfill supervisor’s responsibilities.
 4                                                      919SOWI48-101 15 NOVEMBER 2011


        3.3.8. Provides the Infection Control Functional Review a written summary of
        bloodborne pathogen exposures. Applies epidemiological principles to the events and
        makes recommendations to the Infection Control Functional Review (ICFR) for
        corrective measures as needed.
     3.4. Infection Control Functional Review (ICFR): Managerial responsibility for monitoring
     compliance with this plan rests with the members of the ICFR, which in turn is reported to
     the Executive Committee of the Medical Staff (EMC).
     3.4.1. Annually reviews and approves the Bloodborne Pathogen ECP.
     3.4.2. The ICRF will document in the minutes, the consideration of available and safer
     medical devices designed to eliminate or minimize occupational exposure. The 919 SOW
     Infection Control Officer (ICO) or 919 Public Health Officer (PHO) will provide input for
     the identification, evaluation, and selection of effective engineering and work practice
     controls to the 919 SOW ICRF when requested.
        3.4.3. Contractors and NAF employees will follow the OSHA Bloodborne Pathogen
        Standard.
     3.5. Unit Personnel:
        3.5.1. Attend initial orientation and annual bloodborne pathogen/infection control
        training.
        3.5.2. Comply with duty section infection control and bloodborne pathogen exposure
        control policy and procedures.
        3.5.3. Identify and report any deviations from infection control procedures to supervisor
        and ICO.
        3.5.4. Know which tasks have a potential for occupational exposure.
        3.5.5. Comply with standard precautions and observe good infection control and
        personal hygiene habits.
        3.5.6. Report exposures to their supervisors immediately, obtain medical care, and report
        to Public Health as soon as possible after the exposure incident.
        3.5.7. Understanding this instruction is the responsibility of any employee who has a
        reasonably anticipated risk of occupational bloodborne pathogen exposure, regardless of
        the degree of risk.
3.6. 919th Medical Squadron:
        3.6.1. Provides pre-exposure hepatitis B vaccinations for at risk personnel.
        3.6.2. Maintains medical records for military employees.
4. General Management Procedures.
     4.1. Clean-up Procedures for Small Amounts of Blood or Body Fluids.
     4.1.1. Each building should have clean-up equipment in the janitor’s closet (gloves,
     antiseptic soap, mop and bucket).
        4.1.2. Wear rubber, neoprene or waterproof work gloves during the cleaning process.
919SOWI48-101 15 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                 5


     4.1.3. Wear shoe covers and apron if you suspect potential exposure to blood during the
     cleaning operation.
     4.1.4. Wash the area with plenty of antiseptic soap and cold water (or 1 to 10 ratio of
     bleach and water). Do not use hot water on clothes and laundry, because stains will set
     with hot water.
     4.1.5. After the clean up, dispose of gloves and wash hands with antiseptic soap and
     water (or 1 to 10 ratio of bleach and water). The clean-up solutions can be poured down
     the sanitary drain.
  4.2. Engineering and Work Practice Controls:
     4.2.1. Universal Precautions: OSHA mandates the use of universal precautions and
     treatment of all body fluid/materials as if infectious. Employees will be required to use
     appropriate personal protective equipment.
     4.2.2. Handling Materials: All procedures involving blood or potentially infectious
     materials shall be performed in a manner to minimize splashing, spraying, spattering, and
     generation of droplets of these substances.
     4.2.3. Washing Hands: Employees shall wash their hands and any other skin with
     antiseptic soap and water (or 1 to 10 ratio of bleach and water) as soon as feasible
     following contact of such body areas with blood or other potentially infectious materials
     and/or after removal of gloves or other personal protective equipment. If hand-washing
     facilities are not available the employee shall use antiseptic hand cleanser in conjunction
     with clean cloth/paper or antiseptic towelettes. When antiseptic hand cleansers or
     towelettes are not available, hands shall be washed as soon as feasible.
     4.2.4. Containers: Specimens of blood or other potentially infectious materials shall be
     placed in a container that prevents leakage during collection, handling, processing,
     storage, transport, or shipping. Biohazard labels must be affixed to containers of
     regulated waste, refrigerators and freezers and other containers that are used to store or
     transport blood or other potentially infectious materials. Red bags or containers may be
     used instead of labeling.
     4.2.5. Contaminated Sharps: Contaminated needles and other contaminated sharps shall
     not be bent. No routine recapping of needles. Exception to the recapping of the needle
     rule: where no alternative exists, one-handed or device assisted recapping can be done.
     Shearing or breaking of contaminated needles is prohibited. Contaminated sharps shall be
     placed in a sharp disposable container. The container shall be closable, puncture resistant,
     biohazard labeled, and leak-proof on the sides and bottom.
     4.2.6. Contaminated Wastes Other Than Sharps:
         4.2.6.1. Contaminated wastes will be placed in containers that are closable, prevent
         leakage, and display a biohazard label. The container must be closed before removal
         to prevent the contents from spilling. If the outside of a container becomes
         contaminated, it must be placed within a second suitable container. The second
         container will have a biohazard label.
         4.2.6.2. Equipment that may become contaminated with blood or other potentially
         infectious materials will be examined post-use and prior to servicing or shipping and
6                                                   919SOWI48-101 15 NOVEMBER 2011


       be decontaminated as necessary. A biohazard label shall be attached to the equipment
       stating portions that remain contaminated.
       4.2.6.3. Contaminated laundry shall be placed in bags or containers that are closable,
       prevent leakage, and display a biohazard label.
    4.2.7. Eating Food, Drinking, Smoking, etc.: Eating, drinking, smoking, applying
    cosmetics or lip balm, and handling contact lenses are prohibited in work areas where
    there is a reasonable likelihood of contact with infectious material. Food and drink shall
    not be kept in refrigerators, freezers, shelves, and cabinets or on countertops or benchtops
    where blood or other potentially infectious materials are present.
    4.2.8. Mouth Pipetting: Mouth pipetting/suctioning of blood or other potentially
    infectious materials is prohibited.
    4.2.9. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE): If there is reasonable potential for
    occupational exposure to bloodborne infectious materials, the employee will use
    appropriate personal protective equipment. This equipment will be provided to the
    employee at no cost. The equipment may be gloves, gowns, laboratory coats, face shields
    or masks, eye protection, mouthpieces, resuscitation bags, pocket masks, and/or other
    ventilation devices. The supervisor shall determine the appropriate personal protective
    equipment to be used and ensure that the employees use them.
       4.2.9.1. The supervisor maintains the personal protective equipment by repair or
       replacement as needed.
       4.2.9.2. If blood or other potentially infectious materials penetrate a garment, the
       garment shall be removed as soon as feasible.
       4.2.9.3. All personal protective equipment shall be removed prior to leaving the work
       area.
       4.2.9.4. When potentially contaminated personal protective equipment is removed; it
       shall be placed in biohazard containers for storage, washing, decontamination or
       disposal.
    4.2.10. Gloves:
       4.2.10.1. Gloves shall be worn when it can be reasonably anticipated that the
       employee may have hand contact with blood or other infectious material.
       4.2.10.2. Disposable (single use) gloves such as surgical or examination gloves, must
       be changed after each patient contact, as soon as feasible if they are torn, punctured,
       contaminated, or their ability to function as a barrier is compromised.
           4.2.10.2.1. Disposable gloves shall not be washed or decontaminated for re-use.
           4.2.10.2.2. If an employee has an allergic reaction to gloves provided, use
           hypoallergenic gloves, glove liners, powder-less gloves, or other similar
           alternatives.
       4.2.10.3. Utility gloves may be decontaminated for reuse if the integrity of the glove
       is not compromised. However, they must be discarded if they are cracked, peeling,
919SOWI48-101 15 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                  7


          torn, punctured, or exhibits other signs of deterioration or when their ability to
          function as a barrier is compromised.
      4.2.11. Masks, Eye Protection, and Face Shields:
          4.2.11.1. Masks in combination with eye protection devices, such as goggles or
          glasses with solid side shields, or chin-length face shields, shall be worn whenever
          splashes, spray, spatter, or droplets of blood or other potentially infectious materials
          may be generated and eye, nose, or mouth contamination can be reasonably
          anticipated.
          4.2.11.2. Masks and/or shoe covers or boots shall be worn in instances when gross
          contamination can reasonably be anticipated.
      4.2.12. Resuscitation Devices: Devices with one-way valves will be used to resuscitate a
      person. These devices may be mouthpieces, resuscitation bags, pocket masks or other
      ventilation devices. Use mouth-to-mouth resuscitation without barrier as a last resort.
   4.3. Housekeeping:
      4.3.1. All equipment and environmental and working surfaces shall be cleaned and
      decontaminated after contact with blood or other potentially infectious materials.
      4.3.2. Broken glassware that may be contaminated shall not be picked up directly with
      the hands. It shall be cleaned up using mechanical means, such as a brush and dustpan,
      tongs, or forceps.
5. Training:
   5.1. Training must be provided upon initial job assignment and at least annually thereafter.
   Employees who have received appropriate training within the past year need only receive
   additional training in items not previously covered. Training must include:
      5.1.1. Provide access to a copy of the Bloodborne Pathogen Standard (29 CFR
      1910.1030) and an explanation of its contents.
      5.1.2. A general explanation of the epidemiology and symptoms of bloodborne diseases
      and modes of transmission of bloodborne pathogens.
      5.1.3. An explanation of the 919 SOW Bloodborne Pathogen Exposure Control Plan.
      5.1.4. Method for recognizing tasks or activities that may involve exposure to blood and
      other infectious materials.
      5.1.5. Procedures to follow in order to prevent or reduce exposures, including
      engineering controls, work practices, and use of personal protective equipment.
      5.1.6. Information will be provided on the proper usage, location, removal, handling,
      decontamination and disposal of personal protective equipment.
      5.1.7. Information on Hepatitis B vaccine to include side effects and benefits, method of
      administration, and that the vaccine will be offered free of charge.
      5.1.8. Procedures to follow in response to emergencies involving blood and other
      infectious materials.
 8                                                       919SOWI48-101 15 NOVEMBER 2011


        5.1.9. How to handle exposure incidents, the post-exposure evaluation and follow-up
        programs.
        5.1.10. Explanation of signs/labels and/or color-coding.
     5.2. There must be opportunity for questions and answers, and the trainer must be
     knowledgeable in the subject matter.
     5.3. Training rosters should be maintained by the unit for three years. Rosters will include:
        5.3.1. Dates of training sessions.
        5.3.2. Contents or summary of training session.
        5.3.3. Names and qualifications of trainers.
        5.3.4. Names of trainees.
     5.4. A Bloodborne Pathogen training videotape is available from 919 MDS/SGPM, (Public
     Health) x7718, upon request.
     5.5. Hepatitis B Vaccination for those with reasonably anticipated occupational exposure:
        5.5.1. Hepatitis B vaccination will be provided within the first Unit Training Assembly
        (UTA) for reservists, or within 10 working days of assignment for full-time personnel.
        The vaccine will be provided through the Immunization Clinic. Documentation and
        tracking of vaccination will be accomplished through the Immunization Clinic.
5.5.2. Reserve medical personnel are required to accept vaccination. Based on exposure
determination, all other identified reserve personnel are required to accept vaccination.
        5.5.3. Civilian workers are offered vaccination based on exposure determination, but
        may refuse. Workers refusing Hepatitis B must sign the following declination statement:
        “I understand that due to my occupational exposure to blood or other potentially
        infectious materials I may be at risk of acquiring hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. I
        have been given the opportunity to be vaccinated with hepatitis B vaccine, at no charge to
        myself. However, I decline hepatitis B vaccination at this time. I understand that by
        declining this vaccine, I continue to be at risk of acquiring hepatitis B, a serious disease.
        If in the future I continue to have occupational exposure to blood or other potentially
        infectious materials and I want to be vaccinated with hepatitis B vaccine, I can receive
        the vaccination series at no charge to me”.
        5.5.4. Workers who refuse the vaccination may receive vaccine any time during
        employment.
        5.5.5. The civilian employee will not receive the Hepatitis vaccination series if he/she
        has previously received the complete Hepatitis B vaccination series and antibody testing
        has revealed that the employee is immune, or the vaccine is contraindicated for medical
        reasons.
        5.5.6. Hepatitis B vaccine and vaccination series will be made available to the employee
        at no cost. An accredited laboratory shall conduct all laboratory tests at no cost to the
        employee.
919SOWI48-101 15 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                   9


      5.5.7. Contract and NAF employees will be covered by their employer's occupational
      safety and health programs.
6. Post-Exposure Evaluation and Follow Up.
   6.1. Immediately following a needlestick, sharps related incident, or other occupational
   exposure, the affected area must be washed thoroughly.
   6.2. If the exposure results from a splash, needlestick, or other sharps, the exposed individual
   will immediately wash affected area with antimicrobial soap and water.
   6.3. If the eyes or mucous membranes are exposed then immediately rinse the affected area
   with copious amounts of water.
   6.4. All exposures must be reported immediately to the supervisor after rinsing the exposed
   area. The supervisor will send the exposed patient to 919 MDS Public Health to ensure
   compliance with regulatory guidance.
   6.5. 919 MDS Public Health will record the circumstances surrounding the exposure
   incident based on information obtained from the exposed individual.
   6.5.1. Detailed exposure information will be collected, including the name of the source
   individual.
      6.5.2. If the event is related to a sharps injury, Public Health will document the injury in
      the sharp injury log.
      6.5.3. Procedures for maintaining employee confidentiality must be followed.
      6.5.4. 919 MDS Public Health will refer the exposed individual to a 919 MDS health
      care provider.
   6.6. 919 MDS health care provider will assess the exposure and determine if further
   treatment is necessary depending on the level of exposure.
      6.6.1. Information regarding the event and counseling will be recorded on a Standard
      Form 600 by the attending physician and maintained in the worker’s medical record.
      6.6.2. If treatment is needed, the physician will have the squadron member report to 96
      Medical Group (MDG) Emergency Room (ER) at Eglin AFB.
      6.6.3. Civilian workers are directed for assessment to the civilian health care provider of
      their choice.
      6.6.4. Source testing will be conducted if the 919 MDS provider determines the exposure
      has substantial risk involved.
      6.6.5. The provider should order the required labs and send the source person to the
      Laboratory for, as soon as possible, Hepatitis B Antigen (HBsAg) screen, Hepatitis C test
      and HIV screen.
      6.6.6. Informed consent must be obtained prior to any HIV testing with the
      EXCEPTION of members in uniform.
      6.6.7. Results of the source individual’s testing shall be made available to the exposed
      individual(s). Release all test results IAW AFI48-105, Surveillance, Prevention, and
      Control of Diseases and Conditions of Public Health or Military Significance. HIV result
10                                                919SOWI48-101 15 NOVEMBER 2011


     release must also comply with AFI 48-135, Human Immunodeficiency Virus Program.
     Release of any health information must be IAW AF41-210, Patient Administration
     Functions
  6.7. Health care providers in the 96 MDG ER will provide care according to guidelines of
  the 96 MDGI 44-104, Bloodborne Pathogen Exposure Control Plan.
  6.7.1. Care provided will meet all requirements of OSHA Standard 29 CFR 1910.1030,
  Occupational Exposure to Bloodborne Pathogens.
     6.7.2. Post exposure prophylaxis will be provided as recommended by the US Public
     Health Service.
     6.7.3. Within 15 days of completion of the post-exposure evaluation, a copy of the
     evaluating healthcare provider’s written opinion will be provided to the exposed
     individual and will include documentation that member has been informed of the results
     of the evaluation and that the employee was told about any medical conditions which
     may result from the exposure which could require further evaluation or treatment.
  6.8. After the ER has completed their assessment and treatment, the squadron member is
  referred back to 919 MDS Public Health for follow-up. Public Health will schedule follow-
  up lab studies and provide additional education/counseling to affected persons as needed.




                                         ANTHONY J. COMTOIS , Colonel, USAFR
                                         Commander
919SOWI48-101 15 NOVEMBER 2011                                                              11


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 29 Jan 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program, 3 October 2005
AFI 48-105, Surveillance, Prevention, and Control of Diseases and Conditions of Public Health
or Military Significance, 1 Mar 2005.
AFI 48-135, Human Immunodeficiency Virus Program, 12 May 2004
AF41-210, Patient Administration Functions, 22 Mar 2006
OSHA Standard 29 Code of Federal Regulation (CFR) 1910.1030, Occupational Exposure to
Bloodborne Pathogens, 12 December 2008
Updated U.S. Public Health Service Guidelines for the Management of Occupational Exposures
to HBV, HCV, and HIV and recommendations for Postexposure Prophylaxis, MMWR Vol 50
(RR11), 29 June 2001
Updated U.S. Public Health Service Guidelines for Management of Occupational Exposures to
HIV and recommendations for Post-exposure Prophylaxis, MMWR, Vol 54 (RR-09), 30
September 2005
10 U.S.C. 55, Medical and Dental Care; 10 U.S.C. 8013, Secretary of the Air Force; 29 CFR
1960, Occupational Illness/Injury Reporting Guidelines for Federal Agencies; and E.O.
9397(SSN)
The Needle stick Safety and Prevention Act, Public Law 106-430
96 MDGI 44-104, Bloodborne Pathogen Exposure Control Plan,
Adopted Forms
AF Form 673, Air Force Publication/Form Action Request
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
Stand Form (SF) 558, Documentation of Medical Follow-up, Laboratory Results

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
BBP—Bloodborne Pathogen
 12                                             919SOWI48-101 15 NOVEMBER 2011


CES—Civil Engineering Squadron
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
ECP—Exposure Control Plan
EMC—Executive Committee of Medical Staff
ER—Emergency Room
HBsAg—Hepatitis “B” Antigen
HBV—Hepatitis “B” Virus
HIV—Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IAW—In Accordance With
ICO—Infection Control Officer
ICRF—Infection Control Review Function
MDG—Medical Group
MDS—Medical Squadron
MTF—Medical Treatment Facility
NAF—Non-Appropriated Funds
OI—Operating Instructions
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
PHO—Public Health Officer
PPE—Personnel Protective Equipment
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
SGPM—Public Health
SOW—Special Operations Wing
SVF—Services Flight
UP—Universal Precautions
UTA—Unit Training Assembly

Terms
Biohazard Label—The biohazard label shall have the biohazard symbol, the word
BIOHAZARD, and be fluorescent orange or orange-red, with lettering or symbols in a
contrasting color.
Blood— Human blood, human blood components, and products made from human blood.
919SOWI48-101 15 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                13


Blood Borne Pathogens(BBP)—pathogenic microorganisms that are present in human blood
and can cause disease in humans. These pathogens include, but are not limited to, hepatitis B
virus (HBV) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
Clinical Laboratory—a workplace where diagnostic or other screening procedures are
performed on blood or other potentially infectious materials.
Contaminated—the presence or the reasonably anticipated presence of blood or other
potentially infectious materials on an item or surface.
Contaminated Sharps—any contaminated object that can penetrate the skin including, but not
limited to, needles, scalpels, broken glass, broken capillary tubes, and exposed ends of dental
wires.
Decontamination—the use of physical or chemical means to remove, inactivate, or destroy
bloodborne pathogens on a surface or item to the point where they are no longer capable of
transmitting infectious particles and the surface or item is rendered safe for handling, use, or
disposal.
Engineering Controls—controls (e.g., sharps disposal containers, self-sheathing needles, safer
medical devices, such as sharps with engineered sharps injury protections and needleless
systems) that isolate or remove the bloodborne pathogens hazard from the workplace.
Exposure Incident—A specific eye, mouth, other mucous membrane, non-intact skin, or
parenteral contact with blood or other potentially infectious materials that results from the
performance of an employee's duties.
Health Care Professional—A person whose legally permitted scope of practice allows him/her
to independently perform the activities required such as giving Hepatitis B Vaccination and
accomplishing Post-Exposure Evaluations and Follow-ups.
Occupational Exposure—Employee skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral contact with
blood or other potentially infectious materials that results from the performance of duties.
Parenteral—Piercing mucous membranes or the skin barrier through such events as needle
sticks, human bites, cuts, and abrasions.
Personal Protective Equipment—Specialized clothing or equipment worn by an employee for
protection against a hazard. General work clothes (e.g. uniforms, pants, shirts, and blouses) not
intended to function as protection against a hazard are not considered to be personal protective
equipment.
Regulated Waste—Liquid or semi-liquid blood or other potentially infectious material;
contaminated items that would release blood or other potentially infectious materials in a liquid
or semi-liquid state if compressed; items that are caked with dried blood or other potentially
infectious materials and are capable of releasing these materials during handling; contaminated
sharps; and pathological and microbiological wastes containing blood or other potentially
infectious materials.
Source Individual—Any individual, living or dead, whose blood or other potentially infectious
materials may be a source of occupational exposure to the employee.
Sterilize—The use of a physical or chemical procedure to destroy all microbial life including
highly resistant bacteria endospores.
 14                                                  919SOWI48-101 15 NOVEMBER 2011


Universal Precautions—According to the concept of Universal Precautions, all human blood
and certain human body fluids are treated as if known to be infectious for HIV, HBV, and other
blood borne pathogens.
Work Practice Control—Controls that reduce the likelihood of exposure by altering the manner
in which a task is performed (e.g. prohibiting recapping of needles by a two-handed technique).
