BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               919TH SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING
919TH SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING                                       INSTRUCTION 34-601

                                                                                    6 JUNE 2013

                                                                                          Services

                                                             LODGING SERVICES/LODGING
                                                                          PROCEDURES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 919 FSS/FSV                                                        Certified by: 919MSG/CC
                                                                         (Col Houston A. Sewell)
Supersedes:    919SOWI34-601, 16 June 2011                                                Pages: 8


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 34-6, Air Force Lodging and
919 SOW34-601/919SOW Guidance Memorandum (GM) 03, dated 19 Sep 2011. This
instruction extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 34-246, Air Force Lodging
Program. It provides guidance and procedures for the issue and checkout of quarters at Eglin
Air Force Base (AFB) Field (Fld) 3, Florida (FL) (Duke Field). It applies to all personnel
assigned to the 919th Special Operations Wing (919 SOW). Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command. Requests for waivers must be submitted
through chain of command to the OPR listed above for consideration and approval. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS). The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer,
commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by
the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include paragraph insertion. Updates paragraphs 1.1.1, 1.8 4.2.1, 4.2.1.2, 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 6.1, 6.2,
6.3, 6.4, 7 adds 4.3, 6.3.1. Deletes use of Air Force (AF) Form 3137, General Purpose. An
asterisk indicates newly revised material.
 2                                                               919SOWI34-601 6 JUNE 2013


1. GENERAL. The 919 SOW Lodging Office is located in building (bldg) 3054 and provides
lodging services to both active duty and the reserve personnel working on Duke Field. The
transient lodging is owned and controlled by the 919th Force Support Squadron Lodging (919
FSS/FSVL) and is part of Headquarters Air Force Reserve Command Lodging (HQ
AFRC/A1SR) non-appropriated fund.
     1.1. Normal lodging duty hours are:
        1.1.1. 0600—2200 Daily.
        1.1.2. Unit Training Assembly (UTA) weekends 24-hour coverage.
     1.2. For after hours, see paragraph 4, procedures below.
     1.3. The 919 SOW will pay the lodging room charges if personnel are in UTA or Additional
     Flying Training Period (AFTP) status. The unit is responsible for room charges only. All
     other incidental charges must be paid by the guest. For annual tour, school tour, or special
     tour man days, the member must pay the charges and claim reimbursement on travel
     vouchers. Space available personnel must pay the charges and will not be reimbursed.
     1.4. In accordance with AFI 34-246, Air Force Lodging Program, Air Reserve Command
     (ARC) members in Inactive Duty Training (IDT) status are only authorized government
     lodging if they reside outside of the designated lodging commuting distance from the
     installation where duty is actually performed, and those members will receive priority for on-
     base/government-controlled lodging. The 919 SOW/Commander (CC) has established the
     lodging commuting distance as a 50-mile radius from the duty station.
        1.4.1. Unit Lodging Representatives will utilize the Defense Table of Official Distances
        (DTOD) for determining UTA/IDT lodging eligibility for their unit members. If in the
        DTOD determination, a member’s residence is greater than 50 miles in distance from
        Duke Field or Hurlburt Field (member’s duty location), then the member is entitled to
        lodging for UTA/IDT status. Unit Lodging Representatives must validate all personnel
        and update their rosters as changes occur using this guidance and provide the information
        to Lodging Guest Services.            DTOD may be accessed at the following:
        https://dtod.sddc.army.mil/default.aspx.
        1.4.2. When determining distance from the member’s residence in DTOD, ensure the
        “Origin” is the member’s physical address; PO boxes are not to be used to determine
        distance. The origin should be entered by Zip Code, City, State, and County (i.e., 32539,
        Crestview, FL, Okaloosa).
        1.4.3. When determining distance to the member’s duty location in DTOD, ensure the
        “Destination” is “32542, Eglin AFB Auxiliary Field 3, FL, Okaloosa” for Duke Field or
        “32544, Hurlburt Field, FL, Okaloosa” for Hurlburt Field.
     1.5. Personnel who live within the commuting area may occupy the quarters (if available)
     after 1800 hours Saturday during UTAs with unit commander’s written authorization.
     1.6. Personnel who must perform official reserve duty past midnight can receive priority
     lodging if the unit CC provides a letter verifying that the individual requires the room.
     1.7. Personnel not on orders or whose orders indicate "commuting area" will be required to
     pay all lodging fees if they choose to stay in quarters. Individuals whose orders indicate
919SOWI34-601 6 JUNE 2013                                                                        3


   "commuting area," yet are authorized to stay in lodging as indicted in the "Remarks" block of
   the orders, will be required to pay these fees, but will be reimbursed through a settlement
   voucher.
   1.8. Individuals staying on a space available basis are required to pay for their rooms in
   advance. No space available reservations will be taken for Friday night of the UTA.
   Reservations for Saturday night of the UTA for space available will be made on a first come
   first served basis.
2. Reference. AFI 34-246 will be referenced in conjunction with this instruction.
3. Responsibilities.
   3.1. Unit CCs.
       3.1.1. Unit CCs will appoint a Unit Lodging Representative and forward this designation
       to Lodging Guest Services. The CC will forward any changes in the Lodging
       Representative or their alternate designations to Lodging Guest Services.
       3.1.2. CCs will enforce no-show policies to eliminate the expenditure of funds for
       unused rooms and to maintain maximum utilization of quarters on base.
   3.2. Wing Lodging POC.
       3.2.1. The Wing Lodging POC is appointed by the Wing Commander. IAW AFI 34-
       246, para A3.3.3., the Services ART will be appointed as the Wing Lodging POC and
       represents the wing on all lodging issues. This individual is normally available on a
       “full-time” basis and is the liaison for Lodging Guest Services for all lodging issues
       affecting the wing during scheduled UTAs. This individual is responsible for the items
       noted in AFI 34-246, paras A3.3.4 and A3.3.5.
       3.2.2. The Wing Lodging POC or Military Personnel Section will provide lodging a copy
       of the non-commute alpha roster, extracted from the Personnel Data System (PDS),
       which identifies members authorized lodging at unit expense during IDT periods.
       3.2.3. The Wing Lodging POC will provide lodging with a copy of the wing’s annual
       UTA schedule as soon as it is finalized and approved.
       3.2.4. The Wing Lodging POC will make payment directly to the appropriate
       organization/facility which lodged wing personnel for each UTA. The Services Business
       Manager (or designated representative) will review and verify each UTA’s bill and
       provide the verified list to the Wing Lodging POC prior to payment being made.
   3.3. Unit Lodging Representatives.
       3.3.1. The Unit Lodging Representative is appointed by the Unit CC and represents the
       unit on all lodging issues. This individual is normally available on a “full-time” basis and
       is the liaison for Lodging Guest Services.
       3.3.2. Unit Lodging Representatives will notify Lodging of any changes to their
       members’ ranks, names and lodging eligibility monthly. Representatives will determine
       lodging eligibility IAW paragraph 1.4.1. of the instruction.
       3.3.3. Unit Lodging Representatives will ensure that all personnel are aware of the no-
       show policy and the potential for loss of lodging privileges.
 4                                                                 919SOWI34-601 6 JUNE 2013


4. Procedures:
     4.1. Check-in/check-out procedures during normal duty hours will be accomplished by
     Lodging Reception personnel as guests arrive or depart.
     4.2. Issue of quarters during non-duty hours will be accomplished as follows:
        4.2.1. Individuals who will require lodging, but cannot obtain a key during the
        established hours of operation, may obtain a key from the afterhours key safes located in
        the entrance to bldg 3054. There is a phone inside the entrance next to the key safe that
        has two phone numbers the member can call in order to obtain instructions on how to
        obtain a key for the night. Keys will only be issued to the registered guest.
            4.2.1.1. If the individual is staying more than one night, they must report to the
            Lodging Front Desk, in bldg 3054 the following workday and fill out the official
            paperwork. In addition, individuals must show a copy of orders when on active duty
            status or Temporary Duty away from Home Station (TDY) at check-in. Also, a copy
            of AF Form 40a (40a), Authorization for Individual Inactive Duty Training, for UTA
            "make-up" inactive duty status must be provided prior to check-out. If the AF Form
            40a is not available at checkout, the member will be responsible for ensuring a copy
            is received prior to check out, failure of which, the member will pay for lodging at
            their own expense.
            4.2.1.2. If an individual checks out before or after normal duty hours, keys may be
            dropped in the key box located in the lobby next to the Lodging Front Desk. If the
            individual is on TDY or man-day status, Lodging will charge the amount of stay on
            the individual’s government credit card. Receipts may be picked up at the Lodging
            Front Desk or faxed to the individual. A second option is to use the express checkout
            envelopes provided in each room. The guest will fill out the information, sign the
            form and leave the form and key in the room. Housekeeping staff will notify the
            front desk and the charges will be made at that time. Receipts may be picked up at
            the Lodging Front Desk or faxed to the individual. Lastly, at the guest’s request, the
            charge may be done prior to arrival and the receipt left with the room key in the key
            safe. All space available guests arriving and departing before or after normal duty
            hours will be charged in advance. Space available reservations without a credit card
            guarantee will be canceled at 1800 and made available to other guests.
     4.3. Late checkout will be authorized, if coordinated in advance with lodging, for members
     working shift work or in crew rest. The additional charge for late checkout will be paid for
     by the Wing not the member if the member is in IDT status.
5. Making Reservations: Automated Lodging Reservation System (ALRS).
     5.1. All duty reservations for those in the 919th regardless of type of duty status or rank must
     be made through the ALRS. Each person will be responsible for making his or her own
     reservation. The units will no longer send sign-up sheets to Lodging for UTA weekends.
     The exception to this will be anyone in 556th Red House (RH) or 5th Special Operations
     Squadron (SOS) who is in any duty status other than UTA unit paid. Those individuals may
     contact Hurlburt AFB Lodging directly to make reservations. If the status is UTA, unit paid,
     those in 556 RH or 5 SOS are still required to use the ALRS system. The Lodging Office
     will not take duty reservations over the phone.
919SOWI34-601 6 JUNE 2013                                                                       5


   5.2. Reservations made using the ALRS will be made by calling a published 800 number and
   following the voice prompts. On the initial call, there will be a prompt to enter a user
   account number and pin which is computer generated and provided to the members at the
   Newcomer’s orientation brief. After entering the original pin number, the system will
   prompt to change the pin. Follow voice prompts to make, change or cancel a duty status
   reservation. Hotel information and confirmation numbers will be provided at the time the
   reservation is made.
   5.3. All changes to, adjustments of, or cancellations of all duty related reservations must be
   done by using the ALRS system; with the exception of self-pay duty status of the 556 RH as
   listed above.
6. UTA Weekends Reservations: All lodging requests for UTA weekends will be
accomplished by using ALRS as follows:
   6.1. UTA reservations may be made 12 months in advance.
   6.2. All UTA reservations must be made no later than the Friday two weeks prior to the
   UTA. The purpose of the two week cut off is to allow Lodging to release any rooms not
   secured with a member’s name back to the contract hotels. The cutoff also applies to Duke
   Field Lodging due to the logistics of finalizing lodging for the UTA weekend.
   6.3. Requests made after the Friday cutoff date will be directed to call the Lodging Front
   Desk. Late reservations may be made at Duke Field, space permitting for the UTA, but the
   cost will be paid by the member, not the Wing. If all rooms are sold at Duke Field, it is the
   member’s responsibility to secure and pay for his or her own reservation off base.
       6.3.1. Exception: Individuals who need to secure reservations after the cutoff for reasons
       that are duty related and unit driven should have their CC or First Sergeant notify lodging
       by calling the front desk at 883-6203. Once verified, and coordinated through the
       Wing/CC, the reservation will be made and the Lodging staff will notify the individual.
       The Wing will then pay the lodging cost.
   6.4. Cancellations may be made up until 1700 on the Wednesday prior to the UTA. Failure
   to cancel a reservation will result in a “No Show” for the member and the Wing will be
   charged for one night. The need to cancel a reservation after the cutoff will be dealt with on
   a case by case basis. The member’s CC, First Sergeant or Supervisor may call lodging to
   explain extenuating circumstances.
   6.5. Military Personnel Flight (MPF) will provide the names of all newcomers no later than
   (NLT) Wednesday prior to the UTA week. NLT Monday prior to the UTA, lodging will e-
   mail the list of reservation confirmations for the newcomers to the MPF point of contact
   (POC). The POC will cross check the reservations against the list sent to lodging and notify
   lodging of any known changes. After the initial UTA, all newcomers will be responsible for
   making their own reservations using ALRS system for future UTAs.
7. Rescheduled UTAs or Any Other Duty Status: All lodging requests will be accomplished
by using ALRS. There are no restrictions. However, failing to cancel a reservation will result in
a “No Show” if the member is in a rescheduled status and the Wing will be charged for one
night. If the member is in any other duty status and fails to cancel, the member will be charged
for one night, unless the member’s CC, or first sergeant has contacted Lodging and explained the
 6                                                               919SOWI34-601 6 JUNE 2013


circumstances. Again, all 556 RH or 5 SOS members in self pay status may call Hurlburt direct
to make reservations. If in a unit pay status the ALRS will be used.
8. Space Available Reservations: Reservations will still be made by contacting the Lodging
Office at Commercial 850-883-6203 or DSN875-6203.
9. UTA Cancellation, Reservation Changes and No-Show Policy. The policy regarding
cancellations, reservation changes and no-shows during IDT/ UTA is as stated below.
     9.1. Individuals are required to cancel or change reservations NLT 1700 Wednesday prior to
     the UTA by calling the ALRS system. Cancellations after Wednesday will be considered on
     a case-by-case basis. In these circumstances, the member’s CC or first sergeant will provide
     notification and request cancellation as soon as possible. Failure to cancel a reservation IAW
     this policy, twice within a 12-month period, will result in the loss of lodging privileges for
     the next three UTAs. Failure to cancel a reservation IAW this policy, three times within a
     12-month period, will result in the loss of lodging privileges for one year. Disciplinary
     actions will be administered prior to the end of the UTA and are at the discretion of the Unit
     CC and first sergeant.
     9.2. Unit CCs and First Sergeants will be furnished the initial UTA no-show list NLT
     Saturday of the UTA, and the final no-show listing on Sunday of the UTA. CCs and first
     sergeants may decide that a no-show was of no fault of the member or the unit and can
     recommend an excusal from the loss of privileges as stated in Para. 9.1. This
     recommendation for excusal will be provided via email to lodging personnel and can be
     submitted by either the CC or First Sergeant.




                                              ANTHONY J. COMTOIS, Col, USAFR
                                              Commander
919SOWI34-601 6 JUNE 2013                                          7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 34-6, Air Force Lodging, 22 July 1993
AFI 34-246, Air Force Lodging Program, 9 November 2007
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
AF Form 40a, Authorization for Individual Inactive Duty Training

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFTP—Additional Flying Training Period
ALRS—Automated Lodging Reservation System
ARC—Air Reserve Component
BLDG—Building
CC—Commander
DTOD—Defense Table of Official Distances
FLD—Field
FSVL—Lodging Office Symbol
HQ AFRC—Headquarters Air Force Reserve Command
HQ AFRC/A1SR—Headquarters Air Force Reserve Command Services
IAW—In Accordance With
IDT—Inactive Duty Training
MPF—Military Personnel Flight
NLT—Not Later Than
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PDS—Personnel Data System
POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
 8                                919SOWI34-601 6 JUNE 2013


RH—Red Horse
SSAN—Social Security Number
SOS—Special Operations Squadron
SOW—Special Operations Wing
TDY—Temporary Duty
UTA—Unit Training Assembly
