BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   91ST SPACE WING INSTRUCTION 90-901
91ST SPACE WING                                                                               11 JULY 2008

                                                                                       Special Management

                                                                OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT
                                                                       (ORM) INTEGRATION AND
                                                                       SUSTAINMENT PLAN (ISP)

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 91 SW/SE                                         Certified by: 91 SW/CV (Colonel Gregory S. Tims)
                                                                                             Pages: 3

This space wing instruction (SWI) implements AFI 90-901, 1 April 2000 and AFSPC Sup 1, 3 October
2005, Operational Risk Management, establishing procedures for Operational Risk Management (ORM)
integration and training for the 91st Space Wing (91 SW), Minot AFB. It applies to all personnel assigned
to the 91 SW. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, and route the
AF IMT 847 from the field through the Base Publishing Manager. Maintain records created as a result of
prescribed processes IAW AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of them IAW the AF
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) available from the Air Force Portal link. Contact supporting records
managers as required. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.


1. Background.
   1.1. ORM is a logic-based, common sense approach to making calculated decisions and solving
   problems. The goal of ORM is to create an Air Force in which every leader, Airman, and employee is
   trained and motivated to manage risk in their daily mission and duty-related activities and encouraged
   to apply them to all other activities. It is one of our key tools to enhance mission effectiveness at all
   levels, while preserving assets and safeguarding the health and welfare of our Airmen.
   1.2. Accepting identified risk breeds opportunity and success. It should be clearly understood
   that the ORM program is designed to manage risk and not necessarily eliminate risk. A certain degree
   of risk-taking is essential if an organization is to capitalize on its capabilities and opportunities. With
   this in mind one must be cautioned that there is a grave difference between gambling and accepting a
   risk that has been identified and managed. ORM preserves the ability to recover from failure while
   gambling does not afford any opportunity to recover from failure. ORM is a tool that is flexible
   enough to tailor into specific mission and operational requirements while encouraging a proactive
   approach to resource preservation and mishap prevention.
2                                                                           91SWI90-901 11 JULY 2008


    1.3. When employed correctly the ORM process can serve the commander and mission a num-
    ber of ways. It changes the focus from loss-reaction to process improvement and mishap prevention.
    It will help personnel to focus on and evaluate all known and anticipated risks. ORM gives you a
    framework to calculate the residual risk involved with any task on hand. ORM also decreases work
    effort through benchmarking success stories, databases, forms, and disseminating information. Finally
    it encourages process ownership at the lowest levels and develops a clear line of accountability.
    1.4. Risk management is a continuous process. Risks will not be accepted unnecessarily, but only
    when the benefits outweigh the costs. Make all risk decisions at the appropriate level. Integrate risk
    management into all levels of planning, and recognize that new risks are likely to develop with each
    change to a planned event; changes driving risk could include people, equipment, requirements, or
    environment. Consult the wing or your unit ORM advisor for an in-depth discussion on performing
    the ORM process. Regulatory guidance can be found in AFPD 90-9, AFI 90-901, 20 AF ORM Inte-
    gration and Sustainment Plan, and 90 SW OI 90-9.

2. Integration.
    2.1. Members will use the appropriate HHQ and unit developed risk assessment tools for mission
    related tasks being accomplished (e.g. Travel Risk Assessment Card, AFSPC Form 79 Helicopter
    Risk Management, etc.). Members are highly encouraged to apply the ORM process to their off-duty
    activities.
    2.2. Currently ORM uses a formal six-step process. 20 AF has adopted a more user friendly three-step
    process that is expected to be released soon in a revised AFI 90-901. Either process is acceptable for
    completing your task risk assessment.
    2.3. ORM is not just about safety or using risk assessment tools. ORM is about mission accomplish-
    ment; whether it is the unit’s mission, a significant individual tasking, etc. ORM is flexible and can be
    used for most any situation on- or off-duty. ORM can be a deliberate, documented, six-step process
    that involves many people, a quick three-step process resolved by a person in minutes, or somewhere
    in between. There’s no way to regulate exactly when or to what extent to use ORM. Therefore, except
    for paragraph 2.1. above, it is left to the discretion of commanders, supervisors, and the individual
    themselves when it is appropriate to use ORM and to what extent to use it. To this end ORM is
    designed to be used appropriate to the situation.

3. Responsibilities.
    3.1. All unit personnel.
       3.1.1. Follow the requirements found in the regulatory guidance mentioned in paragraph 1.4.
       above. These requirements are highlighted in AFSPCCL 90-6 and the 91 SW ORM Advisor
       Checklist.
       3.1.2. Know the three steps in the three-step ORM process (Assess, Consider, and Take).
       3.1.3. Understand when to use the three-step process and when to elevate ORM to their chain of
       command.
    3.2. Commanders.
       3.2.1. Consider the need for appointing an alternate ORM advisor.
91SWI90-901 11 JULY 2008                                                                                 3


      3.2.2. Identify who is required to take ORM Essentials for Leaders Course (by name or posi-
      tion) in the unit implementation and sustainment plan.
      3.2.3. Consider providing quarterly and annual submissions for 91 SW ORM-related awards IAW
      AFI 36-2833, 91 SW Supp 1.
   3.3. Wing ORM Advisor.
      3.3.1. Maintain an ORM continuity binder.
      3.3.2. Educate all unit ORM advisors on the requirements of this and other ORM regulations.
      3.3.3. Perform and document periodic spot inspections of the ORM program to show adherence
      to policy.
   3.4. Unit (squadron, group, etc.) ORM Advisor.
      3.4.1. Serve as the focal point within the unit for all ORM issues to include the wing or group staff
      if designated.
      3.4.2. Maintain an ORM continuity binder; information for creating one can be found at: S:\Work-
      ing\91SWStaff\SEF\Public\Write\ORM\Continuity Book.
      3.4.3. Maintain a copy of the current unit ORM advisor appointment letter.
      3.4.4. Consider forwarding any “benchmark” ORM processes to wing ORM advisor to support
      the cross-tell process.
      3.4.5. Educate all unit members as appropriate to the requirements of this and other ORM regula-
      tions.
      3.4.6. Conduct periodic program inspections and provide a copy of the latest answers to
      self-inspection checklist questions from AFSPCCL 90-6 and 91 SW ORM Advisor Checklist to
      the wing ORM advisor.

4. Training.
   4.1. The wing ORM advisor will monitor and track their training and the trainingof unit ORM advi-
   sors.
      4.1.1. Unit ORM Advisors will track required unit ORM training through their unit and group
      training management process.



                                              MARTIN WHELAN, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander, 91st Space Wing
