BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               920TH RESCUE WING INSTRUCTION
920TH RESCUE WING                                                               21-103

                                                                              22 OCTOBER 2012

                                                                                     Maintenance

                                                    FOREIGN OBJECT DAMAGE (FOD) AND
                                                         DROPPED OBJECT PREVENTION
                                                                     PROGRAMS (DOP)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 920 MXG/MXQ                                                      Certified by: 920 RQW/CC
                                                                   (Colonel Jeffrey L. Macrander)
                                                                                         Pages: 7


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space
Maintenance and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 21-101, Aircraft
Equipment Maintenance Management. It provides guidance and procedures for FOD/DOP
prevention on unit aircraft and governs policing of organization ramp, hangar and shop areas. It
establishes the FOD Prevention Committee, designates the FOD Prevention Officer, NCO and
training and documentation requirements. This instruction applies to all 920th Rescue Wing
personnel whose duties require them to fly aircraft or perform aircraft/ground equipment
maintenance. Coordination/approval at the 920 RQW will be accomplished by an electronically
signed AF Form 673, Air Force Publication/Form Action Request (AF Form 673). Do not use e-
mails for final coordination/approval, but all e-mails will be maintained as part of the record set.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms
managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System       (AFRIMS)        Records      Disposition       Schedule     (RDS)       located      at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

1. FOD Prevention Committee:
   1.1. The following positions are appointed members of the Wing FOD Prevention
   Committee:
 2                                                        920RQWI21-103 22 OCTOBER 2012


     1.2. Chairperson/FOD Prevention Officer – RQW/CV or MXG/CC
     1.3. FOD Prevention NCO
     1.4. Wing Safety Officer/NCO
     1.5. Operations Group – OG/CC
     1.6. Maintenance Squadron - AMXS/CC and MXS/CC
     1.7. Maintenance Quality Assurance
     1.8. Security Forces
2. Responsibilities of the FOD Prevention Officer/NCO:
     2.1. Ensures the provisions of the FOD Prevention Program are carried out throughout the
     Unit according to AFI 21-101.
     2.2. Performs a weekly FOD inspection. Inspections can be accomplished in conjunction
     with other required inspections.
     2.3. Attends base FOD Prevention Committee meetings as unit representative and performs
     other FOD prevention coordination as required on behalf of the unit.
     2.4. Assists and offers the cooperation of the unit to the host base on FOD prevention
     2.5. Coordinates as required to ensure a training program in FOD philosophy and procedures
     is established. Attendance by all wing personnel is required initially and is documented in
     accordance with unit procedures.
3. FOD/DOP Training:
     3.1. The Aircraft Maintenance Squadron Commander/Maintenance Squadron Commander
     will ensure maintenance personnel involved in on-equipment maintenance receive FOD/DOP
     training. The wing FOD monitor recommends changes to FOD prevention training.
     3.2. Training will be documented in Information Maintenance Data System (IMDS) under
     course code 012014 FOD and 032034 DOP. Training is available on the local 920th Rescue
     Wing S: Drive at S:\Quality Training.
     3.3. Initial FOD/DOP Awareness Training is an agenda item at the wing newcomers
     briefings. It stresses the responsibilities to all unit members toward the protection of Air
     Force assets. Ongoing training will be conducted through unit FOD walks, email and bulletin
     boards notices to ensure all personnel maintain an effective overall awareness of FOD/DOP
     issues.
4. FOD Prevention:
     4.1. Aircrew will assure the elimination FOD in cockpits and flight decks prior to and after
     each flight. Aircrew must also account for all equipment and personnel items after each
     flight and ensure any unaccounted for items are documented on the AFTO Form 781A.
     4.2. The restricted area badge armband is recommended for personnel on the flightline.
     Restricted area badges issued with imbedded metal clips are authorized so long as the badge
     and clip are both secured with a subdued nylon/cotton cord. Restricted area badges with
920RQWI21-103 22 OCTOBER 2012                                                                  3


   imbedded metal clips must not be used with the plastic armband. When worn around the
   neck, cords will have a break-away feature available at 920MXG/MXATR upon request.
   4.3. Authorized Hats: sun boonie with breakaway chin lanyard in place under the chin when
   worn to prevent possibility of loss in high winds. In cold weather only (night watchmen cap).
   4.4. Hats will not be worn within 25 feet of running engines.
   4.5. Hats will be marked with: first initial, last name, work center and man number if
   applicable.
   4.6. All vehicles operated regularly on the flightline will be equipped with a FOD container
   and tire pick. Containers will be emptied at the end of each shift or when full and secured to
   the vehicle. The word FOD will be marked on the container with contrasting letters two
   inches or larger. Tire picks will be installed on vehicle key ring, available at 920th
   MXG/MXATR.
   4.7. Dispatchable CTK’s will incorporate a FOD container; it may be attached to CTK if
   required. The FOD container will be listing on CTK MIL.
   4.8. Maintenance personnel will inspect aircraft parking spots for foreign objects prior to an
   aircraft blocking in, and after aircraft taxi.
   4.9. Personnel Drinking Containers: Are authorized for use. Container will have a tethered
   lid and be marked with (First Initial, Last Name, Unit# and Man# if applicable). Personnel
   drinking containers will be secured when not in use.
      4.9.1. Drinking Coolers: Are authorized. Coolers will be marked with (Unit # & Work
      Center) and drinking coolers will be secured when not in use.
   4.10. Screw bags or zip lock type bags will be used to control work order residue on or
   around aircraft, uninstalled engines, and AGE. Bags will be secured in a readily visible
   location and marked with aircraft tail number and number of items.
   4.11. Personal tools not controlled through CTK procedures are NOT authorized on the
   flightline, or in any maintenance area. (e.g., Mini-Mag type flashlights, Leatherman type
   multi-tools, buck knives). Mark and control tools or equipment that a work center
   assigns/issues to an individual IAW MAJCOM supplement. Personally purchased tools are
   not authorized. Aircrew are responsible for accounting for personal survival equipment.
   4.12. Daily FOD prevention walks will normally be conducted on Monday, Wednesday and
   Saturdays’ of the UTAs by all available 920MXG personnel. Parking spots with aircraft will
   be inspected by crew chiefs on Tuesday, Thursday, Friday and Sunday of the UTAs.
5. FOD Reporting:
   5.1. When a suspected or confirmed FOD is discovered, the MOC will be immediately
   notified. The event will be documented in the aircraft AFTO Form 781A. Each FOD mishap
   will be investigated by Wing FOD monitor to ensure corrective actions are both appropriate
   and sound. Wing FOD monitor and Wing safety office will jointly investigate FOD mishaps,
   which meet the reportable criteria requirements of AFI 91-204. All aircraft sustaining FOD
   damage from an unknown cause will be considered for impoundment. If internal engine
   FOD is confirmed, the engine will be impounded. The MOC will run Report of FOD check
   sheet. The unit FOD monitor will report FOD incident to 10AF FOD manager by
 4                                                        920RQWI21-103 22 OCTOBER 2012


     telephone/e-mail not later than the next duty day after the incident occurs. The NAF FOD
     manager assigns a FOD control number and the unit FOD monitor prepares AFRC Form 42,
     Foreign Object Damage (FOD) Mishap Investigation Report. The unit FOD monitor e-mails
     report to NAF FOD manager for processing within 30 days of incident.
     5.2. The FOD monitor will review FOD mishaps, analyze reports and other data for trends
     requiring management action. The FOD monitor will submit maintenance crosstell reports by
     message to HQ AFRC/A4M, 10AF/A4M, and all units with like MDS aircraft for those
     incidents with fleet-wide FOD potential.
6. Dropped Object Prevention (DOP):
     6.1. The Dropped Object Prevention Program (DOPP) is designed to increase individual
     awareness of dropped object incidents and provide formal reporting procedures. All
     personnel assigned to the 920 RQW with primary responsibilities on the aircraft will
     participate in this program.
     6.2. A dropped object is any aircraft component, cowling, door, panel, part, surface or other
     item lost or inadvertently released during aircrew operations, from the beginning of engine
     start through flight and to engine shutdown at recovery. Inadvertently released munitions or
     munitions released in excess of the quantity selected by the aircrew, or by multiple release,
     are not considered dropped objects and will be reported IAW AFI 91-204, Safety
     Investigations and Reports.
     6.3. Effective prevention begins with supervisors ensuring maintenance personnel are
     properly trained in their Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC). Additionally, all maintenance
     personnel must be knowledgeable of command and unit requirements to prevent dropped
     objects from occurring.
     6.4. Prevention of dropped objects from aircraft is a combined responsibility between
     operators and maintainers.
     6.5. Dropped object prevention inspections will be accomplished before the first flight of the
     day or prior to flight after completion of repairs, routine maintenance or servicing IAW
     LWC-920MXG-10-4 & LWC-920MXG-10-5.
     6.6. Documentation Required: 781A/Red-X NOTE: AFTO Form 781A documentation is not
     required if the inspection is conducted in conjunction with a -6 inspection. Documentation is
     required prior to flight after completion of repairs, routine maintenance or servicing.
     Discrepancy: DOPP inspection required prior to flight IAW AFI 21-101, AFRC SUP-1
     Corrective Acton: DOPP INSPECTION C/W IAW LWC-920-10-XX Only INSP BY
     Signature block required
7. DOP Responsibilities:
     7.1. The Operations Group Commander will ensure flight crews support and participate in
     the program by placing special emphasis on aircraft panels, surfaces, and secondary
     structures during their inspections and accountability of aircrew equipment used in the
     performance of crew duties and reporting any suspected dropped objects during sortie
     debrief.
920RQWI21-103 22 OCTOBER 2012                                                                  5


   7.2. The Maintenance Group Commander will ensure maintenance personnel report dropped
   objects accurately and timely upon discovery.         Ensure maintenance actions and
   documentation requirements are complied with in accordance with this instruction.
   7.3. DOP monitor will:
      7.3.1. Review and update the DOPP training program annually.
      7.3.2. Investigate DOPP incidents with assistance from Wing Safety and other applicable
      functional areas as needed.
      7.3.3. Complete the Dropped Object report, forward to HQ AFRC/A4M and 10AF/A4M
      and brief at the wing quarterly FOD meeting.
8. DOP Investigation:
   8.1. Each dropped object must be thoroughly investigated by the Quality Assurance and
   Wing Safety offices as soon as possible after the loss is discovered and reported. Every
   effort must be taken to determine the precise cause of the loss so permanent corrective action
   can be taken.
   8.2. Where material failure or design deficiency is the cause, ensure a Deficiency Report is
   submitted according to T.O. 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting and Investigating
   System, with information copies sent to HQ AFRC/A4M and 10 AF/A4M.
   8.3. Dropped objects resulting from maintenance malpractice are referred to the
   Maintenance Group Commander for action.
   8.4. Dropped objects resulting from aircrew malpractice are referred to Operations Group
   Commander. Analyze incidents for unit trends and ensure corrective actions are valid and
   completed.
9. DOP Reporting:
   9.1. Aircrews and maintenance personnel discovering a dropped object make appropriate
   aircraft 781A entries.
   9.2. Aircrews debrief the loss to MOC immediately after landing. Off station drop object
   events will be reported by aircrew/maintenance personnel through local wing/center DOP
   monitor for investigational proposes. The off station wing/center DOP monitor will provide
   the home station DOP monitor with sufficient data to generate a report for trending and
   tracking purposes IAW AFI21-101 AFRCSUP I, 14.11.1.5.3.
   9.3. The production superintendent, expeditor or shift supervisor will notify the MOC
   immediately upon discovery of the occurrence. Provide the aircraft tail number and a brief
   description of the incident. Immediately after notification, MOC will initiate the Dropped
   Object Investigation Worksheet. MOC and the aircrew being debriefed will complete known
   items on worksheet and forward to the Quality Assurance office.
   9.4. The MOC will immediately notify Quality Assurance, the DOP monitor, Maintenance
   Squadron and Group Commanders, Operations Squadron, Group Commanders, Wing
   Commander and Wing Vice Commander.
   9.5. The DOP monitor will process initial dropped object report to the MAJCOM via
   telephone, e-mail, or message. If it involves casualties, property damage, or if adverse
 6                                                      920RQWI21-103 22 OCTOBER 2012


     publicity is likely, report IAW AFMAN 10-206, Operational Reporting. The wing DOP
     monitor notifies the base/wing safety office of all dropped objects. A follow-up formal
     report will be made to the MAJCOM within 3 duty days after the occurrence. The DOP
     monitor will ensure their applicable NAF/A4M office is courtesy copied/called when
     reporting a DOPP incident to HQ AFRC.
10. Dropped Object Prevention Program Meeting:
     10.1. The quarterly DOPP meeting will be combined with the quarterly Foreign Object
     Damage Prevention Committee Meeting.
11. Bird Strikes:
     11.1. When a suspected or confirmed bird strike is discovered, AFTO Form 781A,
     Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document will be documented with a Red – (dash)
     symbol. Aircraft will be inspected for damage, to include engine intake inspections.
     Corrective action for this inspection will be cleared IAW 920 RQWI 21-103, 11.1, if engines
     are found to have ingested a bird, a full compressor inspection will be performed &
     documented IAW applicable technical data.
     11.2. Any damage found to aircraft or engines will be documented independently with
     proper symbol and reference back to original bird strike discrepancy by page & item number.
     The FOD monitor will investigate all bird strikes and enter report into QANTTAS database
     under Events (FOD/Bird Strike). Findings will also be report via email to Wing and
     Squadron leaders for informational purposes.




                                             JEFFREY L. MACRANDER, Col, USAFR
                                             Commander
920RQWI21-103 22 OCTOBER 2012                                               7


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance
AFI 21-101, Aircraft Equipment Maintenance Management
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports
TO 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting and Investigating System
Adopted Forms
AFRC Form 42, Foreign Object Damage (FOD) Mishap Investigation Checksheet
AFTO Form 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
CTK—Consolidated Tool Kit
DOP—Dropped Object Prevention
DOPP—Dropped Object Prevention Program
FOD—Foreign Object Damage
IAW—in accordance with
IMDS—Information Maintenance Data System
MIL—Master Inventory List
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
NCO—Noncommissioned Office
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
T.O.—Technical Order
