BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            920TH RESCUE WING INSTRUCTION
920TH RESCUE WING                                                            34-246

                                                                         9 SEPTEMBER 2009

                                                                                      Services

                                               RESERVIST LODGING PROGRAM POLICY
                                                                AND PROCEDURES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 39 RQS/DOT                                                     Certified by: 920 RQW/CV
                                                                       (Col Phillip J. Manning)
                                                                                      Pages: 10



This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 34-6, Air Force Lodging. This
instruction extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 34-246, Air Force Lodging
Program. It provides guidance and procedures for personnel authorized to occupy quarters (on-
base/off-base contract commercial) and mandates use of lodging for all 920th Rescue Wing (920
RQW) Reserve personnel performing active duty and inactive of training tours. It requires the
collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 as required by
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program. It applies only to members assigned to units within the 920
RQW physically located at Patrick Air Force Base (AFB), Florida. Failure to comply with this
directive may result in loss of lodging privileges. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF)
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in the publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

This is the initial publication of 920th Rescue Wing Instruction (920 RQWI) 34-246.

1. Procedure. All 920 RQW duty personnel must use on-base lodging when adequate and
available, and will make reservations in advance within 5 working days after the Unit Training
Assembly (UTA) in accordance to AFI 34-246, Attachment 3. The 920 RQW is a tenant
2                                                      920RQWI34-246 9 SEPTEMBER 2009


organization on an active duty Air Force installation. As such, 920 RQW personnel, Individual
Mobilization Augmentee (IMAs) and Individual Ready Reservist (IRRs) living outside the
designated lodging commuting distance of the installation are eligible for lodging at unit expense
when performing inactive duty training at Patrick AFB. Per AFI 34-246, Attachment 3, A3.1,
the commuting distance for reserve members is defined as a 50 mile radius, or 1 hour driving
time from the unit member’s home of record (HOR). All lodging reservations (except for
scheduled monthly UTAs) will be made through the Space Coast Inn. Commercial (voice) 321-
494-2075/4811/6590. Disciplinary action will be taken against unit-members who abuse this
privilege.
    1.1. Adequate. Existing quarters that comply with Department of Defense (DoD) and Air
    Force Lodging Standards as stated in AFI 34-246, Table 1.1 must be used. All quarters
    (Officer and Enlisted) on Patrick AFB are adequate in accordance with (IAW) these
    directives.
    1.2. Available. Reservations must be made through the Patrick AFB Space Coast Inn for all
    personnel requiring lodging. The only exception is for the monthly UTA when the
    Automated Lodging Reservation System (ALRS) is utilized, or the Unit Lodging Monitor
    (ULM) directly coordinates lodging requirements to the Space Coast Inn and the Wing
    Lodging Manager. All personnel, regardless of rank, will be assigned to on-base quarters
    until all available rooms have been reserved. Only after all on-base quarters have been
    exhausted will members be assigned by the Space Coast Inn to commercial contract lodging
    quarters.
    1.3. Unauthorized items.
       1.3.1. Pet Policy. Pets are not authorized in Patrick AFB Space Coast Inn facilities.
       Members violating this policy are not authorized unit-paid lodging and may be charged
       up to a $150.00 fee based on expenses incurred returning the room to inventory for
       violating the no-pet policy. Once cited, these individuals are subject to eviction as
       determined by the Lodging Manager, are directly responsible for damages, and will not
       be reimbursed for any fees and costs involved.
       1.3.2. Unauthorized Personnel. Unit members are not authorized lodging room
       deviations due to unauthorized personnel or pets traveling with the individual.
       1.3.3. No-Smoking Policy. All Air Force lodging guest rooms are no-smoking areas.
       Members staying in Air Force lodging may be charged up to a $150.00 fee based on
       expenses incurred returning the room to inventory for violating the no-smoking policy.
       Once cited, these individuals are subject to eviction as determined by the Lodging
       Manager, directly responsible for damages, and will not be reimbursed for any fees and
       costs involved.
    1.4. Newcomer Lodging. Newcomers residing outside the commuting distance will be
    lodged on base for their first UTA provided suitable lodging is available, based on rank.
    Military Personnel will notify individual units, finance and lodging of newcomers’ status. It
    is the responsibility of Military Personnel and the individual units to brief the newcomer to
    notify the Space Coast Inn if they require a cancellation or changes to their reservation.
    After the first UTA, unit-assigned members will be responsible for making their own lodging
    reservations via ALRS or through their unit ULM when performing duty during the monthly
920RQWI34-246 9 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                                3


  scheduled UTA. Unit members will be responsible for contacting the Space Coast Inn and
  making their own lodging reservations for all other periods of Inactive Duty Training (IDT)
  and Active Duty Training (ADT).
  1.5. No-Show Policy.
     1.5.1. The 920 RQW guarantees payment for IDT lodging rooms reserved and not used.
     Unit-members who do not check in at their confirmed location are considered a No-
     Show. It is the unit member’s responsibility to contact their respective ULMs prior to
     1200 Wednesday, preceding the UTA, if requesting a room cancellation or a delayed
     check-in time/date. After this timeframe, the unit member is liable and must contact the
     Space Coast Inn directly, no later than 1200 on the arrival date for any cancellations or
     changes to their reservation.
     1.5.2. First no-show occurrence: Unit members will receive a “Letter of Warning” from
     the Wing Lodging Manager indicating they did not call, cancel, or change their
     reservation and are being identified as a No-Show. A copy of the letter will also be sent
     to their unit commander and the Wing Commander.
     1.5.3. Second no-show occurrence within a six-month period: Unit members will receive
     a “Denial of Lodging” letter from the Wing Commander, indicating that this is their
     second offense and they will be denied wing/unit provided lodging for 6 months. A copy
     of the letter will be sent to their unit commander and the Wing Lodging Manager.
     Members in this status must make other lodging arrangements at their own expense.
     1.5.4. No-show expenses will be taken out of each unit’s Operations and Maintenance
     (O&M) funds to replenish the Wing’s lodging funds account.
  1.6. Active-Duty (AD) Tours.
     1.6.1. Unit-assigned members performing AD tours: Military Personnel Appropriation
     (MPA), Reserve Personnel Appropriation (RPA) and Annual Tour (AF Form 938,
     Request and Authorization for Active Duty Training/Active Duty Tour), regardless of per
     diem status, are individually responsible for their lodging charges and must contact the
     Space Coast Inn for all reservations. Individual will file for reimbursement (normal
     procedures apply).
     1.6.2. If commercial lodging is utilized, the Space Coast Inn will issue a Non-availability
     Statement required for the member to file with their travel voucher for reimbursement.
     No other unit or organization is authorized to issue Non-availability Statements for the
     utilization of commercial lodging. Note: 920 RQW/Unit members performing AD and
     IDT duty at locations other than Patrick AFB will use host lodging at the installation
     where they will be performing the duty.
  1.7. Inactive Duty Training (IDT) Tours.
     1.7.1. Unit-assigned members performing IDTs away from home station: Readiness
     Management Periods (RMP), UTA, and Additional Flying Training Period (AFTP) (AF
     Form 40A, Record of Individual Inactive Duty Training) are responsible for payment of
     their lodging charges and will file for reimbursement.
     1.7.2. Unit-assigned members performing IDTs at home station will not pay lodging
     room charges if their unit-provided lodging privileges have not been suspended. Lodging
4                                                     920RQWI34-246 9 SEPTEMBER 2009


       room costs (on-base and contract) for unit-assigned members performing IDTs at home
       station will be paid by the wing/unit via a government purchase card (GPC) account.
       Payment for personal charges, i.e., telephone, in-room charges, late-check out fees, etc.,
       is the responsibility of the member. Note: Members are NOT authorized to use their
       Government Travel Card (GTC) for charges incurred during IDT status.
       1.7.3. When a unit-assigned member performs an IDT at home station in conjunction
       with an active duty tour, to include annual tour in a non per diem status, only the IDT
       portion is authorized for payment by the wing/unit. The member is responsible for
       payment of their lodging charges for all active duty tours regardless of per diem status
       and must file for reimbursement (normal procedures apply).
2. Responsibility.
    2.1. 920 RQW Commander will:
       2.1.1. Ensure compliance of lodging program policies and procedures.
       2.1.2. Appoint a Wing Lodging Resource Advisor to manage Wing Lodging GPC
       payments.
       2.1.3. Appoint a Wing Lodging Manager to oversee the Wing Lodging Program.
       2.1.4. Creates policy regarding no-shows and any lodging infractions.
       2.1.5. Issues “Denial of Lodging” letters to members who are in violation of the No-
       show Policy.
    2.2. 920 RQW IDT Lodging Resource Advisor will:
       2.2.1. Comply with all Air Force GPC program directives in administering the 920 RQW
       IDT lodging payment process.
       2.2.2. Maintain billing and payment documentation to ensure accurate accountability
       IAW Air Force requirements.
       2.2.3. Work in conjunction with the 920 RQW Lodging Manager to ensure accuracy and
       timely payment of 920 RQW IDT lodging bills.
    2.3. 920 RQW Lodging Manager will:
       2.3.1. Oversees the ULMs, tracks and assists with computer-generated unit lodging
       rosters and acts as liaison between the Space Coast Inn and the 920 RQW.
       2.3.2. Work directly with the Space Coast Inn management (lodging) to ensure adequate
       quarters are available to meet UTA lodging requirements.
       2.3.3. Provide lodging a copy of the commuting unit-assigned alpha roster which
       identifies members authorized lodging at wing/unit expense during IDT periods.
       2.3.4. Provide lodging a copy of the Wing’s annual UTA schedule as soon as it is
       finalized and approved (July-September time frame). Revalidate and update data on an
       annual basis.
       2.3.5. Provide lodging with a copy of the “Denial of Lodging” list composed of members
       that have been denied unit-funded lodging along with the time frame of suspension.
920RQWI34-246 9 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                            5


     2.3.6. Manage lodging reservations via ALRS or manually through the use of wing/unit
     Authorized Lodging rosters provided by the ULMs.
     2.3.7. Assist the Wing Lodging Resource Advisor in validating IDT lodging bills from
     the base lodging office and commercial lodging.
     2.3.8. Work with the ULMs to ensure all IDT lodging requirements are properly
     identified.
     2.3.9. Actively monitor unit No-Shows to ensure the unit does not pay for quarters not
     used, and provide the No-Show Report to ULMs and unit commanders, for their action,
     as necessary.
     2.3.10. Compile copies all AF Form 3211, Customer Comment for tracking of lodging
     issues and submit summary to Wing Commander.
     2.3.11. Issues “Letters of Warning” for members who are in violation of the No-Show
     Policy.
  2.4. 920 RQW Unit Commanders will:
     2.4.1. Designate, by appointment letter, a ULM who acts as a liaison with the Wing
     Lodging Manager and the Space Coast Inn regarding UTA lodging reservations.
     2.4.2. Enforce the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and wing guidance regarding
     reservists identified within the commuting/ non-commuting area.
     2.4.3. Ensure all members are briefed on lodging procedures on a quarterly basis. (i.e.
     Commander’s Call).
     2.4.4. Work in conjunction with the assigned ULM researching the unit’s No-Shows
     from the previous month’s UTA.
     2.4.5. Enforce Wing Commander’s No-Show policy and disciplinary actions regarding
     unit members who receive “Letter of Warning” and “Denial of Lodging” letters.
  2.5. 920 RQW Unit Lodging Monitors will:
     2.5.1. Provide and manage the Lodging Request Sign-Up form during each scheduled
     UTA, so members authorized lodging will sign and identify the number of nights
     required for next UTA.
     2.5.2. Provide the Space Coast Inn and Wing Lodging Manager with a roster of the
     unit’s lodging requirements for the next UTA no later than (NLT) 1600 Friday following
     the current month’s UTA.
     2.5.3. Work with the Wing Lodging Manager to ensure only authorized unit members
     are provided IDT lodging.
     2.5.4. Maintain the ULM’s Continuity binder by updating the following:
        2.5.4.1. Squadron appointment letter and ULM contact information.
        2.5.4.2. Monthly UTA Lodging Request Sign-Up sheets.
        2.5.4.3. Copy of individual No-Show Letters for unit members (first notice and
        second notice/revocation of lodging privileges) and monthly No-Show lists.
6                                                      920RQWI34-246 9 SEPTEMBER 2009


          2.5.4.4. Authorized Lodging list of unit members eligible for IDT lodging at unit
          expense and re-validate on a quarterly basis. Note: The non-commute Roster may
          need to be re-validated more often due to member separations, newcomers to the unit,
          and updates to the Authorized Lodging list.
          2.5.4.5. Maintain current 920 RQWI 34-246 and AFI 34-246.
       2.5.5. Ensure unit members comply with room cancellation procedures and make
       lodging reservations IAW this directive in order to eliminate members arriving without
       reservations, having duplicate reservations, making their own reservations and
       reservations past the assigned suspense date for scheduled monthly UTAs.
       2.5.6. Confirm reservations are canceled for unit members that have rescheduled the
       upcoming UTA (i.e., check against completed AF Form 40A)
       2.5.7. Provide the Space Coast Inn and Wing Lodging Manager with a list of
       cancellations and/or changes to reservations NLT 1200 Wednesday prior to the upcoming
       UTA.
       2.5.8. Ensure unit members are notified of their lodging assignments NLT 1600
       Wednesday prior to the upcoming UTA.
       2.5.9. Research unit member’s No-Shows for the previous UTA and have the No-Show
       report completed and returned to Wing Lodging Manager NLT 1600, second Friday after
       the UTA.
    2.6. 920 RQW Unit Members will:
       2.6.1. Make/Confirm lodging reservations as soon as a requirement for lodging becomes
       known. Eligible unit members scheduled to attend the next month’s UTA will verify
       lodging reservations by signing and identifying the number of nights required (to include
       NONE) on the Lodging Request Sign-Up sheet through each organizational orderly
       room/common office during the current month’s UTA. If absent during the current UTA,
       the member will automatically be guaranteed lodging for the following month’s UTA.
       Failure to sign and indicate number of needed nights will be treated as an absentee, thus
       resulting in an automatic lodging reservation. It is the member’s responsibility to contact
       their respective ULM with changes or cancellations to their next month’s lodging request
       within 5 business days following the missed UTA, in accordance with AFI 34-246,
       Attachment 3, A3.3.5.
       2.6.2. Be personally responsible for making lodging reservations for all IDT and ADT,
       with the exception of the main UTA. If additional lodging is required, in conjunction
       with the main UTA (before and/or after), the member is responsible for contacting the
       Space Coast Inn to secure lodging for those dates. Exception: Unit Commanders may
       request additional dates for unit-assigned members needed when signing up for the next
       month’s UTA if they immediately precede or follow the UTA with their respective
       ULMs. The ULM will then forward the request to the Space Coast Inn and Wing
       Lodging Manager.
       2.6.3. Cancel lodging reservations as soon as notice is given of duty requirements/date
       changes. All cancellations/changes made before Wednesday 1200 prior to the UTA must
       be made through the ULM; cancellations/changes after this date/time will be made by the
920RQWI34-246 9 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                                  7


      individual unit member contacting the Space Coast Inn NLT Friday 1200 prior to the
      UTA. Note: Members are directly responsible for the making and cancelling of their
      own lodging reservations for any duty periods through the use of the ALRS, ULM, or
      Space Coast Inn, as required. Members in an IDT status who do not make reservations
      through the ULM in accordance with this directive will not be provided lodging at unit
      expense. Members, who make reservations and fail to cancel for a UTA or other IDT,
      may be subject to revocation of their lodging privileges in the future per paragraph 1.5.
      No-Show Policy.
      2.6.4. Contact their ULM if they have not received notification of their lodging
      accommodations for the UTA NLT 1200 Wednesday prior to the UTA. After this time,
      members are required to contact the Space Coast Inn to confirm their reservations.
      Failure to contact either the ULM or Space Coast Inn WILL NOT be accepted as a reason
      for no-shows and/or duplicate reservations.
      2.6.5. Pay for personal charges, i.e., telephone, in-room charges, late check-out fees, etc.
      Commercial lodging hotels, at their discretion, may request members to provide a
      personal credit card or cash deposit to cover incidentals prior to check-in. Failure to do
      so may result in the member being denied commercial lodging. Members are not
      required to pay for individual use of refrigerators, irons and ironing boards, microwaves,
      clock radios, or coffee pots in their room. The hotel is responsible to provide these items
      free of charge in accordance with AF contract hotel requirements. Note: Members are
      NOT authorized to use their GTC for charges incurred during IDT status.
      2.6.6. Keep lodging room secured at all times. Individuals are responsible for any loss or
      damage occurring to government or commercial contract lodging property. Members
      should not leave valuables, i.e., money, jewelry, credit cards, or other high cost items in
      their rooms. Lodging is not responsible for lost or stolen items.
      2.6.7. Report both positive and negative feedback of government and commercial
      contract lodging using the AF Form 3211, which can be found in government lodging
      rooms, Space Coast Inn front desk and AF e-Publications website. Submit AF Form
      3211s to the Space Coast Inn and a copy to the Wing Lodging Manager for tracking
      purposes.
3. Making Lodging Reservations.
   3.1. ADT/IDT Reservations. Make all ADT and IDT lodging reservations in advance,
   except for the main UTA, directly through the Space Coast Inn, Commercial (voice) 321-
   494-2075/4811/6590 between the hours of 0800 and 1600, Monday through Friday.
      3.1.1. AF Form 938 may be required for presentation upon check-in for all ADT
      reservations.
      3.1.2. AF Form 40A will be presented at check-in for all IDT reservations. Note: If it is
      not possible for the member to present one of these forms at check-in, the member or the
      unit must ensure that lodging receives the form prior to the guest checking-out of
      lodging.
8                                                    920RQWI34-246 9 SEPTEMBER 2009


    3.2. UTA Reservations. All reservations for scheduled monthly UTAs will be made in
    advance for unit-assigned members whose privileges have not been revoked. Contact the
    ULM for confirmation/cancellation of lodging reservations
    3.3. Failure of Making Reservations. Members failing to make reservations in advance
    may be assigned lodging, but will be personally responsible for payment of lodging charges
    in accordance with AFI 34-246, paragraph A.3.3.5.1.
4. Payment Procedures.
    4.1. Member Responsibility. Per AFI 34-246, Attachment 3, Reserve Components are
    authorized to pay the lodging costs for their members in an IDT status only when
    Government-controlled quarters, i.e., on-base lodging or off-base contract commercial
    lodging, are provided.
       4.1.1. 920 RQW members, who reside outside the local-commuting area, performing
       IDT during the scheduled monthly UTA (or rescheduled UTA, RMP, or AFTP with an
       AF Form 40A) at Patrick AFB will be provided lodging (limited to the per diem rate) at
       unit expense only when the procedures in this instruction are followed and the member’s
       lodging privileges have not been suspended. The member is individually responsible for
       all personal charges, i.e., telephone calls, in-room charges, etc., IAW AFI 34-246,
       paragraph A.3.4.2.4. Note: Members are NOT authorized to use their GTC for charges
       incurred during IDT status.
       4.1.2. 920 RQW members in an active duty status assigned to on-base or contract
       commercial lodging, regardless of per diem status, are individually responsible for
       payment of their lodging charges. Individuals will file for reimbursement (normal
       procedures apply).

5. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 40A, Record of Individual Inactive Duty Training
AF Form 938, Request and Authorization for Active Duty Training/Active Duty Tour
AF Form 3211, Customer Comment




                                           STEVEN W. KIRKPATRICK, Col, USAFR
                                           Commander
920RQWI34-246 9 SEPTEMBER 2009                               9


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 34-246, Air Force Lodging Program, 9 November 2007
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 29 January 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 34-6, Air Force Lodging, 22 July 1993

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AD— Active Duty
ADT— Active Duty Training
AF— Air Force
AFB— Air Force Base
AFI— Air Force Instruction
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AFRC— Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS— Air Force Records Information Management System
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
AFTP— Additional Flying Training Period
ALRS— Automated Lodging Reservation System
DoD— Department of Defense
GPC— Government Purchase Card
GTC— Government Travel Card
HOR— Home of Record
IAW— In Accordance With
IMA— Individual Mobilization Augmentee
IRR— Individual Ready Reserve
IDT— Inactive Duty Training
MPA— Military Personnel Appropriation
NLT— No Later Than
O&M— Operations and Maintenance
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS— Records Disposition Schedule
10                                                    920RQWI34-246 9 SEPTEMBER 2009


RMP— Readiness Management Periods
RPA— Reserve Personnel Appropriation
RQWI— Rescue Wing Instruction
RQW— Rescue Wing
TDY— Temporary Duty
ULM— Unit Lodging Monitor
UTA— Unit Training Assembly

Terms
Abuse— Improper use, physical destruction, or mishandling of government property.
Aircrew Member— Anyone who holds an aeronautical rating or is on flight crew orders.
Commercial Lodging— Commercial accommodations under lease, contract, or memorandum
of understanding or agreement to the government for transient lodging use.
Government Lodging— Lodging accommodations the Department of Defense owns. Leases,
obtains by permit, or otherwise acquires.
Inactive Duty Training Periods (IDT)— periods of member training to include: Unit Training
Assemblies (UTAs), rescheduled UTAs, additional flying training periods (AFTPs), and for
annual tour (if applicable).
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travelers— Military personnel and DoD civilian employees
temporarily assigned at an installation other than the one to which they are permanently assigned
or employed.
