BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       927 AIR REFUELING WING INSTRUCTION
OF THE 927 AIR REFUELING WING                                                34-246

                                                                               28 MARCH 2013

                                                                                         Services

                                                           RESERVIST LODGING PROGRAM
                                                                          PROCEDURES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 927 FSS/FSV                                                      Certified by: 927 FSS/FSV
                                                                         (SMSgt James Candler)
                                                                                        Pages: 10


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 34-6, Air Force Lodging. This
instruction extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 34-246, Air Force Lodging
Program. It provides guidance and procedures for personnel authorized to occupy quarters (on-
base/off-base contract commercial) and mandates use of lodging for all 927th Air Refueling
Wing (927 ARW) Reserve personnel performing active duty and inactive of training tours. It
requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 as
required by AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program. It applies only to Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) members assigned to units within the 927 ARW physically located at MacDill Air Force
Base (AFB), Florida. Failure to comply with this instruction may result in loss of lodging
privileges. This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all supplements must be
routed to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) listed above for coordination prior to
certification and approval. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
the OPR listed above using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate chain of command. Requests for waivers
must be submitted to the OPR listed above, or as otherwise stipulated within this publication, for
consideration and approval. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). The use of the name or
mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this
publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                          927ARWI34-246 28 MARCH 2013


1. Procedure. The 927 ARW is a tenant organization on an active duty Air Force installation.
As such, 927 ARW personnel living outside the designated lodging commuting distance of the
installation are eligible for lodging at unit expense when performing inactive duty training at
MacDill AFB. Per AFI 34-246, Attachment 3, A3.1. (9 November 2007), the commuting
distance for 927 ARW members assigned to MacDill AFB, FL is defined as commuting from
outside the three counties of Hillsborough, Pasco, and Pinellas. All 927 ARW duty personnel
must use on-base lodging when it is available. Members are directed to use the Automated
Lodging Reservations System (ALRS) by calling 813-828-8063, 8064, 8065, or 8066 for the
regularly scheduled Unit Training Assembly (UTA) only. All other reservations will be made
through the MacDill Inn or through the 927 ARW Wing Lodging Manager. The time frame for
making reservations begins the Sunday of the previous month’s UTA until the Wednesday of the
week prior to the UTA. Members will not be able to make reservations after midnight on that
Wednesday. Members who fail to make a reservation within this time frame will be responsible
for paying their lodging costs.
     1.1. Adequate. Existing quarters that comply with Department of Defense (DoD) and Air
     Force Lodging Standards as stated in AFI 34-246, Table 1.1 must be used. All quarters
     (Officer and Enlisted) on MacDill AFB are adequate in accordance with (IAW) these
     directives.
     1.2. Available. All reservations outside of the regularly scheduled UTA must be made
     through the MacDill AFB MacDill Inn or through the Wing Lodging Manager for all
     personnel requiring lodging. Reservations for the regularly scheduled UTA must be made
     through the ALRS. All reservations, regardless of rank, will be assigned to on-base quarters
     until all available rooms have been reserved. Once all on base rooms are completely
     occupied, members will be sent off base to contract lodging.
     1.3. Unauthorized items.
        1.3.1. Unauthorized personnel. Family, friends, or other personnel not on orders, unless
        otherwise noted or authorized by the Wing Commander, are not authorized to stay in on-
        base lodging paid for by the 927 ARW during a UTA or when on orders for the 927
        ARW. Unit members are not authorized lodging room deviations due to unauthorized
        personnel traveling with the individual.
        1.3.2. Pet Policy. Pets are not authorized in MacDill AFB MacDill Inn facilities.
        Members violating this policy are not authorized unit-paid lodging and may be charged
        up to a $150.00 fee based on expenses incurred returning the room to inventory for
        violating the no-pet policy. Once cited, these individuals are subject to eviction as
        determined by the Lodging Manager, are directly responsible for damages, and will not
        be reimbursed for any fees and costs involved.
        1.3.3. No-Smoking Policy. All Air Force lodging guest rooms are no-smoking areas.
        Members staying in Air Force lodging may be charged up to a $150.00 fee based on
        expenses incurred returning the room to inventory for violating the no-smoking policy.
        Once cited, these individuals are subject to eviction as determined by the Lodging
        Manager, directly responsible for damages, and will not be reimbursed for any fees and
        costs involved.
927ARWI34-246 28 MARCH 2013                                                                     3


  1.4. Newcomer Lodging. Newcomers residing outside the commuting distance will be
  lodged on base for their first UTA provided adequate lodging is available, based on rank.
  Military Personnel will notify individual units, finance and lodging of newcomers’ status. It
  is the responsibility of Military Personnel and the individual units to brief the newcomer to
  notify the MacDill Inn if they require a cancellation or changes to their reservation. After the
  first UTA, unit-assigned members will be responsible for making their own lodging
  reservations via ALRS. Unit members will be responsible for contacting the MacDill Inn
  and making their own lodging reservations for all other periods of Inactive Duty Training
  (IDT) and Active Duty Training (ADT).
  1.5. Violation Policy.
     1.5.1. Violations include: No-shows, unauthorized guests, and late check-out.
         1.5.1.1. No-shows. The 927 ARW guarantees payment for IDT lodging rooms
         reserved and not used. Unit-members who do not check-in at their confirmed
         location are considered a no-show. It is the unit member’s responsibility to contact
         927th Force Support Squadron/Services Branch 24 hours prior to their check-in time
         to cancel a reservation that is no longer needed.
         1.5.1.2. Unauthorized Guests. Family, friends and/or pets are not permitted in
         lodging rooms unless otherwise stated.      Members of the opposite sex are not
         permitted in on-base lodging rooms with a shared bathroom.
         1.5.1.3. Late Check-out. Members must check out of lodging prior to the determined
         check-out time. NOTE: The check-out time at the MacDill Inn is 1100. Members
         must physically check-out with the front desk prior to check-out time.
     1.5.2. Violation Procedures.
         1.5.2.1. First occurrence: Unit members will receive a “Letter of Warning” from the
         Wing Lodging Manager indicating they were in violation of 927ARWI34-246. A
         copy of the letter will also be sent to their unit commander.
         1.5.2.2. Second occurrence: Unit members will receive a “Denial of Lodging” letter
         from the Wing Commander, indicating that this is their second offense and they will
         be denied wing/unit provided lodging for 6 months. A copy of the letter will be sent
         to their unit commander and the Wing Lodging Manager. Members in this status
         must make other lodging arrangements at their own expense.
     1.5.3. Violation expenses will be taken out of each unit’s Operations and Maintenance
     (O&M) funds to replenish the Wing’s lodging funds account.
  1.6. Active-Duty (AD) Tours.
     1.6.1. Unit-assigned members performing active duty tours: Military Personnel
     Appropriation (MPA), Reserve Personnel Appropriation (RPA) and Annual Tour (AF
     Form 938, Request and Authorization for Active Duty Training/Active Duty Tour),
     regardless of per diem status, are individually responsible for their lodging charges and
     must contact the MacDill Inn for all reservations. Personnel will file for reimbursement
     (normal procedures apply).
 4                                                          927ARWI34-246 28 MARCH 2013


        1.6.2. If commercial lodging is utilized, the MacDill Inn will issue a Non-availability
        Statement required for the member to file with their travel voucher for reimbursement.
        No other unit or organization is authorized to issue Non-availability Statements for the
        utilization of commercial lodging. NOTE: Unit-assigned members performing AD and
        IDT duty at locations other than MacDill AFB will use host lodging at the installation
        where they will be performing the duty. Members who perform any AD (RPA, MPA, or
        AT) in conjunction with any form of IDT (UTA, Rescheduled Unit Training Assembly
        (RUTA), Additional Flying Training Period (AFTP), Ground Training Period (GTP), or
        Readiness Management Periods (RMP)) must contact the Wing Lodging Manager
        (WLM) for reservations.
     1.7. Inactive Duty Tours (IDT).
        1.7.1. Unit-assigned members performing IDTs away from home station: RMP, UTA,
        and AFTP (AF Form 40A, Record of Individual Inactive Duty Training) are responsible
        for payment of their lodging charges and will file for reimbursement.
        1.7.2. Unit-assigned members performing IDTs at home station will not pay lodging
        room charges if their unit-provided lodging privileges have not been suspended. Lodging
        room costs (on-base and contract) for unit-assigned members performing IDTs at home
        station will be paid by the wing/unit via a government purchase card (GPC) account.
        Payment for personal charges, e.g., telephone, in-room charges, late-check out fees, etc.,
        is the responsibility of the member. NOTE: Members are NOT authorized to use their
        Government Travel Card (GTC) for charges incurred during IDT status.
        1.7.3. When a unit-assigned member performs an IDT at home station in conjunction
        with an active duty tour, to include annual tour in a non per diem status, only the IDT
        portion is authorized for payment by the wing/unit. The member is responsible for
        payment of their lodging charges for all active duty tours regardless of per diem status
        and must file for reimbursement (normal procedures apply).
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. Wing Commander.
        2.1.1. Ensures compliance of lodging program policies and procedures.
        2.1.2. Appoints a Wing Lodging Resource Advisor to manage the Wing IDT Lodging
        Government Purchase Card (GPC) payments.
        2.1.3. Appoints a Wing Lodging Manager/POC to oversee the Wing Lodging Program.
        2.1.4. Creates policy regarding no-shows and any lodging infractions.
        2.1.5. Issues “Denial of Lodging” letters to members who are in violation of the policy.
     2.2. Wing IDT Lodging Resource Advisor.
        2.2.1. Complies with all Air Force GPC program directives in administering the 927
        ARW IDT lodging payment process.
        2.2.2. Maintains billing and payment documentation to ensure accurate accountability
        IAW Air Force requirements.
927ARWI34-246 28 MARCH 2013                                                                  5


     2.2.3. Works in conjunction with the 927 ARW Wing Lodging Manager to ensure
     accuracy and timely payment of 927 ARW IDT lodging bills.
  2.3. Wing Lodging Manager/POC.
     2.3.1. Oversees the ULMs, tracks and assists with computer-generated unit lodging
     rosters and acts as liaison between the MacDill Inn and the 927th Air Refueling Wing.
     2.3.2. Works directly with the MacDill Inn management (lodging) to ensure adequate
     quarters are available to meet UTA lodging requirements.
     2.3.3. Provides lodging a copy of the commuting unit-assigned alpha roster which
     identifies members authorized lodging at wing/unit expense during IDT periods.
     2.3.4. Provides lodging a copy of the Wing’s annual UTA schedule as soon as it is
     finalized and approved (Jul-Sep time frame). Revalidate and update data on an annual
     basis.
     2.3.5. Provides lodging with a copy of the Denial of Lodging list composed of members
     that have been denied unit-funded lodging along with the time frame of suspension.
     2.3.6. Manages lodging reservations via the ALRS.
     2.3.7. Assists the Wing Lodging Resource Advisor in validating IDT lodging bills from
     the base lodging office and commercial lodging.
     2.3.8. Works with the unit lodging monitors to ensure all IDT lodging requirements are
     properly identified.
     2.3.9. Actively monitors unit no-shows to ensure the unit does not pay for quarters not
     used, and provide the no-show report to ULMs and unit commanders, for their action, as
     necessary.
     2.3.10. Compiles copies of all Lodging Comment Cards (AF Form 3211) for tracking of
     lodging issues and submits summary to Wing Commander.
     2.3.11. Issues “Letters of Warning” for members who are in violation of the no-show
     Policy.
  2.4. Unit Commanders.
     2.4.1. Designate, by appointment letter, a unit lodging monitor who acts as a liaison with
     the 927 ARW WLM regarding UTA lodging reservations.
     2.4.2. Enforce wing guidance regarding reservists identified within the commuting/non-
     commuting area.
     2.4.3. Work in conjunction with assigned ULM researching the unit’s violations from the
     previous month’s UTA.
     2.4.4. Enforce Wing Commander’s no-show policy and disciplinary actions regarding
     unit members who receive “Letter of Warning” and “Denial of Lodging” letters.
  2.5. Unit Lodging Monitors (ULMs).
     2.5.1. Work with the Wing Lodging Manager to ensure only authorized unit members
     are provided IDT lodging.
6                                                           927ARWI34-246 28 MARCH 2013


       2.5.2. Maintain the Unit Lodging Monitor’s Continuity binder by updating the following:
          2.5.2.1. Squadron appointment letter and ULM contact information;
          2.5.2.2. Copy of individual no-show letters for unit members (first notice and second
          notice/revocation of lodging privileges) and monthly no-show lists;
          2.5.2.3. Authorized Lodging List of unit members eligible for IDT lodging at unit
          expense and re-validate on a quarterly basis. NOTE: The Non-Commute Roster
          may need to be re-validated more often due to member separations, newcomers to the
          unit, and updates to the Authorized Lodging list.
       2.5.3. Ensure unit members comply with room cancellation procedures and make
       lodging reservations IAW this instruction in order to eliminate members arriving without
       reservations, having duplicate reservations, making their own reservations and
       reservations past the assigned suspense date for scheduled monthly UTAs.
       2.5.4. Research unit member’s no-shows for the previous UTA and have no-show report
       completed and returned to the Wing Lodging Manager no later than (NLT) 1600, second
       Friday after previous UTA.
    2.6. Unit Members.
       2.6.1. Make/Confirm lodging reservations as soon as a requirement for lodging becomes
       known.
       2.6.2. Be personally responsible for making lodging reservations for all IDT and ADT,
       and UTAs. If additional lodging is required in conjunction with the main UTA (before
       and/or after) the member is responsible for contacting the MacDill Inn to secure lodging
       for those dates.
       2.6.3. Cancel lodging reservations as soon as notice is given of duty requirements/date
       changes. All cancellations/changes must be made at least 24 hours prior to check in time
       with the Wing Lodging Manager. Cancellations made after this time may be subject to
       no-show violation. NOTE: Members are directly responsible for the making and
       cancelling of their own lodging reservations for any duty periods through the use of the
       ALRS, WLM, or MacDill Inn, as required. Members in an IDT status who do not make
       reservations through ALRS in accordance with this instruction will not be provided
       lodging at unit expense. Members, who make reservations and fail to cancel for a UTA
       or other IDT, may be subject to revocation of their lodging privileges in the future per
       paragraph 1.5. Violation Policy of this instruction.
       2.6.4. Pay for personal charges, e.g., telephone, in-room charges, late check-out fees, etc.
       Commercial lodging hotels, at their discretion, may request members to provide a
       personal credit card or cash deposit to cover incidentals prior to check-in. Failure to do
       so may result in the member being denied commercial lodging. Members are not
       required to pay for individual use of refrigerators, irons and ironing boards, microwaves,
       clock radios, or coffee pots in their room. The hotel is responsible to provide these items
       free of charge in accordance with Air Force contract hotel requirements.            NOTE:
       Members are NOT authorized to use their GTC for charges incurred during IDT status.
       2.6.5. Keep lodging room secured at all times. Individuals are responsible for any loss or
       damage occurring to government or commercial lodging property. Members should not
927ARWI34-246 28 MARCH 2013                                                                      7


      leave valuables, e.g., money, jewelry, credit cards, or other high cost items in their rooms.
      Lodging is not responsible for lost or stolen items.
      2.6.6. Report both positive and negative feedback of government and commercial
      contract lodging using the AF Form 3211, Comment Card, which can be found in
      government lodging rooms, MacDill Inn front desk and Air Force e-publications website.
      Submit Comment Cards to the MacDill Inn and a copy to the Wing Lodging Manager for
      tracking purposes.
3. Making Lodging Reservations.
   3.1. ADT/IDT Reservations. Make all ADT and IDT lodging reservations in advance,
   except for the main UTA, directly through the MacDill Inn, Commercial (voice) 813-828-
   4259 X2001 between the hours of 0800 and 1600, Monday through Friday.
      3.1.1. AF Form 938 may be required for presentation upon check-in for all ADT
      reservations.
      3.1.2. AF Form 40A will be presented at check-in for all IDT reservations. NOTE: If it
      is not possible for the member to present one of these forms at check-in, they or the unit
      must ensure that lodging receives the form prior to the guest checking-out of lodging.
   3.2. UTA Reservations. All reservations for scheduled monthly UTAs will be made in
   advance using the ALRS for unit-assigned members whose privileges have not been revoked.
   3.3. Failure of Making Reservations. Members failing to make reservations by the Sunday
   prior to the UTA cutoff will be personally responsible for payment of lodging charges in
   accordance with AFI 34-246, paragraph A.3.3.5.1.
4. Payment Procedures.
   4.1. Member Responsibility. Per AFI 34-246, Attachment 3, Reserve Components are
   authorized to pay the lodging costs for their members in an IDT status only when
   Government-controlled quarters, i.e., on-base lodging or off-base contract commercial
   lodging, are provided.
      4.1.1. Unit-assigned members who reside outside the local-commuting area, and
      performing IDT during the scheduled monthly UTA (or RUTA, RMP, or AFTP with an
      AF Form 40A) at MacDill AFB, will be provided lodging (limited to the per diem rate) at
      unit expense only when the procedures in 927 ARWI 34-246 are followed and the
      member’s lodging privileges have not been suspended. The member is responsible for all
      personal charges, e.g., telephone calls, in-room charges, etc., IAW AFI 34-246, paragraph
      A.3.4.2.4.        NOTE: Members are NOT authorized to use their GTC for charges
      incurred during IDT status.
      4.1.2. Unit-assigned members in an active duty status assigned to on-base or commercial
      lodging, regardless of per diem status, are individually responsible for payment of their
      lodging charges. Individuals will file for reimbursement (normal procedures apply).




                                            DAVID P. PAVEY, Colonel, USAFR
8                927ARWI34-246 28 MARCH 2013


    Commander, 927th Air Refueling Wing
927ARWI34-246 28 MARCH 2013                                          9


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 1015.12, Lodging Program Resource Management, 30 October 1996
DoD 4165.63-M, DoD Housing Management, 9 September 1993
AFI 34-246, Air Force Lodging Program, 9 November 2007
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 16 May 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 34-6, Air Force Lodging, 22 July 1993

Abbreviations and Acronyms
927 ARW—927th Air Refueling Wing
AD—Active Duty
ADT—Active Duty Training
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFTP—Additional Flying Training Period
ALRS—Automated Lodging Reservation System
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
GPC—Government Purchase Card
GTC—Government Travel Card
GTP—Ground Training Period
IAW—In Accordance With
IDT—Inactive Duty Training
MPA—Military Personnel Appropriation
NLT—No Later Than
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
 10                                                    927ARWI34-246 28 MARCH 2013


POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RMP—Readiness Management Periods
RPA—Reserve Personnel Appropriation
RUTA—Rescheduled Unit Training Assembly
TDY—Temporary Duty
ULM—Unit Lodging Monitor
USAF—United States Air Force
USAFR—United States Air Force Reserve
UTA—Unit Training Assembly
WLM—Wing Lodging Manager

Terms
Commercial Lodging—Commercial accommodations under lease, contract, or memorandum of
understanding or agreement to the government for transient lodging use.
Government Lodging—Lodging accommodations the Department of Defense owns. Leases,
obtains by permit, or otherwise acquires.
Inactive Duty Training (IDT)—periods of member training to include: Unit Training
Assemblies (UTAs), rescheduled UTA (RUTAs), additional flying training periods (AFTPs), and
for annual tour (if applicable).
