BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         932 AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 21-129
932D AIRLIFT WING
                                                                         2 SEPTEMBER 2011
                                                         Incorporating Change 1, 18 JUNE 2012

                                                                                   Maintenance

                                                  COMPOSITE TOOL KIT (CTK) PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication
OPR: 932 MXS/MXM                                                     Certified by: 932 MXG/CC
                                                                      (Col James F. McDonnell)
                                                                                       Pages: 13


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space
Maintenance, Air Force Instruction (AFI) 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance
Management, AFI 11-301V1, Aircrew Life Support (ALS) Program, and Air Force Occupational
Safety & Health (AFOSH) Standard (STD) 91-100, Aircraft Flightline-Ground Operations and
Activities. It extends guidance and procedures outlined in Technical Order (TO) 32-1-101,
Maintenance and Care of Hand Tools; TO 00-35D-54, Deficiency Reporting, and Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 23-110V2P2, Standard Base Supply Customer Procedure. This Airlift Wing
Instruction (AWI) establishes local procedures for tool and equipment control and prescribes
responsibilities for the use, storage, control, and inventory of Composite Tool Kits. This AWI is
applicable to all personnel who maintain, service, and operate 932d aircraft and Aerospace
Ground Equipment (AGE). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through Major Command
(MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. The use of the name or mark of any specific
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change implements personal accountability
1. Security, Control, and Accountability of Tools and Equipment:
2                                                        932AWI 21-129 2 SEPTEMBER 2011


    1.1. Security: All tool rooms not occupied by a tool room monitor will be under lock and
    key at all times. Distribution of tool room keys or lock combination will be held to a
    minimum, consistent with both security and production requirements. Tool room locks will
    be changed, as required, by the work center’s supervisor to maintain security. All unused
    Composite Tool Kits (CTK) signed out by individuals will be maintained under lock and key
    at all times.
    1.2. Control: The principles of accountability and control will not be compromised. The
    CTK Program includes flashlights, marshalling paddles/wands, mobile maintenance boxes,
    and test equipment. Any tool or mobile maintenance box, including test equipment, used to
    perform a job must be inspected and accounted for prior to the job and after the job is
    completed. Use of personal tools (i.e., mini-mag flashlights, leatherman, etc.) to perform
    maintenance on aircraft and support equipment is NOT authorized.
       1.2.1. TCMax will be used to control tools, hazardous material (HAZMAT), and
       Technical Orders. In the event of a computer failure or malfunction, an Air Force
       Reserve Command (AFRC) Form 177, Consolidated Tool Kit Inventory and Control Log,
       will be used for to sign in/out each individual tool or toolbox. Tool room custodians will
       ensure sufficient blank copies of AFRC Form 177 are on hand for this contingency.
           1.2.1.1. Control and management of replacement, expendable, and consumable
           items, HAZMATs, and other items contained in CTKs:
              1.2.1.1.1. Replacement, tools, expendable and consumable items:
                  1.2.1.1.1.1. The tool room custodian will:
                    1.2.1.1.1.1.1. Serve as damaged tool monitor, procure replacement tools,
                    and dispose of defective tools through Defense Logistics Agency (DLA)
                    Disposition Services. Store replacement tools, expendable items, and
                    consumables in a secure centralized location within the respective tool room
                    and accomplish and document a quarterly inventory of all replacement tools.
                  1.2.1.1.1.2. The tool room monitor will:
                    1.2.1.1.1.2.1. Inspect damaged tools to determine replacement
                    requirements. All damaged tools will be turned in to the tool room
                    custodian. Defective tools will be removed, documented in TCMax and
                    annotated on AFRC Form 175. When available, a spare tool is issued for
                    replacement and annotated in TCMax.
              1.2.1.1.2. Hazmat items that are dispatched from tool rooms will be tracked using
              TCMax. A current letter will be kept on file authorizing individuals to receive
              hazardous materials from the Hazardous Materials Pharmacy.
                  1.2.1.1.2.1. Hazmat items issued for one time use (oil cans, hydraulic cans,
                  mixing compounds) are supply items and do not have to be tracked in TCMax.
                  Hazmat and supply procedures must still be followed.
           1.2.1.2. Individuals signing out equipment for temporary duty (TDY) use, such as
           reflective belts or flying crew chief tool boxes, remain responsible for the equipment
           until it is returned to the tool room that it was issued from. However, they will report
           any lost items to the on-duty production superintendent/transient alert/fixed based
932AWI 21-129 2 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                3


          operator at the TDY location where the equipment was lost, and follow lost
          tool/equipment procedures in this AWI and procedures at the TDY location. The
          individual who lost the tool/equipment will provide a copy of the documented lost
          tool report to the on-duty tool room monitor at the tool room where the equipment
          was issued via facsimile (if equipment is available), or upon return from TDY.
             1.2.1.2.1. Personnel who check out CTK’s for TDY use will be given a TCMax
             inventory of all items currently issued to the individual. These personnel will
             conduct a daily inventory and document on AFRC Form 177 on all days that the
             CTK’s are used. NOTE: The inventory cannot be performed by the same person
             at the beginning and end of shift.
          1.2.1.3. Shared/decentralized tool rooms: When a CTK is sub located to another tool
          room the gaining tool room will assume security, control, and inventory responsibility
          for that CTK item.
   1.3. Accountability:
      1.3.1. Tool room monitors are responsible for CTK under their control from the time
      they accept the CTK until the time another individual accepts it.
      1.3.2. Individuals, who sign out CTKs, are responsible for CTKs under their control
      from the time they accept the CTK until the time the tool room monitor accepts it.
      Individuals must identify all missing or broken tools/equipment during their acceptance
      inventory prior to departing the tool room. Once they remove the CTK from the tool
      room, all missing tools/equipment are the responsibility of the individual who accepted
      the CTK.
2. CTK Inventory Procedures:
   2.1. Shift inventory: Tool room custodians or monitors will conduct and document, in
   TCMax, an inventory at the beginning and end of each shift to account for all tools on the
   shadow boards, lockers, and cabinets in all tool rooms under their control. This inventory
   will include decentralized tool rooms.
   2.2. Acceptance: Individuals signing out CTKs and tool room monitors accepting CTKs
   from individuals will conduct an acceptance inventory prior to accepting the item.
   2.3. Annual dispatchable CTK inspection : Tool room custodians will establish a schedule
   to ensure every CTK is inspected annually. Tool room monitors will conduct an annual
   inspection and document it using TCMax. The annual inspection will ensure the following:
      2.3.1. All tools on the Master Inventory List (MIL) are included in the CTK or are
      documented in TCMax and on AFRC Form 175 as removed (see paragraph
      1.2.1.1.1.2.1.).
      2.3.2. Inspect all tools inside the CTK in accordance with (IAW) TO 32-1-101.
      2.3.3. Inspect CTK markings and reflective material.         Replace worn material as
      necessary.
      2.3.4. Inspect all individual tool markings for legibility and to ensure they match the
      identification number of the CTK being inspected.
 4                                                         932AWI 21-129 2 SEPTEMBER 2011


        2.3.5. All foreign objects are removed from the CTK.
     2.4. Annual tool room inspection: Tool room custodians will conduct an annual inventory
     (every 365 days) of the tool room and document it using TCMax. A stock item named
     “annual inventory” will be added to TCMax for the appropriate tool room. The annual
     inventory will ensure the following:
        2.4.1. Inventory all non-expendable tools and equipment.
        2.4.2. Ensure all spare expendable tools are stored in a secure location.
3. Warranty Tool Management: Warranty tools are obtained by local contracts with a
warranty tool vendor.
     3.1. The tool room custodian and alternate as appointed by the Commander will:
        3.1.1. Serve as the monitor for the implementation of the Warranty Tool Program.
        3.1.2. Procure tools for all assigned CTKs.
        3.1.3. Exchange defective tools with warranty tool contractor for replacement tools.
     3.2. Ensure all World-wide Identification (WWID) numbers are removed prior to tool turn-
     in.
4. Procedures for control and management of replacement, expendable and consumable
items, hand tools, HAZMAT, and other item contained in CTKs.
     4.1. All replacement tools will be loaded into TCMax as spare tools.
     4.2. All dispatchable HAZMAT will be loaded and tracked in TCMax.
        4.2.1. Hazmat items issued for one time use (oil cans, hydraulic cans, mixing
        compounds) are supply items and do not have to be tracked in TCMax.
     4.3. All other tools contained in the tool storage area will have an assigned storage location.
5. On-site tool/equipment transfer:
     5.1. The pro super/dock supervisor or higher will approve on-site transfer of tools/CTKs at
     the job site if they determine that bringing the tools back to the tool room would impede
     maintenance.
        5.1.1. The pro super/dock supervisor or higher will ensure that both the relinquishing and
        accepting individuals complete and document a joint inventory of the tools/CTKs.
            5.1.1.1. The accepting and relinquishing individuals will jointly document the AFRC
            Form 177.
            5.1.1.2. The pro super/ dock supervisor or higher will take the AFRC Form 177 to
            the tool room to notify the tool room monitor of the change.
            5.1.1.3. The tool room monitor will, upon notification from pro super/dock
            supervisor and receipt of a properly documented AFRC Form 177, transfer
            responsibility of the CTK/ equipment from the relinquishing individual to the
            accepting individual in TCMax. Upon transferring the CTK/equipment in TCMax the
            AFRC Form 177 will be put immediately back in its proper location.
932AWI 21-129 2 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                    5


6. Lost Tool/Equipment/Item Procedures.
   6.1. Supervisors ensure all assigned personnel are familiar with lost tool procedures. If an
   item/tool or a portion of a broken tool is discovered missing, the following procedures apply:
      6.1.1. The person identifying the missing item/tool will search the immediate work area
      for the item/tool. If not found, after completing an initial search the individual will notify
      the expediter/production supervisor or equivalent.
      6.1.2. When tools/equipment/items cannot be found, and were lost in or around an
      aircraft, a Red X symbol entry will be entered in GO81 and the aircraft’s Air Force
      Technical Order (AFTO) Form 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document,
      with a description of the tool and a specific, last known, location of the of the tool. In
      addition, a complete engine intake foreign object damage (FOD) inspection will be
      accomplished, regardless of the area in which the tool/item was lost. For all aircraft
      involved, a Red X for an engine intake FOD inspection will be entered in each of the
      affected aircrafts’ AFTO Form 781A and G081. A thorough and complete search for the
      lost/missing tools will be conducted.
      6.1.3. Expediter/production supervisor or equivalent will immediately notify the flight
      commander (FLT/CC)/Chief, support section, Maintenance Operations Center (MOC),
      and Quality Assurance (QA). MOC in turn will notify maintenance superintendent,
      Maintenance Group Commander (MXG/CC) and wing safety.
      6.1.4. Initiate a thorough search for the tool. A supervisor will initiate the lost
      tool/equipment/ item report questionnaire (attachment 2).
      6.1.5. After a thorough search is completed and the tool is not found, the person issued
      the item/ tool will initiate a lost tool report, AFRC Form 174, Lost Tool/Object Report.
      6.1.6. If at any time during the investigation the item/tool is found and retrieved, notify
      the FLT CC/Chief, support section, MOC, QA, expediter, production supervisor or
      equivalent, the owning work center, maintenance superintendent and MXG/CC. A Pro
      Super or higher will clear all Red Xs entered in to the aircraft forms.
      6.1.7. If not found, the MOC will notify the appropriate agencies of the missing
      item/tool.
      6.1.8. If the item is not located, Operations Officer/Maintenance Superintendent (MX
      SUPT) shall determine when the search may be discontinued.
          6.1.8.1. Limit authorization to clear Red X’s when a tool/item cannot be located to
          no lower than Operations Officer/MX SUPT.
      6.1.9. When it is suspected that the item/tool was lost in the vicinity of an aircraft that
      has taxied or taken off the expediter/production supervisor or equivalent will notify
      MOC. The MOC will then notify the appropriate agency who will then contact the
      aircraft.
          6.1.9.1. If the airplane is not airborne, the MOC will request the airplane be brought
          back to a parking spot and the lost tool investigation will be completed.
          6.1.9.2. If the airplane is airborne the decision to bring the plane back to the ground
          will be decided by the aircraft commander.
 6                                                         932AWI 21-129 2 SEPTEMBER 2011


            6.1.9.3. If the aircraft commander decides not to bring back the airplane the tool
            investigation will be completed when released to maintenance.
        6.1.10. When it is suspected that the item/tool has fallen into an inaccessible or
        unobservable aircraft area, perform a non-destructive inspection (NDI) or use borescope
        equipment to locate the lost tool.
            6.1.10.1. If the item/tool is in an inaccessible area that poses no FOD threat and the
            action is to leave the item/tool in place, the x-ray (or equivalent) with the
            identification of the exact tool location and copies of all information concerning the
            lost tool are maintained in the aircraft historical file until the item/tool is recovered.
        6.1.11. If at any time during the investigation the item/tool is found, but is inaccessible,
        notify the FLT CC/Chief, support section, MOC, QA, expediter, production supervisor or
        equivalent, and the owning work center.
            6.1.11.1. Operations Officer/MX SUPT may explore other possible actions to include
            having the unit or a Depot Field Team (DFT) disassemble the aircraft to remove the
            item/tool.
            6.1.11.2. The lost item/tool and location is listed in the AFTO Form 345, Aerospace
            Vehicle Transfer Inspection Checklist and Certification, for removal by the depot.
        6.1.12. Lost Tool/Equipment/Item Report Routing Procedures:
            6.1.12.1. If the tool/equipment/item is found, the Lost Tool Report is routed through
            Flight Supervision and Maintenance Operations. A copy is forwarded to the Wing
            Foreign Object Damage (FOD) Monitor.
            6.1.12.2. If the tool/equipment/item cannot be found, the Lost Tool Report must be
            completed and routed through Maintenance Supervision before the aircraft is released
            for flight. The same procedure also applies to an expendable/bench stock or personal
            item listed as unaccountable.
            6.1.12.3. For a lost tool/equipment/item, the Lost Tool Report is routed through
            Flight Supervision and Maintenance Supervision. Forward a copy to the Wing FOD
            monitor. A copy will be routed to the CTK Supervisor and maintained for 1 year. A
            copy will be placed in the affected aircraft’s jacket file until the aircraft completes its
            next depot maintenance inspection or the tool is found, whichever occurs first. The
            Wing FOD Monitor will report lost tools/items at the Wing FOD Briefing.
7. Marking and Tool Identification Procedures: Accountability and identification of tools
will be accomplished using TCMax.
     7.1. Identification of Tools:
        7.1.1. All tools/CTKs will be etched, stamped, labeled, or marked with the Equipment
        Identification Designators (EID) listed in Table 1.
932AWI 21-129 2 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                   7


Table 1. Equipment Identification Designator.
    Work Center               EID               Work Center                EID
      Flightline         T6FLXXXXX             Structural Maint       T6SMXXXXX
     Inspection          T6PDXXXXX             Survival Equip         T6FPXXXXX
        AGE              T6RAXXXXX                   NDI              T6NDXXXXX
 Metals Technology       T6MTXXXXX               Fuel System          T6FC XXXXX

       7.1.2. Each toolbox will have an inventory list of all contents. Broken or removed tools
       will be annotated in TCMax (see paragraph 1.2.1.1.1.2.1.) and on an AFRC Form 175,
       Missing/Removed Tools and Equipment.
   7.2. Identification of Tool Kits:
       7.2.1. All tool kits will be identified by WWID.
       7.2.2. Engraving is the preferred method for marking tools. Due to their size and
       construction, some tools (e.g., apexes, allen wrenches, drill bits, shop towels, etc.) may
       not lend themselves to marking. If the item cannot be marked, it will be placed in a
       container marked with the WWID and an identifying character that ties the tool back to
       the CTK along with the contents quantity.
8. All personal equipment (ear defenders, reflective belts, safety glasses, etc. ) will be
initially issued by the appropriate tool room. Personal equipment will be marked with
appropriate WWID number. Personal equipment issued to individuals may be stored in their
personal locker.
9. Rag Control: Maintenance Squadron (MXS) flight line Sortie Support Section is the focal
point for rag exchange with the contractor. MXS Sortie Support Section will establish and
distribute an initial issue of clean rags to the other tool rooms that have a need for them. MXS
Sortie Support Section will exchange all dirty rags for clean rags with the contractor. The only
exception is that aircraft structural maintenance, fuel systems, NDI and metals technology
sections utilize a separate disposal contractor on some of their rags due to the solvents they use.
They purchase these rags in bulk from the contractor and they are not exchanged for new rags.
   9.1. Individual shops will control all rags distributed to their respective tool room.
   Individual shops will bring dirty rags to MXS Sortie Support Section and swap them out for
   clean ones.
   9.2. Rags will only be issued to individuals in quantities of five. The individual must
   conduct an inventory of rags upon sign out. They will be issued in a bag marked with the
   quantity and bag number from the applicable tool room/CTK. Upon return, tool room
   personnel and the individual will conduct a joint inventory and clean rags will replace the
   dirty rags. Dirty rags will be put in a self-closing dirty rag barrel. Rags used to replenish
   bags will be stored separately and controlled by tool room personnel.
10. Tool Procurement.
   10.1. The purchase of tools is limited to government purchase card holders and Defense
   Enterprise Accounting Management System (DEAMS) tasked personnel.
 8                                                        932AWI 21-129 2 SEPTEMBER 2011


     10.2. DEAMS approved personnel will be tasked by the resource advisor or maintenance
     supervision to purchase tools.
11. Control of Locally Manufactured Tools and Equipment: All Local manufactured tools
will be requested through MXS Maintenance Supervision and forwarded to QA. After review,
QA will forward the request to the MXG/CC or designated representative for approval. Requests
must include a description of the item, its intended use, and photos or drawings of the tool. QA
and the respective CTK will keep copies of all documentation of local manufactured tools. Users
along with QA will review items biennially (every 2 years) for applicability and current
configuration. These procedures do not apply to tools that are authorized in specific technical
data.
12. Depot Teams, Factory Representatives, and Contractor Field Teams: Each individual
depot team, factory representative, and contract field team are responsible for inventorying and
accounting for their tools while performing on or off equipment maintenance within the Wing.
Only airframe and engine technical representatives or product improvement personnel may sign
out organizational tools and equipment for depot team/factory representative/contractor field
team use. They will also ensure no tools, equipment, or rags are left on board aircraft when
conducting the acceptance inspection for the contract/depot repair.
13. Procedures and Responsibilities for two or more work centers operating a single tool
room and decentralized tool locations.
     13.1. The assigned tool custodian will assume all custodial responsibility.
     13.2. Personnel from all affected work centers will be loaded into TCMax as customers.
     13.3. All other procedures as stated in this AWI will be followed.
     13.4. Decentralized locations: When tools/CTKs/equipment is stored in a decentralized
     location, the controlling tool room will maintain the key to control those items. When the
     item is returned, a tool room monitor will inventory all items before signing it into TCMax.
14. Control of Crashed, Damaged, or Disabled Aircraft Recovery Equipment (CDDAR).
     14.1. Unit owned CDDAR tools and equipment will be marked with a WWID and tracked in
     TCMax. Contractor supplied Peculiar Support Equipment (PSE) recovery equipment will be
     tracked through the contractor.
15. Second Party inventory sign in of CTKs.
     15.1. Under no circumstances will the individual signing out a CTK conduct the return
     inventory or sign in the CTK.
     15.2. Either a tool room monitor or the on duty supervisor will inventory and sign in the
     CTK upon turn in.
16. Procedures for controlled access to tool rooms.
     16.1. Access to tool rooms will be limited to essential personnel to meet mission
     requirements.
     16.2. Sortie Support Shop Chief or Flight Chief will designate, in writing, tool room
     monitors. The access list will be posted. Only personnel on access list will be allowed
     unescorted entry in the tool room.
932AWI 21-129 2 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                9


17. E-Tools: E-Tools will be issued, controlled and accounted for using TCMax.
18. Aircrew and Aircrew Flight Equipment Dispatched to the Flightline: The following
procedures are for Aircrew and Aircrew Flight Equipment (AFE) personnel who dispatch tools
to the flightline and/or carry tools on board aircraft.
   18.1. A primary and alternate CTK monitor will be appointed by the AFE superintendent.
   18.2. CTK Monitor Responsibilities:
       18.2.1. Account for all CTKs, tools, and dispatchable equipment at the beginning and
       end of each shift, annually, and when custodians change.
       18.2.2. Ensure the following documents accompany each CTK:
          18.2.2.1. Tool Inventory, AFRC 177, AFRC 175, AFRC 174, and annual inspection
          log.
       18.2.3. Ensure a 9-digit Equipment Identifier (EID) is assigned to all CTKs, tools not
       assigned to a box, and dispatchable equipment that is of sufficient size. The 9-digit EID
       must be placed on the outside of dispatchable CTKs. Tools located inside the tool box
       may be marked with less than 9-digits but must contain the 4-digit WWID and
       identifying characters that tie the tool back to the CTK.
   18.3. Individual Responsibilities:
       18.3.1. Individuals who sign out CTKs, are responsible for CTKs under their control
       from the time they accept the CTK until the time the tool room monitor accepts it.
       Individuals must identify all missing or broken tools/equipment during their acceptance
       inventory prior to departing the tool room. Once they remove the CTK from the tool
       room, all missing tools/equipment are the responsibility of the individual who accepted
       the CTK.
       18.3.2. All CTKs dispatched to an aircraft will be inventoried prior to leaving the
       aircraft.
   18.4. The Lost Tool/Equipment/Item Procedures identified in Chapter 6 of this instruction
   will be followed if a tool is determined missing from a dispatchable CTK.
19. Personal Accountability.
   19.1. All wing agencies which dispatch personnel to the aircraft parking areas, runways,
   taxiways and maintenance areas must ensure their personnel maintain control and
   accountability of all tools, equipment and personal items.
       19.1.1. In cognizance of FOD prevention and aircraft safety, all personnel are
       responsible for following the procedures IAW paragraph 6 of this instruction should an
       item/tool or equipment become unaccounted for while in the aforementioned areas.




                                            WILLIAM H. EDWARDS JR., Colonel, USAFR
                                            Commander
 10                                                   932AWI 21-129 2 SEPTEMBER 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 11-301V1, Aircrew Life Support (ALS) Program, 25 February 2009
AFI 21-101 AFRC SUP, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 13 January 2011
AFMAN 23-110V2P2, USAF Supply Manual, 1 April 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
AFOSH STD 91-100, Aircraft Flightline-Ground Operations and Activities, 01 May 1998
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 February 2003
TO 00-35D-54, Deficiency Reporting, 01 October 2009
TO 32-1-101, Maintenance and Care of Hand Tools, 06 October 2010
Adopted Forms
AFRC Form 174, Lost Tool/Object Report
AFRC Form 175, Missing/Removed Tools and Equipment
AFRC Form 177, Consolidated Tool Kit Inventory and Control Log
AFTO Form 345, Aerospace Vehicle Transfer Inspection Checklist and Certification
AFTO Form 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF IMT—Air Force Information Management Tool
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety & Health
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AGE—Aerospace Ground Equipment
ALS—Aircrew Life Support
AFE—Aircrew Flight Equipment
AW—Airlift Wing
AWI—Airlift Wing Instruction
CDDAR—Crashed, Damaged, or Disabled Aircraft Recovery
932AWI 21-129 2 SEPTEMBER 2011                          11


CTK—Composite Tool Kit
DEAMS—Defense Enterprise Accounting Management System
DFT—Depot Field Team
DLA—--Defense Logistics Agency
EID—Equipment Identification Designators
FLT/CC—Flight Commander
FOD—Foreign Object Damage
HAZMAT—Hazardous Material
IAW—In Accordance With
MIL SPEC—Military Specification
MIL—Master Inventory List
MOC—Maintenance Operations Control
MX SUPT—Maintenance Superintendent
MXG/CC—Maintenance Group Commander
MXS—Maintenance Squadron
NDI—Non-Destructive Inspection
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PSE—Peculiar Support Equipment
QA—Quality Assurance
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
STD—Standard
TO—Technical Order
TCMax—AFRC Tool Accountability System
TDY—Temporary Duty
WWID—World-wide Identification
 12                                                         932AWI 21-129 2 SEPTEMBER 2011


                                          Attachment 2
       LOST TOOL/EQUIPMENT/ITEM REPORT QUESTIONNAIRE (FRONT)

            COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING CHECKLIST:                               INITIALS    TIME

  Tool/Equipment/Item         Aircraft Tail      Work Center      Date:           QANTTAS
         Noun                   Number                            Time:           RCN
                                                                                  (QA use only)

   Description of Item         Govt Issue /           EID          AFTO 781A         Aircraft
                              Personal Item                       Page:            Impounded?
                               (circle one)                       Block:                Y/N
                                                                                  Date:
                                                                                  Time:
   Pro Super notified        MOC notified        Maint Supt         CTK Supv       QA notified
Time:                       Time:                 notified           notified     Time:
Rank:                       Rank:              Time:              Time:           Rank:
Name:                       Name:              Rank:              Rank:           Name:
                                               Name:              Name:
Questionnaire Completed By:
(Rank/Name/Initials)
1. Immediately Notify MOC of the missing tool/equipment/item and                       Logged
affected aircraft                                                                      Above
2. If the possibility exists that the missing tool(s)/equipment/item
was/were lost during on-equipment maintenance, immediately place the
suspect aircraft on a RED X and enter the following statement in the
AFTO Form 781A: “Possibility of FOD damage due to missing
tool(s), DO NOT operate aircraft.” Enter a second RED X stating,
“Engine FOD intake inspection due for lost tool(s).” Include each
affected aircraft.
3. Inspect immediate work or areas traversed. Pay close attention to
critical areas such as engine inlets, landing gear, electrical junction
boxes, control cables, and pulleys.
4. If the missing tool(s), equipment/item is/are found, the RED X will be
signed off by the Pro Super or higher authority. Enter appropriate
comments in the corrective action block and signature in the inspected by
block.
5. If the missing tool(s) is/are NOT found, the corrective action block
will reflect that a thorough inspection and/or investigation was
conducted. The technician will place his/her signature in the corrected
by block. Maintenance Supervision will complete the inspected by
block.
6. Notify MOC of the investigation results.

7. Copy forwarded to Wing FOD Monitor (QA).
LOST TOOL/EQUIPEMTN/ITEM REPORT QUESTIONNAIRE (BACK)
932AWI 21-129 2 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                              13


  #                       INVESTIGATIVE ACTIONS                                  INITIALS
  1.           Name of individual(s) that lost the tool/equipment/item:


  2.    Describe work being performed when tool/equipment/item was lost:


  3.         Inventory other tool kits in work area or CTK, if applicable:


  4.               List areas checked and steps taken to find item:


  5.                   Search conducted by (list all members):


  6.            Question other technicians in contact or area of work:


  7.
        Tool/equipment/item was:     FOUND       NOT FOUND        (circle one)

  8.                               If found, where?


  9.                               Other comments:


                                      Flight Supervision
 Comments:

 Printed Name, Grade, Duty Title           Signature                             Date


                                   Maintenance Supervision
 Comments:

 Printed Name, Grade, Duty Title           Signature                             Date
