                  PRIVACY ACT STATEMENT
    Command Support Staff – Information Collection

AUTHORITY: 10 USC 8013; Executive Order 9397 (for active duty orders), 10 USC,
Section 12732 (for inactive duty training), 10 USC 8013 and Executive Order 9397 (for
training applications) 10 USC 8013, Executive Order 9397 (for recall notifications).

PURPOSE: Use to request and authorize Air Force Reservists tour of active duty. The Social
Security Number (SSN) is used as positive identification of military personnel. The order
becomes a record copy after authentication; enables reservists to procure transportation, receive
reimbursement for travel expenses and be paid military pay, as applicable (for active duty
orders). To record Reserve Member’s inactive duty training for payment, and/or points for years
of service credit, and determining fulfillment of requirements for retention in Ready Reserve (for
inactive duty training). Required for personnel to apply for training. SSN is required to show
positive identification of applicant relative to other personnel records. To determine if the
applicant meets course prerequisites and eligibility criteria (for training applications). To
contact personnel in the time of a national emergency, natural disaster or for exercise purposes.
Phone numbers (work and home) are used to contact personnel for reporting instructions; street
addresses are used in case of the communications outage (for recall notifications).

ROUTINE USES: A copy of the orders may be provided to civilian employers to
substantiate active duty military requirements (for active duty orders). Information may be
disclosed to individuals’ employers to verify military duty (for inactive duty training). Copies
may be maintained with the Wing Training Office and within the squadron training section for
future reference and verification of submission (for training applications). Copies of the roster
are maintained by the command post and at the unit level. Others within the squadron will
receive a portion of the roster, but will be used for purposes of recall and is marked For Official
Use Only (for recall notifications).

DISCLOSURE IS VOLUNTARY: However, without this information and SSN the Air
Force cannot act on your travel, per diem and pay entitlements (for active duty orders). Failure
to provide the information, including the SSN, could result in the improper recording of training
and retirement credits, thus adversely affecting retirement actions (for inactive duty training).
Failure to provide the information may deny individuals an opportunity to seek and attend the
course they may be qualified for. Failure to provide SSN may also delay or hinder action on an
individual’s request (for training applications). Failure to provide this information can lead to
an absent without leave status and result in breach in contract with member’s reserve
commitment (for recall notifications).
934AWVA 33-201, 10 June 2013
OPR: 934 CS/SCOK
There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
