BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        934th AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 24-301
934TH AIRLIFT WING
                                                                                    27 JULY 2012

                                                                                    Transportation

                                                       MOTOR VEHICLE ADMINISTRATION,
                                                         OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 934 LRS/LGL                                                        Certified by: 934 MSG/CC
                                                                       (Colonel Michael W. Ochs)
                                                                                           Pages: 5
Supersedes:    934AWI24-301,
               7 September 2007


This instruction implements AFPD 24-3, Operation, Maintenance, and Use of Transportation
Vehicles and Equipment. It assigns responsibilities and outlines procedures for the
administration, operation and maintenance of all government registered vehicles assigned to the
934th Airlift Wing (AW) and tenant organizations attached for transportation support. This
instruction applies to all personnel on base. This publication requires the collection and
maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 as required by AFI 37-132, Air
Force Privacy Act Program. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change
of Publication. Route the AF IMT 847 directly to the 934 LRS/LGRD at Minneapolis St. Paul
ARS, MN 55450. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-
363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revised AWI reflects changes in the base organizational structure that reflect a departure
from the in-service contract functions being rolled into the LRS. It further clarifies new licensing
procedures and vehicle loans to non-tenant organizations as outlined in the new AFI 24-301.
Finally, this new AWI eliminates the process for fueling compressed natural gas vehicles. A ( | )
indicates changes from the previous edition.
 2                                                                 934AWI24-301 27 JULY 2012


1. Licensing. Operation of AF GMV’s (owned leased or rented) requires possession of a valid
state motor vehicle license. Operation of non-tactical AF GMV’s where the gross vehicle weight
(GVW) is less than 10,000 pounds (4x2), 11 passengers or less requires no further licensing.
Operation of all other AF GMV’s (owned, leased or rented) requires a valid AF Form 2293, U.S.
Air Force Motor Vehicle Operator Identification Card. Permits from other organizations, not
assigned to this base, will be honored for a period not to exceed 90 days.
     1.1. For prospective operators, each Unit will complete required training and submit an AF
     Form 171, Request for Driver’s Training and Addition to U.S. Government Driver’s License,
     to Vehicle Operations. All applicants for a government vehicle operator’s permit must be in
     possession of a valid state driver’s license issued by the state in which they maintain legal
     residence.
     1.2. An operator’s permit may be revoked by the Wing Commander, Group Commander, or
     designated representative at any time.
2. Vehicle Control Program. All vehicles authorized on this installation will be identified on
the Command Vehicle Authorization List. Each organization having vehicles assigned on a
permanent basis will have a Vehicle Control Program. The Unit Commander will appoint a Unit
Vehicle Control Officer (VCO). Fleet Management will provide orientation training for all newly
appointed VCO’s.
     2.1. Organizational maintenance is the responsibility of the using organization and normally
     accomplished by the operator.
     2.2. All requests for “add-on” equipment to vehicles must first be approved by HQ
     AFRC/A4 and the Fleet Manager. The unit VCO must coordinate this prior to purchasing and
     installing equipment.
     2.3. Organizations procuring non-registered equipment are required to provide maintenance
     to support the equipment.
     2.4. Inter-service support will only be provided when the mission effectiveness of the 934th
     Airlift Wing is not impaired. For units not under a formal Memorandum of Understanding or
     Agreement (MOU/MOA) or Host Tenant Support Agreement (HTSA), vehicle requests will
     have to be accompanied by a Miscellaneous Obligation Reimbursement Document (MORD)
     in a dollar amount identified prior to a vehicle being dispatched. A MORD will require
     additional planning time to be processed prior to the vehicle release. In addition, all vehicles
     will be returned washed and fueled. Vehicle(s) need to be returned in as good condition as
     when received; normal wear and tear are to be expected. Any damage beyond normal wear
     and tear will be paid for by the using organization.
3. Permissible Operating Distance (POD).
     3.1. The base POD has been established within a 75 mile radius, except for the northerly
     locations; Duluth International Airport, Camp Ripley Little Falls MN, and Grand Forks
     North Dakota. Southerly locations; Rochester MN, Volk Field WI and Fort McCoy WI.
     3.2. Casualty Assistance Officer and Honor Guard are authorized to operate outside the POD
     when performing official duties.
934AWI24-301 27 JULY 2012                                                                     3


   3.3. The POD includes authority for tenants to service all areas included in their mission
   requirements. Motor vehicles may be operated beyond the normal POD on an individual trip
   basis when approved by the Mission Support Group Commander.
4. Credit Cards. Vehicle operators traveling over 25 miles from the installation should request
a credit card from the vehicle operations. Use the credit card to obtain normal vehicle services
and emergency repairs costing less than $50.00.
   4.1. Credit Card purchases will be made only from authorized dealers indicated in the U.S.
   Government Fleet Service Guide. All receipts for services will be turned in to vehicle
   operations.
   4.2. Emergency repairs costing more than $50.00 will be approved in advance by vehicle
   operations at (612)713-1190.
   4.3. Operators of GSA leased vehicles will follow credit card procedures located in the
   vehicle packet of that vehicle. The operator will be held responsible for any unauthorized
   purchases.
   4.4. Interagency Units, without a support agreement with the 934th Airlift Wing, may be
   responsible for fuel costs.
5. Disposition of Disabled Government Vehicles after Duty Hours.
   5.1. The operator is responsible for the protection of vehicles operated off base.
   Responsibility will remain with the user until instructions for disposing of the disabled
   vehicle are furnished.
   5.2. Operator of the disabled vehicle will contact Security Forces at (612)713-1102 with
   information on location and contents of the vehicle. Security Forces will call the Vehicle
   Maintenance Supervisor for further instructions and relay this information to the operator of
   the disabled vehicle.
6. On-Base Fueling. All government vehicles assigned a 934 AW pro-key will purchase fuel
from the base fuel station. These keys are only used for the vehicle to which assigned. Taking a
pro-key from one vehicle to fuel another vehicle or gas can is not authorized.
   6.1. Government alternate fuel vehicles will operate on the approved alternate fuel to the
   maximum extent possible. To maintain performance of the traditional fuel system the vehicle
   should be operated on unleaded fuel every 6-8 weeks.
   6.2. Transient government vehicles, assigned a pro-key, may receive fuel from the base
   station.
   6.3. GSA leased vehicles are required to purchase fuel with the vehicle credit card. All
   receipts for the fuel or service will be turned into Vehicle Operations.
7. Vehicle Abuse, Incidents, and Accidents.
   7.1. A vehicle operator involved in an accident on base will notify Security Forces. The
   operator will initiate a SF 91 Form, Operator’s Report of Motor Vehicle Accident, for both
   on and off base accidents. A DD Form 518, Accident Identification Card, will be completed
   when the accident involves a privately owned vehicle.
4                                                                934AWI24-301 27 JULY 2012


    7.2. Vehicle abuse is an operational act or omission which results in damage to the vehicle.
    Vehicle incidents are classified as damage caused by acts of nature, natural disasters,
    mechanical failure or other phenomenon that in no way could have been avoided by safe
    operation. The using organization will investigate all damage not attributable to fair wear and
    tear. After completing the investigation, a SF 91 will be filed with Vehicle Operations.
    7.3. The Accident Prevention Committee consisting of the Wing Commander, Group
    Commanders, Wing Safety Office, and Transportation Officer will review all cases involving
    bodily injury, fatality, or damages exceeding $3,000.00. The Transportation Officer will
    notify the committee members of reported cases to review. Note: The committee will review
    each case to establish organization responsible and implement any needed corrective actions
    to decrease instances of accident or abusive damage. Vehicle operators involved in accidents
    may be required to attend the meeting and explain causes of the accident.
    7.4. LRS funds expended for vehicle accident and abuse repair costs, including contract cost,
    will be reimbursed to LRS by the organization responsible for the damage, if not the owner.
    The owning organization will be responsible for reimbursement in any incident where
    responsibility cannot be determined.




                                             DARRELL G. YOUNG, Colonel, USAFR
                                             Commander
934AWI24-301 27 JULY 2012                                                                     5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 24-3, Operation, Maintenance, and Use of Transportation Vehicles and Equipment
AFI 24-302, Vehicle Management
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations
Adopted Forms
AF Form 2293, U.S. Air Force Motor Vehicle Operator Identification Card
AF Form 171, Request for Driver’s Training and Addition to U.S. Government Driver’s License
SF Form 91, Operator’s Report of Motor Vehicle Accident
DD Form 518, Accident Identification Card

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
GMV—Government Motor Vehicle
GSA—Government Services Administration
GVW—Gross Vehicle Weight
HTSA—Host Tenant Support Agreement
LRS—Logistics Readiness Squadron
MOU/MOA—Memorandum of Understanding or Agreement
MORD—Miscellaneous Obligation Reimbursement Document
POD—Permissible Operating Distance
VCO—Vehicle Control Officer
