BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              934TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
934TH AIRLIFT WING                                                              33-103

                                                                              28 JANUARY 2011

                                                              Communications and Information

                                                                     PLANS AND RESOURCES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 934 CF/SCX                                                          Certified by: 934 CF/CC
                                                                     (Lt Col Richard A. Erredge)
                                                                                          Pages: 5


This Airlift Wing instruction (AWI) implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-1,
Information Resources Management. This publication applies to all 934AW personnel. Ensure
that all records created as a result of process prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcssaf61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from their field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

1. 934AW Form 30, Comm/IT Work Request.
   1.1. This form will be used to submit and process Communications & Information
   Technology requirements.
   1.2. The Communication and Information Systems Officer (CSO) may use 934AW Form 30
   or an automated requirements document for local requirements approval. An AFRC/A6
   approved requirements document must be used for requirements which need MAJCOM
   review/validation/approval. However, an 934AW Form 30 requirements document should
   include information at para 2, with clear supporting documentation attached.
2. COMM/IT WORK REQUEST.
   2.1. Date of Request. Enter the date the form is prepared or submitted.
   2.2. Work Request Title. Include a title that briefly describes the requirement.
 2                                                           934AWI33-103 28 JANUARY 2011


     2.3. Date Needed. Enter the date the service is required.
     2.4. Mission Critical. Required for mission accomplishment.
     2.5. Required. Supports daily operations.
     2.6. Enhancement. Nice to have item(s).
     2.7. Name/Grade. Name of the point of contact/Rank.
     2.8. Org/Office Symbol. Self-explanatory.
     2.9. Phone #. Best phone number to reach you.
     2.10. Building/Room #. Self-explanatory.
     2.11. Description of request. State the need in functional terms. Tell what capabilities you
     need, don’t just state what specific equipment you need. However, in addition to your
     requirement, if specific equipment is required please list it and why. Recommend equipment,
     if necessary. If specific equipment is recommended, state why. The focus of the requirement
     should be on describing the capabilities you need. Identify any security handling
     requirements, and indicate when a secure capability is required. When necessary, include
     special requirements such as accommodations for handicapped users, special operating
     conditions, manpower, training, and maintenance.
     2.12. Check Box(s), as required. Attach any drawing that will help the technicians with the
     installation.
     2.13. Justification. Tell why you need it. The justification may be useful after the technical
     solution is provided. It can help prioritize resource allocation and project implementation.
     2.14. Mission Impact Statement. If you have a mission critical priority you will need an
     impact statement, How will your mission be impacted, What will happen if you do not get
     this item/work completed?
     2.15. Name/Grade. This will be from the Commander/Senior ART/TCO/CST/PWCS Mgr.
     2.16. Title/Organization. Self-explanatory.
     2.17. Signature. Self-explanatory.
     2.18. Approved. This is the approval of what the requester is asking for.
     2.19. Funds Available. Check this if your unit has the funds to purchase this request.
     2.20. Unfunded. Check this if you would like this to go on a Wing/AFRC Unfunded
     Requirement (UFR) list.
3. The Communications and Information System Requirements Process. The
communications and information systems requirements process enables requesting organizations
to obtain new communications and information capabilities.
     3.1. The requirements process begins when the user identifies a mission need submitting
     934AW Form 30 ‘COMM/IT Work Request’ to the 934CF organizational in-box.
     3.2. The communications work order submitter will review and process the request. The
     document will be returned to the user if not completed correctly with applicable guidance for
     resubmission of the request.
934AWI33-103 28 JANUARY 2011                                                                  3


   3.3. The request will be assigned to the appropriate work center for action, technical
   solution, and approval/disapproval.
   3.4. A minimum of two weeks processing time is required for a technical solution and
   internal coordination; however, technical solutions requiring external coordination will take
   additional time.
   3.5. Telephone and network work requests will be completed within 10 business days.
   3.6. Short notice work requests will be coordinated on a case by case basis.
   3.7. The CSO will notify the user concerning funded/unfunded work requests for IT
   equipment, software, etc.
4. IT Equipment Purchases.
   4.1. All purchases for IT equipment less than $25,000.00 must be purchased on a
   Government Purchase Card (GPC). All IT purchases greater than $3,000.00 and less than
   $25,000.00 will be purchased on the IT GPC card if three GSA bids are obtained.
      4.1.1. All software regardless of cost will be purchased with the IT GPC.
      4.1.2. All hardware requirements exceeding $500.00 will be purchased with the IT GPC.
      4.1.3. Requests for cellular telephones (CT) requires approval from the Unit Commander
      or Designated Representative with final approval by the CSO or Designated
      Representative during absence.
      4.1.4. Requests for personal data assistants (PDA; i.e., Blackberry) requires approval
      from a Group/CC with final approval by the CSO or Designated Representative during
      absence.

5. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

6. Prescribed Forms.

934AW Form 30, Comm/IT Work Request




                                            DARRELL G. YOUNG, Colonel, USAFR
                                            Commander
 4                                                          934AWI33-103 28 JANUARY 2011


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-1, Information Resources Management, 27 June 2006
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
CSO—Communication and Information Systems Officer
GPC—Government Purchase Card
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORG—Organization
PDA—Personal Data Assistant (Blackberry)
POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
UFR—Unfunded Requirement

Terms
Adopted Form—A form used (required) in a publication other than the prescribing publication.
Approval Authority—Senior leader responsible for contributing to and implementing policies
and guidance/procedures pertaining to his/her functional area(s) (e.g., heads of functional two-
letter/digit office).
Certifying Authority—A minimum of one organizational level above the OPR, this individual
certifies the need for the publication, to include currency of information, applicability to the Air
Force, and propriety of content.
e-Publishing—Central website for accessing, viewing, downloading or ordering physical and
electronic products processed by AFDPO. Information on product development and links to
other agency publications are also provided on the e-Publishing website (www.e-
Publishing.af.mil).
Form—A tool used for the collection, recording, and/or extraction of information whereby a
predetermined set of data fields have been established and defined to meet a definitive Air Force
purpose or objective.
934AWI33-103 28 JANUARY 2011                                                                   5


Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)—The originating office for a publication; the author
of the publication is an individual within the OPR. OPRs are solely responsible for the accuracy,
currency, and integrity of their publications and forms.
Point of Contact (POC)—The individual designated by the OPR to meet all OPR
responsibilities. POC and OPR are often used interchangeably, but the organization of primary
responsibility retains ultimate responsibility.
Prescribed Form—A form designed to support the implementation of requirements in a
directive Air Force publication. Use and purpose of a prescribed form must be contained in the
publication it supports (also known as a prescribing publication).
