BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                              934TH AIRLIFT WING
934TH AIRLIFT WING                                                      INSTRUCTION 33-102

                                                                           27 OCTOBER 2009
                                                              Certified Current 9 January 2012
                                                             Communications and Information

                                                LAND MOBILE RADIO OPERATIONS AND
                                                         FREQUENCY MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS INSTRUCTION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 934 CF/SC                                                       Certified by: 934 MSG/CC
                                                                            (Col. Michael Ochs)
Supersedes:   934 AWI 33-102, 31 May 2007                                              Pages: 6



This instruction implements AFPD 33-1, Command, Control, Communications, and Computer
(C4) Systems. This instruction establishes procedures and responsibilities for the management,
operation, acquisition, control, maintenance and security of all Land Mobile Radio and Personal
Wireless Communication Systems (PWCS) radio transmission and reception equipment used on
this installation, or in support of the Air Force mission. It applies to all host and tenant
organizations that use radio frequencies in areas A, C, D, and N, of this base. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
directly to the 934 CF/SC at Minneapolis - St. Paul IAP ARS. Ensure that all records created as
a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision updates telephone extensions and changes references to LMR manager to read to
PWCS manager. It also removes references to FM, LGC, and LGS.
1. Responsibilities. Management and Control of Land Mobile Radios (LMR).
   1.1. The 934 AW Commander will appoint a Base Personal Wireless Communication
   Systems (PWCS) manager (934 CF/SC).
2                                                            934AWI33-102 27 OCTOBER 2009


    1.2. PWCS manager will: ensure that replacement of radio equipment is based on an analysis
    of its condition, cost of repairs, frequency of failure, deterioration of service and availability
    of parts. The PWCS manager will keep historical maintenance data for all radio equipment.
    If the cost of a one-time repair exceeds 75% of the replacement cost of the item, that item
    should be identified for replacement instead of repair. All equipment must be supported for
    the availability of parts and maintenance. For example, care should be taken to make sure
    that step-by-step replacement of equipment does not lead to accumulation of such a variety of
    equipment that intra-base, inter-base, intra-command or inter-command redistribution
    becomes impractical or parts and maintenance costs become prohibitive. Monitoring
    maintenance data by the PWCS manager and network managers is necessary to ensure that
    replacement of old LMR equipment is made when costs become prohibitive. The PWCS
    manager will also develop and implement a 5-year replacement plan for all LMRs, which
    conforms to the Base C-CS Blueprint. LMR assets will be accounted for on the Asset
    Inventory Management (AIM) maintained by the PWCS manager.
    1.3. PWCS Manager will periodically key/re-key all LMR devices in use, or that must be
    available for use on 934th networks, with appropriate COMSEC key to prevent disclosure of
    sensitive, in the interest of national security, transmissions.
2. Designation of communications monitor: Within each headquarters/division where radio
equipment is used the commander or division chief will designate a Unit PWCS/Spectrum
Manager in writing. The person selected to perform Manager duties must be knowledgeable in
the operation of the equipment they are managing. In cases where multiple organizations share
the same radio network, the unit with primary responsibility for the net will appoint the Network
Manager. Completed appointment letters will be sent to 934 CF/SC (Base PWCS Manager).
Basic guidance on Unit PWCS/Spectrum Manager duties is found in AFI 33-106, Managing
High Frequency Radios, Personal Wireless Communication Systems and the Military-Affiliate
Radio System, paragraph 4.12. Local responsibilities includes:
    2.1. Serving as monitor for all unit procurement actions for LMR equipment and to ensure
    that equipment is not procured or transferred without proper base PWCS manager
    coordination. Removals, installations and relocations of LMR equipment must be
    coordinated through the PWCS Manager well in advance of their required completion dates.
    2.2. Ensuring that LMR equipment is used by authorized personnel for official business
    only.
    2.3. Maintaining AFI 33-106 and applicable supplements of this instruction for reference
    purposes.
    2.4. Reporting malfunctioning equipment to the Base PWCS Manager for maintenance
    action. The Network Manager brings malfunctioning portable and pager equipment to the
    PWCS Manager for service action. An AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt, will be
    prepared for all equipment brought in for repair. The PWCS Manager will process the item
    for repair and notify the Unit PWCS manager when the equipment has been repaired and is
    ready for pick-up.
3. Equipment users are responsible for:
934AWI33-102 27 OCTOBER 2009                                                                 3


   3.1. Reporting malfunctioning equipment to their Network Manager for repair action. When
   equipment is repaired on-site and returned to operational status, notify the Network Manager
   of the status change without delay.
   3.2. Making no internal adjustments to radio equipment, adjusting only volume, channel and
   squelch controls, as described in the radio operator's manuals.
   3.3. Making radio transmissions as short as possible.      No use of profane or indecent
   language.
   3.4. Ensuring that radio equipment will not be used within 50 feet of a refueling aircraft,
   vehicle, wing tank vent, and oxygen servicing point or any area where an explosion hazard
   exists.
   3.5. Ensuring that guidance provided by the network and Base PWCS Manager is adhered
   to.
   3.6. Report missing, lost, or stolen LMR’s immediately.
4. Equipment Restoration Priorities. The following LMR equipment restoration priorities
apply.
   4.1. By Equipment Type (Highest to Lowest Priority):
      4.1.1. Base Stations
      4.1.2. Remote Control Units
      4.1.3. Mobile Radios
      4.1.4. Portable Radios
   4.2. By Network (Highest to Lowest Priority):
      4.2.1. Command/Disaster Preparedness/Civil Engineering Network
      4.2.2. Security Police Network
      4.2.3. Aircraft Maintenance/Expediter Network/POL
      4.2.4. Motor Pool/Taxi Network
      4.2.5. Aerial Port Squadron Network
5. LMR Network Restrictions.
   5.1. Transmissions on law enforcement or fire/crash networks are restricted to those users
   only, unless authorized by MAJCOM.
   5.2. Do not install LMR equipment in privately owned vehicles, or use for unofficial
   purposes.
6. LMR Deployment.
   6.1. Requests to deploy base LMR equipment must be identified to the base
   PWCS/frequency manager well in advance of the unit move to allow for radio clearance and
   frequency coordination. Overseas deployment requires a 120-day lead-time. CONUS
   deployments generally require 90 days advance notice.
4                                                         934AWI33-102 27 OCTOBER 2009


    6.2. Network Managers will consult AFI 33-118, Radio Frequency Spectrum Management.
    6.3. Prior to deployment custodians must ensure coordination with 934 LRS/LGS, 934
    AW/XP and 934 CF/SC to maintain accountability.
7. Radio Frequency Management.
    7.1. Background. Demand of government and civilian agencies for radio frequencies far
    exceeds the limited number of frequencies available for assignment. As a result, several
    users must share some frequencies. In extreme cases, potential users are denied frequency
    support. Frequency assignments that have been approved must be managed and constantly
    reviewed for currency.
    7.2. The 934 AW Commander will appoint in writing an Installation Frequency Manager for
    this base. Specific duties of the Installation Frequency Manager are in AFI 33-118.
    7.3. Organizations authorized to use radio frequencies must comply with AFI 33-118.
    7.4. Requests for new/changed frequencies to existing requirements must be coordinated
    through the Installation Spectrum Manager.
       7.4.1. Using organizations requesting new frequency authorizations, temporary
       authorizations or changes to existing frequency allocations will prepare these requests
       according to the Standard Frequency Action Format, (SFAF) provided in AFI 33-118.
       7.4.2. Because different agencies and command levels must approve most frequency
       requests, a substantial lead-time for approval is required. Using organizations should
       allow a minimum of 120 days between the date of request and the date that permanent
       frequency actions must be completed. Emergency requests for frequencies and
       temporary requests require a 60-day lead-time. Currently assigned frequencies within 90
       days of their expiration date, will be allowed to expire.
       7.4.3. Once issued, frequency assignment parameters must be strictly observed. Each
       assignment indicates maximum antenna heights, transmit powers and operating time/area
       restrictions that must not be exceeded or violated. If the assignment was granted on a
       non-interference basis, persons using the frequency take precedence over new users. The
       new user must vacate the frequency if their use of it disrupts established frequency user's
       operations. Changes to any of the parameters of the frequency authorization must be
       submitted, in SFAF format, to higher headquarters for approval.
       7.4.4. Due to the dramatic increase in radio frequency usage discussed earlier, users
       should expect and tolerate small amounts of radio frequency interference as long as it
       does not seriously degrade communications service. When severe, harmful, disruptive or
       recurring interference occurs the Installation Spectrum Manager should be advised.
       7.4.5. Dummy (non-radiating) antenna loads are used to limit transmission distance
       during testing.
       7.4.6. Program/Project/Acquisition Offices of Using Activities. Each organization
       operating a RF emitting device will:
           7.4.6.1. Ensure the appropriate spectrum supportability requirements are obtained
           prior to purchasing any RF equipment or entering into any contractual obligations
934AWI33-102 27 OCTOBER 2009                                                                 5


          involving the use of RF dependent devices to include providing correct technical data
          for systems not downward directed by higher level organizations.
      7.4.6.2.   Obtain a frequency assignment before using devices that intentionally emit RF
      energy.

8. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt




                                           TIMOTHY E. TARCHICK, Colonel, USAFR
                                           Commander
6                                                   934AWI33-102 27 OCTOBER 2009


                                     Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-106, Managing High Frequency Radios, Personal Wireless Communication Systems and
the Military-Affiliate Radio System, 9 January 2002
AFI 33-118, Radio Frequency Spectrum Management, 18 July 2005

Abbreviations and Acronyms
PWCS— Personal Wireless Communication Systems
LMR— Land Mobile Radios
AIM— Asset Inventory Management
