BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          934 AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 48-102
934TH AIRLIFT WING
                                                                                   31 JULY 2014

                                                                             Aerospace Medicine

                                                            TEMPORARY FOOD FACILITIES



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 934 MSG/SGPB                                                      Certified by: 934 MSG/CC
                                                                        (Colonel Michael Burns)
Supersedes:    934AWI48-102, 31 May 2007                                                  Pages: 5


This instruction implements AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Enterprise, and provides guidance
for operating temporary food service facilities in order to prevent the occurrence of food borne
illness. It applies to food service establishments, which operate intermittently or for limited
periods of time in conjunction with base activities such as family day or other similar events. It
does not pertain to special events organized by specific units, as long as the activity is not open
to the base population or the public and not a profit-generating activity. Ensure that all records
created as a result of a process prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.                    Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847. Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route AF FORM 847s from their field through the appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision includes updates to office symbols and phone numbers.
1. Procedures. Types of food served in temporary facilities will be limited. Foods with a high
potential for becoming hazardous will not be permitted (e.g. cream filled pastries, custards, egg
salad, and meat spread sandwiches). The preparation or sale of other potentially hazardous foods
requiring limited preparation may be allowed if acceptable sanitary standards are followed (e.g.
hamburgers, hot dogs).
 2                                                                934AWI48-102 31 JULY 2014


2. Responsibilities:
     2.1. The Bioenvironmental Engineering/Public Health (BEE Office, 934 MSG/SGPB) will:
        2.1.1. Provide general guidelines on operating temporary food service facilities (see
        Attachment 2).
        2.1.2. Evaluate the operation of temporary food service facilities to ensure safe food
        handling practices are used at the food event.
        2.1.3. Provide food handler training to the persons serving food at the temporary food
        event.
     2.2. Organizations planning to operate temporary food service facilities and/or sell food at a
     fund raiser will do the following:
        2.2.1. Contact the BEE office at 713-1608 or 713-1609 to provide the date and time of
        the temporary food event.
        2.2.2. Operate within the Temporary Food Service Operation Guidelines established by
        the BEE Office (see Attachment 2)
        2.2.3. A booth supervisor/manager must be assigned for the temporary food booth(s).
        The booth manager is responsible for all operations within the food booth and ensures all
        personnel assigned to the booth comply with the established sanitary guidelines in
        Attachment 2. Failure to comply with these guidelines may result in reduced operation or
        booth closure.
        2.2.4. Ensure all personnel use safe food handling practices.
        2.2.5. Leftover foods must be discarded. They cannot be used for re-sale or taken home
        use.




                                              TODD J. MCCUBBIN, Colonel, USAFR
                                              Commander
934AWI48-102 31 JULY 2014                                    3


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Enterprise, 23 August 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
 4                                                               934AWI48-102 31 JULY 2014


                                         Attachment 2
              TEMPORARY FOOD SERVICE OPERATION GUIDELINES

A2.1. All foods, beverages, and other consumables must be obtained from established food
sources (example: Cub Food).
A2.2. Food items must be in excellent condition and maintained at proper temperatures until
used or sold.
A2.3. FROZEN FOODS: MUST be purchased frozen and be completely wrapped or packaged
to protect them from possible contamination by dust, dirt, insects, etc. Once obtained, items
must be maintained frozen or placed under refrigeration (to thaw) and used within 7 days.
A2.4. CHILLED FOODS: MUST be completely wrapped or packaged to protect possible
contamination by dust, dirt, insects, etc. Items must be maintained at or below 40o F until
prepared and should be purchased as close as possible to the time of use (1 to 3 days).
A2.5. DRY PRODUCTS: This includes canned, bottled, bakery items, etc., which do not
require refrigeration. These items must be properly packaged and protected from becoming
damaged, soiled, or contaminated. This also applies to single use dishes, utensils, napkins and
cups.
A2.6. ONLY disposable single cups, dishes and utensils will be served to patrons. Plastic
utensils should be stored with the handle (non-food contact surface) toward the consumer.
A2.7. COOKING FOODS: Those foods that contain beef, poultry, egg, or dairy products
MUST be thoroughly cooked (at least medium) for immediate sale to the consumer.
Items/products which are cooked in quantities (chili, soup, etc.) MUST be cooked to at least 165 o
F for 15 seconds then be maintained over heat (140o F or above) at all times. Cooked products
that are not sold during an intended serving period (lunch, dinner) CANNOT be reheated and
served at a later time. We recommend using “baby dial” thermometers to ensure proper
temperatures are met.
A2.8. FRUITS AND VEGETABLES: All items shall be thoroughly washed to remove soil and
other contaminants before being cut, combined with other ingredients, served or offered for
human consumption.
A2.9. CHILLED PREPARED ITEMS: Food should be prepared in small quantities from
refrigerated ingredients and maintained under refrigeration/chilled condition until used.
Refrigerators or ice chests must be available to maintain products at prescribed temperatures. If
ice chests are used, ensure products do not come in direct contact with ice/water. Recommend
drain plugs on ice chest be left open to drain excess water. All potentially hazardous cold foods
must be maintained chilled (40o F or below).
A2.10. Food must be protected from cross contamination by separating raw animal foods during
storage, preparation, holding and display from raw-ready-to eat food including other raw animal
food or other raw ready-to-eat food such as vegetables, and/or cooked ready-to-eat food.
A2.11. HAND WASHING FACILITY: Hand washing facilities MUST be available for booth
operators. The type of facilities can be determined on an individual basis, but must be
determined PRIOR to food operation. Soap and water facilities, “wet-naps” or bleach and water
934AWI48-102 31 JULY 2014                                                                      5


solutions are some examples. Hands must be washed after breaks, smoking, and bathroom use.
Hands must also be washed during food preparation, as often as necessary to prevent cross
contamination, especially when switching from raw to ready-to-eat foods.
A2.12. Each booth operator must have a trash receptacle, which is lined with a plastic trash bag.
Trash cans should be covered when not in use to avoid becoming an attraction for insects.
A2.13. Booth operators MUST be in good health, properly attired, and practice good personal
hygiene while in booths.
A2.14. ALL booths operators MUST wear proper head covering which completely controls the
hair. NO hair should be protruding out at any point from the head covering. Proper head
covering may be hair nets and/or hats.
A2.15. Persons with colds, sore throats, runny noses, diarrhea, fever, or infected/open cuts or
soars WILL NOT be permitted to handle foods or work in the booth.
A2.16. Smoking or eating in booths is PROHIBITED. However, drinking is allowed provided
the cup or bottle is covered.
A2.17. Watches and/or bracelets should not be worn while working in booths.
Wedding/engagement rings and emergency ID bracelets are the only authorized jewelry.
A2.18. Foods must be handled using tongs, spatulas, forks, etc. Plastic gloves are authorized,
but must be changed frequently (e.g. between handling hazardous and non-hazardous foods).
Direct hand to food contact is prohibited.
A2.19. If you have any questions concerning temporary food booth operations, please contact
the BEE office at 713-1609.
