BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                     934TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 65-601
934TH AIRLIFT WING
                                                                                 29 JUNE 2009
                                                                  Certified Current 15 June 2012
                                                                         Financial Management

                                            MILITARY SUPPORT TO CIVIL AUTHORITIES



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 934 AW/FM                             Certified by: 934 AW/CC (Col. Timothy E. Tarchick)
Supersedes: 934AWI65-601,                                                           Pages: 5
            2 February 2007



This instruction implements AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures. This
instruction establishes procedures to be followed by personnel assigned to the Disaster Response
Force (DRF) and supporting elements in the event of disaster or accidents, man-made or natural,
affecting assigned and tenant units at this installation. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air
Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as
a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document refers to the new name for the 934AW disaster relief operational plan as the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan (CEMP) plan 10-2 (paragraph 4.).
1. Air Force Participation in Disaster Relief Situations . The military services have
historically participated in emergency assistance to civil authorities during periods of disaster
caused by natural phenomena. Air Force guidance is to provide the required emergency military
assistance to civil authorities for a limited period in domestic emergencies, using resources not
required to do essential Air Force military missions.
2. Responsibilities . HQ Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) is the planning agent for Air
Force participation in domestic emergencies. Each Air Force commander, as directed, assists
civil authorities for a limited period in domestic emergencies, provided resources used are not
2                                                                  934AWI65-601 29 JUNE 2009


needed for essential military missions. Resources provided are subject to military command and
(except for consumable items such as fuel, food and clothing) are subject to recall to meet Air
Force operational requirements. The comptroller has the responsibility of ensuring each activity
giving aid to civil authorities during civil emergencies/disasters accounts for all supplies,
materials, and services; and to prepare, document and submit claims for reimbursement at the
conclusion of emergencies.
3. Reimbursement Procedures . The installation's approved operating budget does not
include funds for expenses incurred during emergency/disaster relief operations, nor does the Air
Force have funds reserved for expenses incurred in these operations. Therefore, it will be
necessary for this installation to initially absorb the costs related to relief operations from the
existing operating budget. Necessary funding adjustments can be submitted to HQ AFRC at a
later date. If the disaster or other emergency isn’t declared a major disaster by Presidential
Proclamation, the supporting Air Force activity sends requests for reimbursements to the
recipients of military assistance on completing the relief operations for each specific disaster, or
at the end of each fiscal quarter if the disaster is of extended duration. Requests for
reimbursement must contain enough detail to identify and segregate:
    3.1. Personal services.
    3.2. Travel and per diem.
    3.3. All other expenses including those that apply to emergency assistance rendered at the
    specific request of a Regional Director, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA),
    before declaration of a major disaster.
    3.4. Local Emergencies/Disasters. Reimbursement will be requested from the recipient of
    the assistance. It is imperative that the date, time, full name, official position, and address of
    the individual requesting assistance be obtained and be made a matter of record.
    3.5. Major Emergencies/Disasters. Bills for major disaster relief operations will be
    forwarded to DFAS-DE, Denver, CO 80279, through command channels.
4. Requirement Action upon Implementation of Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan 10-2 or when other approved assistance is provided to civil authorities. The comptroller
will inform the DRF team leader to account for all supplies, materials, and services rendered to
civil authorities if aid is given to them during civil emergencies/disasters. The comptroller will
also notify all affected division chiefs to initiate and maintain accurate records of all expenses in
natural and man-made emergency/disaster relief operations. These expenses are as follows:
    4.1. Pay of additional civilian personnel temporarily hired for the disaster operations.
    4.2. All overtime pay of civilian employees.
    4.3. Travel and per diem costs of Air Force military and civilian personnel.
    4.4. The costs of all consumable items of supply, materials, and services issued or rendered
    to civilian refugees and civil authorities.
    4.5. Transportation of personnel, supplies and equipment:
    4.6. Cost of repairing or reconditioning non-consumable items returned.
934AWI65-601 29 JUNE 2009                                                                         3


   4.7. Cost of repair parts used to repair end items located in the disaster area (excluding depot
   or field maintenance on a time-compliance basis).
   4.8. Cost of packing and crating supplies and equipment.
   4.9. Cost of POL use in ground vehicles.
   4.10. Cost of supplies and equipment lost, destroyed, or damaged beyond economical repair.
   4.11. Costs of any major rehabilitation or modification of real property under control of the
   Air Force that may be required by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). If
   the modification alters the property to an extent, which affects its future use by the Air Force,
   FEMA will bear costs for the modification and restoration of such property.
   4.12. Supplies and equipment furnished and not returned.
   4.13. Charges for medical supplies used in providing medical care and medical supplies
   issued to individuals or organizations for disaster relief. The cost of medical supplies
   consumed in providing patient care may be computed using a recent unit cost per outpatient
   visit and per inpatient day.
   4.14. For government property damaged, lost, or destroyed, the following principles will
   apply in determining the amount of reimbursement:
      4.14.1. Damaged Property. If the loaned property is damaged and can be repaired,
      reimbursement is for the cost of repairs as well as for the reduced utility value of the
      item.
      4.14.2. Lost or Destroyed Property. The amount to be charged for property lost or
      destroyed is the market value of the property immediately before the loss. This value is
      based on estimates of those who are familiar with selling prices or by price lists. If the
      property does not have an established market value, use the cost of reproducing or
      replacing it less any depreciation and salvage value.
5. Non-Reimbursable Costs .          Reimbursement will not be requested for these types of
expenses:
   5.1. Regular pay and allowances of Air Force personnel.
   5.2. Administrative overhead costs.
   5.3. Annual and sick leave, retirement and other military or civilian benefits.
   5.4. Cost of telephone, telegrams or other means of electrical transmission used to
   requisition items into a disaster area or to replenish stocks.
   5.5. Surplus personal property.
6. Reimbursement procedures :
   6.1. The record of all expenses will be forwarded to the comptroller every 30-days or upon
   request, and the final data will be due no later than the day following the day of termination
   of the operations.
   6.2. The comptroller will tabulate all expenses by type, whether reimbursable or not, in the
   format prescribed in AFI 65-601, Volume 1.
4                                                            934AWI65-601 29 JUNE 2009


    6.3. The comptroller will forward all data, completely supported, for reimbursable costs
    incurred in disaster relief operations to the MAJCOM Directorate of Budget, HQ AFRC, for
    funding adjustments to the approved operating budget.

7. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.

7.1. Prescribed Forms.

None

7.2. Adopted Forms.

AF847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                          TIMOTHY E. TARCHICK, Colonel, USAFR
                                          Commander
934AWI65-601 29 JUNE 2009                                            5


                                     Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 3 March 2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
