BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        934th AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 90-901
934TH AIRLIFT WING
                                                                               3 AUGUST 2009
                                                        Certified Current, 16 DECEMBER 2011
                                                                            Special Management

                                                       OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 934 AW/SE                              Certified by: 934 AW/CC (Col. Timothy E. Tarchick)
Supersedes: 934AWI90-901,                                                            Pages: 7
            7 November 2006



This instruction implements AFPD 90-9, Operational Risk Management, and AFI 90-901,
Operational Risk Management. This document is intended to provide the strategic framework
and guidance for the implementation and sustainment of Operational Risk Management (ORM)
in the 934th Airlift Wing. This instruction applies to the 934th Airlift Wing and attached units.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Route the form to the 934 AW/SE at Minneapolis St. Paul, MN. Ensure that all records created
as a result of the processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at: http://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims.afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has changed and must be reviewed in its entirety.
1. Executive Summary
   1.1. General: This document is intended to provide the strategic plan for the implementation
   and sustainment of Operational Risk Management (ORM) in the 934 AW. ORM initiatives
   include training, tools and information, application to mission activity, integration, and
   oversight. ORM increases both an organization’s and individual’s ability to accomplish their
   mission whether it is flying an airplane in combat, loading a truck with supplies, establishing
   a computer network or driving home at the end of the day. These initiatives will be refined,
2                                                             934AWI90-901 3 AUGUST 2009


    enhanced, and updated as ORM integration matures, experience is gained, and mission needs
    require a change in sustainment focus.
    1.2. Resources: All resources required to implement and sustain ORM for units within the
    934 AW will be provided by the unit and 934 AW ORM Monitor.
    1.3. Financial Requirements: Current O&M funding is expected to be sufficient to support
    implementation and integration of ORM into 934 AW activities. The only significant future
    expense is training replacement ORM advisors in the event of reassignments.
    1.4. Manpower Requirements: Each unit of the 934 AW will appoint an ORM advisor to
    oversee the implementation and sustainment of ORM for the unit. Additional duty personnel
    support the wing and group ORM programs as functional area specific ORM advisors and
    safety representatives. Supervisors will ensure assigned personnel integrate ORM into critical
    mission-related activities.
2. Introduction
    2.1. Purpose. The purpose of this plan is to implement and sustain ORM into the 934 AW
    IAW AFI 90-901, and the AFPD 90-9. ORM enables commanders, functional managers,
    supervisors, and individuals to maximize operational capabilities while limiting all
    dimensions of risk by applying a simple, systematic process appropriate for all personnel and
    functions both on- and off-duty.
    2.2. Vision. An organization in which personnel manage risk so that operations are
    successfully completed in the most effective and successful manner possible.
    2.3. Mission. Increase mission effectiveness and efficiency while minimizing risk.
3. Objectives.
    3.1. Overview. The following are the 934 AW ORM program objectives. They provide an
    overview of how this plan will be sustained and implemented in support of Air Force
    requirements.
       3.1.1. Objective 1. To train our people to apply, implement, integrate and document
       ORM. (Training Plan)
       3.1.2. Objective 2. To provide tools and information to enable ORM use.
       (Implementation)
       3.1.3. Objective 3. To integrate ORM into all mission-related activity. (Integration)
       3.1.4. Objective 4. To continuously improve ORM processes, products, and policies.
       (Program Management)
       3.1.5. Objective 5. Encourage off-duty application of ORM.
       3.1.6. Objective 6. Provide oversight. (Monitor)
    3.2. Training Plan. Train our people to apply, implement, and integrate and document Risk
    Management.
       3.2.1. Introduction. Training and education initiatives within the wing in support of
       ORM are categorized as basic level and advisor level.
934AWI90-901 3 AUGUST 2009                                                                    3


        3.2.1.1. Basic. The basic level includes locally performed training for all wing
        members.
        3.2.1.2. Advisor. The advisor level includes participation in all basic level training
        and participation in specialized training provided by the 934 AW ORM Monitor.
     3.2.2. Implementation and Sustainment of the Training plan.
        3.2.2.1. Basic. The basic level includes participation by all wing members. The
        Introduction to ORM training course is required and can be accomplished either as
        computer-based training (CBT) or in a classroom setting. In addition, personnel will
        receive periodic ORM-related briefings, on-the-job training, and participation in
        assessments of mission activities, as determined by the commander.
            3.2.2.1.1. Introduction to ORM Training. Supervisors are responsible to ensure
            all personnel receive this training and that the training is documented. Initial
            ORM training shall be conducted as part of each unit’s newcomer’s training when
            a member is assigned to the 934 AW. All training documentation will be kept
            in the Unit ORM Continuity book.
            3.2.2.1.2. ORM-Related Activities.
                3.2.2.1.2.1. HQ AFRC may schedule ORM-down days on a periodic basis.
                These days will be fully supported by all personnel, by unit safety
                representatives, and all unit ORM advisors.
                3.2.2.1.2.2. ORM-related briefings may be provided to unit personnel as a
                part of Commander’s calls. These briefings may be presented as Air Force or
                HQ AMC video presentations or as briefings by the group/unit ORM advisor,
                wing, or unit safety representatives.
            3.2.2.1.3. On-the-Job Training. Personnel at every level will work with their
            supervisors and the group/unit ORM advisor to learn wing and unit procedures for
            applying ORM to tasked activities.
            3.2.2.1.4. Participation in ORM-Related Mission Activity. ORM Advisors and
            team members will employ the wing process for managing risk associated with
            mission-related activity for all projects, with the assistance of the group/unit ORM
            advisor.
            3.2.2.1.5. The material can also be downloaded from the AFRC ORM Home
            Page or the RMIS website. https://wwwmil.afrc.af.mil/orm or
            https://rmis.kirtland.af.mil.
        3.2.2.2. Advisor. Advisor level training includes participation in all basic level
        activities and attending the Air Force ORM Applications and Integration Course, at
        the Air Force Safety Center, Kirtland AFB, New Mexico. Unit’s should send
        Advisors to this course to the maximum extent possible.
  3.3. Implementing ORM. Provide tools and information to enable ORM use.
     3.3.1. Introduction. Providing the tools and information necessary for assigned personnel
     to apply ORM to mission activities is essential to successful implementation of ORM in
4                                                             934AWI90-901 3 AUGUST 2009


       the 934 AW. The tools and information required will be provided in two ways: Web-
       based products and personal contact.
           3.3.1.1. Web-based Products. The latest web-based information in support of ORM is
           available from the AFRC ORM site. This information is made accessible to all mil-
           only sites. Another valuable source for ORM guidance online is the AF Risk
           Management Information System (RMIS) and can be used by visiting the RMIS
           website below https://wwwmil.afrc.af.mil/orm or https://rmis.kirtland.af.mil.
           3.3.1.2. Personal Contact. Despite the best of training and web-based products,
           personal contact is essential for integrating ORM. The unit Advisor focal point for
           personal guidance is your 934 AW ORM Monitor. Wing members will be
           encouraged to discuss any ORM related topic with either their group or unit ORM
           Advisors or safety representatives. The wing ORM Monitor will also be available for
           discussions and or guidance.
       3.3.2. Sustaining our Implementation.
           3.3.2.1. Web-Based Products. 934 AW/SE will maintain a supply of ORM tools and
           links available via public network folders and 934 AW Homepage to allow assigned
           personnel convenient access to all essential ORM information and worksheets. These
           products will be available from two sources; The 934 AW Homepage (click Wing
           Staff, then the Safety link), and with the 934 AW ORM Monitor at the 934 Safety
           Office. Group/unit ORM advisors will also develop procedures for providing this
           material to units within the respective groups and maintain them in the unit’s ORM
           Continuity book.
           3.3.2.2. Personal Contact. Contact information for the ORM advisor will be
           provided on unit additional-duty rosters. The group/unit ORM advisors will make
           themselves available to assist, train, and guide personnel in their ORM activities.
    3.4. Integration Plan. Integrate ORM wing wide into all mission-related activity.
       3.4.1. Introduction. ORM is a Air Force philosophy aimed directly at increasing mission
       effectiveness. Employing ORM in the conduct of daily mission-related activity and
       planning is the key focus of ORM command policy and guidance. Individual
       Commander leadership and support of the ORM program is essential to the success of
       process improvement.
       3.4.2. Implementation and Sustainment of the integration plan.
           3.4.2.1. Planning Activity. During planning, units will routinely integrate ORM to
           their planning activities by using the wing process for integration. Identified hazards
           to mission accomplishment, and controls for them, will be documented in order to
           become part of daily activity. In addition, the risk analysis should be accomplished
           by as many people as possible with the expertise to make sound judgments of risk and
           apply appropriate control measures to the process being assessed. The risk analysis
           should also be reviewed by the unit or group commander.
           3.4.2.2. During Execution. Throughout the execution of any project or procedure,
           units will implement risk controls identified in planning and observe their
           effectiveness. Inadequate risk controls could be cause for delaying operations. Be
934AWI90-901 3 AUGUST 2009                                                                 5


         proactive and use this opportunity to adjust your risk assessment to ensure adequate
         controls are employed or an informed decision by the appropriate commander is
         provided. Lessons learned should be documented for future reference. Keep a file of
         lessons learned in the unit ORM Continuity book.
         3.4.2.3. Post Mission Activity. Once after action reports are published or lessons
         learned are documented, collect them to provide the unit ORM Advisor opportunity
         to improve and update the particular process. Maintain all risk assessments,
         whether complete or in working state, in the unit ORM continuity book.
  3.5. Program Management. Continuously improving wing ORM processes, products, and
  policies.
     3.5.1. Introduction. Communication between Unit Advisors, Wing ORM Monitor, and
     Commanders is essential to the continuous improvement of ORM. As ORM matures and
     we gain experience and knowledge using the tools and techniques we must communicate
     recommendations for improvements.
     3.5.2. Implementation and Sustainment plan for Program Management.
         3.5.2.1. ORM Processes. Units will document any difficulty with the ORM process
         and communicate their observations and recommendations to the Group or Wing
         ORM advisor by any practical means.
         3.5.2.2. ORM Products. ORM products can and should be improved by documenting
         his/her suggestions and communicating them to the Wing ORM Monitor. Unit ORM
         Advisors should work together with the Wing ORM monitor for changes to individual
         unit products. If ORM Advisors have difficulty with ORM products (worksheets etc.)
         they should communicate this to the Wing ORM Monitor. Improvement suggestions
         are welcome and encouraged. Observations, suggestions and recommendations
         should be communicated to the Wing ORM Monitor in order to ensure program
         continuity.
         3.5.2.3. ORM Policies. Any wing personnel should document any policy
         recommendations or requests for change to this AWI and route them through the
         appropriate chain of command. ORM policy is command directed.
  3.6. Encourage off-duty application of ORM.
     3.6.1. Introduction. Application of ORM by Air Force personnel to off-duty activities is
     identified at Air Force level as an essential part of any unit ORM program.
     3.6.2. Implementation and Sustainment.
         3.6.2.1. ORM Down Days. During all safety or ORM down-day activities,
         application of ORM to off-duty activities will be included as a part of the day’s
         activities.
         3.6.2.2. ORM Briefings. Application of ORM to off-duty activities will be included
         as a part of Commander’s call ORM briefings.
  3.7. Program Monitoring. Provide ORM program oversight.
6                                                       934AWI90-901 3 AUGUST 2009


      3.7.1. Introduction. Commander ownership of ORM activities is essential to ensure
      ORM is employed and becomes an integrated part of all mission activity.
      3.7.2. Implementation and Responsibilities. On an annual basis, the 934 AW ORM
      Monitor and group commanders will review this instruction for currency and
      completeness. Also, they will update and improve ORM products and processes as
      mission needs and requirements dictate.

4. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication



                                       Timothy E. Tarchick,
                                       Colonel, USAFR
934AWI90-901 3 AUGUST 2009                                   7


                                   ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 90-9, Operational Risk Management, 1 August 2000
AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management, 1 April 2000
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
