BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 934 AW INSTRUCTION 24-102
934TH AIRLIFT WING                                                                    15 FEBRUARY 2008

                                                                                            Transportation

                                                                   PASSENGER MOVEMENT - SPACE
                                                                           AVAILABLE PROGRAM



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                        www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 934 LRS/LGSD                                     Certified by: 934 MSG/CC (Col. Nancy J. Brooks)
                                                                                           Pages: 10

This instruction implements AFPD 24-1, Personnel Movement. It establishes policy and procedures for
passenger processing, and provides uniformity, standardization, and guidance for orderly and efficient
passenger travel operations. References include, DoD 4515.13-R, AFI 24-101, Passenger Movement, and
AMCI 24-101, Volume 14, Military Airlift Passenger Service. This instruction applies to all base, wing,
tenant personnel as well as all eligible space-available passengers as specified in Department of Defense
(DoD) 4515.13-R, Air Transportation Eligibility. Refer any recommended changes to this publication
directly to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) at the 934 LRS/LGS, Minneapolis St. Paul ARS,
MN. This publication requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act
of 1974. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule (available at https://webrims.amc.af.mil).


1. DEFINITIONS.
   1.1. Space Available Program. Space available travel is a privilege (not an entitlement) that accrues to
   uniformed service members as an avenue of respite from the rigors of Uniformed Services duty and is
   a byproduct of DOD primary missions. Retired uniformed services members are given the privilege in
   recognition of a rigorous duty career and because they are eligible for recall to active duty. The under-
   lying criteria for extending the privilege to other categories of passengers is their support to the mis-
   sion being performed by uniformed services members and to the enhancement of active duty service
   members’ quality of life.
   1.2. Space-Available Travel. Is defined as “travel allowing authorized passengers to occupy DoD air-
   craft seats that are surplus after all space-required passengers [and cargo] have been accommodated.”
   Space-available travel is allowed on a non-mission interference basis only. DoD aircraft shall not be
   scheduled to accommodate space-available passengers. No (or negligible) additional funds shall be
   expended and no additional flying hours shall be scheduled to support this program. In order to main-
2                                                                 934AWI24-102 15 FEBRUARY 2008


    tain the equity and integrity of the space-available systems, seats may not be reserved or “blocked” for
    use at en route stops along mission routes.
    1.3. Space-Required Traffic. “Mission essential traffic” as identified in DoD 4515.13R, Air Transpor-
    tation Eligibility.
    1.4. Space-Required Passengers. For the purpose of this instruction include, but are not limited to;
    shuttle flight passengers, orientation flight passengers, public affair flight passengers, deployment
    passengers, exercise/training passengers, and all other mission-related passengers.
    1.5. Space-Available Passenger Eligibility. Space-A passenger eligibility will be determined IAW
    DoD 4515.13R, Air Transportation Eligibility and the Foreign Clearance Guide. Space-available trav-
    elers may not use their privilege for personal gain or in connection with business enterprises or
    employment.

2. RESPONSIBILITIES.
    2.1. Installation Commander.
       2.1.1. Will establish procedures (this instruction) to ensure excess seats on departing aircraft are
       offered to eligible space-available travelers.
       2.1.2. Will ensure procedures are established for maintaining space-available registers (when
       applicable) and accepting requests from eligible travelers via automated and manual means (mail,
       fax, etc).
       2.1.3. Is the approving authority for upgrading space-available passengers to the bottom of cate-
       gory I for leave under emergency conditions (unfunded) or extreme humanitarian reasons when
       the facts (red cross verification, unit commander’s memo) provided, fully support such an excep-
       tion. This may be delegated (in writing) to the chief of the passenger service center or there equiv-
       alent.
       2.1.4. Will provide sufficient space and utilities within government facilities to establish and
       operate the space-available passenger program.
       2.1.5. Will provide adequate funding and qualified personnel to manage and operate the
       space-available passenger program.
    2.2. Mission Support Group Commander.
       2.2.1. Will review and certify this instruction.
       2.2.2. Will advocate funded and unfunded requirements (facilities, equipment, training, etc) to
       operate and maintain the space-available passenger program.
    2.3. Security Forces Commander.
       2.3.1. Will respond with appropriate security personnel for all disorderly/belligerent passengers.
    2.4. 96th Airlift Squadron Commander
       2.4.1. Will provide a monthly space-available flight schedule no later than the 25th of the previ-
       ous month. The schedule will include the following information:
           2.4.1.1. Date and time of flight.
934AWI24-102 15 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                             3


          2.4.1.2. Passenger show time.
NOTE: Passenger show time will be two hours prior to the scheduled departure unless otherwise indi-
cated on the monthly space-available flight schedule.
          2.4.1.3. Destination and all en route stops.
          2.4.1.4. Date and time returning to Minneapolis-St Paul, Air Reserve Station.
          2.4.1.5. Number of space-available seats allowed.
NOTE: The number of space available seats will be 10 unless otherwise indicated on the monthly
space-available flight schedule.
       2.4.2. Will provide updates to the monthly space-available flight schedule as required. Applicable
       schedule updates will be provided to Traffic Management Office, Security Forces, and Airfield
       Management.
       2.4.3. Will ensure the aircraft loadmaster or other designated aircrew member escorts space-avail-
       able passengers to/from the aircraft.
       2.4.4. Maintain space-available information phone line monthly with current flight schedules.
   2.5. Traffic Management Office (TMO).
       2.5.1. Will determine eligibility for potential space-available passengers.
       2.5.2. Will review space-available passenger travel requests and register all eligible, properly doc-
       umented space-available passengers. Registered passengers will be removed from the space-avail-
       able register after remaining on the list for 60 days or when the travel authorization expires,
       whichever occurs first. Passengers removed from the register will be allowed to sign up again with
       a new date/time of sign-up. Once a passenger departs a station their record shall be purged. They
       will need a new date/time of sign up prior to future travel.
       2.5.3. Will conduct space-available passenger roll call as required. See chapter 7. below.
       2.5.4. Will manifest space-available passengers for travel aboard DoD aircraft using DD Form
       2131, Passenger Manifest.
       2.5.5. Will maintain a copy of the current listing of “Withdrawn Space Available Air Travel Priv-
       ileges” messages.
       2.5.6. Will track and document the number of manifested space-available passengers each month.
       At a minimum this report will include the following.
          2.5.6.1. Date of Flight.
          2.5.6.2. Destination.
          2.5.6.3. Mission Number.
          2.5.6.4. Call Sign.
          2.5.6.5. Aircraft Type.
          2.5.6.6. Tail Number.
          2.5.6.7. Type and number of passengers.
4                                                                   934AWI24-102 15 FEBRUARY 2008


               2.5.6.7.1. Number of Active Duty.
               2.5.6.7.2. Number of Dependents.
               2.5.6.7.3. Number of Retirees.
               2.5.6.7.4. Number of Civilians.
               2.5.6.7.5. Number of Guard/Reserve.

3. Space-Available Program General Information.
    3.1. Passengers are authorized two pieces of checked baggage not to exceed 62 linear inches and a
    combined weight of 140 pounds of baggage (not to exceed 70 pounds per bag). Family members may
    pool their baggage allowances.
    3.2. Space-available travelers may be removed at any station for duty passengers, patients, cargo, haz-
    ardous material, mission change, etc. There is also a possibility of the aircraft being diverted for a dif-
    ferent mission.
    3.3. Reservations will not be made for any space-available passenger. Travel opportunity will be
    afforded on an equitable basis to officers, enlisted personnel, civilian employees, and accompanying
    dependents without regard to rank, grade, military or civilian, or branch of uniformed service.
    3.4. Potential space-available travelers must contact TMO one duty day prior to the scheduled flight
    to let them know the number of space-available travelers.
    3.5. There is no guaranteed space for any traveler. The DoD is not obligated to continue an individ-
    ual's travel or return him or her to point of origin, or any other point. Travelers shall have sufficient
    personal funds to pay for commercial transportation to return to their residence or duty station if
    space-available transportation is not available or is terminated. Travelers must be prepared for this to
    occur, and have a back-up plan. It is not the responsibility of the 934th Airlift Wing to make arrange-
    ments for space-available travelers.
    3.6. The aircrew is responsible for passenger safety while aboard the aircraft during all phases of
    flight. They are not responsible for space-available passengers after they arrive at there destination.
    Passengers are encouraged to arrange for ground transportation and hotel rooms prior to departing.
    Some of our destinations are not equipped to handle passengers or provide passenger support such as
    rental cars or baggage handling.
    3.7. Meals are not provided for space-available passengers. Passengers may bring a sack lunch.
    3.8. Space-available travelers are required to show up two hours prior to scheduled departure. All
    passengers must be travel-ready.
    3.9. Space-available travelers must park vehicles remaining overnight in long term parking and regis-
    ter with Security Forces if planning to park for more than 72 hours.

4. Space-Available Categories.
    4.1. There are six categories of eligible space-available travelers.
       4.1.1. Category 1-Emergency Leave. Unfunded travel transportation by the most expeditious
       routing for bona fide immediate family emergencies. When applicable, the following personnel
       are authorized to fly in category 1 status:
934AWI24-102 15 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                     5


        4.1.1.1. Uniformed services members with emergency status indicated on leave orders.
        4.1.1.2. U.S. citizen civilians stationed overseas and employees of the uniformed services/
        non-appropriated fund activities.
        4.1.1.3. Dependents of member of the uniformed services when accompanied by their spon-
        sor.
        4.1.1.4. Non-command sponsored dependents of member of the uniformed services, residing
        overseas with the sponsor, one–way to the emergency destination.
        4.1.1.5. Dependents, command sponsored of:
           4.1.1.5.1. U.S. citizen civilian employees of the uniformed service.
           4.1.1.5.2. U.S. citizen civilian paid by the NAF stationed overseas.
           4.1.1.5.3. American Red Cross full-time paid personnel serving with a DoD component
           overseas.
     4.1.2. Category 2 - Sponsors in an Environmental Morale Leave (EML) status and their depen-
     dents traveling with them, also in EML status. “Sponsors” includes:
        4.1.2.1. Uniformed Services Members.
        4.1.2.2. U.S. citizen civilian employees of the Army Forces who are eligible for govern-
        ment-funded transportation to the United States at tour completion (including NAF employ-
        ees).
        4.1.2.3. American Red Cross full-time, paid personnel on duty with DoD Component over-
        seas.
        4.1.2.4. USO professional staff personnel on duty with the uniformed services.
        4.1.2.5. DODDS Teachers during the school year and for employer-approved training during
        recess periods.
     4.1.3. Category 3 – Ordinary Leave, House Hunting Permissive TDY, Medal of Honor Holders,
     Foreign Military, and other.
        4.1.3.1. Uniformed services members in a leave or pass status.
        4.1.3.2. Reserve components on active duty, in leave or pass status.
        4.1.3.3. Dependents of a member of the uniformed services when accompanied by their spon-
        sor in a leave status.
        4.1.3.4. Uniformed services members traveling under permissive TDY orders for house hunt-
        ing incident to a pending Permanent Change of Station. One dependent may accompany a uni-
        formed services member.
        4.1.3.5. Medal of Honor recipients and their dependents when accompanied by their sponsor.
        4.1.3.6. Foreign cadets and midshipmen attending U.S. Service academies, in a leave status.
        4.1.3.7. Dependents of foreign exchange service members on permanent duty with the DoD
        when accompanied by their sponsor.
6                                                                 934AWI24-102 15 FEBRUARY 2008


       4.1.4. Category 4 – Unaccompanied dependents on EML and Department of Defense Dependents
       Schools (DODDS) teachers on EML during summer.
           4.1.4.1. Dependents traveling under the EML program, unaccompanied by their sponsor.
           4.1.4.2. DODDS teachers of dependents accompanied or unaccompanied traveling under the
           EML Program.
       4.1.5. Category 5 – Permissive TDY (non-house hunting) Students, Command Sponsored Depen-
       dents.
           4.1.5.1. Dependents (children) 18-23 years of age who are college students attending in resi-
           dence at an overseas branch of an American (U.S) university located in the same overseas area
           in which they reside, command sponsored, stationed overseas with their sponsor.
           4.1.5.2. Command-sponsored dependents stationed overseas with their sponsor are permitted
           to travel unaccompanied to and from the nearest overseas military academy testing site to take
           scheduled entrance examinations for entry into any of the U.S. service academies.
           4.1.5.3. Command-sponsored dependents of uniformed services members accompanied or
           unaccompanied who are stationed overseas.
       4.1.6. Category 6 – Retired, Dependents, Reserve, ROTC
           4.1.6.1. Retired uniformed services members.
           4.1.6.2. Dependents of retired uniformed service members, when accompanied by their spon-
           sor.
           4.1.6.3. Dependents, command sponsored, stationed overseas with their sponsor are permitted
           unaccompanied travel to the U.S. for enlisting in one of the armed forces when local enlist-
           ment in the overseas area is not authorized. If an applicant for military service is rejected,
           return travel to the overseas area may be provided under this eligibility.
           4.1.6.4. National Guard/Reserve component members and authorized reserve component
           members entitled to retired pay at age 60 (gray area retirees) has limited space-available travel.
           4.1.6.5. Newly commissioned ROTC officers who are awaiting call to extended active duty.
    4.2. In general terms, retired personnel may travel to Continental United States (CONUS) and over-
    seas destinations with their dependents. Guard/reserve personnel are restricted to CONUS destina-
    tions to include Alaska, Hawaii, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, and American Samoa.
    Spouses and dependents of guard/reserve personnel are not eligible for travel privileges. Retired
    guard/reserve personnel are restricted to CONUS destinations until age 60. At age 60 full retirement
    privileges are granted.
NOTE: 100 percent disabled veterans and widows/widowers of active duty/retired military personnel do
not have space-available travel privileges.

5. Travel Documentation Requirements.
    5.1. The following summarizes space-available travel documentation requirements. These documents
    must be available for review when selected for travel:
934AWI24-102 15 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                           7


      5.1.1. Active Duty Uniformed Services Member (includes National Guard and Reserve members
      on active duty in excess of 30 days and Cadets and Midshipmen of the U.S. Service Academies):
      DD Form 2 (Green), US Armed Forces ID Card (Active), Form 2 NOAA (Green), Uniformed Ser-
      vices ID and Privilege Card (Active), or PHS Form 1866-3 (Green), US Public Health Service ID
      Card (Active), and a valid leave authorization or evidence of pass status. NOTE: Active duty mil-
      itary may travel on a pass but may only remain on the space-available register for the duration of
      the pass. Dependents may accompany their sponsors. Some services do not require documentation
      when traveling in a pass status. Service members may travel using their military ID card and ver-
      bal word they are on pass.
      5.1.2. Retired Uniformed Service Members: DD Form 2 (Blue), US Armed Forces ID Card
      (Retired), DD Form 2 NOAA (Blue), Uniformed Services ID Card (Retired), or PHS Form 1866-3
      (Blue), US Public Health Service ID Card (Retired).
      5.1.3. National Guard and Reserve Members: Authorized Reserve Component Members
      (National Guard and Reserve) of the Ready Reserve and members of the Standby Reserve who are
      on the Active Status List: DD Form 2 (Red), Armed Forces of the United States ID Card
      (Reserve) and DD Form 1853, Authentication of Reserve Status for Travel Eligibility.
      5.1.4. Retired Reservists Entitled to Retired Pay at Age 60: DD Form 2 (Red) and a notice of
      retirement eligibility as described in DoD Directive 1200.15. If the automated DD Form 2 (Red)
      has been issued, the member is registered in his or her service personnel system as a Reserve
      retiree entitled pay at age 60, and a notice of retirement is not required.
      5.1.5. Retired Reservists Qualified for Retired Pay: DD Form 2 (Blue), US Armed Forces ID Card
      (Retired), DD Form 2 NOAA (Blue), Uniformed Services ID Card (Retired), or PHS Form 1866-3
      (Blue), US Public Health Service ID Card (Retired).
      5.1.6. On Active Duty for 30 Days or Less: DD Form 2 (Red) and orders placing the Reservist on
      active duty and a valid leave authorization or evidence of pass status.
      5.1.7. ROTC, Nuclear Power Officer Candidate (NUPOC), and Civil Engineer Corps (CEC)
      Members: When enrolled in an advanced ROTC, NUPOC, or CEC course or enrolled under the
      financial assistance program: DD Form 2 (Red) and DD Form 1853.
      5.1.8. Family Members of Uniformed Services Members: DD Form 1173, United States Uni-
      formed Services Identification and Privilege Card. Dependents 10 years old or older must have an
      ID Card in order to travel.
      5.1.9. EML Travelers: Travel orders issued by the Unified Command. Participants of the EML
      program may take no more than two trips per year and may not be taken within six months of the
      beginning or end of the service.

6. Space-Available Registration.
   6.1. Space-available registration may be done in person with TMO by filling out AMC Form 140,
   Space Available Travel Request or via remote sign-up (telephone, fax, or mail). Sponsors may register
   their family and show all required travel documents in accordance with DoD 4515.13-R and the DoD
   Foreign Clearance Guide. Those who do not have travel documents (ID cards, passports, visas, shot
   records, etc) for others in the travel group may register for travel; however, TMO personnel will anno-
   tate the missing documents on the back of the AMC Form 140. Additionally, the traveler will be
8                                                                  934AWI24-102 15 FEBRUARY 2008


    informed that all required documents must be in their possession at the time of selection for movement
    or the movement will be denied.
    6.2. Sponsors registering via remote sign-up must provide the following:
       6.2.1. Applicable current service leave.
       6.2.2. Completed and signed copy of AMC Form 140.
           6.2.2.1. Sponsors should retain the passenger copy of the AMC Form 140 as proof of registra-
           tion.
           6.2.2.2. If AMC Form 140 is not available a signed statement including name(s) (sponsors and
           all dependents), rank, social security number(s) (sponsor and all dependents), number of seats
           required, and a list of up to five desired country destinations (the fifth destination may be
           “ALL”).
           6.2.2.3. Lack of a passenger’s social security number will not preclude remote sign-up. Upon
           receipt of a request that does not contain a social security number, TMO personnel will sign-up
           the passenger using a pseudo person ID consisting of the prefix RMT and the first four letters
           of the passenger’s last name, first and middle name initials (i.e. RMTDECAJF).
NOTE: When passengers physically present themselves at the passenger service counter and are selected
for travel, passenger service personnel will ensure the entry of the actual social security numbers on the
passenger manifest.
    6.3. Active duty members on pass may utilize remote sign-up by indicating desired destination, name,
    rank, and inclusive dates of pass.
    6.4. Active members of Guard/Reserve Components must provide a current copy of DD Form 1853,
    Authentication of Reserve Status for Travel Eligibility, AMC Form 140 or a statement that border
    clearance documents are current and a list of up to five desired destinations.
NOTE: Active members of Guard/Reserve may only register for travel to/from destinations listed in the
NOTE under paragraph 4.1.6.4. above.
    6.5. Basis for date/time of sign-up (establishes initial priority within individual categories of eligible
    space-available travelers). Greenwich Mean Time/date of sign-up will be used.
       6.5.1. In person. The date/time individual arrives at the passenger service counter.
       6.5.2. Fax. The fax header data will establish date/time of sign-up.
       6.5.3. Mail. The date/time received at passenger service counter will establish date/time of
       sign-up.

7. Space-Available Passenger Roll Call.
    7.1. Will be conducted whenever the number of passengers at the scheduled show time exceeds the
    number of space-available seats.
    7.2. TMO will:
       7.2.1. Provide an introductory briefing to passengers at the beginning of the space-available roll
       call. At a minimum this briefing will include:
934AWI24-102 15 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                            9


          7.2.1.1. Name of person conducting the roll call.
          7.2.1.2. Mission number.
          7.2.1.3. Destination(s).
          7.2.1.4. The requirement to be travel ready.
          7.2.1.5. Brief explanation of the roll call process to include categories and date/time sign-up.
          7.2.1.6. Brief unique mission criteria as required (e.g. low level training, air refueling,
          un-pressurized aircraft, hazardous or dangerous cargo when a passenger deviation is required,
          human remains on board, etc.)
          7.2.1.7. Advise when they are changing space-available categories. NOTE: Space-available
          passengers will not be removed in favor of other space-available passengers. Category I,
          space-available passengers will be considered for any flight currently being processed even if
          the space-available roll call has already begun (roll call time passed) regardless of the current
          category being selected.
   7.3. All space-available passengers competing for a seat must be present at the beginning of the roll
   call. If the category/date/time of a space-available passenger has been passed, that passenger must
   wait until all other space-available passengers present at the beginning of the roll call have been
   afforded the opportunity to compete for the open seats. If seats remain, a new roll call beginning with
   Category I will be conducted.
   7.4. If a mission changes destination, the roll call must be started over.
   7.5. Passengers must be travel ready at the time of selection. Failure to comply may result in
   non-selection for the flight.

8. Firearms/hazardous materials declaration.
   8.1. During passenger processing, passenger service personnel will ask each passenger the following
   question; “Do you have any firearms or hazardous materials to declare?” The passengers will also be
   advised that edged or sharp objects, regardless of length, must be in their checked baggage.
   8.2. If a passenger answers “yes’ to the question above., the items identified shall be physically
   inspected by security forces personnel to determine if the item(s) may be legally transported. NOTE:
   A current list of prohibited items can be found at the Transportation Security Administration website
   www.tsa.gov.

9. Manifesting Space-Available Passengers.
   9.1. The DD Form 2131, Passenger Manifest will be used to manifest all space-available passengers.
   9.2. Two copies of the original passenger manifest will be provided to the aircraft loadmaster. The
   loadmaster will keep one for their use/records and give one copy to the destination passenger terminal.
   9.3. One copy of the original manifest will be provided to Airfield Management. Airfield Manage-
   ment will file this copy with the flight plan.
   9.4. The original passenger manifest will be filed with Traffic Management Office, In accordance
   with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
   records disposition schedule.
10                                                              934AWI24-102 15 FEBRUARY 2008


10. Adopted Forms:
     10.1. DD Form 2131, Passenger Manifest
     10.2. DD Form 2 (Green), US Armed Forces ID Card (Active)
     10.3. DD Form 2 NOAA (Green), Uniformed Services ID and Privilege Card (Active)
     10.4. PHS Form 1866-3 (Green), US Public Health Services ID Card (Active)
     10.5. DD Form 2 (Blue), US Armed Forces ID Card (Retired)
     10.6. DD Form 2 NOAA (Blue), Uniformed Services ID Card (Retired)
     10.7. PHS Form 1866-3 (Blue), Us Public Health Service ID Card (Retired)
     10.8. DD Form 1853, Authentication of Reserve Status for Travel Eligibility
     10.9. DD Form 2 (Red), Armed Forces of the United States ID Card (Reserve)
     10.10. DD Form 1173, United States Uniformed Services Identification and Privilege Card
     10.11. AMC Form 140, Space Available Travel Request



                                               TIMOTHY E. TARCHICK, Colonel, USAFR
                                               Commander
