BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               934th AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
934TH AIRLIFT WING                                                               36-2801

                                                                            15 FEBRUARY 2012

                                                                                        Personnel

                                                    WING COMMANDER'S COIN PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 934 AW/CCE                                                         Certified by: 934 AW/CC
                                                                      (Colonel Darrell G. Young)
Supersedes:    934AWI36-2801,                                                             Pages: 4
               25 March 2010


This instruction implements AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Program, and is a derivative
of HQ AFRC FY12 Planning and Policy Guidance dated 6 October 2011. This instruction
establishes guidance in conjunction with AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards. It provides
for personal recognition and appreciation by the nominating person or individuals in or
associated with the 934 Airlift Wing through use of a coin. Coins will be presented to military
and civilian personnel, who, by their dedicated individual effort, have facilitated the outstanding
accomplishment of a particular program, function, or mission. The purpose of this coin is to
provide senior leadership with an informal means to show special recognition of and
appreciation for, a job well done. It is intended to be “on the spot,” informal, timely, and in the
vicinity of the recipients work center. Ensure that all records created as a result of process
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcssaf61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from their field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This
revision includes the addition of guidance for Group Commanders purchasing group coins. In
addition, this revision restricts the purchase and production of numbered coins. Additional
 2                                                      934AWI36-2801 15 FEBRUARY 2012


guidance has been provided regarding the purchase of coins using the Government Purchase
Card, sourcing coins, maintaining coin expenditure records, and guidelines on organizational
coins purchased with appropriated funds.
1. Responsibilities:
     1.1. The 934 Airlift Wing commander is responsible for the Coin Program.
     1.2. The Wing Executive Officer is responsible for managing the program, procuring and
     maintaining inventory of coins distributed by the Commander (CC), Vice-Commander
     (CCV), and Command Chief.
     1.3. Group Commanders have the option to create a group coin. Group commanders are
     responsible for procuring and maintaining inventory of coins distributed by their associated
     Group. Group commanders may only procure coins representing associated group, not the
     position of commander. (934 MSG, 934 MXG and 934 OG Coins.)
     1.4. Numbered coins are not authorized.
     1.5. Clarification concerning coin procurement, inventory and distribution will be
     coordinated through the Wing Executive Officer and all actions will be approved by the
     Wing Commander.
2. Procurement:
     2.1. Coins may be purchased using the Government Purchase Card. Coins should be
     reasonable in cost and be comparable to like items that are offered at the Base Exchange in
     design complexity, size, and cost. The funding or purchase of coins should only be
     considered after all operational requirements have been fully funded.
     2.2. It is highly recommended that when obtaining a source for coins, at least two vendors
     who specialize in coin fabrication are solicited for monetary quotes. Comparisons shall be
     reviewed by the using activity and the most economical quote shall be exercised.
     2.3. The annual amounts of expenditures within each organization should be retained for any
     future requests for data.
     2.4. Organizational coins purchased by appropriated funds shall NOT be personalized. Do
     not personalize coins by stamping the presenter’s name after the coin has been cast. The
     coins are to be presented as cast from the dye without further embellishment.
3. Inventory:
     3.1. Each organization will maintain an inventory, or log of coin issuance. This log shall
     contain the following information; Coin Recipient, Purpose of Award, and Date of
     Presentation.
     3.2. This inventory will be accessible to the Wing Historian and Public Affairs Offices to
     document and/or publish accordingly.
     3.3. Periodic inspections may be conducted by the Wing Executive Officer to insure
     compliance to this instruction.
4. Distribution:
934AWI36-2801 15 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                 3


  4.1. Coins are intended to be “near real time,” informal and in the vicinity of the recipient’s
  work center and/or peers.
  4.2. To highlight the importance of reenlistment to the Air Force mission and the
  commitment of the member to that mission, coins may be presented to members reenlisting.
  4.3. Coins will not be issued as mementos and should not be presented merely for an
  individual’s normal performance of regularly assigned duties.




                                           DARRELL G. YOUNG, Col, USAFR
                                           Commander
 4                                                    934AWI36-2801 15 FEBRUARY 2012


                                       Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations, 1 August 1997
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information management System
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
