BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              934TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
934TH AIRLIFT WING                                                              32-1004

                                                                                   27 JULY 2012

                                                                                Civil Engineering

                                                    REAL PROPERTY FACILITY MANAGER


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 934 MSG/CER                                                       Certified by: 934 MSG/CC
                                                                      (Colonel Michael W. Ochs)
                                                                                          Pages: 6
Supersedes:    934AWI 32-1004, 12 May 1998


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-10, Installations and
Facilities with the requirement and responsibilities for Real Property Facility Managers as
defined in Air Force Pamphlet (AFPAM) 32-1004, Volume 3, Working in the Operations Flight
Facility Maintenance. It applies to all organizations and tenants assigned to Minneapolis-St Paul
IAP ARS, MN who serve in the capacity as Real Property Managers. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from
the field through the appropriate functional chain of command (include OPR mailing
instructions).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
1. Objectives. To promulgate the delegation and relief of Facility Manager assignments and to
outline Facility Managers’ responsibilities.
2. Assignment. The Division Chief/Unit Commander will designate a primary and alternate
Facility Manager for each facility assigned to that organization. Where more than one division
occupies a facility, the major user will assign the primary Facility Manager and alternates will be
assigned by each using organization. The Base Civil Engineer (BCE) will be advised of the
 2                                                                934AWI32-1004 27 JULY 2012


designation by a letter of assignment. The letter of assignment shall provide names,
organization, duty telephone numbers and home or cell telephone numbers.
     2.1. Changes in Facility Managers. Changes will be sent in writing to the BCE ten days
     prior to the desired change date. Outgoing Facility Managers will process through the
     Resource office prior to the change-over date.
     2.2. Facility Manager List. The Resources Flight (MSG/CER) will prepare and maintain a
     list of Facility Managers from the delegation letters received from each organization. A copy
     of the consolidated list will be sent to the Security Forces Squadron (934 SFS/S3A). They
     will use this data to contact Facility Managers in case of an emergency. Also, a copy will
     also be sent to Customer Service (934 MSG/CEO) for validation of work requests.
3. Responsibilities. The Facility Managers are the Division Chief’s/Unit Commander’s
representatives. Facility Managers, in cooperation with all occupants and users of a facility, are
responsible for the care, custody and protection of the assigned real property. Every effort will
be exerted to safeguard the property from damage and loss. Facility Managers are responsible
for the following:
     3.1. Facility Management:
3.1.1. Periodic Facility Surveys. In order to identify work requirements stated on the AF Form
332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, surveys of the general facility condition will be
conducted with particular attention to:

            3.1.1.1. Housekeeping Practices. Only Facility Managers may report service contract
            deficiencies to an Engineering Technician (934 MSG/CEC) for the custodial contract
            and an Environmental Engineer (934 MSG/CEV) for refuse collection.
            3.1.1.2. Safety Hazards. Report any condition, act, or procedure that could result in a
            mishap causing injury to personnel or damage to property.
            3.1.1.3. Fire Prevention. Facility Managers are responsible for ensuring that areas
            under their control are maintained in a fire safe condition and that all fire hazards are
            corrected as quickly as possible. All Facility Managers will abide by procedures set
            forth in 934 AWI 32-2001, Base Fire Prevention Program.
            3.1.1.4. Conservation of Utilities. Establish procedures to ensure thermostat settings
            do not exceed temperature standards set forth in the Base Energy Plan. Make every
            effort to ensure equipment is not left running when not in use. Notify Customer
            Service (934 MSG/CEO) promptly of any loss of integrity of facility systems: broken
            windows, leaky faucet, etc.
            3.1.1.5. Space Utilization. Any change in currently authorized use must be submitted
            to Customer Service in writing and approved by the Facility Utilization Board (FUB).
        3.1.2. Facility Security. Establish procedures to ensure doors and windows are secured
        when facility is unoccupied. Security Forces will contact the Facility Manager if the
        facility is found unsecured.
        3.1.3. Snow and Ice Control. Ensure snow and ice does not create a safety hazard.
        Removal and sanding will be done according to the Base Snow and Ice Control Plan.
934AWI32-1004 27 JULY 2012                                                                     3


  3.2. Brief Facility Occupants. A viable Facility Manager Program depends not only on the
  Facility Manager but on all facility occupants. Facility occupants will be briefed annually as
  to their responsibilities. 934 AWH 32-1004, Facility Manager’s Program, and Attachment
  2, Sample Letter to Facility Occupants, will be used as guides. The letter to facility
  occupants should be posted on the official bulletin board and e-mailed to all occupants within
  your facility. Post the 934 AWVA 32-9001 identifying the primary and alternate facility
  managers on your official bulletin board.
  3.3. Administrative Details:
     3.3.1. AF Form 332. Nonroutine work requirements should be identified on the AF
     Form 332 for approval and will be scheduled by Real Property Maintenance (934
     MSG/CEO). The AF Form 332 should be submitted to 934 MSG/CEO, Customer
     Service.
     3.3.2. Work Request Status Log. In order to track work requests a log will be
     maintained including as a minimum: the date of the request, a brief description of work,
     assigned job/work order number and current status. All status requests to Customer
     Service must reference job/work order number.
     3.3.3. Key Control. Maintain a log for the accountability of all keys to the facility at all
     times. The log will include date issued, to whom issued, replacement keys issued and
     reason, and date of turn-in.




                                           DARRELL G. YOUNG, Colonel, USAFR
                                           Commander
 4                                                         934AWI32-1004 27 JULY 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities, 4 March 2010
AFPAM 32-1004, Volume 3, Working in the Operations Flight Facility Maintenance, 1
September, 1998
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
934AWI32-2001, Base Fire Prevention Program, 23 Mar 2010
934 AWH32-1004, Facility Manager’s Program, 27 Jul 2011
934 AWVA 32-9001, Building Manager
Adopted Forms
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
CE—Civil Engineering
CEO—Civil Engineering Operations
FUB—Facility Utilization Board
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
934AWI32-1004 27 JULY 2012                                                                           5


                                          Attachment 2
                      SAMPLE LETTER TO FACILITY OCCUPANTS

                                                                                             DATE

MEMORANDUM FOR FACILITY OCCUPANTS

FROM: John Doe, Facility Manager

SUBJECT: Facility Occupant Briefing

1. You and I, as facility occupants and Facility Manager, are responsible for the care, custody,
safeguarding, and protection from damage and loss of this facility and all real property and
installed equipment herein. In order for us to more effectively perform these caretaking duties
here are some guidelines to follow:

a. Job Order Requests. I, as the Facility Manager, am the focal point for facility problems.
Coordinate all job order requests through me so I can forward the requests to Civil Engineering.
In the normal case, Customer Service would prefer not to accept job order requests from anyone
other than the Facility Manager. With a reduction of manpower, one focal point for maintenance
request helps them to better schedule maintenance work in facilities. Job orders NOT requested
by me will needlessly delay your request. Work classification and targeted response times are:

(1) Emergency. Failures of deficiencies which constitute an immediate danger or health hazard
to occupants, or which threaten damage to property. Target response is within 15 minutes.

(2) Urgent. Failures or deficiencies which do not immediately endanger the occupants or
threaten damage to property, but would soon inconvenience and affect the health and well-being
of facility occupants. Target is initial response within four hours and completion within seven
working days after receipt of materials.

(3) Routine. This is work which does not meet the criteria of an emergency or urgent work. The
target will be completed within 30 days after receipt of materials.

2. CEO does not repair furniture, fix personal appliances, move furniture or build items
otherwise available through supply channels. For painting operations, we are responsible for
removing personal items from ceilings, walls and floors. Additionally:

a. Key Control. I maintain a log for the accountability of all keys to the facility. All keys will
be requested and issued by me as the Facility Manager.

b. Housekeeping Practices. Any deficiencies noted or service deviations required in service
contracts (refuse collection and custodial) should be reported to me. I will then report them to
the appropriate CE personnel. Again, Customer Service cannot accept notification/ requests
from anyone other than the Facility Manager.
 6                                                              934AWI32-1004 27 JULY 2012


c. Fire and Safety Hazards. Immediately report to me any condition, act or procedure that could
result in a mishap causing injury to personnel or damage to property.

d. Conservation of Utilities. Please ensure that the thermostat settings match the settings
indicated in the Base Energy Plan. Make sure equipment is turned off when not in use. Let me
know as soon as possible of any loss of integrity of facility systems; e.g., broken windows, leaky
faucets, steam leaks, burned out lights, and clogged commodes or floor drains.

e. Space Utilization. Please report to me any change in currently authorized space so that a
written request may be made to the Production Controller for approval by the Facility Utilization
Board (FUB).

f. Facility Security. Please make sure that doors and windows are secured when the facility is
unoccupied.

3. If you have any questions, please give me a call at extension_____.




                                                            JOHN DOE
                                                            Facility Manager
