BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 934TH AIRLIFT WING
934TH AIRLIFT WING                                                         INSTRUCTION 34-201

                                                                                7 OCTOBER 2010

                                                                                           Services

                                                       RESERVIST LODGING PROCEDURES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 934 SVS/SVML                                                       Certified by: 934 MSG/CC
Supersedes: 934AWI34-201, 12 August                                       (Colonel Michael Ochs)
            2006                                                                           Pages: 6


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 34-246, Air Force Lodging Program,
and establishes procedures and responsibilities for personnel authorized to occupy quarters (on-
base/off-base). It requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy
Act of 1974. It applies only to Air Force reservists assigned to units within the 934th Airlift
Wing (AW). Failure to comply with this directive may result in loss of lodging privileges.
Ensure that all records created as a result of process prescribed in this publication are maintained
in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed
of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcssaf61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from their field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision updates lodging office, unit commander, unit lodging points of contact and
reservist responsibilities regarding Unit Training Assembly (UTA) lodging needs utilizing the
Automated Lodging Reservation System (ALRS).
1. Procedure. Base quarters will be fully utilized before providing reservists commercial
contract lodging. Government quarters are only authorized for those persons residing beyond the
designated radius (as determined by the Joint Travel Regulation or base procedures) of the
Minneapolis-St Paul IAP Air Reserve Station. The unit commander and the General Manager
will verify other authorizations based on mission necessity.
 2                                                           934AWI34-201 7 OCTOBER 2010


2. Responsibility. It is the individual's responsibility to make and cancel reservations using
ALRS.
     2.1. The lodging office will:
        2.1.1. Operate the ALRS reservation system for UTAs and make-up UTAs. Personnel
        with reservations are given first come, first serve room assignments. Only when all on-
        base quarters have been assigned will commercial contract lodging be used.
        2.1.2. Promptly notify all units of procedural changes affecting lodging.
        2.1.3. Arrange off-base commercial contract lodging. Upon receipt of hotel billing,
        verify invoices and all billings. Certify and forward to 934 AW/FMC for payment.
     2.2. The Unit Commanders will:
        2.2.1. Appoint a unit lodging point of contact who acts as liaison between base lodging
        and reservists regarding UTA and man day lodging reservations.
        2.2.2. Prepare a letter authorizing special lodging needs for reservists who work
        abnormal shifts, have transportation problems, or other reasons deemed necessary by the
        unit commander for the reservist to be lodged on-base for UTAs and are not able to
        utilize commercial quarters. Requests for reservists needing special lodging will be
        monitored and changes submitted to 934 AW/FMC as soon as the Command (CMD (on-
        base) status changes. “CMD” designation letters should follow the format in Attachment
        2 and must be reviewed and updated at the beginning of each fiscal year (1 Oct). Should
        lodging requirements change within the fiscal year, FM contacts lodging to make changes
        in ALRS.
        2.2.3. Ensure all members are briefed on lodging procedures at least semi-annually.
3. Making Lodging Reservations. Reservists will:
     3.1. Make all UTA, AFTP, and manday lodging reservations using the ALRS reservation
     system.       Direct telephone number to ALRS: (612) 713-5631/5632/5633/
     5634. UTA reservations using ALRS cannot be made after 2200 hrs, the Wednesday prior to
     the UTA. After 2200 on the Wednesday, all personnel will have call North Country Lodge
     Front Desk, for accommodations.
        3.1.1. Lodging offers a 1-800 number as well as the base local number. Call 1-800-872-
        3235, and follow instruction prompts. Initial call to ALRS prompts caller to change their
        PIN #. PIN # is the last four of the social security number. Make, change, and cancel all
        UTA reservations by using ALRS. Location and name of hotel and confirmation number
        are provided at the time the reservation is made. Problems with ALRS should be directed
        to the front desk at 612-726-9440. It is important to remember your PIN #! If you forget,
        call the front desk to have your PIN reset.
        3.1.2. Present a military identification (ID) card at check-in. Check into lodging during
        posted duty hours. (See paragraph 8.), or after business hours, if held by a credit card or
        Unit guaranteed.
     3.2. Pay for room charges or present one copy of AF Form 40A, Record of Individual
     Inactive Duty, when performing a rescheduled UTA or Additional Flying Training Period
     (AFTP).
934AWI34-201 7 OCTOBER 2010                                                                          3


       3.2.1. The AF Form 40A will serve as certification to the lodging office that the 934th
       Airlift Wing will pay for the reservist’s lodging. It is important that the reservists know
       what their status is when making a reservation. The reservist should have the AF Form
       40A, when checking in at lodging; or have faxed the AF Form 40A to lodging prior to
       arrival. If it is not possible for the reservist to present one of these forms at check in, they
       or the unit must ensure that lodging receives the form prior to the guest checking out of
       lodging. Failure to provide the Form 40A will result in the member being charged for
       lodging. If lodging does not have the form before check-in, then at check-in, lodging will
       ask for a credit card or cash payment.
   3.3. Keep room secured at all times. Individuals are responsible for any loss or damage
   occurring to government property. Guests should not leave valuables, i.e. money, jewelry,
   credit cards, or other high cost items in their rooms. Lodging is not responsible for lost or
   stolen items.
   3.4. Checkout of lodging by the posted time (1100 hours) and return key card to the front
   desk unless prior arrangements have been made with the lodging office. Anyone exceeding
   checkout time without this arrangement will be charged another day's fee.
4. Obtaining Off-Base Quarters. Reservists lodged in off-base quarters will:
   4.1. Be directed to off base lodging by ALRS when making their duty reservation if on base
   lodging is full. Reservists may go directly to the commercial hotel. They do not need to
   come to base lodging when they arrive or when they check out.
   4.2. Present military ID card at check-in.
   4.3. Be lodged one person per room off base.
   4.4. Present payment for any deposits required by the commercial contract quarters hotel. A
   credit card is required to cover any miscellaneous costs incurred by the reservist (i.e. movie
   rental, telephone calls, room service, etc).
   4.5. Check out and return key to hotel desk not later than the posted hotel checkout time.
   Sign all forms at the hotel desk. Individuals not checking out by the posted time will be
   liable for any additional expenses and will pay at time of checkout.
5. Chicago Reservists/Chicago Shuttle. Chicago reservists will have priority on-base lodging
for the following UTA(s) if they make their lodging reservation(s) within FIVE days after the
UTA. If Chicago/CMD reservists do not adhere to this policy, they will be lodged off base.
6. No-Show Policy.
   6.1. Reservists making reservations for UTA lodging and not checking in at lodging are
   considered a no-show for the UTA. Reservists will receive a “Letter of Warning” from
   lodging indicating they did not call, cancel or change their reservation and are being
   identified as a no-show. Changes to a reservation should be made by 1800 on the arrival
   date.
 4                                                          934AWI34-201 7 OCTOBER 2010


     6.2. Reservists making reservations for UTA lodging and not checking in at lodging for a
     second time within one calendar year are considered a no-show for the UTA. Reservists will
     receive a “Denial of Lodging” letter from lodging indicating this is the second no-show
     within a 12-month period and they will be denied on-base and commercial lodging for their
     next scheduled UTA. Reservists in this status are required to make their own reservations at
     North Country Lodge Front Desk, and pay for their own lodging for their next scheduled
     UTA.
7. Newcomer Lodging. Newcomers residing outside the commuting distance will be lodged on
base for their first UTA. 934 FM will make the newcomers first reservation. Military Personnel
will notify individual units, finance and lodging of newcomers’ status. After the first UTA,
reservists will be responsible for making their own UTA lodging reservations via ALRS.
8. Hours of Operation. Normal operating hours are 0700-2200 hours 7 days a week; 0700-
1800 on federal holidays. On-base lodging will be checked out and key cards returned to the
front desk NLT 1100 hours Sunday. Failure to comply will result in the individual being
charged for an additional day. If arriving after 2200 hours on a 934 AW UTA, or if guest
guaranteed their reservation with a credit card, the reservation and room key will be placed in an
electronic key box located off the lobby of building 707. Key boxes are programmed with the
last 4 numbers of the guest’s social security number. Trouble-shooting instructions are provided.
9. In Cases of Emergency, contact Security Forces (612) 713-1911 or non-emergency (612)
713-1102.

10. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 40A, Record of Individual Inactive Duty




                                             DARRELL G. YOUNG, Colonel, USAFR
                                             Commander
934AWI34-201 7 OCTOBER 2010                                  5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 34-246, Air Force Lodging Program, 11 November 2007
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFTP—Additional Flying Training Period
ALRS— Automated Lodging Reservation System
AW—Airlift Wing
CMD—Command
ID—Identification
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
UTA—Unit Training Assembly
 6                                                          934AWI34-201 7 OCTOBER 2010


                                         Attachment 2
        FORMAT FOR REQUESTING ON-BASE LODGING (CMD) PRIORITY
                    FOR UNIT TRAINING ASSEMBLIES

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND

Date: ______________
MEMORANDUM FOR 934 AW/FMC
ATTN: WING LODGING POC
FROM: Enter Unit Commander Office Symbol
SUBJECT: Command Approval for On-Base Lodging During Unit Training Assemblies

1. Request the following individuals be lodged on-base for reasons indicated:
RANK                     NAME (Last, First)         SSAN(Last Four)        JUSTIFICATION

MSG                      DOE, JOHN E.               0000                   Irregular work
                                                                           schedule
                                                                           requiring short notice
                                                                           start/stop times
TSG                      HANSON, LEO C.             1111                   Required to work
                                                                           unusually long hours
                                                                           during the training
                                                                           weekend
2. This special authorization expires 30 Sep XXXX. (**All "CMD" special authorizations will
need to be reviewed and updated each fiscal year. If the requirement is not needed for an entire
12-month period, please enter the timeframe. For example, reservists requiring "CMD"
authorization to plow snow should only need "CMD" authorization from Nov to April of each
fiscal year.)



ENTER UNIT COMMANDER'S
SIGNATURE BLOCK
