BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             934TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
934TH AIRLIFT WING                                                             32-1002

                                                                                   27 JULY 2012

                                                                               Civil Engineering

                                                                BASE EXCAVATION PERMIT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication is available on the e-publishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 934 MSG/CER                                                       Certified by: 934 MSG/CC
                                                                      (Colonel Michael W. Ochs)
Supersedes:    934AWI32-1002, 10 January                                                  Pages: 4
               2008


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 32-1001, Operations Management and
Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-10, Installations and Facilities. It establishes base
property excavation procedures to prevent unscheduled interruption of underground utilities.
This instruction applies to anyone excavating, opening walls, directing or otherwise causing an
excavation to be made. It includes everyone working on this installation; all tenant units and all
contractors and utility firms. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional
chain of command (include OPR mailing instructions). Ensure that all records created as a result
of the processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Record Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/gess-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has minor changes, including changes to office symbols.
1. Responsibility. The Base Civil Engineer (BCE) is responsible for the prevention of
unscheduled interruption of base utilities. No excavation will be made on this base without prior
written approval from 934 MSG/CEC.
2. Notification and Approval. Whenever the scope of a project requires excavating operations,
use AF Form 103, Base Civil Engineering Work Clearance Request, to notify 934 MSG/CEC of
proposed excavation and to seek clearance from affected parties. AF Form 103s will be
 2                                                                 934AWI32-1002 27 JULY 2012


submitted no less than ten working days prior to the start of excavation. There will be a weekly
meeting for review of new AF Form 103s to obtain required signatures and approvals.
     2.1. All AF Form 103s will be completed before any underground work begins. The
     following is the process for initiating and completing AF Form 103s at the 934th Airlift
     Wing.
        2.1.1. The agency requesting excavation will contact the 934 MSG/CER office to initiate
        and complete all AF Form 103s. The CER office is located in Building 744.
            2.1.1.1. After an AF Form 103 has been initiated, CER office will coordinate
            notification of all affected agencies and coordinate the locating and marking of
            utilities in the construction area. The area to be marked shall be identified/outlined
            using white paint or white flags. Notification, locating and marking will be
            completed prior to the beginning of excavation.
            2.1.1.2. If the excavator is a member of the 934 MSG/CE or 934 CES, CER will
            notify “Gopher State One Call” to initiate the location of commercial utilities. All
            other excavators have the responsibility to notify “Gopher State One Call” at
            www.gopherstateonecall.org/submit. “Gopher State One Call” must be notified 48
            hours prior to excavation.
            2.1.1.3. After all agencies have signed off and approved the work to be performed,
            including any applicable Gopher State One Calls, CER will notify the requester that
            they may proceed to safely dig.
            2.1.1.4. If the request is disapproved, CER will notify the originator and provide the
            reasons why it was disapproved.
        2.1.2. Maintaining Excavation Site Markings. After an area is marked, excavation
        should begin within ten days. If more than ten days have elapsed and digging has not
        started, a re-mark may be requested. If weather has faded or obliterated any markings, a
        re-mark may be requested. It is the responsibility of the original requester and person(s)
        doing the digging to try and preserve the location of the markings to the greatest extent
        possible. A re-marking may be requested but evidence of sloppy efforts in preserving the
        markings will result in delays in re-marking. A request for re-marking/verification of
        locations will need to be accomplished and annotated on the original AF Form 103 in the
        re-marks section.
        2.1.3. As-Built. After all work is complete it is the responsibility for the AF Form 103
        original requester to provide as-built drawings to CER. CER will then forward all as-
        built drawings to the Civil Engineer draftsmen.
        2.1.4. Requests should be limited to a contiguous dig area. Even though it may be
        simpler to combine two separate dig areas in one request, it could create a more difficult
        job for the locators. If the projects are related or part of the same job, but the dig sites are
        unconnected, consider breaking them down into separate requests.
        2.1.5. Work Schedule. If an excavation is performed in stages, request should be
        staggered so that the locate marks will be fresh when a new area is to be excavated.
        2.1.6. Hand Digging Zone. Excavators are required to maintain a minimum horizontal
        (side-to- side) clearance of two feet (24”) between an unexposed, marked utility and the
934AWI32-1002 27 JULY 2012                                                                       3


      cutting edge or point of any power operated excavating or earth-moving equipment. For
      example: if the markings indicate a 6” pipe is buried, the hand dig zone is 54” wide (24”
      + 6” + 24”). If the excavation is required within the hand dig zone, the excavation must
      be performed very carefully with hand tools and without damage to the utility or
      undermining of lateral support. Excavators are reminded that a utility depth may vary due
      to installation practices, changes in grade, frost, erosion, and other variables. Therefore,
      any depth readings given by a locator, if given at all, are only an estimation of the depth
      of the utility, and the excavator is still responsible to safely expose the utility without
      damage.
3. Damage.
   3.1. During the course of digging, it is the excavator’s responsibility to inspect and support
   all utilities that have been exposed. The excavator also must inspect utilities for any damage
   which could have accidentally occurred. This damage may include the pulling or kinking of a
   utility line or damage to the protective covering/coating. If damage occurs it is the
   excavator’s responsibility to immediately notify CER. While excavating, if power operated
   equipment makes physical contact with an underground utility and whether there is
   noticeable damage or not, the excavating must stop and the CER office must be notified. If it
   is a private contractor doing the excavating, the Contracting Officer also needs to be notified.
   A detailed description/analysis of the incident will need to be attached to the AF Form 103
   for later follow-up. A peer review group will be established to go over the submitted AF
   Form 103 and the incident report to help determine liability.
   3.2. If there is damage that results in the escape of any flammable, toxic or corrosive gas or
   liquid, or damage that endangers life, health or property, the excavator shall immediately call
   911 on a base phone or 612-713-1911 from a cell phone. Immediate action must be taken to
   protect the public and property. The excavator shall also attempt to minimize the hazard
   until arrival of emergency responders.




                                             DARRELL G. YOUNG, Colonel, USAFR
                                             Commander
 4                                                               934AWI32-1002 27 JULY 2012


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 32-10, Installation and Facilities, 04 March 2010
AFI 32-1001, Operations Management, 01 September 2005
Adopted Forms
AF Form 103, Base Civil Engineering Work Clearance Request, 11 March 2003

Abbreviations and Acronyms
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
934 MSG/CEC—Civil Engineering Flight Chief
CER—Civil Engineer Resource Flight

Terms
Utilities— The terms utility or utilities include, but are not limited to, the following systems and
their components: water, sewer, gas, electrical, fuel, steam, condensate, and communications.
Excavation— Digging of a surface or opening of an existing surface (building walls) or
excavating to a depth exceeding four inches below existing grade. Plowing or tilling for planting
grass, shrubs, or similar plants is exempt from this instruction as long as the four-inch depth is
not exceeded.
