BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                  939 AIR REFUELING WING
939 AIR REFUELING WING (AFRC)                                                    INSTRUCTION 90-201
                                                                                         5 AUGUST 2003

                                                                                        Command Policy

                                                       SELF-INSPECTION/CROSSFEED PROGRAM



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 939 ARW/CCE (Lt Col Dana G. Difford)               Certified by: 939 ARW/CC (Col Mark A. Kyle)
Supersedes 939 ARWI 90-201, 1 April 2003                                                    Pages: 3
                                                                                     Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 90-2, Inspector General--The Inspection System and references
AFI90-201, Inspector General Activities. It provides information specific to the implementation of the
939th Air Refueling Wing (939 ARW) Self-Inspection Program. The purpose of this instruction is to
implement a self-inspection program that will enable the commander and supervisors to identify, track
and resolve anticipated or actual non-compliance findings. This instruction describes the use of a com-
puter based tracking system, reporting system, and self-inspection procedures for the wing. It provides for
electronic dissemination of crossfeed (benchmark) data via LAN location or wing Intranet. This instruc-
tion is applicable to all personnel assigned to the 939 ARW at Portland IAP, Oregon.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision changes all references from Logistics Group to Maintenance Group and Support Group to
Mission Support Group. Paragraph 2.2. SITS web page and Paragraph 2.5. Discrepancies (critical and
non-critical). A ( | ) indicates revision from previous edition.


1. Responsibilities:
   1.1. Commanders, supervisors and designated self-inspection monitors are responsible for the overall
   management of the self-inspection program ensuring compliance with this instruction.
   1.2. The 939th Air Refueling Wing Commander will appoint in writing a primary and alternate 939th
   Wing Self-Inspection Monitor. The operations group, maintenance group, mission support group and
   medical squadron commanders appoint primary and alternate self-inspection managers to assist the
   designated monitors within their assigned group. Squadron commanders appoint primary and alter-
   nate self-inspection monitors for each work center under their control.

2. Procedures:
2                                                                    939ARWI90-201 5 AUGUST 2003


    2.1. Semiannual self-inspection will be performed in February and August or as directed.
    2.2. Discrepancies will be identified and entered into the self-inspection tracking system (SITS) to
    document, track and ensure closure of identified discrepancies. The program can be found on the 939
    ARW Self-Inspection Web page: https://wwwmil.afrc.af.mil/939rqw/SITS/self-inspection.htm.
    2.3. Automation of all program requirements is encouraged.
    2.4. Backup of data.
       2.4.1. NCC backs up databases on a daily basis. Monitors are encouraged to backup individual
       documents electronically or in paper form to ensure data is readily available at all times.
       2.4.2. Work centers may maintain a logbook (see self-inspection website for info on logbook).
       2.4.3. If the logbook is not used a copy of the most current list of all closed and open discrepan-
       cies will be printed and placed in the work center file plan.
    2.5. Discrepancies will be categorized as “Critical” or “Non-critical.” Each discrepancy will be cate-
    gorized in the status block of the SITS program. Describe mission impact and compliance with poli-
    cies and efforts needed to fix problems.
       2.5.1. Open “Critical” items will be updated quarterly until resolved. Open “Non-critical” items
       will be reported to the squadron commander, tracked and updated quarterly until resolved.
           2.5.1.1. Critical: Items identified as key result areas for successful mission accomplishment
           including, but not limited to, items where non-compliance would affect system reliability or
           result in serious injury, loss of life, excessive cost or litigation.
           2.5.1.2. Non-Critical: Areas that require special vigilance and are important to the overall per-
           formance of the unit, but are not deemed “Critical.” Non-compliance could result in some neg-
           ative impact on mission performance or could result in minor injury, unnecessary cost or
           possible litigation.

3. Responsibilities of the Group Managers :
    3.1. Reinforce to functional managers to utilize the crossfeed/crosstell available through websites.
    Monitor discrepancies and suspense dates through SITS program.
    3.2. Review crossfeed/crosstell material extracted from the HQ AFRC IG Homepage.
    3.3. Review all open documents and forward to the group commander for review and coordination, as
    necessary.
    3.4. Notify the appropriate group commander of discrepancies identified by subordinate organiza-
    tions requiring assistance. Group commanders will forward to wing commander and wing self-inspec-
    tion (SI) manager identifying any discrepancies that can't be corrected at the local level.
    3.5. Monitor unit functional managers area discrepancy logs via SITS.

4. Responsibilities of the Squadron, Flight, or Work Center Managers:
    4.1. Review the crossfeed/crosstell reports extracted for the HQ AFRC IG Homepage.
    4.2. Extract the applicable functional discrepancies.
939ARWI90-201 5 AUGUST 2003                                                                            3


   4.3. Input discrepancies into SITS.
   4.4. Notify the appropriate squadron or flight commander of discrepancies identified by subordinate
   organizations, which require assistance.
   4.5. Functional area monitors will maintain follow-up status reports to ensure estimated completion
   dates are met.
   4.6. Maintain an updated copy of all applicable functional area checklists. Core checklists will be
   used with any additional items identified by 4th Air Force. Local requirements will also be added to
   the checklists.
   4.7. Inform the group manager of changes to functional area monitors and alternates to update the 939
   ARW SI listing

5. The requirements of this program are considered basic to the successful operation of a self-inspection
and crossfeed program. The procedures specified in this instruction are to be followed by all units
assigned to the 939 ARW at Portland IAP, but individual unit programs may incorporate procedures in
addition to those specified which meet their own needs.

6. Suggestions for improvement in this program should be brought to the attention of 939 ARW/CCE.



                                                    MARK A. KYLE, Col, USAFR
                                                    Commander, 939 ARW
