BY ORDER OF THE                                                           939 AIR REFUELING WING
COMMANDER 939TH AIR REFUELING                                                   INSTRUCTION 21-101
WING (AFRC)                                                                               1 APRIL 2003

                                                                                Equipment Maintenance

                                                          AIRCREW/MAINTENANCE DEBRIEFING




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 939 AMXS/LGM (SMSgt Reuben Evans)                Certified by: 939 MXG/CC (Maj Anthony Baity)
Supersedes 939 RQWI 21-101, 12 July 2001                                                   Pages: 2
                                                                                    Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 21-1, Managing Aerospace Equipment Maintenance. This instruction
establishes policy, assigns responsibility, and defines procedures for implementing and maintaining an
effective aircrew/maintenance debriefing program for aircraft in accordance with applicable AFRC publi-
cations.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision changes the unit designation from 939th Rescue Wing to 939th Air Refueling Wing;
changes reference from CAMS to MIS (maintenance information system); adds the reference number for
the debriefing checklist in paragraph 3.1.; deletes reference to HC-130/HH-60, adds the KC-135 to the
procedures in paragraph 3.4.. A bar ( | ) indicates revisions from the previous edition.


1. General. This instruction establishes debriefing policy and procedures. This program is essential to
ensure malfunctions identified by aircrews are properly reported and documented. Clear and concise
maintenance debriefing is essential to effectively troubleshoot and repair aircraft discrepancies.

2. Responsibility. Operations and maintenance group commanders, and their unit commanders are
responsible for compliance with this regulation. All aircrew/maintenance debriefings are conducted in a
thorough and professional manner. The maintenance group commander ensures local procedures are
established to document the cause(s) and corrective action(s) of all aborts and in-flight emergencies, and
to ensure data is reviewed by the performing work center supervisor, aircraft maintenance supervision,
quality assurance (QA), and maintenance systems analysis (MFPA).

3. Procedures. To ensure that proper information is received and entered into GO-81, use the following
local guidelines:
2                                                                     939ARWI21-101 1 APRIL 2003


    3.1. Debrief after every sortie in Bldg 360, maintenance operations center (MOC) area with as a min-
    imum, one crew chief, and pilot in attendance. Use the debriefing checklist AFI 21-101/AMC C1
    CL-8, KC-135 /E/R/T Debriefing Checklist and 939 Maintenance Debriefing Worksheet as guidance.
    The checklist will be maintained on the aircraft in an accessible location. If the sortie is completed
    after duty hours and a maintenance debriefer is not available, the aircrew will identify and document
    all malfunctions, and/or problems as clearly as possible in the AF 781, Multiple Item Prescription.
    The MOC will enter the discrepancies in MIS, as soon as practical. All aircrew reported discrepancies
    will be entered in MIS with the debrief subsystem.
    3.2. The established debrief checklist will be used to ensure that all applicable information is pre-
    sented in the proper context and to eliminate any confusion in the troubleshooting/repair procedures.
    3.3. During flight operations if an in-flight problem occurs that affects an aircraft system, the crew
    will establish contact with 939 ARW/CP on UHF radio frequency 381.0. The expediter will contact
    the required specialist and provide all possible means to assess and correct the problem.
    3.4. To ensure appropriate systems are operable to satisfy specific KC-135 mission requirements, the
    expediter will maintain a minimum equipment reference list. Any item requiring further clarification
    will be coordinated with operations.
    3.5. Deployed Debriefing Procedures. Use automated debrief tools as the primary debriefing instru-
    ment. If MIS is available at the deployed location, MIS will be used. Use blank printouts as the man-
    ual documentation method. Retain duplicates at the deployed site to help in future debriefings. Turn
    in, validate and reconcile all documents with the squadron debriefing section upon re-deployment.



                                                     MARK A. KYLE., Colonel, USAFR
                                                     Commander, 939 ARW
