BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 939 AIR REFUELING WING
939TH AIR REFUELING WING (AFRC)                                                 INSTRUCTION 91-301
                                                                                           1 APRIL 2003

                                                                                                    Safety

                                                                   WORKPLACE WRITTEN HAZARD
                                                                    COMMUNICATIONS PROGRAM

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 939 RQW/SEG                                        Certified by: 939 RQW/CC (Col Mark A. Kyle)
       (SMSgt Charles L. Byrd, III)
Supersedes 939 RQWI 91-301,                                                                       Pages: 4
           23 December 1997                                                                Distribution: F

This instruction is consistent with and implements AFPD 91-3, Occupational Safety and Health and Air
Force Occupational Safety and Health (AFOSH) Standard 161-21, Hazard Communication, at Portland
Air National Guard Base. This instruction applies to all personnel assigned or attached to the 939th Air
Refueling Wing and stationed at Portland Air National Guard Base.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision changes unit designation from 939th Rescue Wing to 939th Air Refueling Wing. A bar ( | )
indicates revisions from the previous edition.


1. Workplace Requirements:
   1.1. Each workplace using or handling hazardous materials will maintain, in a readily accessible loca-
   tion, the following information:
       1.1.1. AFOSH Standard 161-21, Hazard Communication.
       1.1.2. 939 ARW Instruction 91-301, Workplace Written Hazard Communication Program.
       1.1.3. Work area hazardous chemical inventory.
       1.1.4. Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) for each hazardous material used in the work place.
       1.1.5. Lists of non-routine tasks that involve hazardous materials, the associated hazards, and con-
       trols.
   1.2. The wing bioenvironmental engineering representative will be consulted if there are questions
   regarding the applicability of this instruction to a particular work area.

2. Responsibility:
2                                                                       939ARWI91-301 1 APRIL 2003


    2.1. Commanders will:
       2.1.1. Ensure the Workplace Written Hazard Communication (HAZCOM) Program requirements
       are completed and routinely updated (at least annually).
       2.1.2. Incorporate contents of this instruction into the unit’s self-inspection program.
    2.2. Work area supervisors will:
       2.2.1. Ensure that their specific work area HAZCOM Programs meet the requirements of this
       instruction.
       2.2.2. Ensure that all personnel assigned to their work area have received required training in
       dealing with specific work area hazardous chemicals and substances.
       2.2.3. Ensure that all personnel assigned to their work areas are knowledgeable about the location
       of the items as listed in paragraphs 1.1.1. through 1.1.5. above.
    2.3. Bioenvironmental engineering services (BES) will inspect each shops HAZCOM Program dur-
    ing their annual shop surveys.
    2.4. Wing safety will inspect the HAZCOM Program and review training status of assigned members
    during their annual inspections. The findings will be considered when assigning the overall rating for
    each particular inspection.

3. Material Safety Data Sheet:
    3.1. Wing FES, 939 MDS/SGPB, maintains the hazardous Material Information System (HMIS)
    which contains the MSDSs, or equivalent forms. Units should contact this office if they are missing a
    MSDS for a particular hazardous chemical or substance.
    3.2. Work area supervisors will maintain copies of MSDSs for all hazardous chemicals used in their
    work area. It is the work area supervisor’s responsibility to obtain and update the MSDS. The super-
    visor will request that DES assist him/her in obtaining a MSDS if one is currently not filed in the work
    area. MSDSs will be updated annually by the shop supervisor.
    3.3. Supervisors will notify BES each time a new chemical is introduced into a work area. A copy of
    the MSDS for new chemicals will be forwarded to BES for review. If a MSDS is not forwarded along
    with a newly received chemical, the section supervisor will contact BES, or the base hazardous chem-
    ical pharmacy, who will assist in obtaining this required item.
    3.4. When requested, the BES will review MSDS information with section employees to provide an
    explanation of the MSDS information.

4. Employee Information and Training:
    4.1. Unit commanders will ensure supervisors and employees of work areas using hazardous materi-
    als receive training using AFOSH Standard 161-21.1G, Federal Hazard Communication Training
    Pro-gram (FHCTP) Trainers Guide, and video program, or equivalent HQ USAF/SGPA approved
    program containing the elements of the FHCTP. Training will be conducted by a representative from
    BES or the wing safety office.
    4.2. No employee will be allowed to work within, or around a hazardous chemical without first
    attending the FHCTP.
939ARWI91-301 1 APRIL 2003                                                                               3


   4.3. This training, as in all safety related training, will be annotated on AF Form 55, Employee Safety
   and Health Record or comparable document.
   4.4. Hazard communication training is only required once. However, employees will receive specific
   training prior to utilizing new chemicals introduced into the work area or when they are assigned to a
   different work area that utilized chemicals for which they have not received prior training.

5. Hazardous Chemical Inventory:
   5.1. The hazardous chemical inventory for each facility will be developed by work area supervisors,
   section supervisors and additional duty safety supervisors. BES will review this inventory at least
   annually. The work area supervisor will ensure that BES and the base fire department receive a copy
   of this inventory.
   5.2. Section supervisors will maintain the hazardous chemical inventory in the work area and update
   it as necessary. When new chemicals are introduced into the work area, the supervisor will consult
   with BES to determine if the chemical should be added to the inventory. The work area supervisor will
   provide BES and the base fire department with all revised copies of this inventory.
   5.3. As a minimum, the chemical inventory will contain the identity of each hazardous chemical used
   in the work area as it appears on the MSDS. The inventory may be compiled on AF Form 2761, Haz-
   ardous Materials Data, filed in the bioenvironmental engineering case file.

6. Non-Routine Tasks Involving Hazardous Materials:
   6.1. Non-routine tasks are:
      6.1.1. Those tasks included within a work area’s normal activities but performed infrequently; for
      example, cleaning a solvent tank and changing the solvent, or cleaning up spills.
      6.1.2. Temporary duties outside an individuals normal AFSC or job series.
   6.2. The work area supervisor will list all non-routine tasks performed in the work area, which
   involve hazardous materials. The supervisor will ensure that written instructions are available for all
   non-routine tasks, associated tasks, and controls that are to be performed in the work area. These writ-
   ten instructions will be maintained in the work area’s written hazard communication program file,
   binder, etc. Written instructions do not need to be provided as long as the task in question is already
   covered by a current technical order (TO) or other official document, which adequately describes the
   task. However, copies of these T.O.s or other official documents will be maintained in the work area’s
   written communication program. Supervisors will ensure that workers review these procedures prior
   to performing all non-routine tasks.
   6.3. When workers temporarily perform duties outside their normal jobs, that may involve hazardous
   chemicals, the supervisor of the activity will ensure these workers receive the following training prior
   to beginning the activity.
      6.3.1. The initial FHCTP described in paragraph 5e of AFOSH Standard 161-21 for workers
      not previously trained.
      6.3.2. Supplemental training as necessary on work area specific chemical hazards and associated
      controls. The training should include the use of personal protective equipment required to perform
      the tasks.
4                                                                        939ARWI91-301 1 APRIL 2003


    6.4. The supervisor of the activity will forward a letter or training certification to the worker’s formal
    supervisor, describing the training conducted so the individual’s AF Form 55 can be updated.

7. Labels and Other Forms of Warning:
    7.1. In the workplace, each container must be labeled, tagged or marked with the identity of hazard-
    ous chemicals contained therein, and must show hazard warnings appropriate for employee protec-
    tion.
    7.2. The hazard warning can be any type message, words, pictures, or symbols that convey the haz-
    ards of the chemical(s) in the container.
    7.3. Labels must be legible, in English, and prominently displayed.
    7.4. Exemptions to the requirement for in-plant individual container labels are as follows:
       7.4.1. Supervisors can post signs or placards that convey the hazard information if there are a
       number of stationary containers within a work area that have similar contents and hazards.
       7.4.2. Supervisors can substitute various types of standard operating procedures, process sheets,
       batch tickets, blend tickets, and similar written materials for container labels on stationary process
       equipment if they contain the same information and are readily available to employees in the work
       area.
       7.4.3. Supervisors are not required to label portable container into which hazardous chemicals are
       transferred from labeled containers and that are intended only for the immediate use of the
       employee who makes the transfer.



                                                       MARK A. KYLE, Colonel, USAFR
                                                       Commander, 939 ARW
