BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                  939 AIR REFUELING WING
939 AIR REFUELING WING (AFRC)                                                   INSTRUCTION 32-4001
                                                                                           1 APRIL 2003

                                                                                           Civil Engineer

                                                      DISASTER PREPAREDNESS PLANNING AND
                                                                              OPERATIONS

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 939 CES/CEX (Mr Charles Knapp)                     Certified by: 939 ARW/CC (Col Mark A. Kyle)
Supersedes 939 RQWI 32-400101, 14 April 2000                                                Pages: 9
                                                                                     Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 32-40, Disaster Preparedness. This instruction defines tasking needed
to support the requirement of AFI 32-4001, Disaster Preparedness Planning and Operations, and AFRC
Supplement 1, as supplemented for all personnel, military or civilian, assigned to the 939 ARW. To pro-
mote continuity, all references to disaster preparedness will be addressed as readiness. It outlines proce-
dures to ensure a comprehensive readiness program is developed.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision changes unit designation from 939th Rescue Wing to 939th Air Refueling Wing and corrects
the numbering of the publication. A bar ( | ) indicates revision from the previous edition.

Section A—WING READINESS PROGRAM MANAGEMENT

1. PURPOSE: This section defines the basic responsibilities of each functional agency in carrying out
the overall wing readiness program.

2. RESPONSIBILITIES:
   2.1. 939 ARW Commander: (Note: The 939 ARW Commander is not the installation commander,
   however, he/she represents an integral part of the installation commander’s disaster preparedness pro-
   gram.)
       2.1.1. Ensures a comprehensive readiness program is developed in accordance with all USAF,
       AFRC, and applicable gaining command publications.
       2.1.2. Ensures units appoint readiness (disaster preparedness) representatives.
       2.1.3. Provides a disaster control group representative to respond on-scene to major accidents or
       natural disasters when the 939 ARW resources are involved or when requested by the on-scene
       commander.
2                                                                     939ARWI32-4001 1 APRIL 2003


       2.1.4. Ensures an exercise evaluation program is established within the wing to provide feedback
       on the units’ ability to survive and operate.
       2.1.5. Supports the host installation’s readiness program as tasked by the Air Force instructions
       and host tenant support agreements.
       2.1.6. Designates the 939 ARW Battle Staff as the central communications and actions coordina-
       tion point for the 939 ARW units during major accidents and natural disasters.
       2.1.7. Provides a representative to the host survival recovery center (SRC) during emergencies or
       contingencies as requested.
    2.2. Readiness Planning Board. Use staff meetings instead of a readiness planning board. The support
    group readiness office will brief status/deficiencies semiannually. Use memo for records (MFR) to
    document these briefings.
    2.3. Wing Readiness Office Civilian. Responsible for the overall management of the wing readiness
    program, with program specific supervision by the wing readiness air reserve technician.
    2.4. Unit Representatives. Responsible for managing squadron level readiness program.
    2.5. Group/Squadron Commanders and Staff Agency Chiefs. Have the overall responsibility for
    establishing squadron readiness programs IAW Section B. Squadron commanders will ensure all
    tasks and requirements in support of this program are met. All commanders must comply with the pro-
    gram as outlined in this instruction, AFI 32-4001 as supplemented, and Portland IAP Disaster Pre-
    paredness Operations Plan 32-1. These documents will be reviewed when changes occur. Report
    findings and recommendations to 939 CES/CEX.

Section B—UNIT READINESS PROGRAM

3. PURPOSE. This section prescribes the requirements for establishing and operating a unit/squadron
readiness program.

4. RESPONSIBILITIES:
    4.1. Wing Readiness. Train and advise unit representatives, disaster response force (DRF) members,
    wing exercise evaluation team (WEET) members, all military personnel chemical warfare defense
    (CWD) and base populace. Provide education and training materials to squadrons for use in the unit
    information program. Conduct staff assistance visits (SAVs) to all units assigned to the 939 ARW.
    Compile and distribute letters containing readiness special interest items received from inspector gen-
    eral and higher headquarters crossfeed materials that would enhance each unit’s program.
    4.2. Unit Commanders. Comply with this regulation in establishing the units’ readiness program.
    Appoint a primary and alternate unit readiness representative by letter to manage the unit's readiness
    program. Ensure personnel attend required training.
    4.3. Unit Readiness Representatives. Accomplish the responsibilities as tasked by this instruction and
    AFI 32-4001 as supplemented by AFRC. Gear planning and preparations toward identifying what
    actions are required to safeguard life and property and to accomplish readiness program objectives.
    Responsible for managing the squadron readiness program, monitor, schedule, and document all
    squadron readiness training (this tasking may be delegated to the unit training monitor or mobility sec-
    tion). Periodically brief commander on status of the program; explain number of personnel requiring
939ARWI32-4001 1 APRIL 2003                                                                            3


  training, and number of personnel reported as “no show” for scheduled classes. Conduct unit educa-
  tion and information program. Maintain the unit readiness continuity notebook. Submit an attack
  response exercise report (ARE) to 939 CES/CEX in accordance with Attachment 1 when the unit
  conducts an out-of-cycle exercise.

5. PROCEDURES:
  5.1. Units. Establish and maintain a readiness program as outlined by this instruction.
     5.1.1. Unit readiness program will also combine the air base operability and disaster preparedness
     programs into one integrated program. Appoint, by letter, a unit readiness representative in the
     grade of E-5 or above. Send a copy of the letter of appointment to 939 CES/CEX. Commanders
     should realize the representative has a large responsibility and should consider not appointing the
     person with other critical additional duties because of the time and effort required. Geographically
     separated units (GSUs) will follow additional direction given by the host base civil engineer readi-
     ness flight. GSUs will support the host base’s disaster preparedness operation plan as directed.
     5.1.2. The following units will have a contamination control team chief and alternate who will
     receive fundamental contamination control training and in turn, train unit members.
         5.1.2.1. 939 CES
         5.1.2.2. 939 MXS (Aircraft and Aerospace Ground Equipment)
         5.1.2.3. 83 APS
         5.1.2.4. 939 ARW (Personnel Contamination Control Area Operation. This team will consist
         of personnel throughout the wing.)
  5.2. Unit Readiness Representatives. The unit representatives will manage the unit/squadron readi-
  ness program and will:
     5.2.1. Conduct a program self-inspection at least annually concurrently with the squadron
     self-inspection checklists to document compliance and prepare memorandums for record (MFR)
     to include findings and corrective actions taken.
     5.2.2. Develop checklists in support of Portland IAP OPLAN 32-1. Coordinate these checklists
     with all affected agencies. Accomplish checklists and task actions to cover the who, what, when,
     where, and how. Review all squadron readiness program checklists. 939 CES/CEX will review all
     new squadron readiness checklists and again during the biennial SAV. If changes are made in the
     checklist, send a copy to 939 CES/CEX.
     5.2.3. Conduct an information and education program. This program will consist of posting readi-
     ness information on squadron bulletin boards. Conduct briefings on emergency response and indi-
     vidual requirements during emergency conditions. Conduct these briefings at commander’s call or
     other appropriate training periods. Document briefings as completed, and file copies of the docu-
     mentation in Tab F in the unit readiness notebook. Utilize Air Force and gaining command visual
     aids as appropriate to identify unit representatives and warning signals (Continental United States
     and shelter locations).
     5.2.4. Maintain a unit readiness continuity notebook as follows:
         5.2.4.1. TAB A: Letters of appointment.
4                                                                 939ARWI32-4001 1 APRIL 2003


       5.2.4.2. TAB B: Training completion records.
       5.2.4.3. TAB C: Unit Readiness Staff Assistance Visit Checklist and reports/replies (include
       annual self-inspection records and exercise reports).
       5.2.4.4. TAB D: Unit Procedural Guides/Checklists.
       5.2.4.5. TAB E: Information Program Material (include memorandum for records of brief-
       ings).
       5.2.4.6. TAB F: General correspondence.
       5.2.4.7. TAB G: Commander’s briefing.
    5.2.5. Display the following material on work-center bulletin boards. All other optional materials
    must be approved by wing readiness before being posted.
       5.2.5.1. AFVA 32-4010, USAF Standardized Signals for the Continental United States,.
       Annotate the shelter location in the remarks section.
       5.2.5.2. AFVA 32-4011, USAF Standardized Alarm Signals for Areas Subject to NBCC
       Attacks.
       5.2.5.3. Readiness representative poster.
       5.2.5.4. AFVA 32-4012, Mission-Oriented Protective Postures (MOPP).
    5.2.6. Schedule an in-brief and out-brief with the commander and notify 939 CES/CEX of the
    time, date, and place to facilitate the readiness SAV IAW the published schedule. The objective of
    the SAV is to identify trends, discrepancies and problem areas, and improve the unit level readi-
    ness program. Send a report of replies to correct any findings discovered during the SAV within
    two unit training assemblies (UTAs) from receipt of SAV report.
    5.2.7. Ensure organizational chemical protective masks are inspected every 6 months while stored
    in base supply and all shelf life items contained within the mobility bags have not expired.
    5.2.8. Monitor the units’ task qualification training (TQT) program to ensure program establish-
    ment and documentation. Periodically observes TQT that is being accomplished within the unit.
    5.2.9. Brief the unit commander periodically on all readiness matters. Document these briefings
    on MFRs and file them in Tab G in the unit continuity notebook.
    5.2.10. Accomplish all readiness unit level tasks as required by the wing readiness office.
    5.2.11. Units maintaining protective masks will have replacement spare parts, such as head har-
    nesses, on hand or on order. Recommended spare parts should be equivalent to 10 percent of the
    mask quantities. For example, if the unit has 200 masks, then 20 pieces of each part would be
    maintained (200 X .1 = 20).
    5.2.12. Ensure CWD training equipment is available for normal requirements such as chemical
    warfare defense training, enlisted specialty training, and exercises.
    5.2.13. Units will develop written procedures for operational and training equipment accountabil-
    ity.
    5.2.14. Units will conduct an initial newcomer’s orientation in addition to the base populace
    course (base populace is included in newcomer’s orientation). As a minimum, cover the unit’s
939ARWI32-4001 1 APRIL 2003                                                                             5


       readiness program; local threats regarding major accidents, natural disaster, and enemy attacks;
       the unit’s response to those threats; and other readiness training. Document this orientation indi-
       cating the person trained, date, and who conducted the training. Add this requirement to the unit’s
       newcomer in-processing checklist or procedure detailing who and when to see the unit readiness
       representative.
   5.3. Supervisors. Work-center supervisors will ensure the following is accomplished:
       5.3.1. Schedule and conduct TQT for their sections. Document this training according to current
       directives applicable to each functional area (CAMS; AFORMS; AF Form 1098, special task cer-
       tification and recurring training; data automated systems; etc.). Documentation will be inspected
       during SAVs.
       5.3.2. Inform the unit representative of date, time, and names of personnel conducting TQT prior
       to the training.

Section C—TRAINING PROGRAM

6. PURPOSE. This section defines the readiness training program and required documentation. It
assigns responsibilities and establishes procedures for ensuring all assigned personnel are properly
trained.

7. RESPONSIBILITIES:
   7.1. Wing readiness office. Provides classroom initial and refresher training. Maintains training
   records and letters of appointment. Conducts training requirements IAW AFI 32-4001, AFRC Sup to
   AFI 32-4001, and the following readiness training matrix.

                       CHEMICAL               UNIT                    EXERCISE
                       WARFARE                REPRESENTATIVE          EVALUATION
                       (Note 1)                                       TEAM
INITIAL                4-6 Hours              2 Hours (Note 3)        2 Hours (Note 4)
REFRESHER              2-3 Hours (Note 2)     N/A                     Exercise
                                                                      Participation

NOTES:
     1. All military personnel assigned to the 939 ARW will receive initial and refresher chemical
        warfare training.
       2. Refresher class will not exceed the 3-hours allocation/not to exceed 15 months.
       3. Classes will be scheduled on an “as needed” basis.
       4. This is not a base functional team but an internal organizational team.
   7.2. Squadron Commanders. Ensure assigned team members attend required training (initial and
   refresher).
6                                                                       939ARWI32-4001 1 APRIL 2003


    7.3. Unit Representatives/Training Monitors/Mobility Sections: Ensure personnel are properly sched-
    uled. Monitor and keep the squadron commander informed of ABO program training status (“no
    show” rates).

8. PROCEDURES:
    8.1. Prerequisites. All refresher classes must be preceded with attendance of an initial class of the
    same subject title.
    8.2. Scheduling. Send all requests for training to 939 CES/CEX at least 1 week prior to the requested
    class start date to avoid over scheduling of class capacity. Classes will be filled on a “first come, first
    served” basis. Prior coordination must be accomplished to perform simultaneous classes, i.e., one
    class at the readiness classroom and one at the MXS classroom. Note: Personnel attending the chem-
    ical warfare initial and refresher classes must be in either battle dress uniforms or flight suits because
    of the donning of the ground crew ensemble.
    8.3. Cancellation. Conflicts in scheduling will occur and prohibit an individual from attending train-
    ing. If such conflicts arise, the individual's supervisor must contact the training scheduler or monitor
    to cancel the individuals prior to the start of the class. Report individuals that were scheduled but not
    in attendance to the squadron commander as “no shows.”
    8.4. Documentation. All attendees will sign in on 939 ARW Form 0-3, Disaster Preparedness
    Training. Aircrew members must also sign in on an AF Form 1522, AFORMS Additional Training
    Accomplishment Input. Maintain IAW AFMAN 37-139.
    8.5. TQT is scheduled and conducted as required by the work-center supervisor. Personnel may
    receive credit for TQT by participating in AREs as long as the individual performs wartime tasking
    while in condition black.
       8.5.1. Work-center supervisors need to identify specific wartime duties/tasks (recommend no less
       than four and no more than eight) to be performed while wearing the CWD ensemble.
       8.5.2. The individuals are to perform their wartime tasking skills while wearing the complete
       ground crew ensemble (including the protective mask and hood).
       8.5.3. Whenever conducting TQT training or during local exercise or simulated threat conditions
       vehicle operators will only drive equipment with a safety observer in which this observer meets
       the following restrictions:
           8.5.3.1. Unmasked.
           8.5.3.2. Footwear covers removed. Note: All precautions and care should be taken to mini-
           mize the necessity for vehicle operations.

Section D—EXERCISE PROGRAM

9. PURPOSE. This section outlines policies and procedures for planning, executing, and evaluating
AREs. The wing exercise program is designed to ensure proficiency of the wing’s ability to survive and
operate through periodic exercise and evaluation.

10. RESPONSIBILITIES:
939ARWI32-4001 1 APRIL 2003                                                                          7


  10.1. 939 ARW Commander:
     10.1.1. The commander will ensure a wing exercise evaluation team (WEET) is established.
     10.1.2. All units within the wing conduct or participate in at least one ARE annually.
  10.2. 939 CES/CEX. Will manage the WEET program within the wing.
  10.3. WEET. The WEET plans, coordinates, schedules, conducts, and evaluates all exercises under
  the guidance of the WEET manager. Scenarios must be realistic and appropriate to mission require-
  ments. Publish and distribute exercise reports signed by the 939 ARW Commander prior to the UTA
  following the exercise.
  10.4. Squadron Commanders. Appoint two individuals in writing to the WEET. Tasked OPRs must
  respond to exercise discrepancies by the following UTA. The initial answer must be a two part
  answer: Actions Taken to Correct Discrepancies and Actions Taken to Prevent Recurrence.

11. PROCEDURES:
  11.1. Program Management:
     11.1.1. WEET Manager. The WEET manager is responsible for maintaining all appropriate pub-
     lications, WEET training lesson plans, training records, and exercise reports and replies. Coordi-
     nate all actions pertaining to the wing exercise program through the 939 ARW/CC.
     11.1.2. WEET Checklist. The WEET manager will maintain checklists to ensure standardization
     and currency. Develop checklists to meet special wing requirements.
  11.2. WEET Meetings. WEET members will attend pre-exercise briefings, post exercise critiques,
  and training classes as scheduled by the team manager.
  11.3. Exercise Exemptions. All requests for exercise exemption will be submitted through unit com-
  manders to the 939 ARW/CC for approval/disapproval.



                                                  MARK A. KYLE, Col, USAFR
                                                  Commander, 939 ARW
8                                                                       939ARWI32-4001 1 APRIL 2003


                                                Attachment 1

                                        SAMPLE REPORT FORMAT
SAMPLE REPORT FORMAT FOR UNIT CONDUCTED ATTACK RESPONSE EXERCISE
MEMORANDUM FOR UNIT/CC
                            939 CES/CEX
                            IN TURN
FROM: (Unit Readiness Representative)
SUBJECT: Attack Response Exercise Report
1. The ability of (UNIT) to cope with a chemical attack involving military resources was tested on
(DATE), IAW AFI 32-4001, AFRC Sup 1.
2. Particulars of the evaluation are:
          a. Scenario: Unit simulated deployment to FOB. Attack simulated involving chemical munitions.
          b. Exercise Evaluation Objectives:
       (1) Command, control and communications. (Were alarm signals changed and properly dissemi-
nated based on information received?)
          (2) Individual response to alarm signals. (Were proper actions taken as a result of alarm signals
given?)
          (3) Proper wear of CWDE. (Were personnel wearing the GCE in the proper configuration?)
        (4) Proper use of nerve agent antidotes and decontamination procedures. (Could personnel show
proficiency in the use of the auto-injectors and M291 kits?)
       (5) Use of M-8/M-9 paper. (Was M-8/M-9 paper deployed on buildings, vehicles, and personnel?
Were surveys of the devices made and a report given?)
        (6) Ability to perform AFSC wartime related tasks (CW TQT). (Were tasks performed to the
established standard in a safe and effective manner while wearing the GCE?)
          c. Time of initiation:
          d. Time of termination:
          e. Date and time of required debriefing:
            Evaluators:
            Attendees: (List either name or office)
3. FINDINGS:
          a. Operational Procedures: (Any noted items, procedures, or events affecting the overall exercise.)
          b. Individual Response: (List casualties and equipment or procedural deficiencies.)
4. CORRECTIVE ACTIONS:
939ARWI32-4001 1 APRIL 2003                                                                         9


5. SUMMARY: (Note: unit attitude and/or sense of urgency and any additional observations.) Note: Send
report NLT than one UTA after date of exercise.




                            __________________________________________
                            Unit Readiness Representative or Exercise Evaluator
