BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                               939 AIR REFUELING WING
939 AIR REFUELING WING (AFRC)                                                INSTRUCTION 36-2803
                                                                                     19 AUGUST 2003

                                                                                             Personnel

                                                                        939 ARW 110% AWARD FOR
                                                                       EXTRAORDINARY EFFORTS

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 939 ARW/CCE (Lt Col Dana G. Difford)                                  Certified by: 939 ARW/CC
                                                                                    (Col Mark A. Kyle)
                                                                                               Pages: 3
                                                                                        Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards and the 939 ARW Commander’s
110% Award Program and is intended to recognize those individuals who exhibit extraordinary effort in
pursuit of mission accomplishment. It provides guidance and procedures for submitting nominations for
this award to the 939th Air Refueling Wing Commander. It is not intended to keep other commands or
functions from having internal achievement/excellence awards programs. These awards recognize the
outstanding individuals who through their extraordinary efforts, contribute to the improvement of the
939th Air Refueling Wing.


1. Categories of Awards.
   1.1. There is one primary category of endeavor for which this award is given – extraordinary effort.
   The award is named below.
       1.1.1. The 939th Air Refueling Wing Commander’s 110% Award for Extraordinary Efforts. Com-
       manders may submit their personnel for this award when the activity of an individual, military or
       civilian, meets the award criteria.

2. Criteria.
   2.1. An individual(s) demonstrates superior performance and extraordinary efforts when compared
   with all other persons being considered.
   2.2. The determining factors in selecting individual award winners are extraordinary efforts which
   culminate in specific, imaginative and innovative achievement(s) that increased quality or productiv-
   ity, or a specific unique achievement.

3. Submitting Nominations.
2                                                                939ARWI36-2803 19 AUGUST 2003


    3.1. Each commander may submit an individual whenever the award criteria is met. If a supervisor
    submits an individual the package must be signed off by either the first sergeant and/or commander
    before it is sent to the next level for approval.
    3.2. Award nominations are submitted only when specific behaviors which deserve recognition are
    witnessed.
    3.3. Nomination packages will be sent to the 939 ARW/CCE for consolidation and review.
       3.3.1. The individual’s commander either initiates and/or approves submission letter/e-mail
       through the appropriate group commander (if applicable).
           3.3.1.1. The group commander or deputy commander must approve submission prior to send-
           ing to 939 ARW/CCE.
           3.3.1.2. Nomination packages, letters or write-ups are prepared according to information in
           Attachment 1 (binders, covers, tab cover pages, attachments, etc., should not be used).
           3.3.1.3. Submit or e-mail a copy of nomination letter/package.

4. Section Process:
The 939 ARW Commander and a committee of his/her own choosing will review and score the nomina-
tions for each award. The 939 ARW Commander makes the final selection.

5. Presentation of Awards.
    5.1. Individual winners receive recognition mementos (e.g., letter, certificate, small engraved token,
    etc.).



                                                     MARK A. KYLE, Col, USAFR
                                                     Commander
939ARWI36-2803 19 AUGUST 2003                                                                           3


                                             Attachment 1

NOMINATION FORMAT FOR THE 939TH AIR REFUELING WING COMMANDER’S 110%
 AWARD FOR EXTRAORDINARY EFFORTS—CONTRIBUTING OFFICER, AIRMAN, OR
                              CIVILIAN.

A1.1. Administrative Data:
       Name:
       Grade:
       Unit:
       Nominating Individual:
   A1.1.1. Narrative: Identify in paragraph(s) accomplishment(s) for which the person is being nomi-
   nated. Each narrative should include the following:
   A1.1.2. Description. Include enough information for the selection committee to have a general under-
   standing of the accomplishment.
   A1.1.3. Role of the Nominee. Briefly describe the role played by the nominee which led to the
   accomplishments.
   A1.1.4. Quantifiable Savings (if applicable). Identify manpower and dollar savings, where applica-
   ble, for both year of nomination and life cycle. Differentiate between hard savings and cost avoidance.
   Include other quantifiable benefits, where appropriate, that enhanced the stature of the accomplish-
   ment (e.g., increased productivity rate, decreased unit cost, increased readiness rate, reduced over-
   time, etc).
   A1.1.5. Non-Quantifiable Benefits. Describe pertinent non-quantifiable benefits, where appropriate,
   that enhanced the importance of the achievement (e.g., increased morale, improved inspection and
   evaluations results, improved quality of output, increased mission effectiveness, etc).
   A1.1.6. Other. Include a statement that the nominee has not previously been honored or is not cur-
   rently being considered by another award program for these accomplishments.

A1.2. Member being submitted for award needs to have done something above and beyond what is
required for his job.

A1.3. If supervisor submits individual, either 1st Sgt or Commander must concur before being sent to 939
ARW/CCE. E-mails will suffice but ensure proper coordination before being sent to 939 ARW/CCE. Any
nomination package, letter or e-mail that is not properly coordinated will be sent back.
