BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                    939 AIR REFUELING WING
939 AIR REFUELING WING (AFRC)                                                      INSTRUCTION 36-801
                                                                                     10 SEPTEMBER 2003

                                                                                                   Personnel

                                                             MAXIFLEX SCHEDULE TEST PROGRAM



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 939 ARW/DCP (Ms. Kim Shrader)                        Certified by: 939 ARW/CC (Col Mark A. Kyle)
                                                                                            Pages: 14
                                                                                       Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 36-8, Employee Benefits and Entitlements. It provides guidance on the
administration of the Alternative Work Schedule (AWS) Program, which enables employees to participate
in a Maxiflex schedule. The guidance contained herein complies with 5 U.S.C. 6122; Title 5, 5 C.F.R. Part
610; OPMs Handbook on Alternate Work Schedules; and AFI 36-807/AFRES Supplement, Weekly, and
Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observances. While in effect, this program supplements Article,
2, Section 2; Article 15, Sections 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, and 9; Article 17, Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5; Article 18,
Section 4 of the collective bargaining agreement between this installation and AFGE Local 3116. This
instruction applies to all Air Reserve Technicians (ARTs) and civilian employees assigned to the 939th
Air Refueling Wing, located at Portland IAP, OR. (See Paragraph 4.1. for exception.)


1. Objectives: Alternative work schedules enable managers, supervisors, and employees to meet or
exceed mission requirements, program effectiveness, and personal goals through the increased flexibility
available in AWS programs. The goals of AWS programs are to provide top quality support for our cus-
tomers, while allowing employees an opportunity to enhance their quality of life. The employee benefits
provided by AWS programs are useful recruitment and retention tools. This instruction establishes a Max-
iflex schedule under the AWS program that supports the spirit of the President’s memorandums dated July
11, 1994 and June 21, 1996 for providing flexible family-friendly work arrangements.

2. Test Information: The information provided in this instruction initiates a new test program period
beginning with the date of this instruction and ending one year later, unless otherwise extended by author-
ity of the wing commander.
   2.1. Analysis Content: When possible, comments should reference a baseline measurement or metric
   such as mission capable rate or a comparison (i.e. employees’ sick leave prior to and during the Max-
   iflex test). Comments should be specific to the organization and state how the Maxiflex schedule has
   had a positive and/or adverse agency impact on:
       2.1.1. Mission accomplishment.
2                                                            939ARWI36-801 10 SEPTEMBER 2003


       2.1.2. Internal and external customer service.
       2.1.3. Organization efficiency, productivity, morale, annual and sick leave use, and tardiness.
       2.1.4. Turnover rates and job recruitment.
       2.1.5. Quality of life, opportunities for full-time and part-time employment, job satisfaction and
       non-work life issues.
       2.1.6. Schedules for working parents and day care.
       2.1.7. Carpools, traffic, mass transit.
       2.1.8. Levels of energy consumption.
    2.2. Suspense for Analysis Submission: At the end of each calendar year quarter (i.e. comments for
    period ending 31 March, 30 June, 30 September and 31 December), managers and supervisors should
    provide comments to the appropriate group commander. Group commanders should forward these
    comments to the civilian personnel flight. Non-supervisory employees may submit comments to
    AFGE, Local 3116, or to the civilian personnel flight.
    2.3. Continuing the Maxiflex Schedule: At the end of the test period, the group commanders and
    human resources officer will make recommendations to the wing commander concerning making the
    Maxiflex schedule permanent. The written comments and evaluation factors discussed in Paragraph
    2.1. and 2.2. above will be used to determine whether the Maxiflex schedule will be maintained at the
    939 ARW (Paragraph 5.1.).

3. Definitions:
    3.1. Agency means any executive agency or military department (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105 and 102,
    respectively).
    3.2. Alternative Work Schedules (AWS) means both the flexible work schedules (including Maxiflex)
    and compressed work schedules.
    3.3. Basic work requirement means the number of hours, excluding overtime hours, an employee is
    required to work or to account for by charging leave, credit hours, excused absence, holiday hours,
    compensatory time off, or time off as an award.
    3.4. Biweekly pay period means the 2-week period an employee is scheduled to perform work.
    3.5. Core hours means the time periods during the workday, workweek, or pay period within the tour
    of duty during which an employee covered by a flexible work schedule is required by the agency to be
    present for work.
    3.6. Credit hours means those hours within a flexible work schedule an employee elects to work in
    excess of his or her basic work requirement so as to vary the length of the workweek or workday.
    3.7. Employee has the meaning given that term in 5 U.S.C. 2105.
    3.8. Flexible hours (also referred to as “flexible time bands”) means the times during the workday,
    workweek, or pay period within the tour of duty during which an employee covered by a flexible work
    schedule may choose to vary his or her times of arrival to and departure from the work site consistent
    with the duties and requirements of the position.
    3.9. Flexible work schedule (FWS) means a work schedule established under 5 U.S.C. 6122 that:
939ARWI36-801 10 SEPTEMBER 2003                                                                          3


       3.9.1. In the case of a full-time employee, has an 80-hour biweekly basic work requirement that
       allows an employee to determine his or her own schedule within the limits set by the agency.
       3.9.2. In the case of a part-time employee, has a biweekly basic work requirement of less than 80
       hours that allows an employee to determine his or her own schedule within the limits set by the
       agency.
   3.10. Maxiflex schedule means a type of flexible work schedule that contains core hours on fewer
   than 10 workdays in the biweekly pay period and in which a full-time employee has a basic work
   requirement of 80 hours for the biweekly pay period, but in which an employee may vary the number
   of hours worked on a given workday or the number of hours each week within the limits established
   for the organization.
   3.11. Organization means an entity within an agency headed by an official with the authority to estab-
   lish tours of duty.
   3.12. Overtime hours, when used with respect to FWS programs, refers to all hours in excess of 8
   hours in a day or 40 hours in a week that are officially ordered in advance, but does not include credit
   hours.
   3.13. Prevailing rate employee is defined in 5 U.S.C. 5342(2). These employees are also known as
   Federal wage employees under the WG or WS pay plans.
   3.14. Tour of duty under a FWS means the limits set by an agency within which an employee must
   complete his or her basic work requirement.
   3.15. Work unit means an entity located in one place with a specific mission, with homogeneous pro-
   cedures or technology, and headed by a supervisor or manager authorized to approve time and atten-
   dance reports and approve leave.

4. Maxiflex Participation: Supervisors will determine the minimum numbers and kinds of employees
required for any given tour of duty and may restrict an employee’s requested schedule. The extent of flex-
ibility possible in a particular organization will be based on relevant considerations such as mission
accomplishment, peak workload periods and necessary contacts with other organizations. Mission accom-
plishment will be the priority consideration for a supervisor’s denial of an employee’s request to partici-
pate in a Maxiflex schedule.
   4.1. Employees hired under the Student Temporary Employment Program (STEPs) are excluded from
   Maxiflex. These students normally work a part-time work schedule (except during official school clo-
   sures, when they may work full time). Additionally, supervisors normally schedule these students
   around their school schedules.
   4.2. Supervisors who have a need and wish to approve a work schedule (i.e. tour of duty, core hours,
   core days, etc.) which does not conform to the established schedule in this instruction may do so only
   with the concurrence of his or her group commander and the approval of the 939 ARW Commander
   (Paragraph 5.1.1.). During the absence of the 939 ARW Commander, the approval authority for devi-
   ations to the established schedules is the senior ART. A copy of the approval must be forwarded to the
   civilian personnel flight and the original maintained by the requesting supervisor.
   4.3. Management has the right to vary tours of duty and to change an employee’s scheduled hours of
   duty, in order to meet mission essential requirements and will give the maximum notice possible to
   affected employees. When a supervisor disapproves an employee’s request to participate in Maxiflex
4                                                               939ARWI36-801 10 SEPTEMBER 2003


    or disapproves the employee’s requested Maxiflex schedule, the employee may elevate the request to
    his or her group commander for further review and a decision. Employees directly under the “wing”
    may elevate their disapproved request to the wing commander for further review and a decision
    (Paragraph 5.5.2.).
    4.4. Maxiflex participants on temporary duty (TDY), attending training, participating in inspections
    or high-level visits, will work the hours that coincide with the duty hours at the temporary duty or
    training location or as dictated by the needs of the inspections or visits, as determined by the OPR
    either locally or at the TDY or training location, as applicable. The maximum possible advance notice
    will be given to affected employees when a change to their approved Maxiflex schedule is necessary.
    Normally, employees on TDY or training of more than 2 days will be required to revert to a 5 day, 8
    hour workweek for that pay period(s). The facts and circumstances of each case will determine the
    decision. Duration of the assignment and purpose will be prime considerations.
    4.5. If an employee does not wish to voluntarily participate in either the Maxiflex or the Compressed
    Work Schedule AWS programs, he or she will be considered to be on a fixed default schedule of
    5-day, 8-hour workweeks each pay period.

5. Responsibilities:
    5.1. The 939 ARW Commander will:
       5.1.1. Retain the authority and is responsible for making determinations concerning continued use
       of the Maxiflex schedule. The commander retains the right to terminate Maxiflex if he or she
       determines the Maxiflex schedule has had an adverse impact upon the agency during the test
       phase.
       5.1.2. Retain the authority and is responsible for making determinations concerning deviations to
       the established Maxiflex schedule.
       5.1.3. Review and render a decision on a supervisor’s disapproval of a “wing” employee’s request
       to participate in a Maxiflex schedule or the employee’s requested Maxiflex schedule.
    5.2. The group commanders (operations, maintenance, and mission support) will:
       5.2.1. Forward any written comments received from supervisors relating to the positive and
       adverse agency impact of the Maxiflex schedule to the civilian personnel flight upon receipt of
       such written comments.
       5.2.2. Forward to the 939 ARW Commander any supervisory requests for deviations to the estab-
       lished Maxiflex schedule.
       5.2.3. Review and render a decision on a supervisor’s disapproval of an employee’s request to
       participate in a Maxiflex schedule or the employee’s requested Maxiflex schedule.
       5.2.4. Ensure Maxiflex is applied fairly and equitably by supervisors in their organizations.
    5.3. The civilian personnel flight is the office responsible for furnishing guidance and assistance to all
    levels of management on the administration of Maxiflex, in accordance with governing authorities.
    5.4. The civilian personnel flight and AFGE Local 3116, in partnership, are responsible for furnishing
    guidance and assistance, to bargaining unit employees, on Maxiflex.
    5.5. Supervisors and management officials are responsible for:
939ARWI36-801 10 SEPTEMBER 2003                                                                       5


     5.5.1. Reviewing Maxiflex requests for regulatory compliance.
     5.5.2. Approving Maxiflex schedule requests when possible and disapproving when necessary.
     Each organizational unit, as a whole, remains open for business Monday through Friday, each
     workweek, excluding Federal holidays. Supervisors are responsible for maintaining and docu-
     menting work schedules to ensure service as required through the workweek. Disapproval of an
     employee’s request to participate in Maxiflex or disapproval of an employee’s requested Maxiflex
     schedule will be made by the employee’s group commander. Employees directly under the “wing”
     may elevate their request to the wing commander, after the supervisor’s disapproval.
     5.5.3. Ensuring employees comply with approved schedules and regulatory requirements of Max-
     iflex.
     5.5.4. Ensuring integrity of the time accounting system and spot-checking, as needed, to verify
     entries are correct.
     5.5.5. Recognizing and acting on program abuses.
     5.5.6. Ensuring a work schedule request is prepared by the employee each time the work schedule
     changes due to management initiated actions (i.e. TDY, training, or mission requirements).
     5.5.7. Submitting written comments, to their group commanders, at the end of each calendar quar-
     ter, to include both positive and adverse agency impact on their organization.
     5.5.8. Ensuring daily reporting (sign-in/out) sheets (Attachment 3 for operations group employ-
     ees and Attachment 2 for all other employees) are posted at a central location for sign-in/out by
     employees. These records are retained by the supervisor in accordance with AFMAN 37-139,
     Records Disposition Schedule (Table 65-22, Rule 3). A clock designated as an official sign-in/out
     clock is available where sign-in/out sheets are located.
  5.6. Employees are responsible for:
     5.6.1. Complying with the laws, regulations, Air Force instructions and administrative procedures
     governing Maxiflex.
     5.6.2. Being flexible in their schedules to meet heavy workloads or unusual work requirements.
     5.6.3. Ensuring the accuracy and legitimacy of all submitted work schedule forms and timecard
     (including time accounting) documents signed or initialed.
     5.6.4. Ensuring a work schedule change request (Attachment 1, 939 ARW Form 1, Maxiflex
     Work Schedule Request) is prepared each time the work schedule changes and is submitted to
     the supervisor for approval not later than the Wednesday prior to the beginning of the next pay
     period. (For use by all employees other than those in operations group).
     5.6.5. Ensuring a work schedule change request (Attachment 3, 939 ARW Form 8, Maxiflex
     Work Schedule Log) is prepared not later than the Wednesday prior to the beginning of the next
     pay period. (For use by employees within operations group).
     5.6.6. Recording their arrivals and departures as they occur on the daily sign-in/out sheets
     (Attachment 2, 939 ARW Form 7, Maxiflex Daily Sign In/Out,), using the official clock pro-
     vided for recording times. (For use by all employees other than those in operations group).
6                                                            939ARWI36-801 10 SEPTEMBER 2003


       5.6.7. Recording their arrivals and departures as they occur on the daily sign-in/out sheets
       (Attachment 3), using the official clock provided for recording times. (For use by all employees
       within operations group).
       5.6.8. Requesting a start time in the 1st flexband in a 15-minute increment (e.g. 0600, 0615, 0730,
       etc.) and a departing time in the 2nd flexband, also in a 15-minute increment.
       5.6.9. Selecting either a 30-minute, 45-minute or 60-minute lunch and start and end times in
       15-minute increments (e.g. 1100-1130, 1100-1145, 1100-1200, etc.), if scheduled to work for 6 or
       more hours on that day. Employees may, with prior management approval, temporarily alter start-
       ing and stopping lunch times with advance notice inside the pay period. Changes requested for
       “same day” must be made within the employee’s first duty hour and are subject to management
       approval.
       5.6.10. Completing the 939 ARW Form 1, Maxiflex Work Schedule Request, 939 ARW Form
       7, Maxiflex Daily Sign In/Out, and 939 ARW Form 8, Maxiflex Work Schedule Log. For
       employees outside of operations group, complete Form 1 in its entirety, to reflect the date the
       employee wishes to begin working the Maxiflex work schedule. Enter the time of anticipated
       arrival, lunch period, anticipated departure and total work time for each day scheduled to work
       during a two-week pay period. Employee submits to first-level supervisor for approval not later
       than the Wednesday prior to the pay period in which the employee wishes to participate in Maxi-
       flex. If first-level supervisor recommends disapproval, the supervisor must document reason for
       recommended disapproval in the remarks box and forwards to wing/group commander, as appro-
       priate. If wing/group commander disapproves employee request, the commander must document
       reason for disapproval. Form 3 (all employees outside of operations group) is completed by the
       employee on a daily basis and is updated each time the employee arrives at work, leaves and
       returns from lunch, and departs from work. Form 3 must be signed and dated and given to the
       timekeeper prior to timecards being input at the end of each pay period. Employees within the
       operations group must complete Form 4 in its entirety and submit to the first-level supervisor not
       later than the Wednesday prior to each pay period in which the employee wishes to participate in
       Maxiflex. Form 4 should reflect the hours the employee is requesting to work (including credit
       hours), as well as any anticipated leave (including for military duty) and credit hours used. If
       approved, the supervisor signs the Form 4. Form 4 is updated (pen and ink changes) by the
       employee on a daily basis each time the employee arrives at work, leaves and returns from lunch,
       and departs from work. Form 4 must be signed and dated and given to the timekeeper prior to
       timecards being input at the end of each pay period. The timekeeper must sign Form 4 when the
       employee timecard has been completed. Forms 1, 3, and 4 are maintained with the timecards at the
       end of each pay period (Table 65-22, Rule 3).
    5.7. The financial management office, payroll section, provides advice and assistance on matters
    relating to timecard submissions relative to this instruction.

6. Maxiflex Requirements:
    6.1. In order to meet the basic work requirements:
       6.1.1. A full-time employee must work 80 hours in a biweekly pay period, in no fewer than 9 days
       within a 10-day pay period. The employee must work (or be on approved leave) during core hours
       on core days and for the number of hours scheduled to work for that day. The employee may arrive
939ARWI36-801 10 SEPTEMBER 2003                                                                              7


        anytime during the 1st flexband; starting times begin in 5-minute increments. For example, an
        employee arrives to work at 0608. The documented time for the employee to begin work is 0610.
        The employee is not considered “tardy” until core hours begin.
        6.1.2. A part-time employee works fewer hours than a full-time (80 hours) employee within a
        biweekly pay period.
   6.2. In general, the tour of duty comprises all hours and days flexible and core hours have been des-
   ignated, including those days within a Maxiflex schedule for which only flexible hours are scheduled.
   The tour of duty defines the limits within which an employee must complete his or her basic work
   requirement. Tours of duty will consist of core days of Tuesday through Thursday, with employees
   required to work 9 of the 10 days within a pay period. If an employee is unable to report for duty, the
   employee must notify his or her supervisor no later than the core start time shown below. The follow-
   ing chart is the established workday for either the day or afternoon shifts:


Shift             1st Flexband     Core Start        Lunch Band       Core Stop         2nd Flexband
Day               0600-0800           0800           1100-1300        1430              1430-1800
*Afternoon        1400-1600           1600           1830-2030        2230              2230-0100

   (*Available only to those officially assigned to an afternoon tour of duty due to mission require-
   ments.)
   6.3. Credit hours may be earned only by employees on Maxiflex. Credit hours are non-overtime pay
   hours of work, which are in excess of the employee’s basic Maxiflex work requirement. The number
   of credit hours earned is equal to the number of excess hours worked (i.e. one credit hour earned for
   one excess hour worked). Credit hours may be earned and used in 15-minute increments.
        6.3.1. Credit hours are not authorized, and will not be approved, when Maxiflex employees, by
        their own choice, arrive at work earlier than their scheduled arrival time (i.e. light traffic day), or
        leave work later than their scheduled depart time (i.e. waiting for a carpool).
        6.3.2. Since credit hours are worked at the election of the employee, subject to approval by the
        supervisor, they are distinguished from overtime hours in that they are not officially ordered and
        approved in advance by management. Credit hours must be worked within an employee’s
        non-overtime tour of duty and work performed must be directly related to the employee’s current
        ART or civilian position (as identified by his or her official pay plan/series/grade).
        6.3.3. When an employee uses credit hours, such hours are to be counted as a part of the basic
        work requirement to which they are applied. An employee is entitled to his or her rate of basic pay
        for credit hours and an employee may not use credit hours to create or increase entitlement to
        overtime pay.
        6.3.4. Credit hours must be earned before they can be used. Credit hours may be earned and used
        in the same day. Credit hours are applied in the same way as annual leave, compensatory time, etc.
        so as to satisfy the 80-hour pay period basic work requirement. Credit hours used must be sched-
        uled in advance and approved by the leave-approving official.
        6.3.5. Section 6126(a) of Title 5, United States Code, limits the number of credit hours an
        employee may carry over from a biweekly pay period to a succeeding biweekly pay period to 24
8                                                             939ARWI36-801 10 SEPTEMBER 2003


       hours for a full-time employee and one-fourth of a part-time employee’s biweekly work require-
       ment.
       6.3.6. Supervisors will make every effort to ensure employees have an opportunity to utilize any
       available credit hours prior to separation from Federal service, transfer to another installation or
       Federal agency, or conversion to a non-Maxiflex schedule.
           6.3.6.1. If an employee voluntarily converts from a Maxiflex schedule with a credit hour accu-
           mulation, the employee will be paid for that balance at his or her then current rate of basic pay
           6.3.6.2. If a full-time employee who separates from Federal service, transfers to another
           installation, or Federal agency and has a credit hour balance, the employee will be paid for that
           balance at his or her then current rate of basic pay. A maximum of 24 credit hours is payable at
           the employee’s current rate of basic pay.
           6.3.6.3. If a part-time employee who separates from Federal service, transfers to another
           installation, or Federal agency and has a credit hour balance, the employee is entitled to com-
           pensation only for those credit hours not in excess of one-fourth of the employee’s biweekly
           work requirement.
           6.3.6.4. Excess credit hours, not used during the pay period in which they are earned, will be
           forfeited.
           6.3.6.5. An employee may not be paid overtime pay, Sunday premium pay, or holiday pre-
           mium pay for credit hours.
           6.3.6.6. In the event of base closure or early dismissal before the beginning of an employee’s
           daily tour of duty, an employee may retain credit hours that have not been used, to the extent
           permitted by law and regulation. If an early dismissal occurs during or after the employee’s
           daily tour of duty, the employee will be charged for credit hours that have already been used.
           6.3.6.7. Aircrew members must follow current HQ AFRC work schedule guidance regarding
           lunch hours.

7. Overtime/Premium Pay Determinations:
    7.1. Overtime hours for employees on Maxiflex are all hours of work in excess of 8 hours in a day or
    40 hours in a week which are officially ordered in advance by management. The requirement that
    overtime hours be officially ordered in advance also applies to nonexempt employees under the Fair
    Labor Standards Act (FLSA). Such employees may not earn overtime pay as a result of including
    “suffered or permitted” hours (under the FLSA) as hours of work. (This is different than those under
    other work schedules).
    7.2. Management may order an employee who is covered by Maxiflex to work hours in excess of the
    number of hours the employee planned to work on a specific day. If the hours ordered to be worked
    are not in excess of 8 hours in a day or 40 hours in a week at the time they are performed, the
    employee will be required to complete his or her basic work requirement as scheduled. This will result
    in an employee entitlement to be compensated at the rate of basic pay for any hours of work equal to
    or less than 8 hours in a day or 40 hours in a week. An employee also would be entitled to overtime
    pay for hours of work ordered in excess of 8 hours in a day or 40 hours in a week.
    7.3. Night Pay (General Schedule):
939ARWI36-801 10 SEPTEMBER 2003                                                                           9


     7.3.1. If an employee’s tour of duty includes 8 or more hours available for work during daytime
     hours (i.e. between 0600 and 1800 hours), he or she is not entitled to night pay even though he or
     she voluntarily elects to work during hours for which night pay is normally required (i.e. 1800 and
     0600 hours). For example, an employee’s tour of duty begins at 0600 hours and ends at 1800
     hours. The core hours are 0800 to 1430. The employee’s work schedule for the day has the
     employee arriving at work at 0800 hours with a 30-minute lunch. The employee’s normal quitting
     time would be 1630. However, the employee elects to work extra time that day from 1630 to 1930.
     The employee would not be entitled to night pay for the time between 1800 and 1930 hours.
     7.3.2. Agencies must pay night pay for those hours that must be worked between 1800 and 0600
     hours to complete an 8-hour daily tour of duty. For example, an employee’s tour of duty begins at
     1400 hours and ends at 2230. The employee is scheduled to work an 8-hour day with a 30-minute
     lunch. The employee arrives at work at 1400 hours and end of day is at 2230. The employee is
     entitled to night pay for the hours of 1800 to 2230 because the work was required to be performed
     between 1800 hours and 0600 hours.
     7.3.3. An employee is entitled to night pay for any non-overtime work performed between 1800
     and 0600 hours during designated core hours.
  7.4. Night Differential (Prevailing Rate Employees): Night differential will not be paid solely because
  a prevailing rate employee elects to work credit hours, or elects a time of arrival or departure at a time
  of day when night differential is otherwise authorized, except that prevailing rate employees are enti-
  tled to night differential for regularly scheduled non-overtime work when a majority of the hours of a
  Maxiflex schedule for a daily tour of duty occur during the night.
  7.5. Holiday Pay:
     7.5.1. When an employee under Maxiflex is relieved or prevented from working on a day desig-
     nated as a holiday (or an “in lieu of” holiday under 5 U.S.C. 6103(b) or section 3 of E.O. 11582)
     by Federal statute or Executive order, the employee is entitled to his or her rate of basic pay on that
     day for 8 hours.
     7.5.2. If a holiday falls on a day during a part-time employee’s tour of duty who is on Maxiflex
     and the employee is relieved or prevented from working on that day, the employee is entitled to his
     or her rate of basic pay for the scheduled number of hours of work for that day towards his or her
     basic work requirement (not to exceed 8 hours).
     7.5.3. A full-time employee under Maxiflex who performs non-overtime work on a holiday (or
     “in lieu of holiday” as described in Paragraph 7.5.1.) is entitled to his or her rate of basic pay plus
     premium pay equal to his or her rate of basic pay for that holiday work. Holiday premium pay is
     limited to a maximum of 8 hours. These hours must be designated as holiday hours and must
     include all applicable core hours.
     7.5.4. A part-time employee on Maxiflex is entitled to holiday premium pay only for work per-
     formed during his or her basic work requirement on a holiday (not to exceed 8 hours). A part-time
     employee, scheduled to work on a day designated as an “in lieu of holiday” (Paragraph 7.5.1.), is
     not entitled to holiday premium pay for work performed on that day.
  7.6. Pay for Sunday Work:
10                                                             939ARWI36-801 10 SEPTEMBER 2003


        7.6.1. A full-time employee who performs regularly scheduled non-overtime work, a part of
        which is performed on Sunday, is entitled to Sunday premium pay for the entire daily tour of duty,
        not to exceed 8 hours. Employees are precluded from working flexible hours on Sundays.
        7.6.2. A part-time employee is not entitled to Sunday premium pay.
     7.7. Travel:
        7.7.1. When a FLSA-exempt or nonexempt employee under Maxiflex is in a travel status during
        the hours of his or her regularly scheduled administrative workweek, that time is considered to be
        “hours of work” and must be used for the purpose of determining any overtime pay calculations,
        as applicable. Note, however, that overtime hours are initially scheduled for work, not travel.
        7.7.2. The Maxiflex work schedule officially requested by the employee and approved by the
        supervisor will be used when determining the employee’s “regularly scheduled administrative
        workweek” for travel and pay purposes, to include determination of non-workdays.
        7.7.3. An employee may not earn credit hours for travel because travel in connection with Gov-
        ernment work is not voluntary in nature. In other words, travel itself does not meet the definition
        of credit hours. Credit hours are hours in excess of the employee’s basic work requirement which
        the employee elects to work. If travel time creates overtime hours of work, the employee must be
        compensated in accordance with applicable directives.

8. Paid Time Off:
     8.1. Paid time off during an employee’s basic work requirement must be charged to the appropriate
     leave category, credit hours, compensatory time off, or to excused absence if warranted.
     8.2. There is no requirement that employees use flexible hours for medical or dental appointments or
     other personal matters if the employee wishes to charge this time to leave. An employee may choose
     to charge time off during flexible hours to an appropriate leave category, or use credit hours when time
     off is scheduled during flexible hours in order to preserve leave.
     8.3. An employee may apply no more leave or credit hours to a given day then he or she is scheduled
     to work on that day.
     8.4. The head of an agency (or designee) may grant excused absence with pay to employees covered
     by Maxiflex under the same circumstances as excused absence would be granted to employees cov-
     ered by other work schedules. The amount of excused absence to be granted should be based on the
     employee’s established basic work requirement in effect for the period covered by the excused
     absence.
     8.5. When employees who would otherwise be required to work are excused from work because of an
     office closure due to a weather emergency or furlough, other employees who do not have a scheduled
     workday(s) during the office closure or furlough may not be granted another non-workday.
939ARWI36-801 10 SEPTEMBER 2003                                                        11


9. Forms Prescribed. 939 ARW 1, Maxiflex Work Schedule Request, 939 ARW 3, Maxiflex Daily
Sign In/Out, and 939 ARW 4, Maxiflex Work Schedule Log.



                                            MARK A. KYLE, Colonel, USAFR
                                            Commander, 939 ARW
12                                                  939ARWI36-801 10 SEPTEMBER 2003


                                     Attachment 1


939 ARW Form 1, Maxiflex Work Schedule Request Sample
939ARWI36-801 10 SEPTEMBER 2003                       13


                                       Attachment 2


939 ARW Form 7, Maxiflex Daily Sign In/Out Sample
14                                                  939ARWI36-801 10 SEPTEMBER 2003


                                     Attachment 3


939 ARW Form 8, Maxiflex Work Schedule Log Sample
