BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 939 AIR REFUELING WING
939 AIR REFUELING WING (AFRC)                                                 INSTRUCTION 34-24601
                                                                                          1 APRIL 2003

                                                                                                 Services

                                                                       LODGING PAYMENT POLICY



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 939 SVF/SV (Mr. Gary Morris)                    Certified by: 939 MSG/CC (Col Richard A. Gano)
Supersedes 939 RQWI 34-24601, 19 June 2000                                                  Pages: 3
                                                                                     Distribution: F

This Instruction implements AFPD 34-2, Managing Nonappropriated Funds. It establishes procedures
regarding reservations, cancellation and payment of Contract Lodging. It applies to all Air Force Reserve
personnel at Portland IAP, OR.
References: AFI 34-246, Air Force Lodging Program and Procedural Information Message (PIM)
98-04-04, Lodging Payment Procedures.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision changes Services from 939 MSS/SV to 939 SVF and changes unit designation from 939th
Rescue Wing to 939th Air Refueling Wing. A bar ( | ) designates revision from previous edition.


1. Unit Lodging Point of Contact. Each unit/group will assign, in writing to the 939 Services Flight
Chief, a unit lodging point of contact (ULPOC). All reservists eligible for lodging will check with their
unit for the name and phone number of the ULPOC. It is the individual reservist's responsibility to ensure
his/her reservations are made in accordance with this policy.

2. Lodging Eligibility. Reservists assigned to Portland IAP residing outside the established commuting
area designated in PIAPI 34-246, Commercial Lodging Program are eligible for lodging. Requests for
exceptions to the non-commute area are required in writing through the unit commander for wing com-
mander approval/disapproval. Upon approval the requesting unit will coordinate with services.

3. Lodging Sign-up Sheet. Every unit will post a monthly lodging sign-up sheet (provided by services).
Individual reservists will sign-up during the current UTA for the next scheduled UTA. Lodging requests
for make-up UTAs, active and inactive duty tours can be included in the current monthly UTA schedule.
2                                                                    939ARWI34-24601 1 APRIL 2003


4. Guests. Reservists must note on the lodging sign-up when bringing a family member or guest. The
reservist is responsible for the behavior and any expense incurred by the family member or guest sharing
quarters with the reservist.

5. Unit Lodging Point of Contact Responsibilities. The ULPOC will forward the lodging sign-up sheet
for the next UTA to the services lodging manager no later than 3 working days after each UTA.
Reservists must contact ULPOC if there are any changes/cancellations to his/her planned UTA participa-
tion at least 3 days prior to UTA. ULPOC will provide a revalidated listing, or verify there are no changes,
to services 3 days prior to UTA.

6. Services Responsibilities. Services will make reservations based on the reservation sign-up list
received from the ULPOC(s).

7. Reservations . Reservists in any status not having made reservations at least 5 days prior to perform-
ing duty are not guaranteed hotel availability. Every effort will be made to meet reservists' requests, but
if a hotel is not available reservists will be placed in hotels in which services contract agreements show
available rooms. Any reservist making reservations less than 3 days prior to performing duty will be
referred to his/her unit commander for action.

8. Cancellations. All cancellations will be made at least 3 days prior to the UTA. Cancellations of less
than 3 days will be referred to unit commanders. Reservists that do not cancel reservations through his/her
ULPOC will be considered a no-show. If the ULPOC is not available, the reservist may contact the ser-
vices lodging manager for cancellation. Unit funds from the reservist's unit will be charged for the
no-show.

9. No-Show Listing. Services lodging manager will provide a list of no-shows to the unit by 1100 on
Saturday of the UTA. Services lodging manager will verify the no-shows with the hotel and the sign-up
sheet.

10. No-Show Validation. Services lodging manager will verify all no-shows with the hotels, prepare
bills required and notify the ULPOC. The services lodging manager and the ULPOC will both validate the
accuracy of the list, ensure no personal charges, or other agency charges are billed to the unit. Any mem-
ber with confirmed lodging reservations away from home station will be personally responsible for all
no-show lodging charges they incur.

11. Finance. Once the bill is validated, no-show notices will be sent to finance and they will deduct the
lodging expenses from the units quarterly. The no-show money received from the units will be placed
back in the lodging budget.

12. Enforcement. Each unit will establish and enforce a first offense no-show policy to deal with reserv-
ists who do not cancel reservations or do not notify ULPOC of changes at least 3 days prior to UTA.

13. Failure to Cancel. Any reservist who fails to cancel or change reservations twice in a two year
period following the above guidelines will not be provided lodging for 6 months. They will be required to
make their own lodging arrangements, including payment of hotel bill, for this 6-month period. Any fur-
ther no-shows after that will cause the reservist to make his/her lodging arrangements, plus payment of
939ARWI34-24601 1 APRIL 2003                                                                                3


hotel bill for 1 year. Denial of services lodging arrangements based on this no-show policy will require all
lodging to be at the member's expense during their suspension period.

14. Summary of Policy. Reservists must request a reservation through their ULPOC. The ULPOC will
forward the request to the services lodging manager. Services lodging manager will make the reservations
and notify the ULPOC of which hotel(s) their reservists are staying. The reservist must notify the ULPOC
or services lodging manager a minimum of 5 days prior to UTA to inquire as to which hotel he/she will be
staying. Services will fax a contract quarters authorization (paying and non-paying guest) form to
the hotel on non-UTA days. If a reservist checks into the hotel without a contract quarters call sheet,
he/she assumes sole responsibility for lodging payment.

15. Services Hours of Operation. Hours of operation for the services lodging manager are Mon-Fri.
0800-1600. The phone number is 1-800-762-0334 OPTION 1. Reservations/cancellations left on tele-
phone voice mail will not be honored. E-Mail reservations/cancellations will be honored only if the
following information is included: Name, Rank, Squadron, and Contact Phone Number. E-Mail
address for reservations/cancellations is:
mailto:Daniel.Beshears@portland.af.mil

16. Additional Charges. Reservists are responsible for any additional charges incurred, i.e., long dis-
tance phone calls, room service, restaurant bills, bar bills, etc. These services should be paid for when they
are rendered or at checkout.

17. Contact Personnel. Reservists are individually responsible for contacting their ULPOC to cancel a
reservation. The ULPOC must notify services of cancellations as they occur. The reservist may contact
services lodging for cancellation only if the ULPOC is TDY or on leave.



                                                      MARK A. KYLE, Colonel, USAFR
                                                      Commander, 939 ARW
