BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 939 AIR REFUELING WING
939TH AIR REFUELING WING (AFRC)                                                 INSTRUCTION 90-801
                                                                                           APRIL 1, 2003

                                                                                   Commander’s Policies

                                                            MUNITIONS HANDLING PROCEDURES



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 939 ARW/SE (SMSgt Charles Byrd)                    Certified by: 939 ARW/CC (Col Mark A. Kyle)
Supersedes 939 RQWI 90-801, 28 March 2000                                                   Pages: 4
                                                                                     Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 90-8, Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health and procedures
consistent with those directed by the AFRC/CV in response to a mishap shooting involving a reserve
member during a combat training exercise. This instruction applies to all personnel assigned or attached
to the 939th Air Refueling Wing and stationed at the Portland Air National Guard Base. This instruction
applies to Ground Combat Training Exercises/Scenarios only.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision changes all references from 939th Rescue Wing to 939th Air Refueling Wing. A bar ( | )
indicates revision from previous edition.


1. Munitions Issuing Procedures.
   1.1. All small arms munitions will be issued IAW current requirements listed in PIAI 21-208, Con-
   ventional Munitions Supply Procedures.
       1.1.1. Upon receipt, issued munitions will remain in the control and custody of authorized unit
       individuals as listed on the AF Form 68, Munitions Authorization Record.

2. Weapons/Munitions Couriers.
   2.1. Weapons/munitions couriers will be designated, in writing, prior to any combat training exercise
   where blank small arms munitions are to be expended.
       2.1.1. While in the exercise area, weapons/munitions couriers will be clearly distinguishable from
       all other participants by wearing distinctive clothing items (i.e., brightly colored safety helmet,
       florescent safety vest, etc.).
       2.1.2. Weapons/munitions couriers will be armed with different weapons and ammunition than
       that used by exercise participants. For example, if exercise participants are using M-16 rifles with
2                                                                        939ARWI90-801 APRIL 1, 2003


       5.56 blank ammunition, weapons couriers will be armed with 9MM side arms with appropriate
       live ammunition.
       2.1.3. Weapons/munitions couriers are not authorized to participate in any exercise activities at
       any time while performing courier duties, or any other duties where the individual is armed with
       live ammunition.

3. Unit Certifying Official.
    3.1. Unit certifying officials will be appointed, in writing, prior to every exercise involving the use
    and/or expenditure of small arms blank ammunition.
       3.1.1. The unit certifying official will verify, in writing, that all training munitions are blank prior
       to loading into any magazine.
       3.1.2. The unit certifying official will observe all magazine loading procedures.
       3.1.3. The unit certifying official will personally mark each loaded magazine, on olive drab duct
       tape (or similar material), applied to the magazine, with his or her initials, or other recognizable
       mark, prior to any magazine being released for use to exercise participants.
       3.1.4. The unit certifying official will write the words, “Live” or “Blank” on the tape applied to
       the magazine to indicate the type of load contained therein.

4. Safety and Accountability Briefings.
    4.1. Prior to the issue of any ammunition to exercise participants the unit commander will coordinate
    a Safety and Accountability Briefing that will include members from wing safety, security forces and
    unit certifying officials.
       4.1.1. The briefing will clearly address safety and accountability issues of those involved in the
       exercise. The unit certifying official will also cover specific small arms munitions control proce-
       dures that will be used during the exercise and emergency procedures to be followed if needed.
    4.2. A sign-in roster will be completed for each briefing and will include the following:
       4.2.1. Names of those who received the briefing.
       4.2.2. Date the briefing was conducted.
       4.2.3. Name and work address of individuals providing any portion of the briefing.
    4.3. Copies of materials used to conduct the briefing will be forwarded to the wing safety office for
    approval and will be maintained IAW paragraph 4.4.
    4.4. Sign-in rosters will be maintained for a period of three years from the date of the briefing. Brief-
    ing and training records will be stored in the wing safety office. Complete AF Form 710, Ground
    Weapons Training Record, or similar, to record training.

5. Emergency Procedures.
    5.1. If at any time during a combat training exercise involving blank ammunition a question arises as
    to whether a live round, or rounds, have been introduced into the training environment or an
    out-of-balance inventory condition exists, the following actions will be initiated:
939ARWI90-801 APRIL 1, 2003                                                                             3


      5.1.1. All exercise activities will immediately be stopped by the ranking NCOIC/OIC.
      5.1.2. An inventory of all rounds will be conducted and findings documented.
      5.1.3. If no live rounds are located and all blank ammunition has been accounted for, the exercise
      may be resumed by the ranking exercise NCOIC/OIC.
   5.2. If live rounds are located the following actions will be initiated.
      5.2.1. The 939th Air Refueling Wing Command Post will be notified immediately and will relay
      all information to the wing commander.
      5.2.2. The wing commander will form a Wing Investigation Team that will be comprised of a 939
      ARW ranking OIC (Lieutenant Colonel or higher), a member of the safety office and a member of
      the security forces.
      5.2.3. The investigation focus will be to determine how live ammunition was introduced into the
      training exercise.
      5.2.4. Findings that lead the team to believe intentional wrong doing, or criminal intent, was
      involved shall be cause for the investigation team to immediately cease their investigation and
      report these findings to the wing commander.
      5.2.5. The wing commander will determine if the Wing Investigation Team should continue their
      investigation or if the Office of Special Investigations (OSI) should be contacted.
   5.3. If a unit member is shot with a live round during a training exercise, the OSI will be contacted
   immediately in order to initiate a criminal investigation.
      5.3.1. Wing safety will also initiate a Ground Safety Mishap Investigation IAW AFI 91-204,
      Safety Investigations and Reports, unless the wing commander, numbered Air Force commander
      or Air Force Reserve Commander appoints a safety investigator from outside the 939th Air Refu-
      eling Wing.
      5.3.2. Unit commanders will also ensure that a “Peacetime Government Firearms Discharge
      Report” is completed IAW AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel, Attach-
      ment 6.

6. Unit Operating Procedures.
   6.1. Units conducting combat training exercises using blank ammunition will prepare a unit operating
   instruction (OI), operations plan (OPLAN) or similar. The document will include the following:
      6.1.1. Define procedures used to document inventories (i.e., log or itemized report) of both live
      and blank ammunition at the start of each training exercise, during each shift change and at the end
      of each training day. If an out-of-balance condition exists, immediately cease all exercise opera-
      tions until the situation has been resolved. Follow the procedures listed in paragraph 5.1. above.
      6.1.2. Unit plans will clearly identify step-by-step procedures for issuing weapons and ammuni-
      tion in the training area prior to any and all exercises. Written plans must be reviewed and
      approved by the wing ground safety manager and superintendent of security forces (or designated
      representative) prior to the unit being issued any exercise ammunition.
4                                                                     939ARWI90-801 APRIL 1, 2003


       6.1.3. Unit plans will clearly indicate where the training exercise will take place and where the
       blank ammunition will be expended (i.e., Camp Rilea, OR, McChord AFB, WA, Landing Zones,
       etc.).
       6.1.4. Unit plans will include procedures to be utilized to collect expended brass. All collected
       brass will be returned to the base munitions storage area, or other designated authority (i.e., Camp
       Rilea weapons storage area), for further disposal.
       6.1.5. The wing ground safety manager will develop a tracking method to ensure that all docu-
       ments and reports are submitted in a timely manner.
    6.2. The unit commander will complete a summary report at the end of each training exercise. The
    summary report will identify the number of rounds originally issued to the unit, number of rounds
    issued to exercise personnel, number of rounds expended during the exercise and the number of unex-
    pended rounds returned to the munitions storage area following the completion of the exercise. The
    report will also account for all courier rounds issued and turned-in.
       6.2.1. The summary report will also annotate lot numbers of small arms munitions that were used/
       expended during the exercise.
       6.2.2. The original copy of the summary report will be forwarded to the wing ground safety man-
       ager NLT 60 days following the completion of the training exercise. A copy of the report will be
       retained by the unit weapons/munitions custodian for at least 12 months or until no longer needed.



                                                     MARK A. KYLE, Colonel, USAFR
                                                     Commander, 939 ARW
