                               DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                   HEADQUARTERS 93D AIR GROUND OPERATIONS WING (ACC)
                            MOODY AIR FORCE BASE GEORGIA




                                                                              93AGOWGM2014-90-01

                                                                                    19 September 2014

MEMORANDUM FOR 93 AGOW BATTLEFIELD WEATHER SQUADRONS

FROM: 93 AGOW/CC
      5090 Garner Street Bldg 155
      Moody AFB GA 31699

SUBJECT: 93 AGOW Guidance Memorandum 2014-90-01 to Air Force Instruction 90-201, The Air
Force Inspection System.

        1. By Order of the Commander, this AGOW Guidance Memorandum immediately supplements
AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System. Compliance with this Memorandum is mandatory. To the
extent its directions are inconsistent with other 93 AGOW publications; the information herein prevails,
in accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management. ACCESSIBILITY: Publications
and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing web site at www.e-
Publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

        2. This memorandum applies to all Battlefield Weather (BW) organizations in the 93d Air
Ground Operations Wing (AGOW). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.

      3. This memorandum becomes void after one-year has elapsed from the date of this
memorandum, or upon publication of an Interim Change or rewrite of the affected publication,
whichever is earlier.




                                                   SAMUEL P. MILAM, Colonel, USAF
                                                   Commander

Attachment:
Supplemental Guidance
                                               Attachment

                                        Supplemental Guidance


1. (Added) Responsibilities.

1.1. (Added) 93d Air Ground Operations Wing (AGOW) Battlefield Weather (BW) Subject
Matter Expert (SME) will:

1.1.1. (Added) Provide the 93 AGOW/CC with subject matter expertise on all issues related to the BW
Standardization and Evaluation program.

1.1.2. (Added) Monitor subordinate BW unit standardization and evaluation programs and ensure the
programs adequately address 93 AGOW, ACC and AF guidance wherever feasible.

1.1.3. (Added) Coordinate with HQ ACC/A3W on BW standardization and evaluation program
requirements and recommend policy changes.

1.1.4. (Added) Standardize operations among BW units, where practical. Maintain 93 AGOW BW
Tactical Standard Operating Procedures (TSOPs) and request input for updates/changes from
subordinate BW units during annual reviews IAW AFMAN 15-129V2, Air and Space Weather
Operations - Exploitation.

1.1.5. (Added) Conduct inspections and visits to subordinate BW units to assess units’ abilities to meet
mission requirements IAW the 93 AGOW Commander’s Inspection Program (CCIP) (AFI 90-201).

1.1.6. (Added) Maintain a wing-level repository, such as SharePoint®, for BW standardization and
evaluation tools to facilitate sharing of best practices and standardization among BW units.

1.2. (Added) Air Support Operations Group (ASOG) Standardization and Evaluation:

1.2.1. (Added) Assist BW units in development of evaluation tools and practices.

1.2.2. (Added) Recommend improvements to subordinate BW unit training programs, lesson plans,
standard operating procedures, equipment and directives based on evaluation results and/or trends.

1.3. (Added) BW Unit/Squadron Commanders will:

1.3.1. (Added) Be responsible for ensuring the development and maintenance of a robust unit
standardization and evaluation program. Responsibilities may be delegated to subordinate units, but this
delegation will be documented in a squadron operating instruction (OI).

1.3.2. (Added) Designate, in writing, unit/squadron certifiers (evaluators). Certifiers are qualified to
conduct task training and certification for any task which they are trained (non-core) or certified (core)
to perform. Evaluators/certifiers must meet all requirements listed in AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training
Program, and this instruction.

1.4. (Added) BW Unit/Squadron Standardization and Evaluation will:
1.4.1. (Added) Ensure standardization of operations procedures, training, and evaluation programs,
whenever feasible, among subordinate units. Evaluate effectiveness of unit training programs through
Basic Qualification/Combat Mission Ready (BQ/CMR) evaluation/certification of personnel, spot
evaluations, review of After Action Reports (AARs), and/or evaluation of personnel during exercises.
Recommend improvements to training programs, lesson plans, standard operating procedures,
equipment and directives based on evaluation results.

1.4.2. (Added) Ensure evaluation and training materials comply with AFMAN 36-2234, Instructional
System Development.

1.4.3. (Added) Review 93 AGOW TSOPs at least annually and forward recommended updates/changes
to the 93 AGOW BW SME.

1.4.4. (Added) Develop and maintain evaluation tools (i.e., checkride forms, tests, and scenarios) to
solidify a standardized approach and application of all evaluation activities. In addition, BW squadrons
will crossfeed these products to the 93 AGOW BW SME and other BW squadrons to facilitate
standardization.

1.4.5. (Added) Provide feedback to BW personnel, to include supervisors, on the results of
examinations and evaluations.

1.4.6. (Added) Administer unit/squadron evaluator training and certification programs. Ensure
standardization of evaluation practices.

1.4.7. (Added) Conduct (or arrange for), document, and track initial/recurring BQ/CMR certification
checkrides of unit/squadron BW personnel IAW AFI 36-2201, AFI 15-128, Air Force Weather Roles
and Responsibilities and AFI 15-127 Air Force Weather Qualification Training, .

1.4.8. (Added) Review all new or changed HAF, ACC, or 93 AGOW publications for impacts on
operations procedures, training, and standardization/evaluation programs.

1.4.9. (Added) Review monthly mission weather product verification metrics IAW AFI 15-114,
Functional Resource and Weather Technical Performance Evaluation. Provide periodic analysis of
forecast capability to squadron director of operations, superintendent of operations, flight leaders, and
unit personnel. Advise BW unit training flight/section with development of focused training to correct
negative trends and/or update standard operating procedures if required as critical components of the
continuous improvement process.

1.4.10. (Added) Conduct staff assistance visits (SAV) to subordinate units for the purpose of evaluation
program and operations standardization. Visits must be conducted at least annually, but BW units
should also make maximum use of alternate means, such as teleconference and web-based tools (i.e.,
Management Internal Control Toolset (MICT)).

2. (Added) Training and Evaluation Performance Standards. All BW units will develop training
and evaluation performance standards. At a minimum, the standards will contain all the tasks/subtasks
associated with BQ and CMR certification requirements. Ensure the standards contain all the specific
performance proficiency standards and evaluation constraints (or givens) for each task. Additionally,
assign Air Force proficiency codes as described in AFMAN 36-2236, Guidebook for Air Force
Instructors, to each task. Refer to 93 AGOW Training Guidance to assist in development of training
and evaluation performance standards.

3. (Added) BW Evaluators.

3.1. (Added) General. BW evaluation/certification will be administered by evaluators at all unit levels
(i.e., squadron, detachment, operating location). Only certified evaluators or evaluator trainees under
direct supervision of a certified evaluator will be used to conduct evaluations (i.e., BQ/CMR
checkrides). All BW Instructors (BW-I) will be certified as evaluators and additional personnel will be
certified as required (does not apply to OLs).

3.2. (Added) Selection. The unit/squadron commander or site lead (operating locations) will select and
designate in writing all evaluators/certifiers.

3.3. (Added) BW Evaluator Training and Certification Program. The evaluator training and
certification program is designed to instruct evaluators on the proper manner in which to correctly assess
BQ/CMR proficiency of BW personnel. Evaluators will maintain BQ/CMR certification and currency
IAW this instruction and AFI 15-128 and AFI 15-127. Evaluators at all unit levels will complete the
evaluator training program before certification.

3.3.1. (Added) BW Evaluator Training Requirements. Evaluator trainees must meet the minimum
requirements listed in AFI 36-2201 for certifiers. In addition, evaluator trainees will be observed and
supervised by a certified evaluator and will:

3.3.1.1. (Added) Receive instruction on the following items:

3.3.1.1.1. (Added) Use of checkride forms.

3.3.1.1.2. (Added) Administration of knowledge tests and evaluation scenarios/exercises.

3.3.1.1.3. (Added) Air Force Training Record (AFTR) documentation procedures.

3.3.1.2. (Added) Observe, at a minimum, one certified evaluator conducting an evaluation.

3.3.1.3. (Added) Administer a BQ/CMR evaluation/checkride.

3.3.1.4. (Added) Identify, document, and debrief an individual’s evaluation performance to include
strengths and weaknesses.

3.3.2. (Added) Evaluator Certification Requirements. Certification of evaluators will be documented
on AF IMT 1098, Special Task Certification and Recurring Training, within AFTR.

3.4. (Added) Evaluator Operational Risk Management (ORM).

3.4.1. (Added) Prior to evaluating in the operational environment, utilize an ORM assessment to ensure
unnecessary operational risks are mitigated.

3.4.2. (Added) When creating evaluation scripts, do not create actual conditions that could jeopardize
personnel safety or cause equipment damage.
3.4.3. (Added) Safety and real-world operational requirements take priority over simulated activities.

3.4.4. (Added) Immediately correct breaches of safety during an evaluation (this applies to all BW and
support personnel). If serious safety issues arise, the evaluator will debrief unit supervision and if
appropriate, document the deviation.

4. (Added) BW Evaluations.

4.1. (Added) BW Evaluation Program Requirements. Evaluation programs, practices, and
operations procedures (i.e., checklists, operating procedures, etc.) should be consistent with training
programs.

4.1.1. (Added) Evaluation programs must be designed and implemented using performance standards to
measure BQ/CMR proficiency on existing, new, or revised procedures and equipment.

4.1.2. (Added) In order for the evaluations to be effective and objective, the program relies on
evaluations by someone other than the immediate supervisor/trainer. This provides checks and balances
to the evaluation program. It also ensures standardization of processes across the unit.

4.1.3. (Added) Civilian weather personnel will meet BQ requirements only. All other BW personnel on
mobility status will meet both BQ and CMR requirements.

4.2. (Added) BQ/CMR Qualification Evaluations.

4.2.1. (Added) Initial Evaluations. Initial evaluations will be administered upon completion of all
applicable AF and local BQ and CMR training requirements IAW AFI 15-127 to ensure BW personnel
are fully qualified to perform the unit’s assigned mission. The Initial Evaluation will consist of two
structured parts for both BQ and CMR:

4.2.1.1. (Added) Open-book written examination for BQ and CMR. Minimum passing grade is 90%.

4.2.1.2. (Added) Checkride on all applicable duty-position tasks. BQ checkrides should be conducted
in a weather station (or at the operational duty position for units with staff-only function). CMR
checkrides should be conducted in a field training exercise (FTX) environment and/or Tactical
Operations Center (TOC) scenario.

4.2.2. Recertification Evaluations. Will be administered annually to ensure BW personnel maintain the
proficiency required to perform the unit’s assigned mission.

4.2.2.1. (Added) The BQ Recertification Evaluation will consist of two structured parts:

4.2.2.1.1. (Added) Open-book written examination. Minimum passing grade is 90%.

4.2.2.1.2. (Added) A checkride, at a minimum, on applicable 5-Level Core Tasks as specified in the
1W0XX CFETP (or applicable duty position tasks at units with staff-only functions) and any additional
duty-position tasks as determined by the local unit.

4.2.2.2. (Added) The CMR Recertification Evaluation will consist of two structured parts:
4.2.2.2.1. (Added) Open-book written examination. Minimum passing grade is 90%.

4.2.2.2.2. (Added) A checkride on applicable UTC-aligned tasks as specified in the 1W0XX CFETP,
the additional tasks listed in this document, and any additional duty-position tasks as determined by the
local unit.

4.2.2.2.2.1. (Added) CMR recertification checkrides/evaluations should be conducted in a FTX and/or
TOC scenario when practical. In addition, these evaluations should be scheduled during the spin-up
phase of the individual’s deployment window to meet UTC checkride requirements of AFI 15-127.

4.2.2.2.2.2. (Added) The FTX/TOC scenario may include independent tasks or a group of tasks strung
together. They may be administered to an individual or group of individuals.

4.2.3. (Added) Spot Evaluations. These evaluations are intended to provide the commander with
feedback on individual skills and/or assessment of the unit training program through random evaluations
of a single task or a group of tasks.

4.2.3.1. (Added) Evaluators will coordinate with supervisors in advance to ensure personnel to receive
a Spot Evaluation are free of other duties to allow adequate time for the evaluation and feedback.

4.2.3.2. (Added) Areas found to be substandard will result in de-certification in the task or tasks
evaluated. The substandard performance will be documented in accordance with this instruction and
AFI 36-2201 Chapter 6, (On–the-Job Training Administration) as appropriate. Specific re-training
recommendations should be completed prior to re-evaluation and documented by the evaluator. When
re-training and re-evaluation are conducted on the spot, the specific training completed prior to re-
evaluation will be documented by the evaluator. Re-training in substandard task(s) should be completed
prior to scheduling the re-evaluation.

4.2.3.3. (Added) BW units will ensure a minimum of 20% of assigned personnel receive Spot
Evaluations evenly distributed throughout the calendar year.

4.2.3.4. (Added) BW units should use results from unit quality assurance and metric programs,
exercise/deployment AARs, and Army planning information to tailor Spot Evaluations toward known
weaknesses or expected mission requirements.

4.3. (Added) Failure to Pass an Examination.

4.3.1. (Added) If a BW technician fails an evaluation (NO GO), a successful recheck must be
completed prior to performing BQ and/or CMR duties.

4.3.2. (Added) A recheck is successfully completed when the operator performs to GO criteria for the
evaluation. Every reasonable effort must be made to re-qualify the individual. The evaluator that
administered the original evaluation should not administer the recheck, unless there is only one
evaluator available. Document such exceptions in writing on the evaluation form.

4.4. (Added) Evaluation Documentation Procedures.
4.4.1. (Added) All evaluations will be documented using brief and concise statements on an AF IMT
803, Record of Task Evaluations, within AFTR. When additional comments are required, they are
referenced to the original AF IMT 803 on an AF IMT 623a, On-the-Job Training Record Continuation
Sheet, within AFTR.

4.4.2. (Added) Annotate the applicable type of evaluation (i.e., Initial, Recertification, or Spot) and
applicable task(s) evaluated.

4.4.3. (Added) Annotate results of both the written examination and the checkride (GO or NO/GO).
Include factual history of the evaluation to include any observed strengths or weaknesses of the
individual.

4.5. (Added) CMR Evaluation FTX/TOC Scenario. The primary purpose of these evaluations is to
provide the Instruction System Development (ISD) feedback loop to training. It also provides feedback
to the individual and the unit on a BW Forecaster’s demonstrated performance during a specific scenario
on multiple tasks. Evaluations should mirror the operational environment to the maximum extent
possible, to include performing under duress.

4.5.1. (Added) Letter of Instruction (LOI). An LOI will be produced for each FTX/TOC scenario
conducted for CMR certification. The LOI should include specific instructions for all participants
(personnel being evaluated, evaluators, and scenario support personnel), schedule of events, and
simulated inputs if required. Refer to the attachment to this document for an example FTX LOI.

4.5.2. (Added) Do not create actual conditions that could jeopardize personnel safety or cause damage
to equipment. Coordinate any planned actions that could result in the release of simulation information
into the real-world environment, or conflict with on-going operations with the required personnel.

4.5.3. (Added) Create realistic operational environments requiring individuals to prioritize actions and
perform under the likely stress of combat operations.

4.5.4. (Added) Pre-brief. Evaluators will conduct a briefing prior to the start of the FTX scenario to
ensure all individuals being evaluated during the scenario clearly understand the rules of engagement.
This briefing sets the environment for the evaluation.

4.5.5. (Added) Post-Evaluation Actions.

4.5.5.1. (Added) Upon completion of an evaluation, evaluators will determine what, if any, errors were
committed, resolve any evaluation issues, document evaluation results and rating, outbrief the
evaluation, then recommend training and/or certification for the evaluatee, as required.

4.5.5.2. (Added) Determine and document the overall evaluation(s) rating.

4.5.5.3. (Added) Conduct a debrief to provide feedback to the evaluatee and training program.

4.5.5.4. (Added) The certifying official determines corrective action(s) (i.e., self-study, individual
training, etc.) and any follow-on evaluation requirements for errors which do not result in a “GO” rating.

4.6. (Added) Evaluator Responsibilities.
4.6.1. (Added) Ensure all individuals being evaluated use applicable SOPs/TSOPs and/or other AF and
MAJCOM publications when completing all tasks. Do not allow individuals to use training materials
(i.e., PowerPoint® slides, study guides, etc.).

4.6.2. (Added) Allow individuals being evaluated to only ask questions to clarify a stimulus. Do not
give the evaluatee more information than would normally be available or prompt a response.

4.6.3. (Added) Give the evaluatee the opportunity to correctly perform the action or to take an incorrect
action.

4.6.4. (Added) Evaluators will intervene to prevent a safety hazard, damage to equipment, mission
failure or degradation, or to prevent the introduction of uncoordinated simulation media into the real-
world operational environment.

4.6.5. (Added) Evaluator and scenario support personnel will ensure all scenario stimuli are presented
as written in the script.

4.7. (Added) Examinations. BW personnel will complete a written examination as part of the BW
Evaluation Program. The minimum passing grade is 90%.

4.7.1. (Added) Exams will consist of open book questions that come from local SOPs and/or AF and
Army guidance/technical publications as listed in the Officer and Enlisted CFETP for applicable task
and knowledge items.

4.7.2. (Added) Use the following minimum requirements when constructing exams:

4.7.2.1. (Added) Fifty (50) four-alternative multiple-choice items.

4.7.2.2. (Added) One (1) four-alternative multiple-choice item per primary task.

4.7.2.3. Two versions of each examination (i.e., BQ, CMR) will be constructed/maintained.

4.7.2.3. (Added) Units may add additional items/types of items at their discretion.

4.7.3. (Added) Failure to pass an Exam. BW personnel failing a written examination at any time must
be afforded an adequate study period, prior to re-examination.

4.7.3.1. (Added) At a minimum, BW personnel should be allowed one (1) week to prepare prior to a re-
examination. The immediate supervisor should assist the individual to prepare for the re-examination.

4.7.3.2. (Added) A re-examination will consist of a different version of the exam.

4.7.4. (Added) Examination Management. Maintain separate examinations for both BQ and CMR
tasks/knowledge certifications.

4.7.4.1. (Added) Stan/Eval will develop and control a minimum of two versions of examinations for
each BQ and CMR certifications.
4.7.4.2. (Added) Units having ten or fewer members require only one version of examination for each
BQ and CMR.

4.7.4.3. (Added) The unit Stan/Eval office will review all questions/exams for accuracy annually and
after any changes in source documents. If a complete review was accomplished due to a source
document change it may be annotated as the annual review.

4.7.4.4. (Added) Stan/Eval personnel will maintain positive control of all exams and applicable answer
sheets (electronic or paper).

5. (Added) Self-Assessment Program.

5.1. (Added) BW squadron commanders will appoint an individual within the squadron
Standardization and Evaluation office as the Squadron Self-Assessment Program Manager. Subordinate
units will appoint unit-level Self-Assessment Program Managers.

5.2. (Added) BW Squadron Standardization and Evaluation section will administer and oversee the
squadron’s self-assessment program.

5.2.1. (Added) Utilize MICT to record self-assessments to include monitoring deficiencies and
suspense dates. Notify the Squadron commander of deficiencies identified by the staff and/or
subordinate units requiring external assistance.

5.2.2. (Added) Monitor progress of continual evaluation by the Squadron staff and subordinate units.

5.2.3. (Added) Act as the squadron’s liaison with the group and wing Self-Assessment Program
Managers.

5.2.4. (Added) Manage and delegate all MICT administrative permissions within the squadron and
subordinate units.

5.2.5. (Added) Ensure applicable HAF/ACC/93 AGOW Self-Assessment Checklists (SACs) are
assigned to the appropriate Squadron units.

5.2.6. (Added) Provide feedback to the group and wing Self-Assessment Program Managerson
HAF/ACC/93 AGOW SAC quality and trends.

5.2.7. (Added) Assist in identification of software issues and suggestions for future software
improvements and forward to the group and wing Self-Assessment Program Managers.

5.2.8. (Added) Assist with MICT training and provide assistance to subordinate units, as requested.

5.2.9. (Added) Assist with providing initial and recurring MICT training for commanders and checklist
assessors.

5.3. (Added) Unit-level Self-Assessment Program Managers (below BW squadron level) will
administer and oversee the respective unit’s Self-Assessment Program.
5.3.1. (Added) Utilize MICT to record self-assessments to include monitoring deficiencies and
suspense dates. Notify the Squadron Self-Assessment Program Manager of deficiencies requiring
external assistance.

5.3.2. (Added) Monitor progress of continual evaluation by unit assessors.

5.3.3. (Added) Act as the unit’s liaison with the squadron MICT representative.

5.3.4. (Added) Assist in identification of software issues and suggestions for future software
improvements and forward to the squadron MICT representative.

5.3.5. (Added) Assist with providing initial and recurring MICT training for commanders and checklist
assessors.
                                     Attachment 1 (Added)

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System, 2 Aug 2013
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25, Sep 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AFMAN 15-129V2, Air and Space Weather Operations-Exploitation, 7 Dec 2011
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 Sep 2010
AFMAN 36-2234, Instructional System Development, 1 Nov 1993
AFI 15-128, Air Force Weather Roles and Responsibilities, 7 Feb 2011
AFI 15-127, Air Force Weather Qualification Training, 14 Mar 2012
AFI 15-114, Functional Resource and Weather Technical Performance Evaluation, 7 Dec 2001
AFMAN 36-2236, Guidebook for Air Force Instructors, 12 Nov 2003

Abbreviations and Acronyms

AAR – After Action Report
ACC – Air Combat Command
AF – Air Force
AFTR – Air Force Training Record
AGOW – Air Ground Operations Wing
ASOG – Air Support Operations Group
BQ – Basic Qualification
BW – Battlefield Weather
BW-I – Battlefield Weather Instructor
CCIP – Commanders Inspection Program
CFETP – Career Field Education and Training Plan
CMR – Combat Mission Ready
FTX – Field Training Exercise
HAF – Headquarters, Air Force
HQ ACC/A3W – Headquarters, Air Combat Command, Director f Weather
IAW – In Accordance With
ISD – Instructor Delivery System
LOI – Letter of Instruction
MAJCOM – Major Command
MICT – Management Internal Control Toolset
OI – Operating Instructions
OL – Operating Location
ORM – Operational Risk Management
SAC – Self Assessment Checklist
SAV – Staff Assisted Visit
SME – Subject Matter Expert
SOP – Standard Operating Procedure
TOC – Tactical Operations Center
TSOPS – Tactical Standard Operating Procedures
UTC – Unit Type Code,
                                    Attachment 2 (Added)

EXAMPLE - FIELD TRAINING EXERCISE (FTX) LETTER OF INSTRUCTION (LOI)

Note: Use this sample LOI and listed attachments on the next pages as an example only.

Date
MEMORANDUM FOR FTX PARTICIPANTS

FROM: # WS/DO

SUBJECT: # Weather Squadron Field Training Exercise (FTX) Evaluation 14-01, Letter of
Instruction (LOI) and Concept of Operations (CONOPS)

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
1. Purpose. This LOI/CONOPS highlights the methods of weather support for simulated
combat operations during the FTX at Training Area W345, Fort Apache AIN, TX, 13-16 Jan
2014. This document includes key planning factors, capabilities, limitations, and requirements to
include instructions for all participants, schedule of events, and simulated inputs.

2. Scenario. Personnel are tasked to conduct weather operations in support of simulated
aviation/ground operations, demonstrate field/combat skills, and warrior tasks. This
LOI/CONOPS is tailored to the FTX.

3. Concept of Weather Operations.

   a. There will be three phases of evaluation for all participants in the FTX.

       (1) Phase One will be the pre-deployment stage.

        (2) Phase Two will be the deploying, establishing operations, and warrior tasks and
field/combat skills stage.

       (3) Phase Three will be the re-deployment stage.

    b. All personnel to be evaluated will perform the tasks listed in Attachment 2 IAW the
performance standards listed.

    c. Participants must also demonstrate the abilty to conduct weather operations under duress
in a simulated Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear and Explosive (CBRNE)
environment.

4. Mission. On order, deploy one or two battlefield weather teams to conduct weather
operations in support of simulated army combat operations during 14-01 FTX.




                                                                                              11
5. Pre-deployment actions.

     a. All participants will deploy with the necessary equipment and personal protective gear as
listed in Attachment 1 of this document.

  b. All participants will inventory and ops check all equipment needed/required during the
FTX.

    c. Refresher training may be accomplished on any task(s) and/or equipment during the
inventory and ops check portion of the evaluation only.

    d. KQ identifiers: The weather Team NCOIC(s) (XWAA2) will demonstrate to an evaluator
the ability to request a KQ identifier IAW 93 AGOW TSOP 2.2.6.

   e. The weather team OIC(s) and NCOIC(s) will demonstrate to an evaluator the ability to
coordinate with supporting Army unit(s) prior to departure for weather support
requirements/thresholds. This task can be accomplished on Day 2 if unable to coordinate prior to
departure.

6. Mission Execution. General time period of expected weather operations and evaluation:

    a. Day 1 STARTEX: All participants will meet at the squadron formation site at 0700L for
accountability. Then proceed to the briefing room in building 90043 for the in-brief. Personnel
to be evaluated will inventory/ops check all equipment needed/required during the FTX.
Refresher training may be accomplished on any task(s) and/or equipment as necessary at this
time only. Weapons and MOPP gear will also be acquired at this time. Participants will
properly don MOPP gear IAW AFPAM 10-100, Airman’s Manual, during the CBRNE phase of
the exercise and conduct weather operations while in MOPP 4. It is highly recommended all ops
checked items and other materials needed for the FTX be separated and staged for the convoy to
the field site on Day 2.

    b. Day 2: All participants will report to the motorpool NLT 0930L for staged equipment
draw. All participants will then receive a convoy brief and convoy out to the field site. Upon
arrival at the field site, site selection, equipment setup, etc will be accomplished. Refer to the
FTX schedule (Attachment 3) for specifics. All personnel to be evaluated will produce the
required mission weather products (MWPs) and brief them to the evaluator(s) during this phase
of the evaluation. The weather team OIC(s) and NCOIC(s) will coordinate with the evaluator for
the battle rhythm (Attachment 6) and supported unit weather requirements and thresholds if not
already completed. The evaluation period will continue until 0000L.

   c. Day 3: 0000L-0530L is scheduled downtime for security of the field site and sleep. The
OIC(s)/NCOIC(s) will dictate the security detail schedule. The evaluation period will resume at
0600L. All remaining tasks will be evaluated to include redeployment to home station with
ENDEX by 1200L. Refer to the FTX schedule (Attachment 3) for specifics.



                                                                                                12
7. Evaluator Operational Risk Management (ORM)

   a. Prior to evaluating in the operational environment, utilize an ORM assessment to ensure
unnecessary operational risks are mitigated.

    b. When creating evaluation scripts, do not create actual conditions that could jeopardize
personnel safety or cause equipment damage.

   c. Safety and real-world operational requirements take priority over simulated activities.

    d. Immediately correct breaches of safety during an evaluation (this applies to all FTX
participants). If this situation occurs, the evaluator will debrief unit supervision and if
appropriate, document the deviation.

8. Contact TSgt Smith, 3 WS/DOT if there are any questions regarding this FTX. E-mail:
fred.r.smith.mil@mail.mil or telephone 123-456-7890 (DSN987).



                                               //SIGNED//
                                               FRED R. SMITH, TSgt, USAF
                                               Instructor NCOIC, Readiness and Training Flight

8 Attachments:
1. FTX Participants
2. Individual/Equipment Packing List
3. Task/Subtask Performance Standards
4. Sample MWPs for Deployed Weather Operations
5. FTX Schedule of Events
6. Duty Priorities
7. Weather Effects Matrix
8. Sample Battle Rhythm
