                           DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
               HEADQUARTERS 93D AIR GROUND OPERATIONS WING (ACC)
                        MOODY AIR FORCE BASE GEORGIA




                                                                      93AGOWGM2014-38-01

                                                                            11 September 2014

MEMORANDUM FOR 93 AGOW BATTLEFIELD WEATHER SQUADRONS

FROM: 93 AGOW/CC
      5090 Garner Street Bldg 155
      Moody AFB GA 31699

SUBJECT: 93 AGOW Guidance Memorandums to Air Force Instruction 38-101, Air Force
Organization.

1. By Order of the Commander, this AGOW Guidance Memorandum immediately supplements
AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization. Compliance with this Memorandum is mandatory. To the
extent its directions are inconsistent with other 93 AGOW publications; the information herein
prevails, in accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
Publishing web site at www.e-Publishing.af.mil. RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability
restrictions on this publication.

2. This memorandum applies to all Battlefield Weather (BW) organizations in the 93d Air
Ground Operations Wing (AGOW). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command.

3. This memorandum becomes void after one-year has elapsed from the date of this
memorandum, or upon publication of an Interim Change or rewrite of the affected publication,
whichever is earlier.




                                                   SAMUEL P. MILAM, Colonel, USAF
                                                   Commander
1. (Added) BW Squadron Structure.
1.1. (Added) BW organizations are currently authorized manpower based on War Mobilization
Plan Annex C dated Sep 2011 for aligned Army units and Capability-Based Manpower Standard
34A100, 12 Feb 07 for airfield support. Per AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization, paragraph
2.2.8., BW units are under a single squadron as to not fragment this capability into multiple
squadrons when a single squadron provides a parent wing or group commander the best approach
in terms of a coordinated, focused capability under single direction.
1.2 (Added) A standard BW squadron structure is not included in AFI 38-101; therefore the
standard operations squadron structure (AFI 38-101, Fig 3.1) is used as a guide to organize BW
squadrons. There are, however, some required differences due to the nature of BW operations.
This structure meets the intent of AFPD 38-1, Organization and Unit Designations, by having a
simple, streamlined structure designed for seamless transition from peace to war. ACC has
approved this template and is currently staffing it through HQ USAF A3O-W for inclusion in
AFI 38-101.
Figure 1.1. BW Squadron Structure.
1.2.1. (Added) Operations Support Flight. Responsible for squadron-wide deployment
management, planning, readiness and reporting. Coordinates and tracks squadron-wide exercise
support and schedules. Maintains squadron headquarters equipment, vehicles, armory and
guides/assists Geographically Separated Units equipment managers, vehicle NCOs and armorers.
1.2.2. (Added) Training Flight. Oversees and manages squadron training programs for military
and civilian personnel to include executing Unit Training Manager duties, as well as managing
basic qualification, combat mission readiness, and continuation weather training requirements.
Creates standardized training materials and oversees weather training and certification of Army
Air Traffic Control personnel and observing familiarization of Army personnel in accordance
with a Forward Area Limited Observing Program (FALOP). Leverages and integrates Air Force
and Army training capabilities to meet combat requirements in accordance with inter-service
instructions. The training flight will also monitor and assist subordinate weather organizations
with overall management and standardization of their respective training programs.
1.2.3. (Added) Operations Flight. Provides direct weather support to the Army. Flight should
be divided into sections for the Division, BCTs/BEBs, and CAB/Airfield. Support to the Corps
may be assigned to this flight or may be performed by a Battlefield Weather Team under the
squadron Director of Operations.
2. (Added) Battlefield Weather Detachments/Operating Locations structure.
2.1. (Added) Detachments are organized similar to the squadrons. They will have a smaller scale
section for operations support and training with a representative for each squadron-level role and
sections dedicated to support the Division, BCTs, CABs, and airfields.
2.2. (Added) Operating Locations that are purely staff and/or airfield support need no significant
division.
Figure 2.1. Example Weather Detachment Structure.
                                Attachment 1 (Added)
GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION
References
AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
AFPD 38-1, Organization and Unit Designations
War Mobilization Plan-1 Annex C

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC – Air Combat Command
AGOW – Air Ground Operations Wing
BCT – Brigade Combat Team
BEB – Brigade Engineer Battalion
BW – Battlefield Weather
BWT – Battlefield Weather Team
CAB – Combat Aviation Brigade
FALOP – Forward Area Limited Observation Program
UDM – Unit Deployment Manager
