BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                              944TH FIGHTER WING
944TH FIGHTER WING                                                       INSTRUCTION 65-104

                                                                               23 MARCH 2010
                                                              Certified Current on 26 April 2012
                                                                         Financial Management

                                                 GOVERNMENT TRAVEL CARD PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 944 FW/FM                                                        Certified by: 944 FW/CCE
Supersedes: 944 FWI 65-104,                                                (Capt Lonnie D. Sell)
            27 June 2007                                                                 Pages: 6


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 65-1, Management of Financial
Services. It establishes guidelines on use of the Government Travel Card (GTC), pursuant to
Department of Defense (DOD) 7000.14-R, Department of Defense Financial Management
Regulations (FMRS), Volume 9, Chapter 3. This instruction applies to all 944th Fighter Wing
(944 FW) members in understanding what is and what is not appropriate use of the GTC and the
member’s responsibilities as a GTC holder. The requirements set out in this instruction apply to
members of the United States Air Force Reserve (USAFR). Reserve members on active duty or
inactive duty for training who fails to comply with this instruction and its specific prohibitions
can be prosecuted under Article 92 or Article 134 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice
(UCMJ), or both, as well as any other applicable article of the UCMJ, as appropriate. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 through publications/forms managers. Ensure all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Additional guidance provided for Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) exceptions that are
authorized repayment under Inactive Duty Training (IDT) Reimbursement Program during Unit
Training Assemblies (UTAs) and Resource Management Periods (RMPs). Once accounts are
2                                                            944FWI65-104 23 MARCH 2010


past due, the number of days before credit reporting agencies can be notified by the card
contractor has been extended from 120 to 210.
1. Mandatory Use. The Travel and Transportation Reform Act of 1998 requires all federal
employees and personnel use the GTC for all official government travel expenses. All U.S.
Government personnel possessing a GTC, both civilian and military, are required to pay for costs
pertinent to official travel with their issued GTC. Personnel are required to use their GTC for
purchase of airline tickets, rental vehicles and lodging for all official travel. All travel and
billeting arrangements must be made through the base Commercial Travel Office (CTO).
2. Authorized Conditions. Either one of two circumstances must be met for a member to be
authorized to use their GTC:
    2.1. Member/employee must be on official military or civilian temporary duty (TDY) orders
    and be in a “per diem” status, i.e., performing duty outside the member’s normal commuting
    area.
    2.2. Member is authorized to participate in the Government Services Administration (GSA)
    City Pair Program for travel to perform UTA and IDT (such as rescheduled UTAs and
    RMPS) at Luke AFB or other authorized locations. Travel under the City Pair Program is
    considered official travel. According to DODI 4515.16, Use of General Services
    Administration (GSA) Contracts For Air Passenger Transportation Services (GSA City Pair
    Program) For Attendance At Inactive Duty Training (IDT) Assemblies, the member must use
    their personal GTC to participate in the City Pair Program and purchase the airline tickets
    through any available CTO. Participation is considered “official travel on a non-
    reimbursable basis.” The member is solely responsible for payment of all airline ticket
    charges associated with travel under this special program. Use of the GTC is only for direct
    travel costs and not for meals or other expenses.
3. Authorized Users. Only the member/employee issued a GTC may legally use it and may not
loan their card for use by other service members or employees, family or friends for any reason.
4. Authorized Expenses. When on TDY, permanent change of station (PCS) or permanent
change of assignment (PCA) travel orders, the following charges are generally authorized:
    4.1. Airline tickets purchased through the CTO or as authorized in the travel orders (must
    pay with GTC).
    4.2. Hotels/lodging (must pay with GTC).
    4.3. Rental car (must pay with GTC).
    4.4. Taxi to and from the airport/duty station only.
    4.5. Automated Teller Machine (ATM) withdrawals for AUTHORIZED PER DIEM.
    4.6. Fuel/parking for privately owned vehicle (POV) or rental car.
    4.7. Baggage charges.
    4.8. Commissary or grocery stores for authorized TDY expenses only.
    4.9. Dry cleaning/laundry.
    4.10. Registration fees, if authorized on the TDY orders and/or included with lodging costs.
944FWI65-104 23 MARCH 2010                                                                       3


5. Prohibited Purchases. When on TDY travel orders the following charges are not
authorized:
   5.1. Any retail store (General Nutrition Center (GNC), JC Penney, K-Mart, pharmacies, etc.)
   other than for authorized TDY expenses only.
   5.2. School supplies.
   5.3. Uniform items, clothes, footwear.
   5.4. Electronics.
   5.5. Army and Air Force Exchange Services (AAFES) Post Exchange (PX)/Base Exchange
   (BX), or Naval Exchange (NEX) other than for authorized expenses.
   5.6. Drinking establishments, night clubs, casinos other than authorized lodging and meals.
   5.7. Car repairs, parts, oil changes, car wash (even if POV is authorized).
   5.8. Non-military related phone calls.
   5.9. Self-moving or storage companies unless authorized on PCS orders.
   5.10. Any online service (internet providers or memberships with a monthly fee, etc.).
   5.11. Any personal expense.
   5.12. Postal service - use excess baggage if necessary.
   5.13. Any home station use.
6. UTAs and RMPs. With the exception of those AFSCs authorized for reimbursement under
the IDT Reimbursement Program, and except as authorized in paragraph 2.2, the GTC is not
authorized for use for travel to or from, or in conjunction with, UTAs or RMPs, regardless of
where the member resides. Members performing UTAs or RMPs are not in a per diem status for
these periods and therefore have no legal use for the card. This includes payment of on or off
base billeting during UTAs, which is paid for through wing appropriated funds. If a member
uses their GTC to pay for any type of lodging occupied due to UTA or RMP participation, the
member will not be reimbursed for the charges.
7. Travel Voucher Split-Disbursements. Split-disbursements on travel vouchers are
mandatory. Military and civilian members must split-disburse an amount sufficient to cover all
GTC charges reasonably known to the member for the period covered by the travel voucher.
This includes interim travel vouchers submitted during extended TDY assignments.
8. Delinquent Accounts. Delinquent accounts will not be tolerated. Payments are due in full
immediately.
   8.1. The Unit GTC Agency Organization Program Coordinators (AOPC) will review unit
   delinquency reports by the 24th of each month (or within 3 days of billing cycle) and contact
   members who are listed on the report as 30 days past due for status of payment.
   8.2. Accounts 60 days past due can be suspended by the unit commander. Accounts 60 days
   past due twice in a 12-month period can be cancelled by the commander.
4                                                            944FWI65-104 23 MARCH 2010


    8.3. Accounts 90 days past due can be cancelled by the unit commander and may be subject
    to collection actions at 126 days by the card contractor through Defense Finance Accounting
    Service (DFAS) from the member’s military/civilian pay.
    8.4. Credit reporting agencies can be notified by the card contractor when accounts are 210
    days past due, and unit commanders will take appropriate administrative actions to remedy
    the situation. The contractor will not reinstate a member’s card that was cancelled due to
    delinquency.
9. Nonpayment or Misuse May Result in Disciplinary or Other Administrative
Action. Members are responsible for paying in full the amount stated on their monthly account
statement. Any disputed charges must be handled according to the cardholder agreement with
the card contractor. Proper dispute of a charge will prevent that charge from becoming
delinquent during the dispute phase, and is solely the responsibility of the cardholder.
    9.1. Failure to pay the due amount in full or using the GTC for inappropriate purchases may
    result in disciplinary action against the member. When a member misuses the GTC or allows
    their account to become delinquent, the appropriate commander may take disciplinary action
    after reviewing and considering the facts and circumstances of each individual situation and
    consulting with the Staff Judge Advocate (944 FW/JA) office.
       9.1.1. Depending on the seriousness of the offense, commanders have a full range of
       disciplinary options available, from letter of counseling/letter of reprimand (LOC/LOR),
       to non-judicial punishment (Article 15) and court-martial. Abuse or misuse of the GTC
       may also be grounds for discharge from the Air Force Reserve according to Air Force
       Instruction (AFI) 36-3209, Separation and Retirement Procedures for Air National
       Guard and Air Force Reserve Members.
       9.1.2. Appropriate disciplinary or adverse action against civilian personnel may include
       counseling, written reprimand, suspension without pay, and removal from federal service,
       when warranted.

10. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                            MICHAEL G. POPOVICH, Colonel, USAFR
                                            Commander
944FWI65-104 23 MARCH 2010                                                                 5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-3209, Separation and Retirement Procedures for Air National Guard and Air Force
Reserve Members, 14 April 2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 65-1, Management of Financial Services, 1 July 1996
DOD 7000.14-R, Department of Defense Financial Management Regulations (FMRS), Volume 9
–Travel Policy and Procedures, September 2000
DODI 4515.16, Use of General Services Administration (GSA) Contracts For Air Passenger
Transportation Services (GSA City Pair Program) For Attendance At Inactive Duty Training
(IDT) Assemblies, 16 September 1999

Abbreviation and Acronyms
AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Service
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AOPC—Agency Organization Program Coordinators
ATM—Automated Teller Machine
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
BX—Base Exchange
CTO—Commercial Travel Office
DFAS—Defense Finance Accounting Service
DOD—Department of Defense
FMR—Financial Management Regulations
GNC—General Nutrition Center
GSA—General Services Administration
GTC—Government Travel Card
IDT—Inactive Duty Training
LOC—Letter of Counseling
LOR—Letter of Reprimand
NEX—Naval Exchange
6                                      944FWI65-104 23 MARCH 2010


OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PCA—Permanent Change of Assignment
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
POV—Privately Owned Vehicles
PX—Post Exchange
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RMP—Resource Management Period
TDY—Temporary Duty
UTA—Unit Training Assembly
