BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       944 FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION 90-802
944TH FIGHTER WING
                                                                             7 OCTOBER 2014

                                                                           Special Management

                                                                        RISK MANAGEMENT




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 944 FW/SE                                                        Certified by: 944 FW/CCE
                                                                             (Capt Tobby Evans)
                                                                                         Pages: 8
Supersedes:   944FWI90-901, 23 March 2010


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-8, Environmental, Safety &
Occupational Health Management and Risk Management. This instruction extends the guidance
of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 90-802, Risk Management. It provides the strategic instruction for
the implementation and sustainment of Risk Management (RM) throughout the 944th Fighter
Wing (944 FW). This instruction applies to all units assigned to the 944 FW. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management
System      (AFRIMS)        Records      Disposition    Schedule      (RDS)       located      at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Revision to this
instruction changes title of program from Operational Risk Management to Risk Management
and lists updated references throughout this instruction.
1. Executive Summary:
 2                                                                944FWI90-802 7 October 2014


     1.1. General. This document provides the strategic plan for the implementation and
     sustainment of RM throughout the 944 FW. The RM initiative includes training, tools and
     information, application to mission activity, integration and oversight. These initiatives will
     be refined, enhanced and updated as RM integration matures, experience is gained and
     mission needs change the sustainment focus.
     1.2. Resources. All resources required to implement and sustain RM for units within the
     944 FW will be provided by the unit.
     1.3. Financial Requirements. Current operation and maintenance funding is expected to be
     sufficient to support implementation and integration of RM into 944 FW activities. The only
     significant future expense is funding to train replacement RM advisors in the event of
     reassignments.
     1.4. Manpower Requirements:
        1.4.1. The wing commander has designated the Safety Office (944 FW/SE) as the 944
        FW RM Monitor.
        1.4.2. Group commanders will appoint group or unit RM advisors to oversee the
        implementation and sustainment of RM for all units within their respective group.
        1.4.3. Commanders are required to create a sustainment plan letter directing the
        implementation of RM into all operational decision making processes for their
        group/squadron/flight.
        1.4.4. Unit commanders will appoint a unit RM advisor to assist them with implementing
        a unit RM program. Additionally, unit shops with 50 or more personnel will appoint a
        shop RM advisor to work with the unit RM advisor.
        1.4.5. Commanders will ensure that appointed RM advisors attend the RM Application
        and Integration Course as soon as possible after appointment. The RM Application and
        Integration Course will be unit funded.
        1.4.6. Supervisors will ensure their personnel employ RM to all mission-related
        activities.
2. Introduction:
     2.1. Vision. Ensure an organization in which all personnel manage risk so that operations
     are successfully completed in the most mission effective manner possible. Further, to ensure
     all wing personnel are trained and use RM in their daily duties and personal life.
     2.2. Mission. Enhance mission effectiveness at all levels, while preserving assets and
     safeguarding health and welfare.
     2.3. Goals. The hierarchy of goals, illustrated in Figure 1, is the crucial framework for
     defining risk management.

Figure 1. Risk Management Hierarchy.
 1. MAXIMIZE COMBAT CAPABILITY

 2. CONSERVE PERSONNEL AND RESOURCES
944FWI90-802 7 October 2014                                                                    3


 3. PREVENT OR MITIGATE LOSSES WHILE ADVANCING OR OPTIMIZING GAIN

 4. EVALUATE TO MINIMIZE RISKS AND MAXIMIZE GAIN

 5. IDENTIFY, CONTROL AND DOCUMENT HAZARDS

 6. IDENTIFY, CONTROL AND DOCUMENT OPPORTUNITIES

3. Objectives:
   3.1. Overview. The following objectives provide an overview of how this plan will be
   implemented in support of Air Force requirements:
      3.1.1. Objective 1. Train our personnel to apply, implement and integrate RM.
      3.1.2. Objective 2. Provide tools and information to enable RM use.
      3.1.3. Objective 3. Integrate RM into all mission-related activities.
      3.1.4. Objective 4. Continuously improve RM processes, products and policies.
      3.1.5. Objective 5. Encourage off-duty application of RM.
      3.1.6. Objective 6. Provide oversight.
   3.2. Objective 1. Train our personnel to apply, implement and integrate RM.
      3.2.1. Introduction. Training and education initiatives within the wing in support of RM
      are categorized as basic level and advisor level.
          3.2.1.1. The basic level includes locally performed training for all personnel.
          3.2.1.2. The advisor level includes participation in all basic level training and
          participation in specialized Air Force-level training.
      3.2.2. Implementation and Responsibilities:
          3.2.2.1. RM training includes participation by all personnel in a combination of
          training venues. RM training is required for all personnel and can be accomplished
          either as computer-based training or in a classroom setting. Initial training will
          consist of introduction to RM training/briefing (Part I) and mission/workplace first
          application activity. The RM briefing shall be conducted as part of the newcomer’s
          training when a member is assigned to the 944 FW. Workplace application training
          will consist of involving the new member in a shop level RM process as soon as
          possible. In addition, all personnel will receive periodic RM-related briefings as
          determined by the commander, on-the-job training (OJT) and participate in applying
          RM to mission activities.
             3.2.2.1.1. Supervisors are responsible to ensure all personnel receive this training
             and that the training is documented on the individual’s AF Form 55, Employee
             Safety and Health Record, or automated computer program.
             3.2.2.1.2. At least annually, RM-related briefings will be provided to all
             personnel as a part of commander’s calls. These briefings may be presented as
             Air Force or higher headquarters video presentations or as briefings by the
4                                                                944FWI90-802 7 October 2014


               group/unit RM advisor, wing or squadron safety representatives.
               3.2.2.1.3. Personnel at every level will work with their supervisors and the
               group/unit RM advisor to learn wing and unit procedures for applying RM to
               mission-related activities.
               3.2.2.1.4. Project managers and team members, with the assistance of the
               group/unit RM advisor, will employ the wing process for managing risk
               associated with mission-related activities for all projects.
               3.2.2.1.5. RM material can be downloaded from the RM tab on the Air Force
               Reserve           Command              (AFRC)         Safety      website
               (https://afrc.eim.us.af.mil/sites/SE/SEO/SitePages/Home.aspx)
           3.2.2.2. The advisor level training includes participation in all basic level activities
           and attendance of the Air Force RM Applications and Integration Course. Wing,
           group and unit RM advisors are required to maintain an RM continuity book. (See
           Attachment 2 for required items).
    3.3. Objective 2. Provide tools and information to enable RM use.
       3.3.1. Introduction. Providing the tools and information necessary for all personnel to
       apply RM to mission activities is essential to successful implementation of RM
       throughout the wing. The tools and information required will be provided through Web-
       based products and personal contact.
           3.3.1.1. Information in support of RM is available on the AFRC Safety site.
           3.3.1.2. Despite the best of training and web-based products, personal contact
           remains a staple of doing business. All personnel are encouraged to discuss any RM
           related topic with the group/unit RM advisor or safety representatives.
       3.3.2. Implementation and Responsibilities:
           3.3.2.1. 944 FW/SE will provide RM products . Group/unit RM advisors will also
           develop procedures for providing RM material to units within their respective groups.
           3.3.2.2. Contact information (name, duty phone, location, etc.) of the appointed RM
           advisors will be provided on unit additional duty rosters. The wing/group/unit RM
           advisors will make themselves available to discuss, assist, train, and guide personnel
           with their RM activities.
               3.3.2.2.1. Unit RM advisors will perform periodic RM review of all shop areas.
               Ensure RM training is being documented and shops are integrating RM into all
               mission activities.
               3.3.2.2.2. Group RM advisors will submit quarterly reports to their commanders
               and wing RM advisor outlining the number of personnel trained in each phase of
               RM.
    3.4. Objective 3. Integrate RM wing-wide into all mission-related activities.
       3.4.1. Introduction. Employing RM in the conduct of mission-related activities is the key
       focus of RM policy and guidance.
944FWI90-802 7 October 2014                                                                    5


      3.4.2. Implementation and Responsibilities:
          3.4.2.1. During planning, project managers and team members will routinely
          integrate RM into their planning activities by using the wing process for integration.
          Identified hazards and controls will be identified and integrated into the plan so they
          become a part of the planned activity. In addition, the risk analysis will be reviewed
          by unit and or group commanders before being briefed to the appropriate commander
          as a part of the planned briefing. Review of the risk analysis will be included in such
          briefings. Risks that cannot be reduced to an acceptable level will be identified to
          commanders to enable an informed decision regarding the level of risk.
             3.4.2.1.1. All shops deploying on large force temporary duty will submit to the
             deployment supervisor, an RM plan outlining all potential hazards and controls
             prior to deploying.
          3.4.2.2. Throughout the execution of any project or procedure, all personnel will
          implement all risk controls identified during planning and observe their effectiveness.
          Inadequate risk controls will be cause for delaying operations until adequate risk
          controls can be employed or an informed decision by the appropriate commander is
          provided. Lessons learned will be documented for future use.
          3.4.2.3. Project managers will provide documented RM lessons learned to the
          group/unit RM advisors for all RM plans.
   3.5. Objective 4. Continuously improve wing RM processes, products and policies.
      3.5.1. Introduction. Continuous improvement of RM processes is essential to keep
      abreast of the mounting complexity of hazards to mission activities.
      3.5.2. Implementation and Responsibilities:
          3.5.2.1. All personnel will document any difficulty or inadequacy in any unit RM
          process and identify their observations and recommended fixes to the Group/Unit RM
          advisor by any practical means.
          3.5.2.2. All personnel will document any difficulty or inadequacy in any unit RM
          product (worksheets, etc.) and identify their observations and recommended fixes to
          the group/unit RM advisor by any practical means.
          3.5.2.3. All personnel will document any difficulty or inadequacy in any unit RM
          policy and identify their observations and recommended fixes to the group/unit RM
          advisor by any practical means.
   3.6. Objective 5. Encourage off-duty application of RM.
      3.6.1. Introduction. Application of RM by Air Force personnel to off-duty activities is
      identified at Air Force level as an essential part of any RM program.
      3.6.2. Implementation and Responsibilities:
          3.6.2.1. Application of RM into off-duty activities will be included as a part of all
          safety or RM down day activities.
          3.6.2.2. Application of RM into off-duty activities will be included as a part of
          commander’s call RM briefings.
6                                                            944FWI90-802 7 October 2014


    3.7. Objective 6. Provide RM program oversight.
       3.7.1. Introduction. Commander ownership at all levels of RM activities is essential to
       ensure RM is employed and becomes an integrated part of all mission activities.
       3.7.2. Implementation and Responsibilities. On an annual basis, the wing RM Monitor,
       group commanders and group RM advisors will review RM progress and processes.




                                           KURT J. GALLEGOS, Colonel, USAFR
                                           Commander
944FWI90-802 7 October 2014                                                          7


                                       Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 90-802, Risk Management, 11 Feb 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AFPD 90-8, Environmental, Safety & Occupational Health Management and Risk Management,
2 Feb 12
Adopted Forms
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
OJT—On the Job Training
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RM—Risk Management
SE—Safety
 8                                                              944FWI90-802 7 October 2014


                                          Attachment 2
                                  RM CONTINUITY BOOK

A2.1. General. All group and unit RM advisors are required to maintain an RM continuity
book for their respective group/unit. Shop RM advisors will use their unit’s RM continuity book
for any required training and information. Additionally, shop RM advisors will provide any
requested and or required information to their unit RM advisor which will be kept in the unit’s
RM continuity book.
A2.2. Required RM Continuity Book Items:
     A2.2.1. 944th Fighter Wing Instruction, 90-802, Risk Management
     A2.2.2. RM Advisor Appointment Letters. Group RM advisors will have their letter and a
     copy of each unit RM advisor within their group. Unit RM advisors will have their letter and
     a copy of each shop RM advisor within their unit.
     A2.2.3. RM Processes
     A2.2.4. RM Training Material
     A2.2.5. RM Lessons Learned
     A2.2.6. RM Documentation
