BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            944TH FIGHTER WING INSTRUCTION
944TH FIGHTER WING                                                            36-3001

                                                                                   6 JUNE 2014

                                                                                      Personnel

                                                                     KEY SPOUSE PROGRAM


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 944 FSS/FSF                                                     Certified by: 944 MSG/CC
                                                                           (Col Anne B Gunter)
                                                                                        Pages: 5




This instruction implements the 944th Fighter Wing (944 FW) Key Spouse Program.
Implementation of a Key Spouse program may be at the squadron level or at the wing level, or
may be a hybrid of individual unit Key Spouses and a wing Key Spouse Committee/Pool
implemented at the discretion of the squadron, 944th Mission Support Group (944 MSG), or 944
FW commander and the availability of qualified applicants. This instruction provides minimum
guidelines for commanders to use to implement a tailored program to fit specific needs. It
further defines the responsibilities of the commander, first sergeant, the 944 FW Airman and
Family Readiness Center (A&FRC) and the key spouse/mentor. A reference guide for
commanders with additional information, forms, and tools to help implement and maintain this
program is available from Family Readiness and the United States Air Force Services website
https://www.usafservices.com/Home/SpouseSupport/KeySpouseProgram.aspx). This policy
applies to all units assigned and attached to the 944 FW at Luke Air Force Base and its
geographically separated units (GSUs). Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using an AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Changes of Publication: route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
36-363, Management of Records, disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information System (AFRIMS).

This is the initial publication of 944th Fighter Wing Instruction 36-3001.
 2                                                               944FWI36-3001 6 JUNE 2014




1. Purpose. The purpose of the 944 FW Key Spouse Program is to enhance mission readiness
through effective outreach, education, and support by unit leadership to its family members. It is
designed as a partnership between squadron leadership, appointed key spouses/mentors, and the
944 FW Airman and Family Readiness Center to address family readiness concerns. By
empowering a volunteer key spouse/mentor to serve as a vital communications link between the
command structure and families, unit leadership will have a direct connection with family
members to pass on vital information of upcoming activities and deployment related issues. As a
result, families become more self-reliant with knowledge of the available resources.
Furthermore, they are better prepared for deployments and should be ready to deal with
emergencies more effectively. Each unit will use the following guidelines to develop their
individual programs. These guidelines will help standardize the overall wing program and
develop a network among individual squadrons to guarantee support to all 944 FW families,
especially in times of deployments and crises.
2. Responsibilities:
     2.1. Commander:
        2.1.1. Establishes Key Spouse Program. Conveys to appointed key spouse/key spouse
        mentor, the expectations, guidelines, and parameters of the program.
        2.1.2. Ensures key spouse vacancies are advertised to all unit members/spouses and key
        spouse position description is included in advertisement.
        2.1.3. Encourages all available Key Spouse Program team members to participate in key
        spouse interviews, but should include, as a minimum, the commander and first sergeant.
        2.1.4. Appoints, in writing, the key spouse(s)/key spouse mentor(s). After endorsement
        by the 944 FW Commander, a copy is forwarded to the 944 FW A&FRC. Key spouse
        training may not take place without official appointment.
        2.1.5. Briefs selected key spouse/key spouse mentor on roles and responsibilities and
        establishes key spouse/unit and key spouse/family member contact expectations.
        2.1.6. Ensures key spouse/key spouse mentor attends basic and recurring 944 FW Key
        Spouse Program training as required.
        2.1.7. Introduces key spouse/key spouse mentor to unit membership.
        2.1.8. Ensures key spouse/key spouse mentor involvement with family and deployment
        activities.
        2.1.9. Ensures key spouse/key spouse mentor is aware of the commander's and first
        sergeant's open-door policy to discuss special needs and issues.
        2.1.10. Ensures key spouse is appointed to a one-year term as a minimum, with the
        option to renew unless circumstances dictate otherwise. Appointment and dismissal of a
        key spouse/key spouse mentor must be done in writing and is the right and responsibility
        of the commander.
        2.1.11. As a member of the commander's staff, the commander should include the key
        spouse/key spouse mentor in planning meetings and unit activities.
944FWI36-3001 6 JUNE 2014                                                                      3


     2.1.12. Ensure key spouse/key spouse mentor contributions are recognized through
     formal recognition and appreciation programs.
  2.2. First Sergeant:
     2.2.1. Serves as main point of contact for routine issues and support.
     2.2.2. Assists the commander in recruiting.
     2.2.3. Coordinates training with the 944 FW Airman and Family Readiness Center.
     2.2.4. Educates key spouse/key spouse mentor on privacy concerns and responsibilities.
     2.2.5. Works closely with key spouse/key spouse mentor to ensure a consistent, two-way
     information flow between the unit and its families.
  2.3. Airman and Family Readiness Center:
     2.3.1. Overall focal point for the 944 FW Key Spouse Program.
     2.3.2. Provides program oversight and coordination for all family readiness issues.
     2.3.3. Provides all key spouses/mentors with access to basic training and quarterly
     support/training meetings.
     2.3.4. Provides training, support, and referral services to all commanders, first sergeants,
     and key spouses/mentors.
  2.3.5. Provides key spouse/mentor with roster of unit and family member contact
  information.
  2.4. Key Spouse Mentor:
     2.4.1. The key spouse mentor is a knowledgeable and experienced spouse who provides
     support, encouragement and leadership. The key spouse mentor should have previous
     experience as a key spouse.
     2.4.2. The mentor acts as an advocate and supports and encourages key spouses.
     2.4.3. Attends wing/group/unit key spouse meetings, leads key spouse meetings and
     ensures issues and unit family readiness concerns are a priority
  2.5. Key Spouse:
     2.5.1. The key spouse must be a unit member’s spouse. Ideal candidates should be
     mature, trustworthy, an effective communicator, and have a positive attitude about the
     Air Force. They will implement the program in compliance with the expectations,
     guidelines and goals outlined by unit leadership.
     2.5.2. Serves as a communication link between leadership and families. Establishes a
     communications network among unit families, and reports contact statistics to the unit
     commander.
     2.5.3. Welcomes all incoming members and families to the unit and to the 944 FW.
     2.5.4. Provides information on referral services and unit activities to family members.
     2.5.5. Maintains a family readiness roster.
4                                                          944FWI36-3001 6 JUNE 2014


    2.5.6. Provides the commander/first sergeant feedback regarding family readiness
    concerns and unit morale and welfare issues.
    2.5.7. Attends required Basic Key Spouse Training upon appointment and all required
    briefings, meetings, and required refresher training.
    2.5.8. Establishes and maintains ongoing relationships with unit families whether unit
    member is deployed or not. When unit member is deployed or physically separated, the
    key spouse will be a vital link back to the unit for the family.




                                       KURT J. GALLEGOS, Colonel, USAFR
                                       Commander
944FWI36-3001 6 JUNE 2014                                   5


                                       Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Changes of Publication

Abbreviation and Acronyms
A&FRC—Airman and Family Readiness Center
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFB—Air Force Base
GSU—Geographically Separated Units
KSM—Key Spouse Mentor
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
USAF—United States Air Force
