  PRIVACY ACT NOTICE
  Information Collection




AUTHORITY: 10 USC 8013; DoD Directive 5400.11, Department of Defense Privacy Program, Air Force
Instruction 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 5 USC 522a of the Privacy Act of 1974



INDIVIDUALS COVERED BY NOTICE: All current Air Force civilian and military employees who require
regular, ongoing access to facilities, information technology systems, including applicants for employment or
contracts, federal employees, contractors, students, interns, individuals authorized to perform or use services
provided at the 944th Fighter Wing, Luke Air Force Base Arizona, facilities, e.g., Customer Service, Finance,
etc, and individuals formerly in any of these positions. This does not apply to occasional visitors or short-term
guests who will be issued temporary identification and credentials.



CATEGORIES OF RECORDS: Records relating to official travel including travel orders, per diem vouchers,
transportation requests, itinerary, travel charge card, civilian employer, and supporting documentation.
Necessary records for contractor to perform duty under a contract at 944 FW. Records include name, address,
Social Security Number, date of birth, employment information, telephone numbers, information needed for
identification verification, charge card receipts, rank/grade, and any other related information.



ROUTINE USES: To disclose information to unit responsible for in/out processing of individuals in
preparation for recall notices and network access. Information may be disclosed to individual’s employers to
verify military duty. To disclose information to the bank contractor providing issuance of government travel
credit card. To apply for employment, school quotas, temporary duty travel (TDY) and deployments.



DISCLOSURE IS VOLUNTARY: Disclosing this information is voluntary; however, not providing the
requested information may slow processing. Your social security number may be requested to identify your
records because other people may have the same name or birth date.




944 FW VA 33-301, 1 December 2010                                                   Prescribed By: AFI 33-332
Supersedes 944 FW VA 31-401, 1 September 2008                                           OPR: 944 FSS/SCOK
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
