BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              94 TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
94 TH AIRLIFT WING                                                              36-3001

                                                                           13 DECEMBER 2013

                                                                                       Personnel

                                                                        CASUALTY SERVICES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 94 FSS/FSMPS                                                        Certified by: 94 FSS/CC
                                                                          (LtCol David K. Dick)
Supersedes:    94AWI36-3001,                                                              Pages: 7
               5 November 2008


This instruction implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-3002,
Casualty Services. This instruction is used to assist the Air Force in effecting expeditious
reporting, dignified and humane notification and efficient and thorough assistance to the next of
kin of all casualties. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for
change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.myaf.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been revised and must be completely reviewed. Revision includes the
change of Office symbols from Mission Support Squadron to Force Support Squadron. This
instruction deletes Invitational Travel Orders and replaces it with the Emergency Family
Member Travel (EFMT) Program.
1. Responsibilities:
   1.1. The Commander, Dobbins ARB, is responsible for the casualty services program on this
   installation.
   1.2. The Casualty Assistance Representative (CAR) is responsible for casualty reporting,
   notification and assistance. The CAR will report Air Force Casualties for the tenant units
   located on this installation and will provide those casualty services that tenant organizations
 2                                                            94AWI36-3001 13 DECEMBER 2013


     may require. Services provided under this regulation should be reflected in host-tenant
     support agreements.
     1.3. All actions concerning casualty matters will be coordinated with the CAR, Dobbins
     ARB. The following units/sections will provide assistance/information as requested by the
     CAR:
        1.3.1. Base Telephone Switchboard
        1.3.2. Security Police
        1.3.3. Staff Duty Officer (SDO)
        1.3.4. Chaplain (when available during Unit Training Assemblies, Active Duty for
        Training (UTA/ADT periods)
        1.3.5. Installation Command Post
        1.3.6. Public Affairs Office
        1.3.7. MedicalPersonnel(whenavailable)
        1.3.8. Transportation
        1.3.9. Safety
        1.3.10. Mortuary
        1.3.11. Unit Commander (Deceased person’s unit of assignment)
        1.3.12. Emergency Management
        1.3.13. Fire Department
        1.3.14. Civilian Personnel
2. Procedures:
     2.1. The first agency, organization or person having knowledge of a casualty will telephone
     the CAR regardless of the time of day or night. Calls and requests from the Next of Kin,
     (NOK) or government agencies will also be referred to the CAR. If the Casualty Assistance
     personnel cannot be reached, call the base telephone operator for referral to an appropriate
     representative. The base operator will attempt to contact the representatives identified in the
     letter provided by CAR. If immediate contact cannot be made, the call will be referred to the
     Base Fire Department.
     2.2. The Senior Fireman will record all information received and relay it to the CAR or other
     casualty personnel as soon as possible. Information recorded by the Senior Fireman will
     include the following:
        2.2.1. Name and telephone number of informant
        2.2.2. Name, grade and social security number of the casualty
        2.2.3. Date of death
        2.2.4. Status of casualty, i.e., active duty, reserve, retired, etc.
        2.2.5. Name, address and phone number of the next of kin, if available
94AWI36-3001 13 DECEMBER 2013                                                                  3


     2.2.6. Name, location and phone number to the hospital, and the location of the remains,
     or any other information that pertains to the location of the casualty. The above
     information must be relayed to the CAR or other casualty assistance personnel
     immediately, regardless of the time of day or night. If after reasonable effort the casualty
     assistance personnel cannot be located, contact the FSS Commander or his/her
     representative.
  2.3. Immediately upon notification of an active duty casualty, the CAR will record the time
  of notification and immediately report to his/her duty station. The CAR will then alert the
  Installation Commander, and agencies listed in paragraph 1.3.1 thru 1.3.14, as applicable.
  The CAR will make every attempt to verify information received by the switchboard or other
  means of communication by contacting county, city, state police or other local authorities.
  Upon verification of information, a casualty report will be submitted.
  2.4. Security Forces will provide the CAR with a copy of the civilian police report, DD
  Form 1569, Incident/Complaint Report, as appropriate. The Security Police will also obtain
  other documentation upon request of the Casualty Assistance Representative, and may be
  required to be at the scene to assist and/or obtain information from local authorities.
  2.5. The Public Affairs Officer is responsible for the release of all information to the news
  media. Any calls requesting media information release will be referred to the Public Affairs
  Office. The Public Affairs Office will not release any information pertaining to a casualty
  outside of DOD channels for 24 hours after notification has been made to the next of kin.
  2.6. The Dobbins Mortuary Officer, in conjunction with the Mortuary Officer, 78MSG,
  Robins AFB, GA, is responsible for all activities related to search, recovery, identification,
  preparation, transportation and disposition of remains, memorial services, funeral
  arrangements, claims, escorts, military honors and other mortuary matters as directed by AFI
  34-261, Mortuary Services Benefits for Members Who Die While on Active Duty. The
  Mortuary Officer will not contact the next of kin to provide mortuary assistance for any
  death, other than for are tired Air Force member, until after death notification has been made
  and confirmed by CAR. Any calls pertaining to mortuary matters will be directed to 94
  FSS/SV.
  2.7. Air Force chaplains are not normally available at Dobbins ARB. However, in
  emergency situations, Air Force Reserve Chaplains may be placed on duty and utilized to
  assist in casualty notifications.
  2.8. Air Force Reserve medical personnel will be utilized to assist on notifications when
  available.
  2.9. The Transportation Officer will ensure that suitable transportation (sedan/station wagon)
  is available upon request for casualty notification or assistance.
     2.9.1. For after duty hours notification: The Casualty Services Office will call the Fire
     Department who, in turn will contact the Transportation Manager for availability and
     access to an appropriate vehicle.
  2.10. The Human Resources Officer will be responsible for effecting casualty notification
  and assistance to NOK of AF civilian employees.
 4                                                        94AWI36-3001 13 DECEMBER 2013


     2.11. The Base Finance Officer will provide a listing of personnel who can be contacted
     after duty hours to allow payment of the death gratuity, when needed.
3. Multiple Casualty Reporting Procedures:
     3.1. Multiple casualty reporting procedures are implemented in situations where the number
     of casualties exceeds the reporting units’ normal operating capability. Under these conditions
     the responsibilities of the various functions are as follows:
     3.2. The MPS Chief will designate a Casualty Augmentation Support Team (CAST), in
     writing, which will consist of as a minimum, the Chief, Reporting Team, Casualty Reporting
     Representative and sufficient team members to perform the reporting function. The team will
     be trained and evaluated periodically.
     3.3. The Command Post will notify the MPS Chief and the Casualty Assistance
     Representative should multiple casualty situations occur.
     3.4. The Mortuary Officer will notify the Casualty Office of the confirmed death of each
     individual. The On-Scene Commander will also notify the Chief, CAST, of the name, rank
     and SSAN of any personnel involved who were transported to another medical
     facility/hospital for further treatment or admission, the medical status of the individual Very
     Seriously Injured (VSI), Seriously Injured (SI), Not Seriously Injured (NSI), the nature of the
     injury (broken back,etc.) and the name of the facility/hospital to which they were taken and
     the date and time transported.
     3.5. The Mortuary Officer will furnish the Chief, CAST and/or the Casualty Reporting
     Representative with the name, rank, Social Security Number and other pertinent information
     on each member whose remains have been recovered and identified.
     3.6. The Emergency Management On-Scene Commander will make the determination of
     Conclusive Evidence of Death or the determination of Duty Status-Where abouts Unknown,
     on those persons whose remains have not been recovered and/or positively identified, based
     on “conclusive evidence of death” (e.g., AFI 36-3002, Casualty Services). If more than one
     commander or service is involved, they must coordinate their actions. A determination of the
     status of the casualty will not be made without the concurrence of all commanders
     concerned. As soon as the determination is made, the Chief, CAST will be notified.
     3.7. The Chief, CAST will alert team members and will then assume his/her duties in the
     Casualty Assistance Work Center. He/she will be responsible for tasking and briefing
     notification officers, for dispatching the Abbreviated Casualty Report and the Casualty
     Report, Initial Death Report to AFPC/DPFCS and other addresses as required. The Chief
     CAST will establish liaison with the Base Public Affairs Officer and advise when
     notification to the next of kin has been accomplished. He/She will be the focal point for all
     casualty notification and reporting activities, and under no circumstances will any agency,
     office or individual assume notification or reporting responsibilities without the specific
     assignment of such responsibility by the Chief, CAST or the Casualty Reporting
     Representative.
     3.8. The Chief, Customer Support will assist, upon the request of the Chief, CAST in
     obtaining medical, clerical and other support needed in making notification to the next of kin.
     The Chief, Customer Support is the alternate for the 94 MPS Chief and may, in coordination
94AWI36-3001 13 DECEMBER 2013                                                                  5


   with the Casualty Reporting Representatives, assign duties as required to perform tasks
   associated with casualty reporting and casualty notification.
   3.9. Upon being alerted of multiple casualty situations, team members will report to the area
   designated by the Chief, CAST and assume duties as assigned.
   3.10. The Human Resources Office, under the direction of the 94 FSS/CC, will establish a
   Casualty Assistance Support Team to serve in conjunction with the 94 FSS/FSMPS CAST
   Team. This Team will be activated in incidents where DOD/DAF civilian employees are also
   casualties. Civilian Casualty procedures are governed by AFI36-809, Civilian Survivor
   Assistance. A list of the names and telephone numbers of the team members will be
   furnished to 94 FSS/CC. These team members will be subject to call 24 hours a day,7 days a
   week in the event of multiple civilian casualties.
4. Emergency Family Member Travel (EFMT) Procedures:
   4.1. Policy. The Air Force is obligated to provide roundtrip transportation of NOK to the
   bedside of hospitalized SI or VSI members when their presence is considered necessary by
   competent medical authority to aid in the physical recovery of the patient, and not for
   compassionate reasons. The program applies to the NOK of Active Air Force members and
   USAFR/ANG members in a duty status. Note: AFPC is the sole approving authority for
   EFMT’s. Do not obligate the Air Force prior to insuring all criteria are met.
   4.2. The nearest Medical Treatment Facility (MTF) Commander or his representative will,
   upon receiving requests for EFMTs for Air Force members, immediately contact the
   Casualty Services personnel. MTF Commander must concur/non-concur with EFMT
   requests.
   4.3. Member’s Unit Commander will be contacted by the Casualty Representative.
   Commander coordinates with CAR to ensure NOK are promptly notified of member’s
   condition. Upon notification of EFMT approval and when itinerary has been established,
   assigns a unit representative as a personal escort to assist NOK. Ensures that escort informs
   Casualty office of NOK’s desired departure time so transportation can be arranged.
   4.4. Casualty Services Office will contact AFPC by telephone upon request for EFMT to
   obtain approval. When approved AFPC will dispatch a CONUS EFMT confirmation
   message and coordinate with escort in assisting NOK.
5. Newsworthy Events. Incidents involving Air Force personnel and their dependents, which
occur on or near Dobbins ARB in which no Air Force casualties occur, but in which the news
media is expected to show special interest, and whose coverage might result in next of kin or Air
Force officials calling and requesting information on the Air Force member, will be reported to
AFMPC/DPMC by the CAR. The information furnished to AFMPC will be coordinated through
the Public Affairs Officer prior to transmittal. No information will be furnished to anyone
outside the chain of command without the approval of the Public Affairs Officer.
6. Casualty Reporting. If casualty reporting becomes impossible because of disasters or other
circumstances, the reporting requirements will become the responsibility of the next higher
echelon in the chain of command having jurisdiction over the base.
7. Coordination Requirements. Agencies and tenant units of Dobbins ARB who prepare
written instruction pertaining to casualty matters will obtain the coordination of the Casualty
 6                                                    94AWI36-3001 13 DECEMBER 2013


Assistance Representative using Staff Summery Sheet or service equivalent prior to publication
to ensure adequacy and conformance to acceptable standards.




                                           TIMOTHY E. TARCHICK, Colonel, USAFR
                                           Commander
94AWI36-3001 13 DECEMBER 2013                                                           7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPAM 34-506, Mortuary Services Benefits for Members Who Die While on Active Duty, 12
August 2011.
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 36-3002, Casualty Services, 22 Feb 2010
AFI 36-809, Survivor Assistance, 1 July 2003
Adopted Forms
DD Form 1569, Incident/Complaint Report and AF 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPC/DPFCM—Air Force Personnel Center Missing Persons Branch
CAR—Casualty Assistance Representative
CAST—Casualty Augmentation Support Team
EFMT—Emergency Family Member Travel
NOK—NextofKin
SDO—Staff Duty Officer
UTA—Unit Training Assembly
MTF—Medical Treatment Facility
