BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                     94TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 21-119
94TH AIRLIFT WING
                                                                        16 DECEMBER 2013

                                                                                 Maintenance

                                                                   ENGINE MANAGEMENT



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 94 MXS/MXMP                                                     Certified by: 94 MXG/CC
                                                                         (Col Augusto Casado)
Supersedes:   94AWI21-119,                                                             Pages: 5
              2 September 2003


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space
Maintenance. The purpose of this instruction is to establish procedures for the movement,
management, and tracking of assigned aircraft engines in accordance with AFI 21-101,
Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management; T.O. 00-25-254-1, Comprehensive Engine
Management System Procedures; T.O. 2J-1-18, Preparation for Shipment and Storage of Gas
Turbine Engines; and T.O. 00-85-20, Engine Shipping Instructions. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the Air Force Form (AF) AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’ s chain of command. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with the Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document was completely revised and must be reviewed in its entirety.
1. Base Engine Manager Responsibilities (Engine Shipments and Receipts):
   1.1. Determines engine shipping requirements based on failure mode, operating time, repair
   restrictions, and asset availability.
 2                                                         94AWI21-119 16 DECEMBER 2013


     1.2. Coordinates with the AFRC Command Engine Manager for all engine movements,
     including redistribution, transfers, 2LM inputs, stock level adjustments, and warranty work.
     1.3. Obtains AFRC engine control number from the Command Engine Manager for tracking,
     control, and movement purposes; posts on engine shipping document (1348-1A).
     1.4. Preserves/packages engine IAW T.O. 2J-1-18 and T.O. 00-85-20 and initiates shipping
     document, 1348-1A. (72-hour shipment required for 2LM engine inputs.)
     1.5. Notifies Traffic Management Office (TMO) supervisor as soon as possible that engine
     shipment is required (air or surface) and provides shipping documentation (1348-1A) for
     transportation processing. For air shipment, coordinates with TMO on preparation of the
     Shipper’s Declaration of Dangerous Goods. For ground shipment, notifies TMO of priority
     of engine shipment to coordinate best value method of shipping.
     1.6. Reports to Comprehensive Engine Management System (CEMS), shipment transaction,
     and the date/time the engine was accepted by the TMO as recorded on the DD Form 1348-
     1A.
     1.7. Provides the Equipment Management Section a copy of the shipping document to
     process engine stands (adjust equipment levels) for shipment/receipt actions.
     1.8. In coordination with the Propulsion Flight Chief, provides personnel                  for
     delivery/pickup of engines to/from the TMO load/unload area.
     1.9. Upon receipt of engines from TMO section, checks Station Record Account Number
     (SRAN) for correct “ship to” (FJ6703), ensures proper engine and QEC configuration,
     completes external damage assessment (including trailer), processes receipt transaction in the
     CEMS and GO81 databases.
     1.10. Signs inbound shipping documents acknowledging receipt of engine.
2. TMO Supervisor Responsibilities (Engine Shipments and Receipts):
     2.1. Receives notification and required copy of the shipping document (1348-1A) from the
     Base Engine Manager or alternate (94 MXS/MXMP). Confirms shipping method
     (air/surface) and required delivery date.
     2.2. Weighs and marks engines as required for air/surface shipment. Inspects engine and
     trailer for proper preparation and packaging. For air shipment, ensures Shipper’s Declaration
     of Dangerous Goods is prepared and signed by a qualified individual authorized by the
     Contractor’s Project Manager. Ensures that a copy of shipping document (1348-1A) is
     affixed to the outside of the engine.
     2.3. Accepts engine for shipment (air or surface), generates cargo manifest and load plans as
     applicable IAW aircraft directives, and loads engines for required shipment (air or surface).
     2.4. In accordance with T.O. 00-85-20, orders wood-bed, air-ride equipped, either regular
     flat-bed or step-deck trailer in coordination with the Engine Manager for surface movement
     of engines (72-hour movement required for 2LM engine inputs). Provides and installs
     required blocking/bracing for engine shipping security. NOTE – Disconnect goose-neck
     trailers are not recommended.
94AWI21-119 16 DECEMBER 2013                                                                      3


   2.5. Provides one signed copy of the shipping document (1348-1A) to the Base Engine
   Manager for shipment transaction in the CEMS database.
   2.6. Coordinates with the Accountable Officer (AO) for funding shipments.
   2.7. Off-loads engine(s) arriving on base (air or surface), completes appropriate
   transportation documentation, and notifies Base Engine Manager of receipt.
3. Unit Engine Manager/SRAN Engine Monitor Responsibilities:
   3.1. Maintains the Maintenance Information System/Comprehensive Engine Management
   System database for SRAN FJ6703. Ensures compliance with all prescribed Comprehensive
   Engine Management and AFRC Command Engine Manager directives, policies, and
   procedures.
   3.2. Inputs all reportable transactions on unit assigned aircraft and spare assets within one
   duty day, monitors/schedules required inspection and time change actions, ensures all engine
   maintenance requirements are coordinated with appropriate agencies and functions.
   Coordinates with Plans & Scheduling/Documentation section on engine related TCTOs.
   During extended deployments of assigned aircraft, designates engine monitors to assimilate
   and input/forward required engine maintenance transactions. Dependent on deployment
   location, determines and implements the timeliest and most effective means of updating the
   maintenance information system.
   3.3. Reconciles CEMS database (direct line reporting) to reflect the most current and correct
   engine information available. Takes immediate action to correct all reporting errors and
   variances.
   3.4. In the event of interruption of service or connectivity problems of direct line reporting to
   the CEMS Central Data Base (CDB), AF Form 1534 documentation will be required to
   reflect engine status changes and be held for input when CDB is again accessible. In the
   event of extended CDB inaccessibility the AF 1534(s) will be forwarded to the CDB for
   updating.
   3.5. Cannibalization of engines/engine parts will be directed by the Cannibalization
   Authority (Production Superintendent / Propulsion Flight Chief or Section Supervisor) and
   will be coordinated between the Maintenance Operations Center (MOC), Maintenance
   Supply Liaison (MSL), Propulsion Flight Chief or Shop Supervisor, and Engine Manager.
   The MOC will issue a JCN and the job will be entered in GO81 by Propulsion Flight. Once
   the JCN is entered in GO81, MSL will transfer the original supply document number to the
   cannibalization JCN. If the cannibalization of a complete engine is necessary the SRAN
   Engine Manager will coordinate with the AFRC Command Engine Manager for approval and
   to obtain a replacement engine. Cannibalization actions will not be accomplished against
   serviceable engines without obtaining approval from AFRC Command Engine Manager.
4. Deployed Engine Management Procedures:
   4.1. During deployments a separate slot for an Engine Manager should be considered as part
   of the deployment package. In the event an Engine Manager is not part of the deployment
   package the following procedures will be followed.
      4.1.1. Deployed Propulsion Flight personnel will serve as the Deployed Engine
      Monitor(s) and will be thoroughly briefed on their duties by the Engine Manager, or
4                                                    94AWI21-119 16 DECEMBER 2013


    Assistant, prior to departure from home station. Deployed Engine Monitor(s) will be
    supplied with a copy (paper or electronic) of CEMS product E407 option 1 and 4 in the
    deployment package for spare engines or propellers. Deployed Engine Monitors will
    coordinate all engine, propeller, and serially controlled part transactions through the
    deployed MOC and will notify the Base Engine Manager/ Alternate by telephone, fax or
    e-mail. Information provided will include aircraft tail number, aircraft hours at
    engine/propeller removal, engine/propeller position, removed engine/propeller serial
    number, installed engine/propeller serial number, date job complied with, “corrected by”
    employee name and man number, “inspected by” employee name and man number.




                                        TIMOTHY E. TARCHICK, Colonel, USAFR
                                        Commander
94AWI21-119 16 DECEMBER 2013                                                              5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 21-101, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 July 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 February 2003
T.O. 00-25-254-1, Comprehensive Engine Management System Procedures, 15 June 2012
T.O. 2J-1-18, Preparation for Shipment and Storage of Gas Turbine Engines, 1 September 2010
T.O. 00-85-20, Engine Shipping Instructions, 15 March 2012
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
CDB—Central Data Base
CEMS—Comprehensive Engine Management System
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
MSL—Maintenance Supply Liaison
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SRAN—Station Record Account Number
TMO—Traffic Management Office
