BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      94TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION 21-104
94TH AIRLIFT WING
                                                                            25 OCTOBER 2012

                                                                                   Maintenance

                                                        FOREIGN OBJECT DAMAGE (FOD)
                                                               PREVENTION PROGRAM


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 94 MXG/MXQ                                                       Certified by: 94 MXG/CC
                                                                               (Lt. Col. Casado)
Supersedes:   94AWI21-104, 22 July 2008                                                  Pages: 6


This instruction implements AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance; AFI 21-101, Aircraft and
Equipment Maintenance Management; AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports; AFOSH
STD 91-100, Aircraft Flightline - Ground Operations and Activities; and 94 AWI 21-115,
Aircraft and Equipment Impoundment Program. This publication establishes the Foreign Object
Damage (FOD) Prevention Program for the 94th Airlift Wing and applies to all personnel who
perform duties on or around the Dobbins ARB, GA flight line. It establishes procedures and
outlines precautionary measures to ensure effective FOD prevention of assigned aircraft and
equipment.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with the Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Revision reflects
changes to paragraphs 1.5, 2.2, 3.2, 3.3 and deletion of paragraphs 3.1.1, 3.1.2, 7.3, 7.4 and 8.
1. Procedures: All personnel must be aware of and practice the following basic methods of
FOD prevention. (See Attachment 2)
 2                                                            94AWI21-104 25 OCTOBER 2012


     1.1. Diligently practice picking up all foreign objects and discard or stow them in the proper
     place. FOD containers will be provided on maintenance tool boxes and in all vehicles that
     normally access the flightline. Vehicles will have foreign object (FO) containers installed.
     FO containers will have “FOD” stenciled in contrasting two-inch colored letters. All other
     vehicle FOD containers will be emptied at the end of the shift.
     1.2. When maintenance is being performed, ensure that applicable aircraft openings, ports,
     lines, hoses, and ducts are always properly plugged or capped and that the throttle quadrant is
     covered to prevent foreign object damage.
     1.3. Ensure all tools, test equipment and hardware are accounted for and secured prior to
     aircraft engine operation.
     1.4. Flight crews and aircraft maintenance personnel will always implement requirements
     listed in 94 AWI 21-115, Aircraft and Equipment Impoundment Program, for situations
     dealing with lost tools/hardware.
     1.5. Prior to entering the Dobbins ARB flightline, taxiways and runway, all vehicles will be
     checked to ensure the vehicle is free of FOD. This includes tires, and areas of the surface or
     internal portion of the vehicle where FOD can be introduced to the aircraft parking area or
     taxiways. All motor vehicles entering the ramp or flightline areas will stop at the designated
     FOD check points and remove all foreign material from the tires. (NOTE: The areas inside
     of the gates are maintained as FOD free zones with weekly FOD walks & routine sweeps.
     Therefore, a second tire check is not required at the red-line ECPs). A locally manufactured
     tool for removing debris from tire treads is authorized for use and if used will be attached to
     the key ring and identified to the vehicle by etching/marking the vehicle ID number on the
     tool. For MXG vehicles, a locally manufactured tool with the vehicle ID number etched on it
     shall be attached to the key ring and utilized to remove all FOD from tires prior to entering
     the flightline areas.
     1.6. Sweeping: Ensure maximum use of mechanical or magnetic sweepers in aircraft
     parking and taxi areas. Flightline supervisors will specifically ensure sweepers are requested
     during maximum flying exercises and at other times when there is reasonable access to the
     aircraft parking area. Individuals observing area of the parking apron, flightline access road,
     and or near hangars will coordinate with the Maintenance Operation Center (MOC ext. 5-
     5335 or 5-4843) to have a sweeper scheduled to clean the affected area. All other areas on the
     flightline and airfield that cannot be cleaned by hand will be reported to Base Operations at
     5-4903/4904 for a sweeper.
2. Personnel Items:
     2.1. All personnel assigned duties requiring access to aircraft must account for all equipment
     and personal items prior to flight or maintenance action to ensure FOD which becomes loose,
     damaged, or lost is documented in the aircraft AFTO Form 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy
     and Work Document. A “Red X” will be entered for all equipment not found. The aircraft
     will remain in a “Red X” condition until every effort has been made to recover the lost item.
     2.2. The wearing of hats on the flightline is optional. IAW AFOSH STD 91-100, Aircraft
     Flight Line - Ground Operations and Activities, hats will not be worn in the engine
     intake/propeller danger areas of an aircraft while the engines are operating (10 feet from
     engine propeller/intake). Metal insignia are not authorized on uniforms, hats or jackets while
94AWI21-104 25 OCTOBER 2012                                                                     3


   working on the flightline. Personal items such as hat pins, personal tools to include personal
   flashlights and multi tools present a FOD hazard and are not authorized on the Dobbins ARB
   flightline.
   2.3. Line badges will be affixed to clothing with either a nylon cord, or worn inside a plastic
   arm band to prevent loss.
   2.4. Personal electronic or communication devices (e.g. cell phones, beepers, pagers,
   portable music/video players, electronic games, etc.) are prohibited on the flightline,
   munitions areas, hangars, and/or industrial work areas. This does not apply to government
   issued cell phones, beepers or pagers. (Ref. AFI 21-101_AFRC_SUP1)
3. Responsibilities:
   3.1. All work centers performing duties on or around the Dobbins ARB flightline, including
   but not limited to Aircraft Maintenance, Operations, Security, Fire, APS, TPC, POL, Counter
   Drug, BOS Contractor, and Transient Alert, are responsible for compliance with the
   following outlined responsibilities:
   3.2. The FOD Prevention Monitors are responsible for overall management of the Wing
   FOD Prevention Program. All other work centers are responsible for total program
   compliance within their areas of responsibility.
   3.3. Work centers with flightline responsibilities will conduct weekly inspections of their
   respective areas, ensuring all sources of FOD are identified and steps are taken to correct
   practices generating FOD and sources causing a FOD potential. For 94 MXG, this inspection
   will be documented in QANTTAS by QA personnel.
   3.4. Flightline work centers will provide people to participate in FOD walks of the aircraft
   parking ramps, and all adjacent areas as requested by the Wing FOD Prevention Program
   Manager.
4. Reporting:
   4.1. All actual or potential instances of FOD damage to aircraft or equipment will be
   immediately reported to the MOC at 5-5335, or 5-4843. Instances occurring on the flightline
   will be reported by LMR through the Flightline Expediter (FLEX). The MOC will notify the
   FOD Prevention Monitor for investigation to determine cause and recommendations to
   prevent recurrence. Personnel involved in reporting procedures will use guidance contained
   in 94 AWI 21-115, Aircraft and Equipment Impoundment Program, and advise all personnel
   receiving notification that an “impoundment” situation exists.
   4.2. Quality Assurance (94 MXG/MXQ) and Wing Safety (94 AW/SE) will be notified to
   ensure proper documentation and reporting procedures are followed. QA will ensure that the
   Maintenance Officer and Maintenance Group Commander are notified of FOD incident and
   that all applicable forms have been initiated and properly routed. When discrepancy is
   completed, QA will ensure notification of the final release.
4.3. All dropped objects and/or lost tools will be reported to Base Operations via MOC and if
applicable Base Ops will accomplish a runway/taxiway check for the FOD if the FOD has not
been found on the apron /ramp area.
5. Training:
 4                                                           94AWI21-104 25 OCTOBER 2012


     5.1. Military, civilian and contract employees assigned duties on or around aircraft or on the
     flightline will be trained in FOD prevention within 30 days of assignment.
     5.2. Refresher training will be conducted within 12 month cycles thereafter.
     5.3. Training will be documented in the GO81 System for aircraft maintenance people and
     other official training record systems for associated units.
6. Quarterly FOD Meetings:
     6.1. The FOD Prevention Monitor will conduct a quarterly FOD committee meeting.
     Required attendees are identified in Attachment 2 of this instruction. Meeting minutes will
     be produced and forwarded to all attendees. All action items are required to be addressed by
     the section tasked at the next FOD meeting, unless a faster response is required. In that case
     the Wing Commander, Maintenance Group Commander, FOD Prevention Monitor and NCO
     will be updated by E-Mail or phone or FAX copy.
     6.2. Open discrepancies or tasking will be tracked by meeting minutes until completed. All
     work orders will be tracked by originating work centers, with updates to the FOD Committee
     at the quarterly meeting.
7. FOD Prevention Monitor:
     7.1. The FOD Prevention Monitor will monitor and conduct the FOD Program in accordance
     with AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management; AFI 91-204, Safety
     Investigations and Reports and this instruction.
     7.2. The FOD Prevention Monitor will conduct a monthly inspection of all flightline and
     adjacent areas. Inspection will be annotated in QANTTAS and reported at the next quarterly
     meeting.




                                              TIMOTHY E. TARCHICK, Colonel, USAFR
                                              Commander
94AWI21-104 25 OCTOBER 2012                                                            5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
94 AWI 21-115, Aircraft and Equipment Impoundment Program, 22 August 2011
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 February 2003
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 July 2010
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 September 2008
AFOSH STD 91-100, Aircraft Flightline - Ground Operations and Activities, 1 May 1998
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AFTO Form 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document, 8 January 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
94 AWI—94th Airlift Wing Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
FLEX—Flightline Expediter
FOD—Foreign Object Debris
LMR—Land Mobile Radio
MOC—Maintenance Operation Control
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
QANTTAS—Quality Assurance Tracking and Trend Analysis System
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
 6                                                    94AWI21-104 25 OCTOBER 2012


                                       Attachment 2
                             SAMPLE APPOINTMENT LETTER

MEMORANDUM FOR ALL 94 AW COMMANDERS/WING STAFF AGENCIES
FROM: 94 AW/CC
SUBJECT: Dobbins ARB Foreign Object Damage (FOD) Committee Members

 The following functional areas are appointed as members of the Dobbins ARB Foreign
Object Damage Prevention Committee (FODPC):
FOD Prevention Officer           94 AW/CV
Safety Office                    94 AW/SE
Maintenance Group                94 MXG/CC
Quality Assurance                94 MXG/MXQ
A/C Maintenance                  94 AMXS/MXA SUPT
Maintenance                      94 MXS/MXA SUPT
Fuels Section                    94 LRS/LGSF (BOS Contractor)
Operations Group                 94 OG/CC/OGV
Support Group                    94 MSG/CC
Security Forces                  94 MSG/SFS
Fire Dept                        94 MSG/CES
Civil Engineering                94 MSG/CEC
Airfield Management              94 OG/OGA (BOS Contractor)
Operations                       700 AS/DO
Aerial Port                      80 APS
Transportation Proficiency       TPC
Transient Alert (T/A)            94 OGA/TA (BOS Contractor)
Lockheed Martin                  Lockheed Martin/DMCA
Army Guard
Army Reserve
