BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                            94TH AW INSTRUCTION 10-204
94TH AIRLIFT WING                                                                 15 NOVEMBER 2003

                                                                                             Operations

                                                              94TH AIRLIFT WING EXERCISE AND
                                                                       DEPLOYMENT PROGRAM



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 94 OG/OGX (LtCol. Richard Moser)               Certified by: 94 AW/CC (Brig Gen. William Kane)
                                                                                            Pages: 6
                                                                                     Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 10-2, Readiness, AFI 10-204, Participation in the Military Exercise
Program, and AFRCI 10-204, Air Force Reserve Exercise and Deployment Program. It outlines responsi-
bilities, provides procedures for exercise and deployment planning and approval, and establishes the 94th
Airlift Wing Deployment Review Process.


1. Purpose. The purpose of the 94th Airlift Wing Deployment Review Program is to fulfill the require-
ments of the AFRCI 10-204, paragraph 3.3.8, which states that each wing must implement a Wing
Deployment Review Board Program. The 94 AW’s Program will enhance readiness, boost combat capa-
bility, streamline long-range planning, manage and de-conflict the annual wing calendar of events, and
increase deployment status visibility and awareness. It defines procedures for:
   1.1. Reporting and approval of unit participation in exercises and off station deployments.
   1.2. After-action reporting.
   1.3. Planning local exercises and funding requirements.
   1.4. Long-range planning to increase preparedness.

2. Coordination. The 94 OG/OGX and the 94 LGRR offices jointly serve as the central deployment
coordinators for all exercise and off-station deployment events. All 94 AW units must request deploy-
ment/airlift requests with justifications through these offices for approval of the 94 AW/CC. The OGX or
LGRR office will forward unit requests after 94 AW/CC’s approval to the NAF XP. The NAF will then
prioritize all unit requests and forward them to the appropriate AFRC functional area manager.

3. Deployment and Exercise Review Board Process.
2                                                                  94AWI10-204 15 NOVEMBER 2003


    3.1. Requirement. Units within the 94th Airlift Wing are considered to be conducting or supporting a
    deployment, and must comply with all requirements and reports of this instruction when any of the
    following apply (IAW AFRCI10-204):
       3.1.1. Employment participation in named exercises or GMAJCOM training events (example Red
       Flag, Silver Flag, JRTC, etc.).
       3.1.2. Any operations with any foreign nationals.
       3.1.3. Joint Operations. Joint Operations are operations with units or personnel from one or more
       of the other US services. This does not include routine operations (i.e. joint airborne air transport-
       ability training (JA/ATT), etc.
       3.1.4. Requires AFRC commercial funds.
       3.1.5. Requires AFRC supplied airlift (organic or Special Assignment Airlift Mission (SAAM).
       3.1.6. Deploying to OCONUS location(s).
       3.1.7. Any other deployment specified in AFRC10-204.
    3.2. Process.
       3.2.1. Unit Deployment Managers (UDM). Each unit in the 94 AW will have a UDM. If the UDM
       is a Reservist, the unit will appoint an ART/civilian as the alternate. IAW AFI 10-403, Deployment
       Planning and Execution, Attachment 4, Unit Commander’s Checklist, unit deployment managers
       and alternates should not be assigned to deployment positions. The UDM will:
           3.2.1.1. Submit deployment requests to 94 OG/OGX 90 days prior to the date the request is
           required to be at AFRC (see In-Cycle Request, paragraph 4a). Requests will be submitted in
           the format shown (Attachment 1). OGX will then submit the proper paperwork and obtain the
           signatures required for approval within the Wing prior to submittal to 22 AF. In the absence of
           OGX, LGRR can submit the paperwork.
           3.2.1.2. Attend the 94 AW Deployment Review Group (DRG) meetings.
           3.2.1.3. Monitor the planning and execution stages of all unit deployments and notifies OGX
           or LGRR of problems.
           3.2.1.4. Appoints a Mission Commander or Team Chief for deployments of 5 or more person-
           nel.
           3.2.1.5. Briefs details (RPA requirements, commercial travel costs, lodging and messing
           availability, etc.,) of all squadron deployments requests at the 94 AW DRG.
           3.2.1.6. Assists OGX in maintaining an accurate deployment calendar.
       3.2.2. The 94 AW Deployment Review Group (94 AW/DRG) is chaired by OGX. Membership
       consists of LGRR, 94 OG/DOOM, and a representative from each squadron (preferably the Unit
       Deployment Manager), DPMSA, FM, Transportation, CP and IN. This group convenes within the
       first two weeks of the 1st month of each quarter and:
           3.2.2.1. Prioritizes exercises and deployments based on wing goals and makes recommenda-
           tions to the 94 AW Deployment Review Board (DRB)
           3.2.2.2. Validates all exercise and deployment submissions and makes recommendations to
94AWI10-204 15 NOVEMBER 2003                                                                             3


          the 94 AW DRB
          3.2.2.3. De-conflicts exercises and deployments with the 94 AW calendar of events.
          3.2.2.4. Establishes date and time for processing if processing of personnel and/or cargo is
          required.
          3.2.2.5. Proposes changes to this instruction to the 94 AW DRB for concurrence
          3.2.2.6. Determines the need for a Deployment Planning Cell. This cell, if required, deter-
          mines all specific pre-deployment requirements such as, immunizations, CED orders, special
          uniforms, etc. It is chaired by LGRR.
      3.2.3. The 94 AW Deployment Review Board (94 AW/DRB) is chaired by the 94 AW/CC and
      consists of the OG/CC, MSG/CC, MX/CC, FM, LGRR, and OGX. This group convenes the 1st
      month of each quarter, sometime after the 94 AW Deployment Review Group. The DRB:
          3.2.3.1. Reviews all proposed training and deployment requests to ensure compliance with 94
          AW and AFRC guidance.
          3.2.3.2. Approves/disapproves deployment requests previously screened by the Deployment
          Review Group.
      3.2.4. Mission Commander or Team Chief will:
          3.2.4.1. Attend the 94 AW DRG and/or Planning Cell meetings, as required.
          3.2.4.2. Submit all required after action reports or end-of-tour reports within 30 days of return
          to home station (see After-Action Reporting, paragraph 6.).

4. Request Cycles
   4.1. In-cycle. An In-Cycle request is defined as a deployment request submitted to AFRC within 120
   days prior to the quarter in which the deployment will take place. This should include all deployment
   requests. Requests to the 94 AW DRB should be early enough so the Wing’s process can occur and the
   submittal made to 22 AF and then to HQ AFRC in this time frame. For example, for deployment dates
   between 1 Oct and 31 Dec, the request must be to AFRC NLT 3 Jun. For deployments between 1 Jan
   and 31 March the request must be submitted to AFRC by 3 Sep. For deployments between 1 Apr and
   30 June the request must be submitted to AFRC by 3 Dec. For deployments between 1 July and 30 Sep
   the request must be submitted to AFRC by 3 March. For specific timelines, refer to the following
   timeline guide.


  Deployment Request Timelines (all NLT dates)
  Deployment Dates     To 94 OGX       to 94/DRB                      to AFRC
  1 Oct-31 Dec         1 Feb            1 Apr                          3 Jun
  1 Jan-31 Mar         1 May            1 Jul                          3 Sep
  1 Apr-30 Jun         1 Aug            1 Sep                          3 Dec
  1 Jul-30 Sep         1 Nov            1 Dec                          3 Mar
4                                                                 94AWI10-204 15 NOVEMBER 2003


    4.2. Out-of-cycle. An out-of-cycle request is defined as a deployment request submitted within 120
    days of the quarter in which the deployment will take place. All out-of-cycle requests will have justi-
    fication submitted to the DRG as to why it was not submitted in cycle and if 94 AW DOOM (Current
    Operations) was contacted to provide airlift. Per AFRCI 10-204, Out-of-cycle requests should be
    very infrequent, resulting from unavoidable changes, and not as a substitute for inadequate planning.

5. Funding
    5.1. MAJCOM exercise requests exceeding the unit’s annual tour capability and unit’s capability to
    support with RPA funding must be military personnel appropriation (MPA) funded by the MAJCOM
    to ensure participation.
    5.2. DRB approved commercial transportation costs are paid by RPA funds and are requested to be
    provided by HQ AFRC/FMAR. After verification that 94 AW airlift is not available, it will be sent
    forward to see if other AFRC airlift can support the unit. After verification that AFRC owned airlift is
    not available, and no earlier than 60 days prior to deployment, the unit will submit a funding request
    for commercial travel/transportation reimbursement through the 94 AW/FM and the 94 AW/CC (for
    information) before submitting to HQ AFRC functional OPR. The unit will work with OMEGA to
    make commercial travel arrangements, both domestic and international. Requests should include
    deployment location, number deploying, deployment dates, cost per individual, and total commercial
    costs. For planning purposes, commercial funds are not going to be obligated any earlier than 30 days
    or the last UTA prior to deployment.

6. After-Action Reporting
    6.1. The Mission Commander/Team Chief will submit after-action reports or end-of-tour reports
    within 30 days of return to home station. Reports should be sent to the unit Squadron Commander,
    Group Commander, with a copy to 94 OG/OGX. HQ AFRC/DO/DOOX/HO, NAF/XPO and AFRC
    functional OPR will be included in after-action/end-of-tour report distribution.
    6.2. The report as a minimum must include:
       6.2.1. Total number of deployed officer and enlisted personnel and home station designation.
       6.2.2. Training location and dates
       6.2.3. Mode of transportation to all locations in the deployment
       6.2.4. AFRC cost for off-base lodging (unit funded, if required)
       6.2.5. Specific training accomplished in each functional area
       6.2.6. Number of personnel trained in each area
       6.2.7. Specify workload handled equipment, number and types of aircraft, etc.
       6.2.8. Problems or areas of concern
       6.2.9. Signature of Mission Commander/Team Chief

7. Planning Guidelines (excerpt from AFRC 10-204, section 3.3).
    7.1. Guidance. Units must use priorities for scheduling deployments. When considering the schedul-
    ing and planning of off-station training deployments, consider the following factors: existence of a
94AWI10-204 15 NOVEMBER 2003                                                                               5


  statutory requirement for projected training (CE going to Silver Flag, etc), effect of training on a unit’s
  SORTS status, quality of training offered by requested deployment, availability of equivalent or better
  training at a closer location, cost of commercial funds if organic airlift is not available or recom-
  mended, and availability of government billeting and ground transportation.
     7.1.1. Non-AFSC specific training should be coordinated with the host MAJCOM and base host-
     ing the deployment. Valid training deployments for wartime mobility UTCs are of the utmost
     importance for unit readiness.
     7.1.2. When reviewing overseas locations for AT, planners should consider theater commander
     and gaining command policies regarding deployments to their theaters and the cost of transporta-
     tion both in terms of necessary flying hours, and/or commercial air travel.
  7.2. Objectives. Commanders should have specific objectives to achieve when planning exercise par-
  ticipation and/or training deployments. Areas to review include: results of recent inspections,
  after-action reports from previous deployments, review of mission capability statements, and higher
  headquarters guidance.
  7.3. Relevancy. NAFs will ensure unit exercises prepare units to master their OPLAN tasking. Units
  may participate in exercises not relating to OPLAN tasking as long as such exercises give units mean-
  ingful training.
  7.4. Joint Exercise Management Program (JEMP). JEMP reflects the JCS exercise schedule. The
  schedule lists the type of forces required to support the various exercises. Unit planners are encour-
  aged to review this schedule for opportunities to participate in exercises that best meet unit-training
  needs.



                                                     WILLIAM P. KANE, Brig Gen, USAFR
                                                     Commander
6                                                               94AWI10-204 15 NOVEMBER 2003


                                            Attachment 1

                                    DEPLOYMENT REQUEST
UNIT:
HOME STATION:
DEPLOYMENT SITE:
DEPLOYMENT DATES:
NUMBER OF PERSONNEL: (Total number of personnel deploying broken into aircrew and support
categories along with the duty status of each. If the Wing/Group is participating in a JCS/MAJCOM or
large unit-generated exercise, the person conducting the planning for the Wing/Group should include the
transportation, billeting, and messing needs of all support unit personnel involved in the exercise.)
NUMBER OF PALLETS:
BILLETING: ON-BASE/OFF BASE
NUMBER/TYPE OF AIRCRAFT: (For flying units only. How many aircraft are being deployed as part
of the overall deployment (i.e., eight C-130’s, 4 C-17, etc.)
UTC’S TASKED/EXERCISED AND DUTY STATUS:
AFSC’S TASKED/EXERCISED AND DUTY STATUS:
TRANSPORTATION MODE: (Unless the unit is moving by government ground or privately owned
transportation—normally when travel is less than 350 miles—the primary mode is always AFRC organic.
Include the number and type of aircraft best suited to supporting the deployment. Indicate an alternate
mode of transportation. The alternate mode of transportation will generally be commercial air. AMC
SAAM will only be used if AFRC organic is not available and SAAM is less expensive than commercial,
or commercial carriers cannot support the deployment because of unique cargo hauling requirements or
because the deployment is to remote sites not supported by commercial carriers.)
TRANSPORTATION COST: (Estimate of commercial travel in the event AFRC organic airlift is not
available.).
EXERCISE NAME: (Use this section if the deployment is in support of a named exercise: JCS, MAJ-
COM, NATO, NAF, or unit generated.)
THIS DEPLOYMENT WILL/WILL NOT HURT THE UNIT’S ABILITY TO FULFILL AEF
TASKINGS (CIRCLE ONE).
DEPLOYMENT POC: The point of contact at the original on-load location that is responsible for
arranging and coordinating transportation.
POC PHONE: The phone number for the on-load point of contact.
REDEPLOY POC: The point of contact at the return site. The person coordinating return airlift.
REDEPLOY PHONE: The phone number of the person coordinating return airlift.
COMMENTS: (If out of cycle, explain why it was not submitted for an in-cycle request. Explain any-
thing unusual concerning this request).
