BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 94TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
94TH AIRLIFT WING                                                                 32-7086

                                                                                6 FEBRUARY 2014

                                                                                  Civil Engineering

                                                            HAZARDOUS WASTE MATERIALS
                                                                 MANAGEMENT PROGRAM

                 COMPLIANCE WITH PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no release restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 94 MSG/CEV                                                           Certified by: 94 MSG/CE
                                                                        (Mr. Kenneth W. Williams)
Supersedes:    94AWI32-7086, 25 June 2010                                                  Pages: 18


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-70, Environmental Quality,
Air Force Instruction (AFI) 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management and AFRC Supplement
dated 8 August 2005. It establishes procedures and standards that govern management of
hazardous materials on Dobbins Air Reserve Base (ARB). The guidance and procedures
outlined in the instruction apply to all 94th Airlift Wing organizations, tenants, and all service and
construction contractors, including Base Operational Services contractors, which store and/or use
hazardous materials on Dobbins ARB. Fore abbreviations and acronyms, see Attachment 1.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’ s chain of command. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and are disposed
of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been substantially revised and must be read in its entirety. Changes to
procedures for obtaining, managing and tracking hazardous materials using the EESOH-MIS
program have been incorporated into this revision. Affected Responsibilities have been updated
to reflect these changes.
1. HOW TO USE THIS INSTRUCTION.
2                                                        94AWI 32-7086 6 FEBRUARY 2014


    1.1. Background. Use the procedures in this instruction to comply with the requirement for
    centralized management of hazardous material (hazmat) in accordance with AFI 32-7086,
    and the corresponding AFRC Supplement 1, dated 8 August 2005.
    1.2. Concept. This Hazardous Materials Management Process (HMMP) is a tool to track
    hazardous materials stored and used on base for regulatory reporting purposes, and, to reduce
    pollution (waste and emissions) generated on Dobbins ARB by reducing the quantity and
    toxicity of hazardous materials (hazmat) authorized for use on base, and subsequently
    regulated wastes. This instruction establishes the HAZMART as a single point of control for
    tracking the ordering, distribution, storage, and use of hazmat. The HMMP Team established
    on Dobbins ARB consists of representatives from 94 AW/SE (Safety), 94 CONF/LGC
    (Contracting), 94 MSG/CEV (Environmental), 94 MSG/SGPB (Bioenvironmental
    Engineering), 94 MSG/CEF (Fire Department), 94AW/JA (Legal), 94 AW/SC
    (Communications), 94 MXG (Maintenance), and 94 LRS/SUP (Base Supply - BOS
    Contractor - HAZMART Manager). The HMMP Team will determine base policy for the
    management of hazmat on base within the context of the base Environmental Management
    System (EMS) procedures and practices.
    1.3. Authorization. Any person, organization or contractor (“Customer”) that intends to use
    any hazardous material (“hazmat”) on Dobbins ARB must be authorized to use that specific
    hazmat for a specific process by the HMMP Team prior to bringing it onto Dobbins
    property.
       1.3.1. A hazardous material is defined herewith as any product which is intended to be
       applied to any surface for which the Occupational Safety and Health Administration
       (OSHA) requires a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) be provided by the product
       manufacturer for use in an industrial process.
       1.3.2. HAZMART customers include: 94 Airlift Wing (host) personnel; transient
       organizations; the Base Operational Services (BOS) contractor; service contractors;
       construction contractors; tenant organizations and their maintenance contractors; Army
       Corp of Engineers; U.S. Fish and Wildlife; and any other persons, organizations or
       contractors that store or use hazmats on base.
       1.3.3. Authorizations need only be accomplished one time for each shop, office, or
       project; repeated purchases or use of authorized hazmat do not require repeated
       authorizations. Conversely, if a shop changes a process and/or no longer uses that
       process or a material, they need to identify this to the System Admin person.
       1.3.4. Authorization for the use of a hazmat does NOT constitute a purchase request, nor
       approval of the government for its use. Authorization is granted when the HMMP Team
       has reviewed the MSDS and applicable supporting documentation for environmental,
       health and safety risks to government employees.
    1.3.5. Contractor material approval is provided through contractual submittals, which are
    reviewed by the HMMP Team whom will provide recommendations to Contracting
    regarding approval or disapproval. Only government owned hazmat may be stored on base;
    no non-government owned hazmat is allowed to be stored on base.
2. RESPONSIBILITIES.
94AWI 32-7086 6 FEBRUARY 2014                                                               3


  2.1. HMMP Team Members [94LRS/LRSDH (Base Supply/BOS Contractor),
  94CONF/LGC, 94MSG/SGPB, 94MSG/CEV, 94MSG/CEF, 94AW/SE, 94AW/SC,
  94MXG and 94AW/JA)] will:
     2.1.1. Work together as a team to implement the Hazardous Materials Management
     Process (HMMP) in accordance with this base instruction and AFI 32-7086 and the
     AFRC supplement, each organization assuming responsibilities detailed in this Section.
     This includes attending scheduled HMMP Team meetings and carrying out assigned
     tasks.
     2.1.2. Review (for approval or acknowledgement) all authorization requests from
     customers, including contractors, as needed.
     2.1.3. Input data and maintain records in Standard Base Supply System (SBSS) and AF
     hazmat tracking program as necessary.
     2.1.4. Determine which hazmats will be considered HAZMART-managed assets.
     2.1.5. Follow all base and AF requirements for the use of the Enterprise Environmental
     Safety and Occupational Health Management Information System (EESOH-MIS) which
     is accessible only through the AF portal.
     2.1.6. Provide guidance to hazmat users regarding HAZMART operations and
     procedures as needed, and develop methods of communication to ensure availability of
     hazmat procurement, storage and disposal procedures.
     2.1.7. Share observations of shop inspections and hazmat storage areas to ensure that the
     requirements of this instruction are met.
  2.2. 94 LRS/LRSDH (Base Supply/BOS Contractor) shall abide by the specific Tab B
  of the Performance Work Statement (PWS) that addresses management of the
  HAZMART, which includes:
     2.2.1. Manage the HAZMART IAW paragraph 2.4 of AFI 32-7086, implementing this
     instruction and participating in HMMP Team meetings.
     2.2.2. Process hazmat requests received in EESOH-MIS daily. Procure hazmats, process
     hazmats received, and issue hazmats to users daily. When practicable, hazmats received
     by the HAZMART from Base Supply should be processed within two (2) days of receipt
     by the HAZMART.
     2.2.3. Deliver Wing and Tenant hazmat, ordered using the 94 AW Supply system to
     customers after processing, including the printing and provision of HAZMART barcodes
     and waste disposition dots. Make barcodes and disposition dots available to GPC
     customers.
     2.2.4. Provide an approved, secure area for storage of HAZMART-managed hazardous
     materials (hazmat), and manage (store, segregate and transport) hazmat in accordance
     with all applicable Air Force, state and federal requirements.
     2.2.5. Create and maintain a free-issue area within the HAZMART for unused items that
     are capable of being used by authorized users on base. Update EESOH-MIS upon return
     of free-issue hazmat.
4                                                      94AWI 32-7086 6 FEBRUARY 2014


       2.2.6. Process requests for local purchase numbers within two (2) days of provision of
       MSDS and container information via email.
       2.2.7. Provide SBSS and HAZMART data for reporting purposes upon request.
       2.2.8. Update EESOH-MIS with issues and receipts as they are generated. Perform as
       Dobbins’ MSDS gatekeeper for EESOH-MIS.
       2.2.9. Perform a semi-annual inventory of HAZMART-controlled hazmats stored within
       the Supply warehouse and the HAZMART storage modules.
       2.2.10. Receive all HAZMART-controlled hazmats that come on base purchased by or to
       be received by Dobbins personnel and tenants, as notified.
       2.2.11. When practicable, barcode hazmats received within two (2) days of receipt.
       Apply Disposition Dots (provided by 94 MSG/CEV) to all hazmats received; print and
       provide barcodes and Disposition Dots to personnel that report hazmats purchased using
       the Government Purchase Card (GPC) or other procurement method.
       2.2.12. Perform MSDS-related functions as the Dobbins’ MSDS gatekeeper for
       EESOH-MIS. Maintain hard copy of current MSDSs for all hazmats stored in the
       HAZMART and in free-issue.
       2.2.13. Upon receipt of damaged hazmat, follow the present practice for containment,
       refusal (SF Form 364, Report of Discrepancy), action and/or disposal. Follow the
       procedures found in the Waste Management for Shops manual for the proper collection
       and disposal of any waste generated from the damaged hazmat.
       2.2.14. GPC Hazmat Requests. HAZMART shall process GPC requests received within
       the EESOH-MIS program, and shall maintain a log of control numbers issued for
       authorized purchases. When practicable, follow up with users within five (5) days via
       telephone and/or email to ensure user brings hazmat to the HAZMART for barcode and
       disposition dot application, and to verify correct purchase.
       2.2.15. Class I ODS Requests. Process all requests to obtain or turn in Class I ozone-
       depleting substances (ODSs) for customers in accordance with AFI 32-7086 and Air
       Force ODS Policy. Process turn-in requests for cylinders/ containers containing, or
       previously containing, Class I ODSs to the Defense Reserve in accordance with Air Force
       policy.
       2.2.16. Provide assistance to customers as needed regarding usage of EESOH-MIS
       program for procurement of hazmat, directing personnel to EESOH-MIS help desk and/or
       94 MSG/CEV as appropriate.
    2.3. 94 MSG/SGPB (Bioenvironmental Engineering) will:
       2.3.1. Conduct industrial hygiene surveys, and identify discrepancies observed between
       shop processes and those authorized processes in EESOH-MIS.               Report these
       discrepancies to the HMMP Team via email.
       2.3.2. Participate in the development of HMMP policies, training, and changes in
       regulations and procedures. Participate in the HMMP Team, including taskings and
       decision making.
94AWI 32-7086 6 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                5


     2.3.3. Inform HMMP Team of pertinent changes in the regulatory environment in order
     to initialize any corresponding necessary changes in the HMMP base instruction.
     2.3.4. Accept MSDSs for initial review for 94 AW shop personnel and some tenants
     prior to requesting local purchase numbers from HAZMART.
     2.3.5. Administrative data, as requested by any HMMP Team member, not directly
     related to the issue and delivery of a specific hazmat, will be processed when practicable
     within five (5) working days.
     2.3.6. Process items in EESOH-MIS workbasket daily. Identify missing or erroneous
     data.
  2.4. 94 MSG/CEV (Environmental Quality) will:
     2.4.1. Lead the HMMP Team, per AFI 32-7086; facilitate the HMMP Team meetings
     and record the minutes.
     2.4.2. Evaluate documents (e.g. AF Form 3000, MSDS, or Material Approval Submittal),
     submitted by construction or service contractors, and recommend approval or disapproval
     of the use of hazmats requested to be used on base, without or without usage conditions
     as appropriate. Coordinate with SGPB and other HMMP Team members as necessary to
     provide a consolidated HMMP Team evaluation.
     2.4.3. Consolidate and submit HMMP Team-validated, environmentally justified
     HAZMART funding requirements to HQ AFRC/CEV annually..
     2.4.4. Extract data from EESOH-MIS to complete required regulatory and AF reports.
     2.4.5. Perform tasks to provide System Administration for EESOH-MIS. (i.e. account
     establishment, account reactivation, basic troubleshooting, etc.).
     2.4.6. Assist customers in finding appropriate substitute products when customer request
     hazmats that contain Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS), EPA-17 chemicals or other
     environmentally sensitive constituents (e.g. phosphates).
     2.4.7. Initiate and coordinate updates to this base instruction.
     2.4.8. Process items in EESOH-MIS workbasket daily. Identify missing or erroneous
     data.
     2.4.9. Review MSDSs for new hazmats being requested by tenants and contractors prior
     to forwarding to HAZMART to obtain local purchase numbers.
  2.5. 94 CONF/LGC (Contracting) will:
     2.5.1. Enforce the requirement, where applicable, for Contractors to submit a Material
     Information Sheet (Attachment 3), concurrently with a current manufacturer’s MSDS for
     each hazmat to be used on Dobbins, for review and approval through the HMMP Team
     and/or Civil Engineering, prior to the Contractor bringing the material on base.
     2.5.2. Ensure that Contractor responsibilities for hazmat management, as detailed in their
     contracts, are enforced.
     2.5.3. Ensure that GPC account holders and accountable officers are provided with
     training and instruction on procedures for obtaining hazmat using the EESOH-MIS
6                                                        94AWI 32-7086 6 FEBRUARY 2014


       program. This program provides the necessary documentation to meet AFI 64-117, Air
       Force Government-Wide Purchase Card (GPC) Program, dated 20 Sep 2011.
    2.6. 94 AW/SE (Wing Safety) will:
       2.6.1. Perform annual inspections of the HAZMART and customer hazmat storage areas
       to identify safety deficiencies, and report observations to the HMMP Team.
       2.6.2. Investigate all mishaps and incidents involving hazmat to prevent recurrence.
       2.6.3. Process items in EESOH-MIS workbasket daily. Identify missing or erroneous
       data. IAW AFI 32-7086, the review will include hazmat-related work area safety surveys,
       the identification of conditions of use and worker occupational safety training, and
       identification of processes that require occupational safety analysis in accordance with
       AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction, Chapter 46 and
       OSHA Standard. 1910.119.
    2.7. 94 MSG/CEF (Fire Department) will:
       2.7.1. Perform annual inspections of the HAZMART and base shops to identify fire
       protection and chemical compatibility deficiencies, and report observations to the HMMP
       Team.
       2.7.2. Provide technical assistance and training to the HAZMART for fire extinguisher
       and fire suppression requirements.
       2.7.3. Advise the HMMP Team of facility fire protection compliance with the current
       editions of AFOSH, Air Force, National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), and local
       standards, instructions and codes.
       2.7.4. Ensure that emergency response personnel have access to EESOH-MIS and
       corresponding reports to obtain chemical inventories for each facility.
    2.8. 94 AW/JA (Legal) will participate in scheduled HMMP Team meetings and provide
    advice on legal issues related to hazardous materials.
    2.9. 94 AW/SC (Communications) will participate in scheduled HMMP Team meetings
    and provide input and information on issues related to information technology and
    communicating hazardous material information to base personnel.
    2.10. 94 MXG (Maintenance) will participate in scheduled HMMP Team meetings and
    provide input and information regarding weapons systems hazardous materials to ensure
    other Team members are informed about any changing requirements.
    2.11. All HAZMART Customers will:
       2.11.1. Utilize the EESOH-MIS program to input processes requiring the use of hazmat
       for a shop, and the hazmat used for those processes. Obtain approval of a process and the
       hazmat used to complete that process prior to purchasing them or receiving them.
          2.11.1.1. Utilize the EESOH-MIS program to locate stock numbers and local
          purchase numbers for new materials desired to be added to processes.
          2.11.1.2. If a desired stock number or local purchase number for a hazmat is not
          found in EESOH-MIS, the customer must research and obtain an electronic pdf file of
94AWI 32-7086 6 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                  7


        the manufacturer’s MSDS for the hazmat, as well as the container and package
        information (often found on a corresponding Product Data Sheet (PDS)).
            2.11.1.2.1. 94 AW personnel and some tenants must email MSDS and PDS files
            in a request to 94 MSG/SGPB for review. If approved, SGPB will forward the
            email package to the HAZMART as a request to have the information loaded into
            EESOH-MIS. If not approved, SGPB will assist user in locating an appropriate
            hazmat substitute.
            2.11.1.2.2. Contractors and tenants must email these files in a request to 94
            MSG/CEV for review. If approved, CEV will forward the email package to the
            HAZMART as a request to have the information loaded into the EESOH-MIS
            system. If not approved, CEV will assist user in locating an appropriate hazmat
            substitute.
        2.11.1.3. Upload technical order, commercial publication, manufacturer’s manual, or
        other directive requiring the use of the hazmat for weapons system processes to
        EESOH-MIS for justification.
        2.11.1.4. Completely fill in all information required for each process, all tabs left of,
        and up to, the Waste Tab, prior to submitting a process for authorization.
     2.11.2. Utilize the EESOH-MIS program to ‘order’ hazmat using the GPC option for any
     procurement method other than 94AW Supply, in order to notify the HAZMART of the
     user’s intent to purchase a hazmat through other procurement methods. Users must
     retrieve notification of approved orders within EESOH-MIS (under the: ”View Material
     Request” tab) which must be printed and placed in the GPC order book to verify
     compliance with AFI 64-117.
     2.11.3. Participate in any training offered by the HMMP Team for use of the EESOH-
     MIS program. Utilize online training packages as often as needed, as well as the
     EESOH-MIS help desk.
     2.11.4. Ensure that all hazmat containers in customer possession are properly labeled,
     barcoded (if applicable) and stored.
     2.11.5. Maintain a current MSDS for each hazmat stored or in use in the customer shop
     area.
     2.11.6. Order only the specified type and minimum amount of hazmat needed to perform
     a task.
     2.11.7. Manage the storage of excess hazmats to prevent the generation of wastes, e.g.
     issue the oldest materials first to ensure they do not expire. Ensure hazmats with
     expiration dates are used up prior to their expiration date. Manage hazmats in a manner
     that prevents their exposure to conditions that render them unusable (e.g. storing paints in
     unheated storage areas).
     2.11.8. Record usage in EESOH-MIS as soon as a container is used up or turned in.
     EESOH-MIS will not allow an order beyond the maximum containers on hand.
8                                                       94AWI 32-7086 6 FEBRUARY 2014


       2.11.9. Use hazmats only for the process for which they were authorized, and do not lend
       them out to other shops. Do not accept hazmats from other shops or contractors without
       having added the material, and received approval for it on a process, in EESOH-MIS.
       2.11.10. Read and implement Conditions of Use recorded on each process approval in
       EESOH-MIS.
       2.11.11. Store no combustible materials with flammable hazmats in a flammable locker.
       Store no corrosive acid hazmats (pH 1 to 6) with corrosive basic hazmats (pH 8 to 14) in
       the same storage area within the same secondary containment. Ensure pressurized
       cylinders are chained upright.
       2.11.12. Abide by federal requirements for Green Purchasing of hazmats, including
       biobased and recycled-content items listed on the EPA’s Comprehensive Procurement
       Guidelines and the USDA’s Biobased Product List. Refer to the Dobbins Green
       Procurement Purchasing Plan.
       2.11.13. All customers without CAC access to the AF portal shall work with 94
       MSG/CEV to coordinate all required data entry for processes, hazmat to be authorized,
       hazmat ordered, and hazmat used. Lack of access to the AF portal shall not be grounds
       for lack of compliance with this instruction. The customer remains responsible for
       initiating and maintaining all hazmat transactions.
3. PROCEDURES TO OBTAIN HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
    3.1. PROCESS AUTHORIZATIONS. EESOH-MIS manages hazmat procurement, storage
    and usage by the process in which it is used. All transactions revolve around a shop’s
    processes.
       3.1.1. Obtain access to the EESOH-MIS program via the AF portal.            Contact 94
       MSG/CEV (system administrator) for assistance.
       3.1.2. Load applicable processes to the EESOH-MIS shop. Consult with 94 MSG/SPGB
       to determine appropriate processes if necessary (tenants/contractors consult with 94
       MSG/CEV). Complete all required data entry for the process, including uploading of
       Technical Order documents as needed.
       3.1.3. Add the National Stock Number(s) or the Material Stock Number(s) of the hazmat
       used in a process under the Materials tab. Any hazmat obtained from some source other
       than the federal supply system must have a Material Stock Number assigned to it before
       it can be added to the process. Refer to customer responsibility in 2.11.1.2
       3.1.4. Submit authorization request electronically to shop supervisor for review and
       approval.
       3.1.5. Submit the authorization request electronically for HMMP review. The request
       will be electronically forwarded to the HMMP Team reviewers. Users may check the
       status of their request by using EESOH-MIS to “View Pending Process” at any time once
       the supervisor submits the process for review.
    3.2. ORDERING A HAZMAT. Customers order hazmat through EESOH-MIS.
94AWI 32-7086 6 FEBRUARY 2014                                                               9


     3.2.1. Procurement Through 94AW Supply. When funds are loaded in a 94AW Supply
     account, customers actually place their order through the HAZMART using the
     appropriate EESOH-MIS ordering tool.
     3.2.2. Procurement Through Any Other Method (GPC, contract, etc.) When any
     procurement method other than 94AW Supply is used, customers must place an order in
     EESOH-MIS as a “GPC” purchase; this action does not actually place an order, but
     notifies the HAZMART that a shop intends to procure a hazmat through some means
     other than through the 94AW Supply system so that a control number is issued, and
     barcodes can be printed. This action triggers a 5-day period in which the customer has to
     report receipt of the hazmat to the HAZMART Manager and to obtain the barcodes and
     disposition dots. EESOH-MIS will delete the request after 5 days.
         3.2.2.1. GPC Purchases. A GPC Control Numbers must be obtained by a customer
         using their GPC for EVERY procurement action (even repeat purchases).
         3.2.2.2. “Receipts” Without Actual Purchase. In the event hazmats are shipped to a
         shop with or without the shop initiating the shipment, the shop must still make an
         order in EESOH-MIS. Of course, if the hazmat is a new one, the shop must obtain
         authorization for the hazmat first by modifying the appropriate process, adding the
         hazmat (after obtaining the MSN), and receiving approval.
  3.3. OBTAINING BARCODES. HAZMART barcodes are proof that a hazmat has been
  authorized for use on base, and identify the authorized shop to whom the hazmat was issued
  and the date it was issued.
     3.3.1. Authorized hazmats ordered through 94 AW Supply will be barcoded by the
     HAZMART Manager, and delivered with HAZMART barcodes on them.
     3.3.2. Hazmats ordered by any other means will have barcodes printed for the containers
     ordered once a GPC order is made through EESOH-MIS. Customers must obtain the
     barcodes from the HAZMART within 5 days of the order, or else the program cancels the
     order.
     3.3.3. Replacement barcodes can be obtained for authorized hazmats by calling the
     HAZMART Manager 678-655-5021 and requesting them.
  3.4. PROCEDURES FOR SELF-HELP PROJECTS. A self-help project is an activity to
  improve a facility in some way, often painting, which has been approved by the Base Civil
  Engineer after an AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineering Work Request, submitted by the
  facility manager, has been approved at the weekly Work Order Review Meeting (WORM).
  These projects are usually accomplished by facility personnel themselves, who typically do
  not handle hazardous materials otherwise, and are frequently unfamiliar with the procedures
  for obtaining authorizations, ensuring personnel receive hazard communication (Hazcom)
  training, etc.    For this reason, the procedures described here minimize customer
  responsibility and therefore are strictly applied to self-help projects only.
     3.4.1. Documentation - AF Form 332. Any self-help activity must be coordinated
     through the Facility Manager, who submits an AF Form 332, to Civil Engineering (CE).
     The AF Form 332 must describe the activity to be performed in detail, including: the
     building number, the room number, or other designated locations in the building where
10                                                      94AWI 32-7086 6 FEBRUARY 2014


     the work will occur; the square footage to be affected; all materials needed to perform the
     work (including hazmats, equipment, tools, etc.); the method of application of the
     materials (e.g. caulk gun for caulking, or brushes and rollers for painting); and a
     description of what will be worked on (e.g. walls, doors, trim or baseboards if being
     painted).
        3.4.1.1. The width and height of all surfaces to be painted must be provided on the
        AF Form 332 for painting activities. The square footage of flooring surfaces to be
        replaced (tile, etc.) must be provided on the Form 332 for flooring replacement
        activities. The request will be returned to the facility manager if this necessary
        information is missing.
        3.4.1.2. The Form 332 must list all of the names of the personnel who will be
        participating in the activity.
        3.4.1.3. Interior paints must meet the Base Civil Engineer architectural standard,
        therefore only the currently selected interior color will be provided to the requestor.
        The paint finish may vary, and may be requested to be one of these finishes: flat, egg-
        shell or semi-gloss.
     3.4.2. Work Order Review. All work requests (AF Forms 332) are reviewed weekly at
     the Work Order Review Meeting (WORM) for approval. Once approved, Production
     Control will estimate the quantities of materials needed, and will assemble a bill of
     materials needed to completed the activity. Production Control will utilize standards set
     by Civil Engineering to put together the bill of materials. The bill of materials will be
     forwarded to the CE Accountable Officer for approval, and then to 94 MSG/CEV along
     with a copy of the original work order.
     3.4.3. Authorization. CEV will use the approved bill of materials and the work order to
     initiate authorization in EESOH-MIS on behalf of the Customer for the hazmats listed.
        3.4.3.1. While awaiting authorization, the Customer must contact 94 MSG/SGPB and
        coordinate Hazcom training for all of the activity participants (if this is not
        accomplished, SGPB will not authorize the materials in EESOH-MIS).
        3.4.3.2. Once authorized, 94 MSG/CEV will notify CE Facility Maintenance
        Warehouse that the requestor is authorized to pick up the hazardous materials along
        with any equipment being provided.
     3.4.4. Customer Responsibilities. The Customer will pick up their materials from
     Building 501, CE Warehouse. The Customer is responsible for the proper management,
     use and disposal of all hazmats and supplies as described in the Waste tab of the EESOH-
     MIS authorization. Contact 94 MSG/CEV for guidance and direction as needed.
        3.4.4.1. The Customer must check that each container of hazmat has a HAZMART
        barcode on it before leaving the building.
        3.4.4.2. While using hazmats, the Customer must ensure that they are properly
        handled and stored at all times.
            3.4.4.2.1. The Customer is required to completely use up the hazmats provided.
            3.4.4.2.2. Hazmats should be kept sealed and to keep them in good condition for
94AWI 32-7086 6 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                  11


            continued use (e.g. properly place lids on paint cans to prevent the paint from
            drying out and to keep out foreign materials).
            3.4.4.2.3. No “touch-up” storage of self-help hazmats is allowed.
            3.4.4.2.4. Unopened containers of hazmat must be returned to Building 501 CE
            Warehouse, from which they were initially issued.
         3.4.4.3. Tools or equipment contaminated with a hazmat are prohibited from being
         washed in any sink in any facility on base (i.e. paint brushes are to be disposed of, not
         washed out). Collect DRIED debris in a trash bag. Empty paint cans may be
         recycled as scrap metal at the Recycling center – make sure they are COMPLETELY
         empty by painting until all of the paint is used up.
  3.5. PROCEDURES FOR THE PROCUREMENT, USE AND MANAGEMENT OF
  CLASS I OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES (ODSs). The federal government is
  prohibited from manufacturing or purchasing any Class I Ozone Depleting Substances. The
  Air Force has procured quantities of these hazmats to supply all identified Air Force
  requirements until suitable replacement hazmats have been accepted by the Air Force. This
  supply is called the “Defense Reserve” of Class I ODSs. All procurement of these materials
  MUST be through the Defense Reserve.
     3.5.1. CLASS I OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES.
         3.5.1.1. CFC-11 (Trichlorofluoromethane).
         3.5.1.2. CFC-12 (Dichlorodifluoromethane).
         3.5.1.3. CFC-13 (Chlorotrifluoromethane).
         3.5.1.4. CFC-111 (Pentachlorofluoroethane).
         3.5.1.5. CFC-112 (Tetrachlorodifluoroethane).
         3.5.1.6. CFC-113 (Trichlorotrifluoroethane).
         3.5.1.7. CFC-114 (Dichlorotetrafluoroethane).
         3.5.1.8. CFC-115 (Chloropentafluoroethane).
         3.5.1.9. CFC-211 (Heptachlorofluoropropane).
         3.5.1.10. CFC-212 (Hexachlorodifluoropropane).
         3.5.1.11. CFC-213 (Pentachlorotrifluoropropane).
         3.5.1.12. CFC-214 (Tetrachlorotetrafluoropropane).
         3.5.1.13. CFC-215 (Trichloropentafluoropropane).
         3.5.1.14. CFC-216 (Dichlorohexafluoropropane).
         3.5.1.15. CFC-217 (Chloroheptafluoropropane).
         3.5.1.16. Halon 1202 (Dibromodifluoromethane).
         3.5.1.17. Halon 1211 (Bromochlorodifluoromethane).
         3.5.1.18. Halon 1301 (Bromotrifluoromethane).
12                                                       94AWI 32-7086 6 FEBRUARY 2014


        3.5.1.19. Halon 2402 (Dibromotetrafluoroethane).
        3.5.1.20. Trichloroethane (methyl chloroform) - all isomers.
        3.5.1.21. Carbon Tetrachloride.
        3.5.1.22. Methyl Bromide.
        3.5.1.23. HFP (hexafluoropropylene and blends).
        3.5.1.24. MT-31 (mixture of several refrigerants).
     3.5.2. Authorization for the Use of Class I ODSs. Class I ODSs shall not be authorized
     for facility air conditioning, facility water chilling, vehicle air conditioning, or any other
     non-aircraft related activity in accordance with Air Force policy. The HMMP Team will
     forward authorization requests for the use of these materials to HQ AFRC only if they are
     to be used to maintain an aircraft and only after the user-specified Technical Order,
     Technical Manual or other current directive requiring its use is verified by the appropriate
     T.O. Manager, and a detailed authorization request is loaded into EESOH-MIS by the
     Customer. After HQ verifies the request, they will forward it to Air Staff for the
     Secretary of the Air Force (SAF) approval.
     3.5.3. Procurement of Class I ODSs. Procurement of these hazmats for aircraft
     maintenance operations by any user, including tenants and contractors, must be
     accomplished by the HAZMART Manager through the Defense Reserve after receiving
     SAF approval (Air Staff level). The HAZMART Manager has the specific NSNs for
     each type of available Class I ODSs, including halon fire extinguishers and 1,1,1
     trichloroethane.
        3.5.3.1. Halon flight line extinguishers must be serviced by Robins AFB, which is
        the only AF approved method for servicing these extinguishers.
        3.5.3.2. Purchasing any Class I ODS on the market is prohibited and illegal,
        including service contracts to hydrostatically test fire extinguishers.
        3.5.3.3. Class I ODSs may not be obtained through any means, including the Defense
        Reserve, for facility air conditioning, facility water chilling, vehicle air conditioning,
        or any other non-aircraft related activity.
4. HAZARDOUS MATERIAL STORAGE TERMS, PROCEDURES AND RETURN
POLICIES.
  4.1. SHELF LIFE MANAGEMENT. Shelf life, or expiration date, is a date assigned to a
  hazmat by the manufacturer after which the hazmat is not recommended for use.
     4.1.1. Shops are required to manage their hazmat inventory to ensure that a hazmat is
     used up before its shelf life or expiration date is exceeded. Shops must review the shelf-
     life of the hazmats in their inventory monthly.
     4.1.2. Prior to the expiration date of a hazmat, a shop must determine if the shelf life of a
     hazmat can be extended if it has not been used up yet. Shelf life extension must be
     documented on the hazmat container. Shops shall use the DoD shelf-life website in
     determining if shelf life extensions can be obtained for a particular NSN; customers will
     need to contact the hazmat manufacturer for non-NSN hazmat.
94AWI 32-7086 6 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                    13


       4.1.3. Hazmat that has expired, and cannot be extended, must be turned in to 94
       MSG/CEV for disposal.
   4.2. CONTAINER MANAGEMENT.
       4.2.1. Containers of hazmat shall be stored while in the shop in accordance with all
       applicable OSHA and NFPA requirements. Hazmats that are affected by excessive heat
       or freezing cold (such water-based paints) shall be stored to prevent the deterioration of
       these materials which would result in their being rendered useless for their intended
       purpose. Questions regarding proper storage may be addressed to any HMMP Team
       member.
       4.2.2. Containers having a usable quantity of hazmat left over after customer final use
       shall be returned to the HAZMART and placed into free issue if there are other
       authorized users in the hazmat tracking system and if the container is in good condition
       (i.e., drips are wiped away, lids are tightly sealed, container integrity is not compromised,
       barcode is legible, etc.).
       4.2.3. Containers of left over hazmat that cannot be used up or cannot be returned to Free
       Issue shall be handled as waste. Empty containers are typically drummed for disposal, if
       not recyclable (i.e. metal can with all residue removed). Contact CEV 678-655-5264 for
       proper disposal guidance of waste hazmat, and for proper recycling procedures. Shops
       may refer to the current Waste Management for Shops Manual for disposal procedures.
       4.2.4. Customers must record usage of a hazmat container in EESOH-MIS.
   4.3. GASEOUS CYLINDER PRODUCTS.
       4.3.1. No gaseous cylinder products (and hydrostatic testing thereof, exclusive of halon
       extinguishers) are obtained through 94AW Supply; all procurement is done locally (using
       GPC).
4.3.2. Customers must coordinate the return of empty gaseous cylinders to the Vendor. Empty
and depressurized cylinders may be turned in to Supply as unserviceable once a hole is drilled
into the cylinder. Alternatively, a customer may cut a cylinder in half lengthwise and recycle all
the parts at the base Recycling Center.
   4.4. DEPLOYMENT.
       4.4.1. Mobility Readiness Spares Package/In-place Readiness Spares Package/High
       Priority Mission Support Kit (MRSP/IRSP/HPMSK)
           4.4.1.1. Work area supervisors shall notify the Hazmart when deploying
           MRSP/IRSP/HPMSK that contain hazardous material, no later than 30 days prior to
           deployment, and shall follow all instructions on controlling and managing the
           hazmats while deployed.
           4.4.1.2. Inventory all hazmats to ensure shelf-life items are not expired, or will not
           expire before return from deployment. Ensure proper Personal Protective Equipment
           (PPE) is available for the use of each hazmat.
           4.4.1.3. Upon arrival at deployment location, contact Theater Component
           Environmental Function to determine proper hazmat management procedures at
           deployed location.
14                                                          94AWI 32-7086 6 FEBRUARY 2014


     4.4.2. Personnel responsible for buildup of deployment kits will include in the kit a copy
     of the MSDS for each hazmat (and for each part of multiple-part hazmats).
5. TRAINING.
  5.1. New Employee Training. New employees will be briefed on HAZMART procedures by their
  supervisors as soon as practicable.      Supervisors are responsible for going over the particular
  procedures used in a shop prior to the employee being assigned to use hazmats. Basic training in the
  use of EESOH-MIS is available on the AF portal in eDash under the Hazardous Materials program
  (https://eis.af.mil/cs/edash/Web%20Part%20Pages%20%20Programs/Hazardous%20Material
  s.aspx).
  5.2. HAZMART Manager Training. The HAZMART Manager is required to have the
  proper training necessary for handling and managing hazardous materials and hazardous
  wastes on Dobbins ARB. At a minimum, this training will include:
     5.2.1. EESOH-MIS training for HAZMART Managers via DCO online or in-person
     training, as made available by AFCEC
     5.2.2. Hazard Communication training (for hazmats stored in HAZMART and Free
     Issue)
     5.2.3. Use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)
     5.2.4. Annual Waste Management for Shops training provided by 94 MSG/CEV
     5.2.5. Fire extinguisher and facility fire suppression
6. REPORTS.
  6.1. EPCRA 311. The 311 report is required under the Emergency Planning and Community
  Right-to-Know Act (EPCRA) and is submitted to the Local Emergency Planning
  Commission (LEPC), the State Emergency Response Commission (SERC), and the base fire
  department (CEF) as needed, based upon data collected from all contractors, all tenants and
  all shop usage. This report fulfills the requirement to provide a list of MSDSs for any
  hazmats stored in cumulative quantities above 10,000 pounds or 500 pounds for specifically
  listed items.
  6.2. EPCRA 312. The 312 report is required under EPCRA and is submitted to the LEPC,
  SERC and CEF annually by 1 March of each year for the previous calendar year. This report
  fulfills the EPCRA requirement to provide a list of all base storage locations, amounts, types
  of containers, specific hazards and storage methods for each hazardous material that is
  cumulatively stored on base for more than 24 hours over the 10,000 pound threshold or 500
  pounds for specifically listed items. Data gathered for this report starts with the HAZMART
  database, and also includes Petroleum, Oil, and Lubricants (POL) storage (tanks), UST/AST
  capacity, Aqueous Film Forming Foam (AFFF) storage (containers and tanks), and other
  storage not identified in the database.
  6.3. EPCRA 313 (Toxic Release Inventory Report). The 313 report is required under
  EPCRA if Dobbins ever exceeds the reporting thresholds for any of the specific chemicals
  identified on the List of Reportable Chemicals. This report fulfills the EPCRA requirement
  to report releases of these chemicals, based upon calendar year cumulative usage of 10,000
  pounds (or less, as specified in the List). This report identifies all of the uses, discharges,
  emissions and disposal (i.e. releases) of each reportable chemical used in excess of 10,000
94AWI 32-7086 6 FEBRUARY 2014                                                            15


  pounds during a calendar year. Data gathered to determine whether or not any threshold has
  been exceeded starts with the information provided in the HAZMART database.
  6.4. Various other reports may be generated as required, utilizing the data within the
  EESOH-MIS.




                                         TIMOTHY E. TARCHICK, Colonel, USAFR
                                         Commander
 16                                                       94AWI 32-7086 6 FEBRUARY 2014


                                         Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality
AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
Adopted Forms
AF Form 673, Air Force Publication/Form Action Request
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFEMIS—- Air Force Environmental Management Information System
AFCEC—Air Force Civil Engineering Center
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
EPCRA—- Emergency Planning And Community Right-To-Know Act. Regulation requiring
the reporting of types, quantities and storage locations of hazardous materials stored and used on
Dobbins ARB.
EPA—Environmental Protection Agency.
FREE ISSUE—- Hazardous materials available for use upon request, with appropriate
HAZMART authorization, and without incurring any charges or costs.
HAZMART—- Also known as the “Hazmat Pharmacy”. The central issuing, storing and
tracking function for hazardous materials used on Dobbins ARB, coordinated by the Hazardous
Materials Management Process (HMMP) Team.
Hazmat—Hazardous Material. Any material used within the Dobbins ARB fenceline that is
defined as a hazardous material by OSHA, and whose manufacturer is required to provide an
MSDS to any user, which the HMMP Team has determined needs to be tracked for reporting
purposes.
HMMP Team—Hazardous Materials Management Process Team. The HMMP Team develops
base policy for the management of HAZMART program, provides training to hazmat customers,
addresses program management issues, manages the AF-EMIS computer database system that
handles all hazmat data, and provides guidance to base customers using hazmats.
HPMSK—- High Priority Mission Support Kit
HQ AFRC—Headquarters of the Air Force Reserve Command
IRSP—- In-place Readiness Spare Package
MIL SPEC—Military Specifications
94AWI 32-7086 6 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                 17


MSDS—- Material Safety Data Sheet. Health and Safety document required by OSHA from a
hazmat manufacturer that provides a worker using that hazmat with specific information on that
hazmat, including but not limited to the physical characteristics of the hazmat and what to do if
the hazmat contacts skin or eyes.
MRSP—Mobile Readiness Spares Package
ODS—- OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCE. Hazardous materials identified by federal
regulation as containing chemicals which damage the ozone layer of the earth’s atmosphere, and
have been prohibited from being manufactured in, or imported into, the United States. ODSs are
sorted into two classes, Class I and Class II. Class I ODSs are prohibited from purchase by DoD.
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
T.O.—Technical Order
 18                                                   94AWI 32-7086 6 FEBRUARY 2014


                                       Attachment 2
                                        TENANTS

A2.1. All Air National Guard Components located at Dobbins ARB.
A2.2. All Army Reserve Components located at Dobbins ARB.
A2.3. All Army Guard Components located at Dobbins ARB.
A2.4. Federal and State Counter Drug Logistic Agencies located at Dobbins ARB.
A2.5. NAVY/USMC NOSC
A2.6. All Civil Air Patrol Components located at Dobbins ARB.
A2.7. Services Training Center ()
A2.8. Transportation Proficiency Center (TPC)
A2.9. EST/TCC
DISTRIBUTION X:
94 AW/CC/CD
94 AW/CP
94 AW/JA
94 AW/SE
94 MSG/CC/CD
94 MSG/CE/CEC/CEF/CEV/CEX
94 MSG/SV/SVR/SVS
94 MSG/SGPB
94 LRS/LRSDH/LRST/LRSF
94 CONF/LGC
94 MXG/CC/CD
94 MXS/AMXS/AMU
94 OG/CC/CD
94 OG/DO/OGT
94 ASTS/CC
700AS/CC
80APS/CC
22 AF/CC
283 CBCS/CC
781 CBRNE/CC
4FSSD/CC/CD
ASF DOBBINS/CC
NGB-CDO-L/CC
CAP/CC
SERVICES TRAINING CENTER
TPC
EST/TCC
DMS
