BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                94TH AIRLIFT WING INSTRUCTION
94TH AIRLIFT WING                                                                32-9001

                                                                              5 FEBRUARY 2014

                                                                                 Civil Engineering

                                                             REAL PROPERTY KEY CONTROL


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website http://www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 94 MSG/CER                                                          Certified by: 94 MSG/CE
                                                                          (Mr. Kenneth Williams)
                                                                                          Pages: 5
Supersedes:    94 AWI 32-9001, 23 June 2010


This instruction implements AFPD 32-90, Real Property Asset Management. It establishes
policy and procedures for real property key control. It applies to all military and civilian
employees who are issued keys on Dobbins ARB. It also applies to contractor employees whose
duties include key control under any contract which incorporates by reference or includes this
instruction. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been revised to include Emergency Access Procedures in para 2.1 and 2.2.
1. Responsibilities.
   1.1. 94 MSG/CER Real Property Officer is the primary key controller and is responsible for
   all keys on the installation. Key issue and control duties are further delegated to the
   Industrial Engineering Technician who acts as the Entry Control Officer (ECO). The Real
   Property Officer:
       1.1.1. Manages key issue and control program.
       1.1.2. Ensures keys are issued only where a need is demonstrated. Keys to special
       purpose rooms such as facility mechanical rooms will not be issued to Facility Managers.
 2                                                          94AWI32-9001 5 FEBRUARY 2014


     1.2. Facility Manager (Primary or Alternate) or responsible officer (unit Commander):
        1.2.1. Coordinates authorization and request of keys for personnel requiring access to
        facilities.
        1.2.2. Conducts annual key audit and submits a written summary to the Real Property
        Officer no later than 1 June of each year.
     1.3. Base Operations Support (BOS) contractor:
        1.3.1. Establishes and enforces procedures for ensuring keys issued by the government to
        the Contractor for employee use are not lost or misplaced and are not used by
        unauthorized persons.
        1.3.2. Submits names of personnel assigned locksmith duties in writing to the Real
        Property Officer.
        1.3.3. Ensures keys are not made or lock hardware replaced without approval of the
        ECO.
        1.3.4. Conducts annual key audit and submits written summary to the Real Property
        Officer no later than 1 June of each year.
2. Emergency Access Procedures.
     2.1. The Facility Manager or responsible officer will be contacted if an emergency situation
     requiring access occurs after normal duty hours. In the event the Facility Manager or
     responsible officer cannot be contacted, 94th SFS will contact the Real Property Officer to
     gain access to the facility.
     2.2. All keyed locks will have a master placed in the Fire Emergency Services Knox box at
     each facility. These keys are issued to the Fire Emergency Services Flight and shall not be
     used for any purpose other than fire emergency response. The Fire Emergency Services
     Flight is not authorized to use the Knox system for lock outs or other non-emergent purposes.
3. Requesting Keys.
     3.1. Requests for keys are submitted by primary or alternate Facility Manager, responsible
     officer, or BOS Real Property Manager. Submit request to ECO at 94th Civil Engineer
     Resource Flight, telephone number 655-4806, or in person in building 501. A written
     justification with the name(s) of personnel to whom keys are being issued is required with
     each request.
     3.2. The completed request is forwarded to the ECO for approval or disapproval. If
     approved, requester is notified when keys are available for issue and must sign for keys upon
     receipt.
4. Key Management.
     4.1. ECO will control key blanks and issue to locksmith as required.
     4.2. All keys issued will be stamped with the core mark of the lock they operate.
     4.3. All keys issued on a permanent basis are to be kept in the possession of the person to
     whom they are issued (occasional use keys may be kept in lock boxes and signed out to users
     at supervisor’s discretion).
94AWI32-9001 5 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                   3


   4.4. Permanent issue keys are not to be loaned or left unsecured.
   4.5. Lost keys must be reported in writing to the Real Property Officer.
   4.6. All keys issued to employees will be returned upon termination of employment, transfer,
   or reassignment.
      4.6.1. Squadron/ unit out-processing checklists will include item for Facility Manager’s
      signature verification that issued keys have been returned.
      4.6.2. Government civilian personnel out-processing checklist will include item for
      Facility Manager or Supervisor signature verification that issued keys have been returned.
      4.6.3. Contractors will ensure keys are returned by employees terminating employment.
5. Procedures for In-House Civil Engineering Key Requests.
   5.1. Real Property Officer is responsible for ensuring Civil Engineering work force
   including BOS Contractor employees have required access to job sites.
   5.2. Keys required for contract projects are requested in advance and are signed for and
   issued to contractor by the responsible Civil Engineering Inspector or Engineer. Contractors
   will be advised of their responsibility for keys. Keys will be returned to the ECO at the
   completion of project.
   5.3. If a Facility Manager or responsible officer cannot be reached to gain access to a
   facility, access will be provided by the Real Property Officer. The Real Property Officer will
   notify the Facility Manager or responsible officer of any persons given temporary access to
   facilities in their absence.
   5.4. A locked cabinet with keys for emergency access will be maintained in Civil Engineer
   building. ECO will ensure keys in emergency key control cabinet are signed out, and will not
   be authorized solely for convenience.
6. Lost/Stolen Keys.
   6.1. Any person losing keys will notify their Supervisor and Facility Manager immediately.
   If notified of lost keys or damage to lock hardware, the Facility will:
      6.1.1. Submit written notification of lost keys to the Real Property Officer.
      6.1.2. Report loss of keys or damage to lock hardware that resulted from suspected
      malicious or criminal activity to 94th SFS.
   6.2. Upon receiving notice of compromised security due to lost or stolen keys, the Real
   Property Officer:
      6.2.1. Will replace all affected lock cores.
      6.2.2. Reissue keys for affected area(s).
      6.2.3. Issue replacement key to 94 MSG/CEF for placement in Dobbins Fire Department
      key Knox box.
4                                                      94AWI32-9001 5 FEBRUARY 2014


    6.3. If applicable, the Real Property Officer prepares a letter to Financial Management
    requesting that re-keying costs be charged to responsible person’s unit.




                                          TIMOTHY E TARCHICK, Colonel, USAFR
                                          Commander
94AWI32-9001 5 FEBRUARY 2014                                5


                                    Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 32-90, Real Property Asset Management
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
