                          DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                        HEADQUARTERS 96TH TEST WING (AFMC)
                           EGLIN AIR FORCE BASE FLORIDA



                                                                                 96TWGM90-01

                                                                             17 September 2013


MEMORANDUM FOR 96 TW UNIT COMMANDERS

FROM: 96 TW/CC

SUBJECT: 96 TW Guidance Memorandum, Commander’s Inspection Program (CCIP)

Releasability: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

       By Order of the Commander of the 96 Test Wing (96 TW), this is a 96 TW Guidance
Memorandum immediately implementing the Commander’s Inspection Program (CCIP).
Compliance with this Memorandum is mandatory. To the extent its directions are inconsistent
with other 96 TW publications, the information herein prevails, in accordance with AFI 33-360,
Publications and Forms Management.

       The attachment to this Memorandum, 96 TW Guidance Memorandum, Commander’s
Inspection Program (CCIP), provides new guidance and procedures for implementing the new
Air Force Inspection System and CCIP for the 96 TW.

        Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this Memorandum are
maintained in accordance with AF Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

      This memorandum becomes void after one year has elapsed from the date of this
memorandum, or upon publication of a 96 TW publication incorporating the guidance,
whichever is sooner.



                                                      DAVID A. HARRIS
                                                      Brigadier General, USAF
                                                      Commander

Attachment 1
As Stated
                                          Attachment 1

                                            As Stated

1. Effective July 2013, every Air Force wing and wing equivalent implemented a new Air Force
Inspection System (AFIS) that emphasizes commander responsibility, decreases the number of
days on a wing’s calendar impacted by external inspections, and provides greater visibility over
programs and processes executed at wing level…while effectively meeting the challenges of
increasing efficiencies and decreasing resources. The "cornerstone" of the new AFIs is the
implementation of the CCIP.

2. The purpose of the CCIP is to improve effectiveness, compliance, readiness, discipline, and
surety in Air Force wings while giving commanders the ability to better assess their mission
directives, unit type codes, and other authoritative documents. CCIP will greatly reduce our
wing's risk of undetected non-compliance. It will assess and report units' effectiveness using four
major graded areas (MGA): managing resources; leading people; improving the unit; and
executing the mission.

3. A validated and trusted CCIP gives me, subordinate commanders, and 96 TW Airmen the
right information at the right time to assess risks, identify areas for improvement, determine root
causes of deficiencies, and precisely focus limited resources—all synchronized and aligned with
wing priorities and timelines. CCIP will inspect wing and subordinate-unit effectiveness, as well
as determine the appropriate scope, scale, and methodology to most effectively accomplish AFIS
objectives.

4. Inspection preparation, if not directly aligned with mission readiness, is inherently wasteful.
Units will be inspection-ready when commanders focus on building a culture of disciplined,
continuous compliance in which every Airman does his/her job right the first time and when no
one is looking…so that mission readiness and inspection readiness become one and the same.

5. What can you expect? Internal inspections that promote responsibility and accountability
within the units, performed by trained Wing Inspection Teams (WIT), to include at least one no-
notice wing inspection and a no-notice spot inspection annually. Part of the 96 TW's internal
inspections will be conducted virtually using the Management Internal Control Toolset (MICT)
self-assessment checklists database. These inspections will be prioritized based on the risk
created by undetected non-compliance. External inspections (i.e., those performed by outside
agencies) will be used to validate and verify the 96 TW's internal inspections and provide an
independent, transparent, and accountable assessment of our wing's readiness, economy,
efficiency, and state of discipline. External inspections will include MAJCOM and/or AFTC/IG
inspections, including Unit Effectiveness Inspections (UEI). UEIs run on a 24-30-month cycle
and are a continual evaluation of wing performance based on the four MGAs above. Just as with
internal inspections, validation and verification of CCIP data are the most important facets of a
UEI.

6. There is still much work to be done as we move toward fully implementing our wing CCIP. I
ask for your support and focus on all aspects of the CCIP as the 96 TW/IG office works to obtain
full 96 TW compliance NLT 1 October 2014. Many of your personnel have already been fully
engaged in aspects of the CCIP (e.g., performing self-assessments, entering results into MICT,
etc.), while others are just beginning to adopt the CCIP construct.

7. AFIS and CCIP are very high on my priority list. With an effective CCIP, our unit self-
assessments and wing inspections will ensure the effectiveness of all subordinate organizations.
You can expect my strong support as I ask each of you for your continued emphasis across your
unit to ensure we become fully compliant and reduce the risk of undetected non-compliance
across all areas of the 96 TW. I look forward to reviewing our CCIP status with you during the
monthly Commander’s Inspection Management Board (CIMB) beginning in August.
