BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         NINTH AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 90-101
HEADQUARTERS NINTH AIR FORCE
                                                                                 29 APRIL 2010

                                                                                Command Policy

                                                     9 AF STAN/EVAL VISIT PROCEDURES



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICAITON IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: OPR: 9 AF/OV                                                          Certified by: 9 AF/OV
Supersedes: 9 AFI 90-101, 17 March                                                (Lt Col Borocz)
            2004                                                                          Pages: 7


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 13-1, Theater Air Control
System, and implements policy and guidance found in Air Force Instruction (AFI) 11-202,
Volume 2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program; AFI 13-112 Volume 2, Joint Terminal
Attack Controller (JTAC) Standardization/Evaluation Program; and AFI 13-1 Stan-Eval,
Volume 2, Ground Command and Control Systems Standardization/Evaluation Program--
Organization and Administration. It establishes procedures for 9 AF/OV formal visits, staff
assistance visits, and informal visits. It applies to all 9AF active and gained flying, Joint
Terminal Attack Controller, and Ground Theater Air Control Systems standardization/evaluation
personnel and units; to include Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) units. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.        Contact supporting records
managers as required.. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s to 9 AF/OV, 523 Nelson Ave., Suite 122, Shaw AFB SC
29152-5029.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include scheduling of staff assistance visits (SAV), requirements for unit visits, requirements of
performance evaluations, and the grading of program areas
 2                                                                      9AFI90-101 29 April 2010


1. General. This instruction establishes procedures for all 9 AF/OV formal visits, staff
assistance visits and informal visits.
2. Scheduling.
     2.1. Formal Visits. The primary purpose of formal visits is to determine the effectiveness of
     the Stan/Eval program and compliance with unit and higher headquarters guidance. Active
     duty units are normally scheduled Monday through Friday. ANG/AFRC units are normally
     scheduled Monday through Thursday. Formal visits, excluding pre-checks, will normally be
     scheduled for one continuous time period. These visits will be coordinated with unit
     leadership.
        2.1.1. Pre-checks. A pre-check is defined as an evaluation accomplished within the six
        month window leading up to the formal visit. The primary purpose of pre-checks is to
        provide greater flexibility to accomplish evaluations associated with the formal visit in
        case of weather or other factors impacting the scheduled inspection week. Pre-checks
        will be coordinated with unit leadership.
     2.2. Staff Assistance Visits. The primary purpose of a SAV is to ensure unit programs are
     maintained consistently between inspection cycles. The secondary purpose is to resolve
     identified problems. SAVs are normally scheduled at the midpoint between formal visits at
     the 24 month period. SAVs are not mandatory but are highly encouraged. SAVs will not
     generally be conducted within 12 months of a unit’s formal stan/eval visit. These visits will
     be coordinated with unit leadership.
     2.3. Informal Visits. The primary purpose of an informal visit is to facilitate information
     exchange and feedback concerning Stan/Eval and training issues. The secondary purpose of
     the visit is to conduct recurring evaluations on unit assigned evaluators. With unit leadership
     concurrence, 9 AF/OV personnel may perform instructor or additional evaluator duties.
     These visits will be coordinated with unit leadership.
3. Unit Visit Procedures.
     3.1. Formal Visit Procedures. The visit coordinator (VC) will send a 60-day and 30-day
     message prior to a formal visit. The information in the 60-day message gives specific
     guidance on visit requirements. The 30-day message indentifies the individuals conducting
     the visit.
     3.1.1 Visit Coordinator. The VC is responsible for coordinating with the unit on all
     requirements for the visit. The VC will act as a liaison for the visit. Any problems or issues
     identified will be coordinated through the VC for resolution.
            3.1.1.1. General requirements will include:
                3.1.1.1.1. A private work center large enough for at least eight people.
                3.1.1.1.2. Billeting for the entire team (team integrity will be maintained).
                3.1.1.1.3. Telephone with defense switch network (DSN).
                3.1.1.1.4. Access to a copier and fax machine.
                3.1.1.1.5. Vehicle support (government vehicles significantly reduce trip
                expenses).
9AFI90-101 29 April 2010                                                                             3


              3.1.1.1.6. Laser printer (or similar quality) capability located in the team center.
              3.1.1.1.7. Aircrew aids, range guides and Stan-Eval Flight Examiner (SEFE)
              guides.
              3.1.1.1.8. Current local supplement(s).
              3.1.1.1.9. Current letter of qualifications (letter of X).
              3.1.1.1.10. A copy of the ground and flying schedules for the week of the formal
              visit.
      3.1.2. Evaluation requirements. Mission evaluations should include realistic tactical
      scenarios consistent with unit designed operational capabilities (DOC) tasking.
      Instrument/Qualification evaluations will be in accordance with applicable AFIs and local
      guidance.
          3.1.2.1. Scheduling. Units should schedule a representative cross-section of
          experience levels for evaluations in conjunction with the formal visit. At the
          discretion of the Team Chief, no-notice evaluations may be conducted to ensure
          balanced experience-level sampling. No-notice evaluation notification procedures
          will be in accordance with the local unit supplement. Changes in the schedule will
          not be made without Team Chief approval.
          3.1.2.2. Pre-check. A formal in-brief or out-brief is not conducted during this visit.
          A typical team consists of flyers or controllers focusing on formal visit evaluations.
          The VC in conjunction with the team will determine the number of evaluations
          required. All costs associated with formal visits are paid by 9 AF/OV. If additional
          evaluators are required, 9 AF/OV will provide a fund site. Augmentees will forward
          a copy of their orders and vouchers to 9 AF/OV.
          3.1.2.3. SPOT evaluations. These evaluations may count toward the total number of
          evaluations accomplished during a formal visit.
          3.1.2.4. Evaluation Paperwork. Unit Stan/Eval is responsible for all evaluation
          paperwork accomplished during the visit. The mission description should document
          the evaluation as part of a formal visit [e.g. “This (type of evaluation) was conducted
          during a Ninth Air Force Standardization/Evaluation Formal Visit”]. Every effort
          should be made to complete and sign all paperwork before the completion of the
          formal visit. If not completed during the visit, mail the evaluation paperwork to 9
          AF/OV, 523 Nelson Ave., Suite 122, Shaw AFB SC 29152-5029, for review and
          signature.
      3.1.3. Program area Inspection. Program area checklists will be used and may be
      accessed via the 9 AF/OV website. The VC will coordinate with the unit to develop a
      program inspection schedule. All evaluation folders will be placed in a container, by
      position, and left in the team area for the duration of the visit. All flight publications (e.g.
      checklists and aircrew aids) will be made available to evaluators for a page count. They
      will be inspected upon team arrival and returned before any flight activity.
          3.1.3.1. When the evaluators arrive, program managers should be available to answer
          questions and describe their programs. All continuity books, associated reference
          material, and tracking products should be available for review. After the interview is
4                                                                9AFI90-101 29 April 2010


       complete, the evaluator may come back during the visit to ask more questions or to
       review more material.
    3.1.4. Attrition and Visit Completion. If evaluations are conducted during the week of
    the formal visit, units should build an attrition day into the schedule (usually the day
    before the out-brief). The Team Chief has final authority to complete a formal visit
    with less than the desired percentages. If insufficient events are accomplished, options
    for completing a formal visit include extending the visit or returning on a later date.
    3.1.5. In-brief/Out-brief. The Team Chief will present an in-brief consisting of
    objectives, overview, and check ride status. The unit will normally give a short
    presentation on the unit’s mission, DOC statement, capabilities, limiting factors, and any
    applicable local area and safety information. Copies of the report will be provided at the
    out-brief.
    3.1.6. Leadership. During the formal visit, the Team Chief will interview senior
    leadership to gauge the liaison between leadership and Stan/Eval. Unit concerns and
    limiting factors will also be discussed. The Team Chief will periodically update the unit
    leadership on the status of the inspection.
    3.1.7. Report. 9 AF/OV will write a comprehensive report addressing evaluations and
    program areas. The formal report will be forwarded to 9 AF/CC for review and approval.
    Formal reports will be posted on the 9 AF/OV web site for units to access. The report
    may also contain findings, recommendations, areas for improvement, strengths and
    commendable areas.
    3.1.7. 1. Finding. A finding identifies a program area not in full compliance with
    instructions or applicable guidance.
       3.1.7.2. Recommendation. Provides a suggestion to correct any identified findings.
       3.1.7.3. Area for improvement. An area or program not in conflict with any
       instruction or guidance but may require further consideration.
       3.1.7.4. Strength. A process or activity identified by the team that enhanced the
       quality and effectiveness of a specific program.
       3.1.7.5. Commendable. Identifies a superior program or item highlighted during the
       visit.
    3.1.8. Augmentation. 9 AF/OV may augment its team with additional evaluators. These
    personnel are selected based on their qualifications and are considered 9 AF/OV
    evaluators during the visit. 9 AF/OV will provide a fund cite for augmenting personnel.
    Augmentees will provide a copy of their orders and travel voucher to 9 AF/OV following
    the visit.
    3.1.9. Observation. Units with pending inspections are invited to observe formal visits at
    their own expense. They may observe on a noninterference basis and must coordinate
    their attendance with the visiting unit and 9 AF/OV. Personnel may attend the
    grading/team meetings at the discretion of the Team Chief.
9AFI90-101 29 April 2010                                                                       5


   3.2. Staff Assistance Visit Procedures. The VC will send a 30-day message prior to the visit
   outlining visit requirements. Refer to paragraph 3.1.2.1. for general requirements associated
   with the visit.
      3.2.1. Programs. The team will look at applicable Stan/Eval programs IAW AFI 11-
      202V2, AFI 13-112V2 and AFI 13-1 Stan/EvalV2. Program area checklists, maintained
      on the 9 AF/OV website, will be used to determine program compliance during the visit.
      3.2.2. Report. 9 AF/OV will write a comprehensive report identifying problem areas and
      recommended corrective actions. A discrepancy identified as an observation during a
      SAV would be a finding during a formal visit. Observations reflect areas that are not in
      compliance with applicable AFIs. “Areas for Improvement” are recommendations to
      develop a more efficient and effective program. The report is intended solely for the use
      of the requesting unit. 9 AF/OV will maintain a copy, but reports will not be forwarded
      to any agency without unit approval.
      3.2.3. Funding. The requesting unit pays all costs associated with a SAV. The team will
      normally consist of a Team Chief, a primary evaluator rated in the unit’s mission, and at
      least one program inspector. With unit approval, the primary evaluator may conduct
      proficiency sorties/missions during visits.
   3.3. Informal Visit Procedures. 9 AF/OV will coordinate with the unit to obtain prior
   approval. All TDY costs associated with these visits are paid by 9 AF/OV. Any problems
   identified during informal visits will be brought to the attention of unit supervision and the
   Chief of 9 AF/OV.
4. Performance Evaluations.
   4.1. Focus. 9 AF/OV will maintain tactical focus in assessing unit personnel capability to
   evaluate, instruct, and perform assigned unit tasking. A well-planned schedule with
   tactically challenging profiles is the best way to demonstrate unit capabilities.
   4.2. Aircrew Evaluations. Seventy-five percent of the evaluations (flight and ground) should
   be mission checks (N/A for units that administer combined evaluations). Squadron
   supervisors are encouraged to attend debriefs.
      4.2.1. The unit Chief of Stan/Eval will receive a mission evaluation if in the eligibility
      zone. If applicable the evaluation will include the emergency procedure evaluation
      (EPE) requirement.
      4.2.2. All available SEFEs will receive an objectivity evaluation.         Evaluations
      administered by unit SEFEs during the course of objectivity evaluations will count
      toward the evaluation requirement. Objectivity evaluations given by 9 AF/OV evaluators
      will not count toward the evaluation requirement.
   4.3. Joint Terminal Attack Controller Performance Evaluations. A cross section of
   experience levels will be evaluated, including supervisors and experienced/inexperienced
   personnel. Squadron supervisors are encouraged to attend debriefs.
   4.4. Ground Theater Air Control Systems Evaluations. Evaluations will be distributed
   proportionately   among     all   CMR      positions,    including    supervisors and
   experienced/inexperienced personnel. Live flying will be used for evaluations to the
   maximum extent possible. Squadron supervisors are encouraged to attend debriefs.
 6                                                                 9AFI90-101 29 April 2010


5. Forms (Prescribed and Adopted).
     5.1. Prescribed Forms. No prescribed forms are implemented by this publication.
     5.2. Adopted Forms. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                            WILLIAM L. HOLLAND, Major General, USAF
                                            Commander
9AFI90-101 29 April 2010                                                                  7


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References (Added)
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 11-202, Volume 2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program, 8 December 2006
AFPD 13-1, Theater Air Control System, 11 May 1995
AFI 13-112 Volume 2, Joint Terminal Attack Controller (JTAC) Standardization/Evaluation
Program, 21 February 2008
AFI 13-1 Stan-Eval, Volume 2, Ground Command and Control Systems
Standardization/Evaluation Program--Organization and Administration, 11 December 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms (Added)
AFI— Air Force Instruction
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC— Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS— AF Records Information Management System
ANG— Air National guard
CMR— Combat Mission Ready
DOC— Designed Operational Capabilities
DSN— Defense Switch Network
EPE— Emergency Procedure Evaluation
GTAC— Ground Theater Air Control Systems
JTAC— Joint Terminal Attack Controller
RDS— Records Disposition Schedule
SAV— Staff Assistance Visit
SEFE— Stan Eval Flight Examiner
SQ— Squadron
VC— Visit Coordinator
