BY THE ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             AIR ARMAMENT CENTER INSTRUCTION
AIR ARMAMENT CENTER                                                                 36-2802
                                                                                     14 OCTOBER 2004

                                                                                                Personnel

                                                             EGLIN AFB RECOGNITION PROGRAM


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AACCCC                                                                       Certified by: AAC/CC
                                                                                     (Maj Gen Chedister)
Supersedes AACI 36-2802, 8 Jan 2002                                                             Pages: 11


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 36-28, Awards and Decorations Program. It also
implements Air Force Policy Directive 36-10, Civilian Performance Management. It establishes the gen-
eral policies and procedures for the Eglin AFB recognition program and the military AAC annual awards
program. This instru ction applies to all military personnel assigned or attached to units serviced by the
Eglin Military Personnel Flight (MPF). It also applies to civilian (appropriated and nonappropriated) per-
sonnel assigned or attached to units serviced by the Eglin Civilian Pe rsonnel Flight. It does not cover
civilian appropriated and nonapprop riated fund employees assigned to units located on Hurlburt Field
(see Hurlburt Field Instruction 36- 1001). Send comments a nd suggestions about this publication for the
improvements on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR). Ensure that all records created as a result of process es prescribed in this publica-
tion are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed in accor-
dance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/
afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF 5(9,6,216
Board appearances for the annual awards have been deleted. The chairperson and board members for the
annual board have be en specified. The AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award used for annual awar ds
nominations has been reduced from 2 pages to one. To provide a greater opportunity for recognition, two
new award categories have been added, one for fiel d grade officers and one for senior civilians; existing
civilian award categories eligible have been reallocated. For the AAC Annual Awards program, members
must be stationed at Eglin for six months of the calendar year.


1. Programs and Participation. This instruction addresses AAC’s two major recognition programs—
the Team Eglin Awards Program and the AAC Annual A wards (12 Outs tanding Airmen of the Y ear-12
2                                         AIR ARMAMENT CENTER 36-2802 14 OCTOBER 2004


OAY) Program. Team Eglin is a comprehensive rec ognition program that includes all or ganizations on
Eglin AFB honoring both military and civilians. The AAC Annual Awards (12 OAY) is the center level
competition for the USAF’ s 12 OAY and First Ser geant of the Year programs limite d to active duty
AFMC personnel only. Participation in both of these programs by or ganizations and personnel assigned
or attached to Eglin AFB is highly encouraged but strictly voluntary.

2. Purpose of Awards: These awards will be used to recognize outstanding field grade officers, com-
pany grade officers, enlisted personnel, and civilian employees for superior job performance and other
accomplishments in an effort to motivate and reward excellence.

3. Military and Civilian Quarterly/Annual Awards - Award Categories.
    3.1. Field Grade Officer (FGO) includes military members serving in the grades of major (O-4) and
    lieutenant colonel (O-5).
    3.2. Company Grade Officer (CGO) includes military members serving in the grades of second lieu-
    tenant (O-1) through captain (O-3).
    3.3. Senior Noncommissi oned Officer (SNCO) includes military members serving in the grades of
    master sergeant (E-7) and senior master sergeant (E-8).
    3.4. First ser geant includes milit ary members serving in the grades of master ser geant (E-7) and
    senior master sergeant (E-8) who are serving in the 8F000 special duty identifier (SDI), first sergeant.
    This is an Annual Award only.
    3.5. Noncommissioned Of ficer (NCO) includes military members serving in the grades of staf f ser-
    geant (E-5) and technical sergeant (E-6).
    3.6. Airman (Amn) include s military members serving in the gr ades of airman (E-1) through senior
    airman (E-4).
    3.7. Honor Guard includes any enlisted personnel in the grades of E-1 through E -8 who are active
    members of the Team Eglin Honor Guard. This is a Quarterly Award only.
    3.8. Category I Civilians include WG, WL, NA, and NL civilian employees.
    3.9. Category II Civilians include GS 1-6, CC 1-6, and NF I-II civilian employees.
    3.10. Category III Civilians include GS 7-10, WS 1-9, NF-III, and NS 1-9 civilian employees.
    3.11. Category IV Civilians in clude GS 11-12, WS 10-19, NF-IV, NS 10-19, and DR 1 civilian
    employees.
    3.12. Category V Civilians include GS 13-14 and DR 2-3 civilian employees.

4. Military and Civilian Quarterly/Annual Awards - Eligibility.
    4.1. Nominees must be in the grad e category held for the majority of the award period (i.e. quarter/
    year).
    4.2. Nominees must be assigned to the nominating unit for the entire quarter being considered and be
    assigned to Eglin for a minimum of 6 months for the annual award. Additionally, first sergeant nom-
    inees must have held the 8F000 SDI for a minimum of 6 months.
AIR ARMAMENT CENTER 36-2802 14 OCTOBER 2004                                                           3


   4.3. Military nominees must not have an Unfavorable Information File, be on the Control Roster, or
   the Fitness Improvement Program, and not have any incidents of a discreditable nature during the
   award period.
   4.4. Civilian nominees must not have any disciplinary action, unsatisfactory performance appraisals,
   or incidents of a discreditable nature during the award period.

5. Military and Civilian Quarterly/Annual Awards - Program Responsibilities.
   5.1. The AAC Command Chief Master Sergeant Office will:
      5.1.1. Administer the Team Eglin Awards and AAC Annual Awards (12 OAY) programs.
      5.1.2. Coordinate with the Military Personnel Flight and Civilian Personnel Office in establishing
      appropriate suspenses and selection processes for the Team Eglin Awards Program. Contacts the
      Honor Guard Flight Chief for nominee and winner information. Establish suspenses and selection
      process for the AAC Annual Awards (12 OAY) Program and ensure all requirements are met for
      submission to HQ AFMC by the required suspense.
      5.1.3. Arrange for appropriate quarterly and annual recognition ceremonies and presentation of
      awards to honor nominees and winners. Publicize these events on base and in the local commu-
      nity. Serve as OPR for ticket s ales and pro rata. Make all necessary arrangements to pr ovide a
      photographer, emcee, national anthem singer, proctor, and detail personnel as required.
      5.1.4. Provide the Public Affairs Office (AAC/PA) with information and photographs of the win-
      ners as necessary for recognition articles in the "Eglin Eagle."
   5.2. The Military Personnel Flight, Awards and Decorations Office (96 MSS/DPMPED) will:
      5.2.1. Establish suspenses and notify all units NLT 30 days prior to the date nominations are due
      for FGO, CGO, SNCO, NCO, and Airman categories for Team Eglin Awards. Quarterly nomina-
      tions will typically be due to the MPF on the 27th day of the month following the quarter. Annual
      nominations will normally be due in March of the following year with the specific date announced
      each calendar year.
      5.2.2. Schedule selection boards and notify appropriate personnel to serve as board members as
      per paragraph  of this instruction.
          5.2.2.1. Compile nomination pack ages and provide them to the board members NLT 2 days
          prior to the date the board is scheduled to convene.
          5.2.2.2. Once the boards have convened, forwar d nominees’ names and organizations along
          with winners’ nomination packages to the AAC Command Chief Master Sergeant’s Office by
          the required suspense date.
   5.3. The Eglin Civilian Personnel Office, W ork Force Effectiveness Branch (96 MSS/DPCE)
   will:
      5.3.1. Establish suspenses and notify all units NLT 30 days prior to the date nominations are due
      for all civilian categories for Team Eglin Awards. Quarterly nominations will typically be due on
      the 27th day of the month follow ing the quarter. Annual nomina tions will normally be due in
      March of the following year with the specific date announced each calendar year.
4                                        AIR ARMAMENT CENTER 36-2802 14 OCTOBER 2004


       5.3.2. Schedule selection boards and notify appropriate personnel to serve as board members as
       per paragraph 7 of this instruction.
       5.3.3. Provide a point of contact to the of fice of the AAC Command Ch ief Master Sergeant in
       scheduling and coordinating the combined mi litary and civilian rec ognition ceremony to honor
       civilian nominees and winners.
       5.3.4. Prepare award elements for category winners. Obtain the AAC/CC signature on the mem-
       orandums and Certificates of Commendation (provided by nominee’s unit) for each nominee.
       5.3.5. Provide all appropriate it ems to the AAC Command Chief re presentative for presentation
       at the recognition ceremony.
    5.4. AAC Protocol (AAC/CCP) will:
       5.4.1. Ensure invitations for ceremonies are sent to local civic leaders, wing and group command-
       ers and staff agency chiefs. Se rve as OPR for compiling pro rata for these attendees. Provide
       accurate head count to the AAC Command Chief representative by required suspense.
       5.4.2. OPR for head table seating, designated seats at head tables, reserved parking and any other
       protocol related support required.
    5.5. The Unit of Assignment will:
       5.5.1. Establish procedures for selection of personnel to compete in the Team Eglin and AAC
       Annual (12 OAY) Awards Programs in accordance with instruction requirements.
       5.5.2. Prepare nomination packages per paragraph 6 of this instruction on military and civilian
       nominees. Designate POCs (typically the first sergeant) to serve as the unit POC for pro rata and
       sign up for recognition ceremonies as necessary. Unit POCs are responsible for seating arrange-
       ments of their respective unit per the directions of the AAC Command Chief representative.

6. Military and Civilian Quarterly/Annual Awards - Nomination Procedures.
    6.1. Team Eglin Quarterly/Annual Awards Program. Submit one nominee in each category--
    Civilian Categories I-V, FGO, CGO, SNCO, NCO, Amn, and First Sergeant (annual only)--from the
    AAC staff, Air-to-Air Missile Systems Wing, Air-to-Ground Munitions Systems Wing, 96th Air Base
    Wing, 46th Test Wing, Air Combat Support Systems Group, and each associate unit, to include the 6
    RTB and NAVSCOLEOD. The Eglin Honor Guard will su bmit a nominee from e ach flight for the
    Quarterly Awards only.
    6.2. AAC Annual Awards (12 OAY) Program. Submit one nominee in each category—CGO,
    SNCO, NCO, Amn, and first ser geant--from the AAC staff, Air-to-Air Missile Systems W ing,
    Air-to-Ground Munitions Systems Wing, 96th Air Base Wing, 46th Test Wing and Air Combat Sup-
    port Systems Group.
    6.3. Ensure Each Nominee Meets Eligibility Requirements. Submit nomination on an AF Form
    1206 (see Attachments , , or ). Limit quarterly nomin ations to 20 lines in addition to required
    headings. Include only those accomplishments for that quarter. Annual nominations will be no longer
    than one page and will include only those accomplishments during that year.
AIR ARMAMENT CENTER 36-2802 14 OCTOBER 2004                                                              5


      6.3.1. The following headings are mandatory for the CGO and enlisted quarterly/annual nomina-
      tions. Use bullet format. Submit original and five copies. A description of each heading and cor-
      responding point totals are indicated below.
          6.3.1.1. Leadership and Job Performance In Pr imary Duty: Describe significant leadership
          accomplishments and how well the member performed assigned pr imary and additional
          duties. Define the scope and level of responsibilities and the impact on the mission and the
          unit. I nclude any new initiatives or techniques developed by the me mber that positively
          impact the unit and/or mission. Include results of Air Force, MAJCOM, NAF level inspec-
          tions and/or evaluations. In clude awards received; e.g., NCO of the Quarter, Maintenance
          Professional of the Year, etc. (6-10 points possible)
          6.3.1.2. Significant Self-Improvement: Show how the member developed or improved skills
          related to primary duties; e.g., formal training, career development course enrollment or com-
          pletion, on-the-job training, certi fications, etc. Include co mpletion of any PME and any
          awards earned. Include any of f-duty education; e.g., class, course, degree enrollment and/or
          completion, grade p oint average. Cite any re levant training or acti vity that significantly
          enhanced the member’s value as a military citizen. (1-5 points possible)
          6.3.1.3. Base and/or Community Involvement: Define the scope and impact of the member’s
          positive leadership an d involvement in both the military and civilia n community. Include
          leadership, membership, or participation in unit advisory councils, professional military orga-
          nizations, associations, and events; e.g., President of Top 3, enlisted dining out committee,
          member of Air Force Sergeants Association or Air Force Association, Sunday School teacher,
          etc. (1-5 points possible)
      6.3.2. FGO and Civilian nominations require the following mandatory headings:
          6.3.2.1. Duty Performance: Specific outstanding accomplis hments in the performance of
          assigned or related duties during that quarter /year. Includes job a ccomplishments, process
          improvements, risk-taking, innovations, etc. (Equals 75 percent of score)
          6.3.2.2. Other Achievements: Significant additional duties, base/com munity involvement,
          educational achievements, self-improvement, etc. (Equals 25 percent of score)
   6.4. Civilian nominations also requi re a Memorandum of Commendation (see Attachment ) with
   the AAC/CC signature block. The AF IMT 1206 a nd Memorandum of Commendation will be sub-
   mitted to 96 MSS/DPCE via electronic mail per their required suspense.

7. Military and Civilian Quarterly/Annual Awards - Selection Board Responsibilities.
   7.1. Team Eglin Awards Program. Selection boards are scheduled by the Military Personnel Flight
   for active duty categories and the Civilian Pe rsonnel Flight for civilian categories. All selection
   boards have the responsibility of objectively and im partially evaluating all nominees to select the
   most deserving individual to be honor ed as the best of the best in his or her category for the quarter/
   year. Individual board scores are tabulated and a merit order li sting is produced showing the relative
   ranking of each nominee. The Military Personnel Flight, Awards and Deco rations representative is
   responsible for forwarding all board recommendations to the AAC Command Chief Master Sergeant.
   Board recommendations/results for civilian boards are maintained by the 96 MSS, Work Force Effec-
   tiveness Branch and Civilian Personnel Flight. Board composition for award categories are described
   as follows.
6                                         AIR ARMAMENT CENTER 36-2802 14 OCTOBER 2004


       7.1.1. The FGO/CGO board will consist of a boardpresident in the grade of colonel and four vot-
       ing members in the grades of colonel or lieutenant colonel. The board members will represent all
       MAJCOMs (AFMC, ACC, AETC, et c) assigned to Eglin AFB when ever possible. The uniform
       for board members is duty uniform/uniform of the day.
       7.1.2. The enlisted board will consist of a board president in the grade of CMSgt and four voting
       members in the gra de of chief or senior master ser geants. The board members will represent all
       MAJCOMs assigned to Eglin AFB whenever possibl e. The uniform for boa rd members will be
       duty uniform/uniform of the day.
       7.1.3. The civilian selection board will consist of five individuals, in the rank of Lieutenant Colo-
       nel or above and/or GS/GM-14 or above. The senior ranking mi litary/civilian will serve as the
       board president. The board members will be a broad representation of units on Eglin.
    7.2. T he AAC Annual Awards (12 OAY) Program is a Nomination P ackage Only Board. The
    board president will be the AAC Command Chief Master Sergeant. Board members will include the
    following personnel or their designated representa tive: 96th Air Base Wing Command Chief Master
    Sergeant, 46th Test Wing Superintendent, and the Acquisition Wings Superintendents.

8. Adopted Forms.
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award



                                               ROBERT W. CHEDISTER, Major General , USAF
                                               Commander, Air Armament Center
AIR ARMAMENT CENTER 36-2802 14 OCTOBER 2004                      7


                                        Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations, 1 August 1997
AFPD 36-10, Civilian Performance Management, 31 October 2000
8                                  AIR ARMAMENT CENTER 36-2802 14 OCTOBER 2004


                                      Attachment 2

SAMPLE INFORMATION FOR COMPLETING AF FORM 1206, NOMINATION FOR AWARD
                          COMPANY GRADE OFFICER (CGO)

Figure A2.1. Sample Information for Completing AF Form 1206.
AIR ARMAMENT CENTER 36-2802 14 OCTOBER 2004                        9


                                      Attachment 3

SAMPLE INFORMATION FOR COMPLETING AF FORM 1206, NOMINATION FOR AWARD
                                       ENLISTED

Figure A3.1. Sample Information for Completing AF Form 1206.
10                                 AIR ARMAMENT CENTER 36-2802 14 OCTOBER 2004


                                      Attachment 4

SAMPLE INFORMATION FOR COMPLETING AF FORM 1206, NOMINATION FOR AWARD
                                  CIVILIAN AND FGO

Figure A4.1. Sample Information for Completing AF Form 1206.
AIR ARMAMENT CENTER 36-2802 14 OCTOBER 2004                       11


                                   Attachment 5

                   SAMPLE MEMORANDUM OF COMMENDATION
       (TO BE USED FOR QUARTERLY AND ANNUAL AWARDS NOMINATIONS)

Figure A5.1. Sample Memorandum of Commendation.
