BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                          AIR ARMAMENT CENTER
AIR ARMAMENT CENTER (AFMC)                                             INSTRUCTION 21-103

                                                                          17 SEPTEMBER 2007

                                                                                    Maintenance

                                            REPAIR AND CALIBRATION OF TEST,
                               MEASUREMENT AND DIAGNOSTIC EQUIPMENT (TMDE)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
____________________________________________________________________________________________
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at www.e-
publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.
____________________________________________________________________________________________

OPR: 46 MXG/MXQ                                                        Certified by: 46 MXG/CC
                                                                             (Col David P. Olson)
Supersedes AACI 21-103, 1 April 2004                                                   Pages: 10


This instruction implements AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance. It outlines responsibilities
and procedures for all unit commanders, maintenance officers, supervisors and Test,
Measurement and Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE) coordinators requiring support from the Eglin
AFB Type IIC Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratory (PMEL). It applies to all activities
located on the Eglin AFB reservation, including Duke Field and Hurlburt Field and other
customers requesting support from the Eglin PME. Send recommended changes or comments
for this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This instruction updates requirements, information, and procedures for repair and calibration of
TMDE.
1. Related Publications. Work center supervisors and TMDE coordinators will be familiar
with the following publications that apply to their organizational requirements for the repair and
calibration of TMDE.
     1.1. AFI 21-113, Air Force Metrology and Calibration (AFMETCAL) Program.
     1.2. TO 00-20-14, Air Force Metrology and Calibration Program.
     1.3. AFI 64-117, Air Force Government Wide Purchase Card (GPC) Program.
2                                                AACI 21-103          17 SEPTEMBER 2007

    1.4. TO 00-25-234, General Shop Practice Requirements for the Repair, Maintenance and
    Testing of Electronic Equipment.
    1.5. TO 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting and Investigating System.
    1.6. TO 33-1-27, Logistic Support of Precision Measurement Equipment.
    1.7. TO 33-1-32, General Instructions for Input Power Wiring of Electrical/Electric
    Support Equipment.
    1.8. TO 33K-1-100-1, TMDE Calibration Notes, Maintenance Data Collection Code,
    Calibration Measurement Summaries, Transportable Field Calibration Unit
    Configuration, and Automatic Calibration System Supportable Equipment.
    1.9. TO 33K-1-100-2, Calibration Procedure--TMDE Calibration Interval and Work Unit
    Code Reference Manual Technical Order.
    1.10. AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management.
    1.11. Applicable Calibration Measurement Summaries (CMS).
2. Explanation of Terms:
    2.1. Customer Relations NCO. The TMDE Flight Chief or designated representative who
    advises customers, investigates complaints and makes periodic visits to owning work
    centers (OWC) to resolve test equipment problems.
    2.2. Equipment Inoperative for Parts (EIP). TMDE that is inoperative due to lack of repair
    parts. Parts have been requisitioned through the Air Force supply system and placed in a
    back order status.
    2.3. Emergency Calibration/Repair. Service on equipment that is one-of-a-kind or mission
    critical, the lack of which will prevent mission accomplishment or ground aircraft.
    Emergency TMDE, scheduled or unscheduled, will be placed in work status immediately
    and will continue on a 24-hour basis until completed. In the event of a work stoppage, the
    OWC will be immediately notified and apprised of the situation.
    2.4. Initial Calibration. All TMDE received initially from supply or other sources that
    must be calibrated before it is placed in service.
    2.5. TMDE Inventory Listing. This is a listing of TMDE serviced by the PMEL.
    2.6. OWC. The work center that owns or maintains custody of TMDE.
    2.7. Performing Work Center. The work center responsible for the calibration and repair
    of TMDE, usually the PMEL.
    2.8. TMDE Coordinator. An individual designated by their OWC’s maintenance
    officer/unit commander, in writing, to the PMEL to represent the unit or a work center.
    TMDE coordinators serve as a vital link between the unit, OWC and the PMEL. The
    TMDE Coordinator obtains calibration support for their activity, keeps the OWC informed
    on the status of TMDE and provide advice to the commander and their supervisors on
    PMEL matters. Normally, all communications between the OWC and the PMEL will be
    through the TMDE coordinator. To accommodate communications, coordinators shall be
AACI 21-103        17 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                         3

     assigned day shift duty hours. To access web-based PMEL maintenance information
     systems, all TMDE coordinators must have Internet access and an Air Force Portal account.
     2.9. Priority Calibration/Repair. Service on TMDE that is one-of-a-kind or mission
     essential, the lack of which would hamper mission accomplishment if not available.
     Priority TMDE, scheduled or unscheduled, will be placed in work status on a next-on-the-
     bench basis.
     2.10. Scheduled TMDE.         All items of TMDE that appear on the current equipment
     schedule.
     2.11. TMDE. Those devices used to test, measure, evaluate, inspect or otherwise examine
     materials, supplies, equipment, and systems to identify or isolate any actual or potential
     malfunction or to determine compliance with specifications established in technical
     drawings, RTD&E documents, specifications, engineering drawings and technical orders
     (TOs); formerly called Precision Measurement Equipment.
     2.12. Unscheduled TMDE. Equipment requiring repair or calibration that does not appear
     on the current Equipment Schedule. Normally, this term applies to TMDE failures or other
     items requiring out-of-cycle repair or calibration.
     2.13. PMEL Automated Management System (PAMS). The maintenance information
     system used by PMEL and PMEL customers to track TMDE maintenance.
     2.14. TMDE Schedule. This is a forecast listing of TMDE due calibration. The listing is
     in ascending date sequence.
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. Organization maintenance officers/commanders supported by the PMEL are
     responsible to appoint, by memorandum, primary and alternate TMDE coordinators on the
     day shift only. The memorandum must be signed by the organization maintenance
     officer/commander and sent to the TMDE Flight, 46th Maintenance Squadron (46
     MXS/MXMD). Copies must be provided to unit coordinators and alternates for their
     TMDE records. Appointment memorandums must include the information outlined below:
           3.1.1. Full name and grade of the TMDE coordinator and alternate.
Note: IAW TO 00-20-14, para, 3.6a, TMDE coordinator file is not required for the PMEL’s
TMDE coordinator.
           3.1.2. Telephone number, work center and organizational address.
           3.1.3. Individual’s e-mail address if available.
           3.1.4. Off-base work center mailing address, when appropriate.
           3.1.5. Air Force Portal user-ID.
           3.1.6. NCOIC, Maintenance Officer, and Commander’s names and telephone
           numbers.
Note: Copies of this memorandum may be obtained at: https://intranet.eglin.af.mil/46pmel
     3.2. Work center supervisors will:
4                                                 AACI 21-103          17 SEPTEMBER 2007

          3.2.1. Identify to their unit maintenance officer/commander a primary and alternate
          TMDE coordinator for the work center. The coordinator must be on day shift to
          coincide with PMEL duty hours.
          3.2.2. Ensure TMDE is delivered to the PMEL when it is due calibration.
          3.2.3. Ensure TMDE is clean, complete and accompanied by all ancillary items when
          delivered to the PMEL.
          3.2.4. Ensure TMDE is transported properly.
          3.2.5. Prevent abuse of the priority or emergency system by considering alternate
          methods of accomplishing the required measurements or borrowing test equipment
          before requesting these services. Note: The PMEL can provide instructions in
          alternate measurement methods or assist in identifying other work centers using
          identical or compatible equipment.
          3.2.6. Coordinate with PMEL prior to local purchase of any TMDE.
          3.2.7. Ensure maintenance TOs are on hand for all unique items of TMDE.
     3.3. TMDE coordinators will:
          3.3.1. Maintain the TMDE coordinator file.
          3.3.2. Maintain hand receipts for all TMDE in the PMEL. TMDE will not be
          released without hand receipts.
          3.3.3. Obtain input dates for TMDE requiring unscheduled maintenance or initial
          calibration.
          3.3.4. Deliver TMDE to the PMEL.
          3.3.5. If applicable, maintain and ensure PMEL Production Control has a copy of a
          classified equipment pickup and delivery authorization memorandum.           The
          coordinator’s commander will sign the memorandum. Only authorized personnel will
          be allowed to pick up or deliver classified equipment or TOs. Authorization
          memorandums are only valid for 1 year from the original date signed.
          3.3.6. Ensure emergency or priority items are picked up within 1 hour of notification
          on base, 4 hours off base.
          3.3.7. Return to PMEL for recalibration TMDE with calibration limitations (yellow
          AFTO Form 99, Limited/Special TMDE Certification, or AFTO Form 398, Limited
          TMDE Certification, not accepted by the user.
Note: Organizations that utilize a central processing point to deliver and pick up equipment
must ensure the central TMDE coordinator is trained by the PMEL. The organization must also
ensure individual OWCs that use the central processing point have appointed primary and
alternate TMDE coordinators for their areas.
     3.4. PMEL Production Control will:
          3.4.1. Notify TMDE coordinators when equipment is ready for pickup for those work
          centers or organizations that do not have regularly scheduled pickup days.
AACI 21-103      17 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                            5

         3.4.2. Conduct TMDE coordinator training classes as required.
         3.4.3. Prepare and distribute TMDE schedule and inventory listings via a web-based
         application. PMEL customers will be required to obtain their own TMDE schedules
         and inventory listings from the system.
         3.4.4. Annotate hand receipts to indicate if ancillary items or technical data
         accompanied an item when received by the PMEL.
    3.5. The TMDE Flight Chief or PMEL NCOIC will:
         3.5.1. Evaluate, approve or disapprove all requests for priority or emergency services.
         3.5.2. Notify organizational commanders through the 46 MXS Commander (46
         MXS/CC) of work centers that fail to pick up priority or emergency items after being
         notified of completion by the PMEL.
4. Procedures for Obtaining Support.
    4.1. Scheduled Equipment. TMDE coordinators should deliver scheduled TMDE on or
    before the date due calibration. Exceptions to delivery must be coordinated with PMEL
    Production Control.
    4.2. Unscheduled Maintenance and Initial Calibration. Equipment requiring unscheduled
    maintenance or initial calibration will be delivered on the date established by PMEL
    Production Control.
    4.3. Requests for Priority, Emergency Repair or Calibration. Work center supervisors and
    TMDE coordinators will:
         4.3.1. Review the TMDE schedule to identify TMDE that will require priority
         calibration. Take special care to identify any equipment due calibration on weekends,
         holidays or during TDYs.
         4.3.2. Coordinate scheduled standing priorities with the PMEL scheduler 5 workdays
         before the equipment is due calibration. Deliver valid unscheduled priority or
         emergency equipment anytime.
         4.3.3. Deliver equipment to PMEL Production Control with a memorandum signed
         by the OWC maintenance officer or superintendent requesting priority or emergency
         services. The memorandum will contain the following information:
               4.3.3.1. Mission Impact Statement. (To include name of project/mission and
               test equipment which requires calibration.)
               4.3.3.2. The date the item is required to meet mission requirements.
               4.3.3.3. Name and phone number of a technician familiar with the TMDE for
               discussions relating to operational requirements, when required.          For
               emergencies, name of a technician to provide assistance during non-duty hours.
               4.3.3.4. Name and phone number of the person that will pick up the TMDE
               when it is completed.
6                                                 AACI 21-103          17 SEPTEMBER 2007


Note: Only valid emergency priorities will be accepted without a memorandum; however, a
     memorandum should follow within 1 duty day.
     4.4. Mission Changes, Exercises, Inspections or Deployments. Work center supervisors or
     TMDE coordinators will coordinate with PMEL Production Control as far in advance as
     possible for known mission changes, deployments, exercises or inspections that will impose
     new or unusual workload requirements and services necessary to meet customer needs.
          4.4.1. Due to limited personnel and equipment, a PMEL supporting a deployed
          location is normally unable to provide routine calibration support. TMDE that
          becomes due for calibration while deployed must be returned to the unit’s home
          station for calibration. To prevent this long and costly delay, deploying units must
          carefully analyze their deployment packages to ensure their TMDE date due
          calibrations do not fall within their projected deployment time frame. Early
          calibration of some TMDE shortly before the deployment may be necessary. Units
          must contact PMEL as soon as possible to ensure PMEL has sufficient time to
          calibrate the TMDE before the deployment.
          4.4.2. The calibration cycles of numerous TMDE is so short that it is virtually
          impossible to prevent the items from becoming due for calibration while deployed. In
          these instances it is highly recommended that the unit obtain additional TMDE to be
          placed in War Readiness Materiel (WRM) status. These items can be placed into
          service when the primary TMDE becomes due for calibration and prevent any
          negative mission impacts.
     4.5. Establishing New Accounts. The PMEL repairs and calibrates, within its capability,
     TMDE owned by government agencies and government-furnished equipment used by
     contractors in support of test projects. Requesting agencies outside of the 46th Test Wing
     (46 TW) will forward written requests for support to the 96th Air Base Wing Plans Office
     (96 ABW/XP). (The PMEL will refer any initial contracts or requests to 96 ABW/XP.)
     Requests will be processed as follows:
          4.5.1. Upon receipt of a written request for PMEL support, 96 ABW/XP will submit
          a list of the equipment to the PMEL requesting a determination of capability to
          support.
          4.5.2. PMEL will determine supportability of all items submitted, taking into
          consideration such factors as the availability of test equipment, technical data, and
          technician capability. The item-by-item evaluation provided to 96 ABW/XP will
          define factors which exclude an item from PMEL capability.
          4.5.3. Upon determination that PMEL support can be provided, the requester
          (associate) will forward the following information, by memorandum, to PMEL to
          establish an account:
                4.5.3.1. Work Center Number and Activity Identifier Code. Agencies
                requesting support should send their request memorandum and supporting
                documents to 46th Maintenance Operations Squadron Budget Office (46
                MOS/MXOPB).
AACI 21-103        17 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                          7

                 4.5.3.2. Job Order Number (JON). Provided by the requester or established
                 through the applicable budget office.
                 4.5.3.3. Name of test, contractor or project.
                 4.5.3.4. Names and phone numbers of all persons authorized to deliver or pick
                 up equipment from PMEL.
                 4.5.3.5. List of items authorized for support (list may be attached).
          4.5.4. Upon approval of account, the requesting agency will provide information
          specified in paragraphs 4.5.3.1. through 4.5.3.3., when items are forwarded for repair
          or calibration.
          4.5.5. Labor will be charged against the JON as follows:
                 4.5.5.1. 46 TW units will not be charged for labor.
                 4.5.5.2. Other Department of Defense units will be charged in accordance with
                 current support agreements.
                 support agreements.
                 4.5.5.4. Other agencies will be charged in accordance with applicable laws and
                 instructions.
          4.5.6. PMEL will repair and calibrate TMDE within capability when the preceding
          conditions have been satisfied. In situations where repair parts must be ordered
          through the Base Supply system, PMEL will:
                 4.5.6.1. Provide base supply with the applicable JON. Parts are charged
                 against the JON for all non-46 TW customers.
                 4.5.6.2. For 46 TW test and evaluation customers, PMEL will request parts
                 from base supply on a “fill-or-kill” basis. When a kill notice is received, the
                 PMEL will accomplish the necessary research to determine if the part can be
                 obtained in the time frame required. If so, resubmit an issue request for the
                 establishment of a back order. If not, the customer will be contacted to
                 determine the desired course of action.
                 4.5.6.3. Keep the requester advised of any reason the “required by” date cannot
                 be met.
          4.5.7. Upon completion of support for a contractor, test or project, 96 ABW/XP will
          cancel the work center number with 46 MXS/MXMD.
5. TMDE Schedules and Inventory Listings. These machine products will be prepared and
distributed by PMEL Production Control via a web-based application. The OWC should review
these listings when received, correct them as required, keep a corrected copy and return one to
PMEL Production Control. PMEL customers will be required to obtain their own TMDE
schedules and inventory listings from the system. They should contact PMEL Production
Control to resolve any discrepancies.
6. TMDE Coordinator Training.
8                                                  AACI 21-103          17 SEPTEMBER 2007

     6.1. Newly appointed TMDE coordinators and alternates will contact PMEL Production
     Control for an appointment to attend the orientation training. Coordinators should attend
     the training session prior to assuming TMDE coordinator duties. The TMDE coordinator
     will bring the work center TMDE coordinator file to the training class.
     6.2. PMEL Production Control will issue an AF Form 2426, Training Request and
     Completion Notification, certifying that the required training was completed. The TMDE
     coordinator will attach the AF Form 2426 to the memorandum of appointment and
     maintain it in the TMDE coordinator file. PMEL Production Control will keep a copy of
     the AF Form 2426 on file.
7. OWC TMDE Coordinator Folders. Each work center TMDE coordinator will maintain a
TMDE coordinator file that will include as a minimum:
     7.1. A current copy of this publication.
     7.2. The organizational memorandum of appointment for primary and alternate TMDE
     coordinator.
     7.3. A copy of the AF Form 2426, showing TMDE coordinator training was completed.
     7.4. Classified equipment pickup and delivery authorization memorandum (if applicable).
     7.5. Current corrected copy of the work center TMDE inventory listing.
     7.6. Current copy of the work center TMDE schedule.
     7.7. Hand receipts for all test equipment presently in the PMEL.
     7.8. PMEL User’s Guide and any handouts provided by the PMEL.
8. Test Equipment Modernization/Replacement.
     8.1. When considering local procurement of TMDE, first coordinate with the PMEL to
     determine their ability to support the item. PMEL may also be able to identify items that
     will satisfy OWC requirements that are available through normal Air Force supply channels
     and already listed in the Air Force inventory.
     8.2. The TMDE Flight Chief or designated representative will assist any work center
     desiring to update or modernize their test equipment inventories with state-of-the-art
     equipment. This service may be obtained by calling the TMDE Flight Chief or PMEL
     Production Control for an appointment.
9. Lateral Support Priority. In instances where TMDE must be forwarded to another
laboratory and a priority/emergency requirement arises, PMEL Production Control will arrange
the necessary coordination to designate or upgrade the off-base support to a priority work
requirement. The OWC may be required to provide appropriate courier service to (or a shipping
JON) and from the off-base supporting laboratory (that is, another PMEL, depot, Air Force
Metrology and Calibration (AFMETCAL), etc.).
10. TMDE Abuse. The supervisor of the calibrating technician will prepare a memorandum
identifying abused TMDE and forward it through the 46 MXS/CC to the commander of the
OWC. The unit commander must acknowledge the damage in writing. The PMEL may return
abused items to the OWC without action. Recurring instances of abuse will be elevated to the
AACI 21-103        17 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                            9

appropriate level of command for corrective action. The OWCs may be held financially
responsible for purchase or reimbursement of replacement parts and components.
11. TMDE Overdue Calibration.
     11.1. PMEL Production Control will prepare a memorandum identifying TMDE that is
     overdue calibration and forward it through the 46 MXS/CC to the unit commander if
     TMDE is overdue calibration by 30 days.
     11.2. The OWCs unit commander will reply to the 46 MXS/CC through the 46th
     Maintenance Group Commander (46 MXG/CC), stating why the TMDE was not delivered
     to the PMEL.
     11.3. Overdue TMDE will be treated as unscheduled maintenance. The work center
     TMDE coordinator will contact PMEL Production Control to reschedule equipment.
     11.4. PMEL Production Control will maintain a suspense file of overdue calibration
     memorandums until appropriate action is taken.
12. TMDE Received Unserviceable from Supply. The OWC receiving TMDE from Base
Supply will leave all condition tags and warranty information attached to the unit. If the unit is
found to be defective during initial calibration, the PMEL will:
     12.1. Return TMDE issued from supply stock or shipped directly from a manufacturer to
     the OWC for submission of a deficiency report (DR). The PMEL will furnish technical
     details relating to the cause of the failure. Action by the depot on the DR will determine
     disposition of the unserviceable unit.
     12.2. When warranty repair is available on new items, return the items to the OWC for
     warranty repair processing. The PMEL will furnish technical details, reject or failure data,
     as well as warranty information and processing procedures.
13. TMDE Inoperative for Parts (EIP).
     13.1. Replacement parts for TMDE are often difficult to obtain due to the age of the
     equipment, the vendor no longer produces the item or has closed, non-procurement of spare
     parts by the depot due to low consumption, or lag times entering the Air Force inventory.
           13.1.1. PMEL Materiel Control will notify the OWC TMDE coordinator when
           equipment is placed into EIP status.
           13.1.2. OWC supervisors, in conjunction with the OWC TMDE coordinator and
           PMEL Materiel Control, will closely monitor the status of requisitions against EIP
           TMDE.
     13.2. It is impossible for PMEL Materiel Control to know how each item of TMDE is used
     or what effect lack of an item may have on the customer’s mission. Communication
     between the TMDE owner/user and the PMEL is essential for timely parts delivery. PMEL
     Materiel Control will:
           13.2.1. Request the work center submit mission impact statements on items that have
           excessively long delivery dates or a bad supply status. Determination for Not
10                                                 AACI 21-103         17 SEPTEMBER 2007

          Repairable This Station action will be based upon the owner’s need for the item,
          availability of a replacement and item manager instructions.
          13.2.2. Forward impact statements to Base Supply for follow-up action.
14. Calibration Responsibility Determination.
     14.1. The OWC receiving TMDE that is new to the Air Force inventory or is not listed in
     TO 33K-1-100-2 will furnish the PMEL with the following data for determining calibration
     responsibility:
          14.1.1. OWC.
          14.1.2. Organization and shop.
          14.1.3. Telephone number.
          14.1.4. Equipment part and serial numbers.
          14.1.5. National stock number.
          14.1.6. Manufacturer.
          14.1.7. Any technical manuals, pamphlets, fact sheets or specification sheets received
          with the equipment. (These items will be provided on a loan basis.) Note: If
          technical information is not available, it must be obtained before calibration
          responsibility can be determined.
     14.2. The OWC should coordinate with PMEL whenever possible prior to ordering/receipt
     of new TMDE IAW AFI 64-117.
     14.3. The PMEL will request calibration responsibility from AFMETCAL and notify the
     OWC of the results. If commercial data is available, the PMEL may be able to calibrate the
     item until calibration responsibility determination from the AFMETCAL is received.



                                           GARY L. PLUMB, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander, 46th Test Wing
