BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          AIR ARMAMENT CENTER INSTRUCTION
AIR ARMAMENT CENTER                                                          99-102

                                                                                    24 JUNE 2010

                                                                      Test And Evaluation (T&E)

                                                         46 TW TEST AND EVALUATION
                                                             WORKLOAD ACCEPTANCE,
                                                  COORDINATION AND DOCUMENTATION



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 46 TW/XPX                                                            Certified by: 46 TW/CC
Supersedes: AFDTCI 99-102, 26 July 1996;                                             (Col Brewer)
            AACI99-103, 5 February 1999;                                                  Pages: 7
            and TWI 99-104, 8 December
            1998


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 99-1, Test and Evaluation
Process. This instruction defines responsibilities and procedures to allow DoD, Federal
agencies, and commercial companies to use 46th Test Wing (TW) T&E facilities or capabilities.
It applies to all 46th Test Wing organizations and the Air Armament Center (AAC) Contracting
Office. Work may be performed directly for all federal agencies performing test and evaluation
activities as set forth in AFI 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation, and this instruction.
Contractors using government furnished support under a Cooperative Research and Development
Agreement (CRADA) will reimburse costs in accordance with the negotiated terms of the
CRADA. A CRADA is defined in 15 U.S.C. 3710a (d) (1). Commercial customers may for their
own purposes contract directly with a Major Range Test Facility Base (MRTFB) facility in
accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2681 and as set forth in this instruction. Defense contractors, for the
purpose of performing work to carry out DoD contracts, shall be permitted access to MRTFB test
and evaluation capabilities using the rates set forth in that contract and when the use of a T&E
Activity has been included in the contract as government furnished services. The contractor will
be charged based on the category of the federal agency executing the contract (DoD 7000.14-R,
Vol 11A, paragraph 120203B.5 (see AFMCI 65-602)). Work can also be performed under
federal cooperative arrangements involving independent research and development program.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
 2                                                         AIR ARMAMENT CENTERI99-102


Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document contains significant revision and replaces previous policy. It also updates office
symbols, organizational titles, deletes out of date references, deletes rescinded policy letters (46
TW/CC letter, 22 Mar 99, Policy for accepting Commercial Test Workload (10 U.S.C., Section
2681); 46 TW/CC letter, 21 Mar 00, Commercial Test Policy for 46 TW Climatic Laboratory
Facility; 46 TW/CC letter, 16 Oct 00, Change in Policy for Accepting Test Workload; 46
TW/CC letter, 17 Oct 07, Foreign Commercial Customers); and realigns OPR responsibilities.
The procedural attachment was incorporated into the body of the instruction. This document
also incorporates policies from TWI 99-104, AFDTCI 99-102, and AACI 99-103.
1. Introduction. This instruction outlines responsibilities and procedures for accepting and
documenting the T&E workload for the 46 TW. It applies to all 46 TW organizations.
     1.1. Crisis and Quick Reaction Testing. Workload acceptance procedures for crisis and
     command directed quick reaction testing are covered under AAC Plan 70, AAC
     Crisis/Command Directed Rapid Response Testing. The purpose of AAC Plan 70 is to
     provide procedures to streamline and expedite the planning and execution of critical testing
     in response to a crisis or command direction without degrading safety, security, or
     environmental protection. AAC Plan 70 provides the guidance and OPRs necessary to
     respond, as well as applicable checklists.
     1.2. Scope of T&E Mission. The T&E mission, as addressed in this instruction, includes all
     work involving 46 TW T&E resources, including in house test efforts, as well as those AAC
     efforts conducted by 46 TW personnel using other T&E resources. It includes DT&E,
     OT&E, Air Force SEEK EAGLE Office (AFSEO), training, demonstrations, operations,
     technology transfer programs, commercial test programs and foreign military sales (FMS).
     1.3. T&E Funding Policy. 46 TW assets are operated as part of the MRTFB; as such, its
     operating budget (total obligation authority) for T&E associated activities is made up of both
     a reimbursable budget authority (RBA) and direct budget authority (DBA). The RBA must
     be earned from customers through the uniform funding policy directed by the Department of
     Defense Directive (DoDD) 7000.14-R, Volume 11A, Chapter 12, Major Range and Test
     Facilities; AFMCI 65-603, Appropriation Reimbursement Procedures; and AFMCI 65-602,
     Uniform Reimbursement and Pricing Procedures. The Job Order Cost Accounting System
     (JOCAS), as defined in EAFBI 65-601, Job Order Cost Accounting Operations, is used by 46
     TW organizations to accumulate support costs for use in billing customers for
     reimbursement. A job order number (JON) is established and input into the JOCAS for this
     purpose.
     1.4. T&E Priority System. AAC priority is assigned to all program activities, when required,
     based on the assigned Air Force precedence rating and indicates relative priority for use of 46
     TW T&E resources. For commercial customers working on a DoD contract, the priority is
AIR ARMAMENT CENTERI99-102                                                                     3


   assigned based on the AF precedence rating of the associated contract. For customers
   without an AF precedence rating, an AAC priority will be assigned.
   1.5. T&E Mission Workload Acceptance. The responsibility for accepting specific
   workload has been delegated to the 46 TW Groups.
2. T&E Workload Acceptance for Non Commercial Customers Only. Testing at 46 TW is a
team effort requiring support of organizations internal and external to 46 TW. To ensure an
effective and efficient test program, each supporting effort must be planned and documented in
sufficient detail. In general, three basic areas must be considered on each project effort: (1)
correspondence with customer, (2) complete all required 46 TW implementation directives and
(3) 46 TW JOCAS interface/cost accumulation. The 46 TW Commander authorizes 46 TW
Group Commanders or their designated representatives to develop a Statement of Capability
(SOC) to support a customer. The SOC (described in Section 2.2.8 below) is approved/signed
by the group commander or their designated representative (consistent with current process for
DoD), applies to DoD, other Government agencies, and commercial customers.
   2.1. The Initial Inquiry (II) initiates the acceptance process and may be used by the group
   commanders or their designated representatives to assign the specific T&E mission
   workload. After contact with a potential customer, the 46 TW representative generates the II.
   The II informs 46 TW management of the project scope, customer requirements, and
   recommends assignment of a 46 TW organization to conduct the project. The II must
   identify if projects require significant resources such as consecutive day range missions,
   large range/air space, and/or management emphasis in order to execute. Group level
   management will review the II and accept the II or coordinate with the representative on
   project changes.
   2.2. The assigned 46 TW organization initiates the planning process with the customer. The
   assigned Programming Engineer (PE) or Test Manager (TM) will:
       2.2.1. Based on the customer’s request, determine the project objectives, identify project
       requirements, define required capabilities, coordinate with 46 TW groups and external
       organization to identify resources and/or modifications required, and identify spectrum,
       safety, security, and environmental requirements.
       2.2.2. Review the long range schedule for resource availability and constraints. Enter the
       proposed project execution dates in the appropriate long range forecast schedule.
       2.2.3. Obtain group level approval for continuing projects that require significant
       resources such as consecutive day range missions, large range/air space, and/or
       management emphasis in order to execute.
       2.2.4. In the event of a potentially large pre test or pre SOC expenses, the commanders
       have the discretion to require upfront preplanning funding and to use a two phased
       approach to include a 1st phase SOC to cover from the initial planning milestone to the
       final planning and the 2nd phase to begin after that.
       2.2.5. Identify and implement 46 TW actions for urgent or long lead time requirements,
       as appropriate.
       2.2.6. Solicit and coordinate preliminary cost estimates from support agencies.
 4                                                         AIR ARMAMENT CENTERI99-102


        2.2.7. If required, prepare a Rough Order of Magnitude (ROM) cost and schedule
        estimate, based on the customer’s planning requirements.
        2.2.8. Prepare and submit to the test customer a SOC. The SOC represents a mutual
        agreement between the 46 TW and the customer of the workload by the 46 TW, provides
        an estimate of project cost and schedule, defines project Work Breakdown Structure
        (WBS), defines 46 TW and customer responsibilities, provides cost/schedule/technical
        risks associated with the project, and records signatures of key 46 TW and customer
        personnel. Signature of the SOC represents formal acceptance of the workload.
        2.2.9. Test preparation and execution will not begin until the customer has signed the
        SOC and customer funds are secured.
     2.3. After Formal Acceptance: During this time, the PE, Test Engineer (TE) or TM will:
        2.3.1. Continually monitor project cost and schedule to ensure they are commensurate
        with current baseline; revise the SOC and rebaseline the WBS if the project schedule,
        scope, or cost substantially deviates from the baseline.
        2.3.2. Monitor test/task program progress and screen funds expenditure reports to verify
        that costs are valid as recorded; prepare test directive and SOC amendments as required.
        2.3.3. Identify and provide security classification authority and review or declassification
        date for each type of data collected and reduced in support of this T&E effort.
     2.4. Completion and Closeout of Test:
        2.4.1. Upon completion of the test/task effort and accumulation of all charges, coordinate
        the receipt of additional funds/return of excess funds and test residual material, as
        necessary.
        2.4.2. Solicit customer quality feedback to identify and solve test customer and test
        organization problems.
     2.5. For off base test efforts comply with AFDTCI 99-101, Planning, Commanding, and
     Controlling of Off-Base Test Activities, OPR: 46 TS/OGEX.
3. T&E Workload Acceptance for Commercial Customers Only. AAC/PK is the only
organization that can legally bind the Government and the commercial customer with a
contractual agreement.
     3.1. Foreign commercial customers. The test costs or reimbursable code should be
     determined by the end product. In accordance with DoD 7000.14-R, Financial Management
     Regulation (FMR), Volume 11A, Chap 12, an end product of purely commercial nature
     should be charged a commercial rate. An end product supporting foreign government efforts
     will be charged at the higher Foreign Military Sales rate in accordance with the FMR,
     Volume 15, Chap 7, in which case the test would need to be registered with the Department
     of State. For these types of tests, the organization would need to obtain 46 TW/XPR
     coordination and assistance prior to making an agreement with the customer.
     3.2. PE/TM Confidentiality. Details surrounding a test, including the facility in which a test
     is to be conducted, can often provide information to competitors as to the intent of the
     commercial entity to develop a new product, and even as to the particulars of the product to
     be developed. Consequently, a potential commercial customer's mere interest in performing
AIR ARMAMENT CENTERI99-102                                                                    5


  specific testing may be valid proprietary information, along with any subsequent test
  procedures and resulting data. Such data shall be appropriately protected.
  3.3. The 46 Test Wing’s approval/signature of a SOC for a commercial customer is
  consistent with the current process for DoD or other Government agencies.
     3.3.1. The 46 TW Commander authorizes 46 TW Group Commanders or their
     designated representatives to develop a SOC to support a commercial customer “(see
     section 2.0, except that the reference to section 2.2.8 does not apply). The Group
     Commanders and not AAC/PK have the responsibility to ensure that only authorized
     representatives develop and sign a SOC. The PE/TM may contact the AAC/PK
     contracting office for a copy of the most recent test contract template.
  3.4. Test Workload Acceptance. See Sections 2.2.1 - 2.2.7 for detailed description of the
  PE/TM duties.
     3.4.1. Commercial Customer contacts the 46 TW. Inquiries from potential test
     customers should be directed to 46 TW/XPX or the appropriate PE/TM, and then
     documented via the II where appropriate (See Section 2.1 for detailed description of the
     II). 46 TW/XPX will direct new potential customers to the appropriate office in the 46
     TW Groups as required. In the cases of repeat customers, the commercial customer may
     contact the PE/TM directly.
     3.4.2. A 46 TW PE or TM is the primary focal point for working with the commercial
     company after the 46 TW receives the initial request for 46 TW T&E service.
     3.4.3. Commercial customers must use MRTFB ancillary services (such as machining,
     chemical or metallurgical analysis, painting, or other support services) if DoD capability
     is available and generally used in direct support of an MRTFB T&E program.
     3.4.4. Prior to signing a contract for commercial work, all commercial customers will be
     informed that the test contract shall contain a provision that the Secretary of Defense may
     terminate, prohibit, or suspend immediately any commercial test or evaluation activity to
     be conducted at the Major Range and Test Facility Base.
     3.4.5. At the request of the PE/TM, the AAC/PK Contracting officer will review the
     SOC prior to the final signature. The SOC is then signed at the appropriate level.
     3.4.6. After the SOC is signed, the PE/TM then transfers the signed SOC and all
     pertinent information to the AAC/PK contracting officer for completion of the test
     contract. The AAC/PK contracting officer reviews the documentation and, if acceptable,
     makes it part of the file documentation on the test contract. The signed SOC will be
     incorporated into the test contract as an attachment.
     3.4.7. The commercial test customer and the contracting officer’s signature on the test
     contract represent the formal acceptance of the workload.
  3.5. After Formal Acceptance:
     3.5.1. Test preparation and execution will not begin until AAC/PK's contracting officer
     signature and customer funds are secured.
     3.5.2. The PE/TM will continually monitor project cost and schedule to ensure they are
     commensurate with current baseline; revise the SOC and rebase line the WBS if the
 6                                                         AIR ARMAMENT CENTERI99-102


        project schedule, scope, or cost substantially deviates from the baseline and; forward the
        revised SOC to AAC/PK contracting office. AAC/PK contracting officer will modify the
        test contract to include the revised SOC.
        3.5.3. The PE/TM will monitor test/task program progress and screen funds expenditure
        reports to verify that costs are valid as recorded; prepare test directive and SOC
        amendments as required and; notify AAC/PK when additional funds are required. The
        amended SOC is then forwarded to the AAC/PK contracting office which will modify the
        test contract to include the amended SOC. If additional funds are required, a request will
        be forwarded by AAC/PK with the contract modification to the commercial test
        customer.
        3.5.4. The PE/TM will identify and provide security classification authority and review
        or declassification date for each type of data collected and reduced in support of this T&E
        effort.
     3.6. Completion and Closeout of Test:
        3.6.1. The PE/TM will notify AAC/PK when the test is completed, send the final cost
        determination to AAC/PK, and notify AAC/PK and coordinate with the customer the
        return of any test residual material. If required, AAC/PK will issue a close out
        modification to the contract to adjust the contract price to reflect the actual costs of the
        test upon completion. Upon issuance of the Government check to the commercial
        customer or the receipt of the commercial test customer check, the contract will be
        considered closed.
        3.6.2. The AAC/PK contracting office will keep the test contract file at least 12 months
        following completion of the contract. After that, the AAC/PK contracting office will
        forward the file to Staging. Details surrounding a test, including the facility in which a
        test is to be conducted, can often provide information to competitors as to the intent of
        the commercial entity to develop a new product, and even as to the particulars of the
        product to be developed. Consequently, a potential commercial customer's mere interest
        in performing specific testing may be valid proprietary information, along with any
        subsequent test procedures and resulting data. Such data shall be appropriately protected.
4. T&E Acceptance Authorities and Exceptions to the 46 TW Process:
     4.1. 46 TW Commander. The 46 TW Commander authorizes 46 TW Group Commanders or
     their designated representatives to develop a SOC to support a customer. For commercial
     customers see 3.3.1.
     4.2. The 46 TW Plans Office (46 TW/XP) will:
        4.2.1. Evaluate the test requirements of specific customers when contacted directly.
        4.2.2. Recommend the appropriate 46 TW Group to potential customers.
        4.2.3. Coordinate business development activities within the 46 TW.
        4.2.4. Administer the AAC test priority system.
        4.2.5. Monitor and coordinate reimbursable rates established by each 46 TW Group.
AIR ARMAMENT CENTERI99-102                                                                    7


  4.3. The 46 TW Groups. The Groups may accept test workload from customers within
  assigned Group mission areas. For commercial work only, the Groups shall follow the
  process identified in Section 3. For non commercial work only, the Groups will generally
  follow the process identified in Section 2 except the 46th Test Group will follow 46 TGI 99-
  103. The Group Commanders have the authority to establish internal test processes provided
  they don’t directly contradict steps in Section 2 or 3, or in any way impact coordination with
  AAC/PK or processes within AAC/PK.
  4.4. Forms Adopted.
      AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                           MICHAEL T. BREWER, Col, USAF
                                           Commander
