BY ORDER OF THECOMMANDER                                                   ACC INSTRUCTION 51-901
AIR COMBAT COMMAND                                                                  18 JANUARY 1999
                                                                           Certified Current 2 June 2010
                                                                                                    Law

                                                                          OFF-DUTY EMPLOYMENT




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digit ally on the ACC WWW site at http://www.acc.af.mil/
public/accpubs/pubmain.html.


OPR: HQ ACC/JACF (Maj Gary M. Jackson)                                        Certified by: HQ ACC/JA
                                                                        (Brig Gen William A. Moorman)
                                                                                                Pages: 3
                                                                                         Distribution: F

This instruction implements Title 10, the inherent authority of commanders, and is consistent with appli-
cable portions of the Joint Ethics Regulation (JER). This instruction establishes internal agency proce-
dures for processing requests for approval of o ff-duty employment filed by mi litary and c ivilian
employees in accordance with Sections 2-206a and 3-306a of the JER. This instruction also delegates to
agency designees, commanders, heads of organizations, and supervisors the author ity expressly granted
by Sections 2-303 and 3-306e of DOD 5500.7-R to r equire DOD employees under their jurisdiction to
report any off-duty employment prior to engaging in such employment, and to prohibit off-duty employ-
ment that will detract from readiness or pose a security risk. All military personnel assigned to Air Com-
bat Command (ACC), including those assigned at bases of another host command, who seek to engage in
off-duty employment are required to submit an AF Form 3902, Application and Approval for Off-Duty
Employment. AC C civilian pe rsonnel required to file financial disclosure reports pursuant to Sec tions
2-206a and 3-306a of the JER must also submit an AF Form 3902 prior to engaging in off-duty employ-
ment. ACCI 51-901 is a punitive instruction; military and respective civilian personnel who fail to com-
ply w ith th is in struction subject themselves to c riminal li ability and/or disciplinary action. This
instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard or Air Air Force Reserve Command units and mem-
bers. Refer recommended changes to HQ ACC/JA, 114 Douglas Street, Suite 114, Langley Air Force
Base, Virginia 23665-2774 on Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.



1. Policy:
   1.1. Prohibitions. ACC personnel, both military and civilian, must not engage in off-duty employ-
   ment that:
       1.1.1. Is prohibited by statute or regulation;
       1.1.2. would detract from readiness; or
       1.1.3. would pose a security risk.
2                                                                      ACCI51-901 18 JANUARY 1999

    1.2. Explanation of Terms:
       1.2.1. The term "off-duty employment" means business activities and compensated outside
       employment, including self-employment. Examples of self-employment include the sale of insur-
       ance, real estate, cosmetics, household supplies, vitamins, and other goods or services. It does not
       include the one- time sale of personal property, the c onduct of a ga rage sale or similar event, the
       rental of a residence previously occupied by the owner, or the occasional, compensated provision
       of personal services such as babysitting, house sitting, lawn mowing, car repair, or musical enter-
       tainment. Nor does it include services rendered as a volunteer when an incidental, non-monetary
       benefit (such as free child care or a free meal) is involved. For purposes of the above exceptions,
       an activity is “occasional” if it occurs less frequently than once a month, on the average.
       1.2.2. The term "readiness" includes the ability of the Air Force to perform its mission in the man-
       ner and at the time and place required, and the ability of a military member or respective civilian
       employee to perform his or her government duties in t he manner and at the time and place
       required.
    1.3. Requirements:
       1.3.1. All military personnel and those civilian personnel required to file financial disclosure
       reports who intend to perform off-duty employment, including employment while on terminal
       leave, shall submit an AF Form 3902 to their first-level supervisor at least two weeks before
       beginning employment (except in cases where two weeks notice is not possible). Final appr oval
       must be obtained prior to starting off-duty employment. Medical service personnel must comply
       with the requirements regarding off-duty employment in AFI 44-102, Patient Care and Manage-
       ment of Clinical Services, in addition to the requirements of this instruction.
       1.3.2. Personnel who have not obta ined prior approval and who are, on the effective date of this
       instruction, already engaged in off-duty employment, shall have 90 days from that date to obtain
       such approval.
       1.3.3. A new AF Form 3902 must be submitted whenever the type of employment or the
       employer changes, the individual's Air Force duties change s ignificantly, or the number of regu-
       larly scheduled off-duty-hours increases. Occasional increases in hours due to s ituations such as
       the availability of overtime work, or the need to fill in for an absent co-worker, do not require
       resubmission of the AF Form 3902. Previously denied requests may be resubmitted after a change
       in the individual's Air Force duties.
       1.3.4. Military personnel who fail to comply with the filing requirements of this instruction vio-
       late a lawful general order, which may result in appropriate disciplinary action or criminal liability
       under Article 92 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Respective Air Force civilian employ-
       ees who violate this instruction by failing to comply with its filing requirements are subject to
       appropriate disciplinary action without regard to criminal liability.

2. Procedures for Completing AF Form 3902:
    2.1. Section I. The employee completes Section I.
    2.2. Section II. The employee's immediate supervisor completes Section II.
    2.3. Section III. In cases where the employee is required to file a SF 278, Public Financial Disclo-
    sure Report, or OGE Form 450, Confidential Financial Disclosure Report, and where the off-duty
ACCI51-901 18 JANUARY 1999                                                                             3

  employment will be with a "prohibited source" as defined in the JER, DOD 5500.7-R (including any
  person or company that does business or seeks to do business with the DOD, regardless of the dollar
  amount of the contract or purchase), the Center, Wing or Organization JA shall complete Section III.
  In other cases, JA review is not required unless requested by t he employee's immediate supervisor.
  However, Installation Commanders may require JA review in all cases. (This may be accomplished
  by letter, as opposed to by local supplementation of this instruction.)
  2.4. Section IV. Section IV is completed by the first person in the employee's chain of command or
  supervision who is a commissioned military officer or a civilian GS-12 or above, and who is above the
  employee's immediate supervisor. However, if the employee's immediate supervisor is a General
  Officer, SES member, SES-equivalent employee or Center or Wing Commander (or equivalent), then
  the immediate supervisor also completes Section IV. The individuals specified in this paragraph who
  are authorized to complete Sec tion IV of the AF Form 3902 (other than Unit Commanders) are con-
  sidered to be Delegatees of Unit Commanders, for purposes of completing Section IV of the AF Form
  3902. Commanders may also delegate this authority to their Vice-Commanders.
  2.5. Filing AF Form 3902. After a request is approved or disapproved, the original request will be
  maintained either by the individual's unit, or in one or more centralized locations (such as a Squadron
  Section Commander's office), or in s uch manner as the Installation Commander deems appropriate.
  Also, a copy of the completed AF Form 3902 will be sent to the Legal Office in cases where the Legal
  Office coordinated on the AF Form 3902. If the individual filed an OGE Form 450, the Legal Office
  will maintain the individual's AF Form 3902 with the individual's OGE Form 450.



                                        RICHARD E. HAWLEY, General, USAF
                                        Commander
