BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-1054
AIR COMBAT COMMAND
                                                                                    22 MAY 2003
                                                                       MOUNTAIN HOME AFB
                                                                                 Supplement
                                                                                  12 APRIL 2011
                                                                Certified Current 21 March 2013

                                                                                Civil Engineering

                                                                              EXTERIOR SIGNS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ ACC/CCTT-D                                                      Certified by: HQ ACC/A7
                                                                         (BrigGen Patrick Burns)
Supersedes:    ACCI 32-1054,                                                             Pages: 8
               15 November 1996
                                  (MOUNTAINHOMEAFB)
OPR: 366 CES/CEPD                             Certified by: 366 CES/CC (Lt Col Michal
                                                                            Holliday)
                                                                              Pages:3


This instruction implements policy guidance found in AFPD 32-10, Installation and Facilities. It
establishes guidance for all exterior signs used on ACC installations. Its purpose is to manage the
number of signs on ACC installations and to ensure attractive, professional, well maintained, and
uniform sign standards throughout the installation. Proper use of signs has a major effect on the
appearance of our bases and will professionally communicate direction and location of those
functions and activities that truly warrant identification. This instruction applies to all ACC
activities, units, installations and non-ACC units tenanted on ACC installations. This publication
applies to ACC-gained Air National Guard (ANG) units and members when published in the
ANGIND 2. It also applies to ACC-gained Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and
members. Send comments and suggested improvements on AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication, through channels, to HQ ACC/CECT, 129 Andrews St, Langley AFB
VA 23665-2769.

(MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) ACCI 32-1054, 22 May 2003, is supplemented as follows. This
instruction establishes exterior signage unique to Mountain Home Air Force Base (MHAFB),
 2                                               ACCI32-1054_MOUNTAINHOMEAFBSUP_I


Idaho. Its purpose is to document approved existing and future base specific signage that
deviates from ACCI 32-1054. Base specific signs serve to functionally communicate direction
or location when necessary and provide a unified base aesthetic remaining professional in
appearance. MHAFB signs should create a mentally coherent image and visible character. This
instruction applies to all activities, units, and tenant organizations assigned to MHAFB. This
supplement pertains to Air National Guard units and the Air Force Reserve Command. Ensure
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
Contact supporting records managers as required. Refer recommended changes and questions
regarding this publication to the office of primary responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, route AF Forms 847 through the base publications
and forms manager.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision now
requires the approval of the wing commander of all exterior signs on an installation excluding
traffic control and safety signs governed by national standards. This revision also eliminates the
use of wood post for sign support. Identifies locations for base marquee signs and services
marquee signs. Clarifies how building numbers and street addresses may be displayed. Changes
how Army and Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES), Defense Commissary Agency (DECA),
and commercial enterprises may display registered logos and signature brand signs. A bar ( | )
indicates a revision from the previous edition.
1. General. The installation will hold the number of signs on each installation to the minimum
required for identification and customer service. All exterior signs require wing commander
approval via an installation sign master plan prior to sign installation, except those signs
governed by national standards such as the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD); and Occupational Safety and Health
Administration (OSHA) Construction Safety and Health Outreach
Program--Signs, Signals, and Barricades. Examples include regulatory and warning traffic control
signs (speed limit signs, stop signs, yield signs, etc.), and hazard/danger signs required by OSHA.
Signs mandated by national standards must be their required colors and design. Organizational and
building identification signs shall use individual lettering attached to buildings, structures, or
monuments and shall be beige, or anodized bronze aluminum letters, for entryway glass provide
frosted white pressure sensitive letters. Policy for other types of exterior signs is white letters on
brown background and brown posts with the exception of signs relating to safety and governed by
national standards applicable to the USAF. All signs regardless of type shall be of the required size,
well maintained, attractive and professional in appearance. Use UFC 3-120-01, Air Force Sign
Standard, for sign guidance except for variances indicated herein.

2. Materials. Materials utilized should consider the life cycle cost of the sign. Sign stock and
hardware should typically be aluminum, galvanized steel, or nonferrous materials to resist
weathering and prevent rust streaking. Do not use wood.
ACCI32-1054_MOUNTAINHOMEAFBSUP_I                                                                  3


   2.1. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Sandstone Rock. Sandstone rocks may be used
   in lieu of building signs. Each group or squadron may have no more than one sandstone rock
   displaying a squadron logo and/or motto. The dimension of the rocks shall have information
   readily visible from passing vehicles. If the sign is approached form both directions, the rock
   feature shall be placed perpendicular to that street and engraved on the respective sides. Use
   black lettering, all capitals with no specific font. Rocks may feature painted engravings or
   monochromatic logos allowing immediate recognition of the squadron or housing
   community.
3. Sign Standards. Each installation shall adopt standards for each type sign used to ensure
uniformity throughout the installation. Attention to detail is essential for an attractive and
uniform sign program that portrays a professional image. Poor quality or unprofessional signs,
including stenciled signs are unacceptable.
4. ACC Tenant Units. ACC encourages ACC units at a base of another command to follow the
host command's and the host base standards. Similarly, other command units on ACC bases
should follow ACC sign standards.
5. Base Entrance Signs. Main base entrances provide ACC visitors with their first impression.
Entrance signs should portray a high professional image of the installation, mission, and
command. Typical entrance signs would be monument mounted and include decals conveying
the mission, the MAJCOM, and the new Air Force Symbol.
6. Marquee Sign:
   6.1. Base Marquee Sign. Marquee signs may only be located just inside points of arrival to
   the base. They are an effective way to welcome distinguished visitors and to announce
   coming events. Arrival points are vehicle entry gates and the flight line side of base
   operations.
   6.2. Services Marquee Sign. Existing service's marquee signs shall be grandfathered to their
   existing location and configuration. Replacement marquees will require approval by HQ
   ACC/CE and HQ ACC/SV prior to purchase or installation. Marquee signs for officer,
   enlisted, and collocated clubs are permitted. Requests for marquees at other services facilities
   require approval by HQ ACC/CE and HQ ACC/SV prior to purchase or installation.
   6.3. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Holt Park Marquee. The marquee sign was
   erected in 1982 and has since been upgraded to utilize an electronic reader board mounted on
   original structural members and may remain in use until such sign is no longer required.
7. Traffic Control Signs:
   7.1. Warning and Regulatory Traffic Control Signs. The MUTCD specifies these traffic
   control signs. The MUTCD provides the reflectivity requirements for traffic control signs.
   Colors specified by the MUTCD for these special signs are mandatory.
   7.2. Directional Signs. Directional signs should display only those destinations frequently
   used by off-base visitors (hospital, lodging, clubs, etc.). Directional signs should not identify
   destinations generally used only by the base personnel (i.e., library, bowling center, fitness
   center, exchange, bank, etc.). Directional signs should have no more than four entries
   displayed. Do not place directional signs, organizational or building identification signs,
 4                                               ACCI32-1054_MOUNTAINHOMEAFBSUP_I


     unless absolutely necessary. Use UFC 3-120-01, Chapter 5--Direction Signs, to design these
     signs, except that colors shall be white letters on brown background with brown posts.
     7.3. Street Name Signs. Street name signs shall have a brown background with white letters
     and brown posts. Use ACC decal on street name signs. An ACC definitive for street name
     signs is available.
     7.4. Street Address and Facility Numbers: An installation may display both a street address
     and a building number; however, to minimize confusion they must be co-located and be
     clearly distinguishable from each other. Facilities where mail could be delivered by outside
     carriers (i.e., U.S. Postal Service, Federal Express) must display easily visible street address
     numbers on the street side of the facility.
8. Facility Signs:
     8.1. Organization and Building Identification Signs. Use only one sign per building except
     for customer service facilities or large building where more than one function or tenant is
     housed or service provided, such as Self-Help Stores, Lodging, Libraries, Military Personnel
     Flight offices, Consolidated Support Offices, etc. No unit patches, mottoes, or names or titles
     of individuals are permitted; however, the facility may display the name of the individual the
     facility was dedicated to, i.e., "Bateman Library." Use individual beige or bronze anodized
     aluminum letters for identification signs on facility walls. ACC policy discourages the use of
     freestanding post-mounted signs due to their high cost of construction and maintenance. Use
     freestanding post mounted signs only when the facility cannot be seen from the access road.
     Design post mounted signs in accordance with UFC 3-120-01, Chapter 4--Exterior
     Identification Signs, except use white letters on brown background and brown posts. Only
     use ACC and wing decals when using Type B2 signs with decals. When using Type B3
     signs, switch the message area and the number area. Show street address in the number area
     in the lower left corner as shown for Type B2. The building number may be included but
     shall be distinguishable from the street address. Use the following as the ACCI 32-1054
     guide for appropriate sign selection.
        8.1.1. Headquarters Buildings (MAJCOM, NAF, Wing, Group, etc.). The installation
        may identify these buildings with monument type signs or building-mounted nonferrous
        letters affixed to the building structure. Hold these signs to a minimum. Not all
        headquarters or prestigious locations need such signs. The installation commander
        approves the use of these signs.
        8.1.2. Service/Commercial Activities (Exchange, Commissary, Snack Bars, etc.). These
        facilities shall use building mounted signs with individual letters. AAFES and DECA
        may display the registered AAFES and DECA logo as specified in the approved AAFES
        and DECA graphics standard manuals. Commercial signature brands may use their
        signature logos and may display only one sign per building. (If more than one AAFES,
        DECA, or signature brand store occupies a facility, the signs shall be mounted on a
        Centralized Facilities Type C1 or C2 sign as per UFC 3-120-01.
        8.1.3. Administrative Offices. Signs for these buildings help direct a limited number of
        people to offices or functions. The majority of buildings on an installation fall into this
        category. First, seriously consider the need for any signage exclusive of street address
        and facility number. Where the installation needs these signs, use pressure sensitive
ACCI32-1054_MOUNTAINHOMEAFBSUP_I                                                                 5


       lettering on the entrance glass at the main entry when possible. Such lettering should
       show the organization (EXAMPLE: HQ ACC Aerospace Operations) and the street
       address. As a guide, use letters 1 inch high per 25 feet of viewing distance to determine
       the maximum size. From this, establish a standard based on average door size and
       average viewing distance. Use both upper and lower case Helvetica letter style. The letter
       type and style shall be as uniform as possible throughout the installation. Use white,
       beige, or metallic colored letters for maximum visibility and contrast.
       8.1.4. Obscure Buildings. Identify obscure buildings such as well houses, sewage lift
       stations, etc., by no more than a building number. Do not include the street addresses on
       facilities that do not receive mail deliveries.
       8.1.5. Historical Buildings. Historical buildings are a special category of building. These
       buildings require preservation. Avoid attaching signs to these buildings so as not to
       deface the structure. Options include using pressure sensitive letters on entrance glass, or
       constructing small freestanding signs to match the facility.
       8.1.6. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Base Chapel Marquee. The Base Chapel
       may utilize an electronic reader board mounted against a white brick façade preserving
       harmony with the Chapel exterior.
9. Water/POL Tanks. Paint POL tanks simply in earth tone colors. The installation shall apply
the new AF symbol with "U.S. Air Force" as per AF Interim Policy and Design Guidance letter
dated 14 Aug 01 on water tanks when they are scheduled for repainting. No other decals,
graphics, or lettering such as shields, mottoes, or organizational emblems are authorized.
10. Sortie Boards. ACC flying units will locate sortie/flying hour boards in a prominent
location. Sortie/ flying hour boards will identify the flying wing followed by "Monthly Flying
Goals", e.g., "XXX Wing Monthly Flying Goals". The ACC emblem will be located in the upper
left corner and the unit emblem in the upper right corner. Flying squadrons will be identified
horizontally across the top of the board with headings and sortie or flying hour data presented in
column form below. Refer to AFI 21-101_ACC SUP 1, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance
Management, for specific information to be presented on the sortie/ flying hour board. Typical
sortie/flying hour board dimensions will be 10 ft x 4 ft. Lettering will be white on a standard
brown background and font will be Helvetica Medium.
11. Other Signs. UFC 3-120-01 provides additional details on signs. Use of these standards is
required but will not override ACC policy based on those guidelines in this instruction.
   11.1. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Military                   Family      Housing         (MFH)
   Signs. Commanders, Deputy Commanders and Chiefs residing in designated housing may
   have signs (name, rank, unit, symbol, and spouse’s name) placed outside their base housing
   unit. All housing units on Gunsmoke loop will have street post with name sign. Those
   residents not holding a command position will only have name and rank on the sign. 366th
   Civil Engineer Squadron (366 CES) will provide the signs designed with a brown
   background, white lettering and reflective backing. No personally made signs are allowed.
   11.2. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Exterior Emblems. The preferred location for
   exterior squadron emblems, mottos or nicknames are on the ground and incorporated as part
   of the facility overall landscaping plan. These emblems typically distract from the
   professional appearance of facilities and require additional maintenance to repair permanent
 6                                                ACCI32-1054_MOUNTAINHOMEAFBSUP_I


     construction surfaces upon a change of occupancy and are highly discouraged. All exterior
     emblems, mottos or nicknames must be approved in advance. Emblems will not be stenciled
     and must maintain a professional appearance. Signs may feature color but size is a major
     decision factor during the approval process. Each fighter squadron may have one nickname
     (Boars, Tigers, Buccaneers, etc.) placed on an exterior wall or roof of either a hangar, aircraft
     maintenance unit (AMU), or operations building.
     11.3. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Memorial Displays. There are multiple
     Memorial displays on MHAFB that do not meet standards and may remain in-place (i.e., are
     grandfathered). All future installation of Memorial displays requires approval. Process
     memorial display approvals the same as exterior emblems under the condition that the
     memorials hold appropriate significance (Prisoner of War and Missing in Action (POW-
     MIA), Global War on Terrorism (GWOT), Pentagon, etc.).
     11.4. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Temporary Signs. Temporary signs are allowed
     on a 90-day basis for informational purposes (Energy awareness, Environmental
     Events/Information, Combined Federal Campaign (CFC), etc.). These signs must be
     approved and removed after the 90 day time period.
     11.5. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Non-Standard                      or       Non-Compliance
     Signs. There are existing non-standard or non-compliance signs (i.e., Weapons
     Standardization), logos and displays on MHAFB that are grandfathered until further notice.
     However, this grandfathered signage shall not be used as precedent for future signs. These
     signs shall be removed through attrition when no longer required or when extensive repairs
     or replacement is needed.
     11.6. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) 366 CES/CC (Commander) is the delegated wing
     approval authority for installation of sandstone rocks, housing signs, exterior emblems,
     memorial displays and temporary signs under this supplement. Submit request for advance
     approval of new signs via an AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request. The Base
     Architect (366 CES/CEPD) is available for technical assistance regarding approvals and
     applications.
12. Form Adopted. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                               HAL M. HORNBURG, General, USAF
                                               Commander

                                               (MOUNTAINHOMEAFB)

                                               BEGIN SIGNATURE
                                               RONALD D. BUCKLEY, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander
ACCI32-1054_MOUNTAINHOMEAFBSUP_I                                                        7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
FHWA, Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (http://mutcd.fhwa.dot.gov/kno-
millennium.htm)
OSHA, Construction Safety and Health Outreach Program--Signs, Signals, and Barricades
(http://www.osha.gov/doc/outreachtraining/htmlfiles/subpartg.html)
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB)
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB)
AFI 21-101 (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/21/afi21-101/afi21-101.pdf),
Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management
AFI 21-101_ACC SUP 1 (https://wwwmil.acc.af.mil/accpubs/pubs/21series/AFI21-
101_ACCSUP1.pdf), Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management
AFPD 32-10 (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/32/afpd32-10/afpd32-10.pdf),
Installation and Facilities
UFC 3-120-01 (http://www.hnd.usace.army.mil/techinfo/UFC/UFC3-120-01.pdf), Air Force
Sign Standard

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Service
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) AFMAN—Air Force Manual
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management
System
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) AMU—Aircraft Maintenance Unit
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) CC—Commander
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) CEPT—Base Architect (366 CES/CEPT)
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) CES—Civil Engineer Squadron (366 CES)
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) CFC—Combined Federal Campaign
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) GWOT—Global War on Terrorism
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) IAW—In Accordance With
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) MFH—Military Family Housing
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) MHAFB—Mountain Home Air Force Base
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) POW—MIA-Prisoner of War and Missing In Action
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
8   ACCI32-1054_MOUNTAINHOMEAFBSUP_I
