BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AIR COMBAT COMMAND INSTRUCTION
AIR COMBAT COMMAND                                                         90-102

                                                                             28 JANUARY 2013

                                                                            Special Management

                                                           MANAGEMENT OF AIR COMBAT
                                                              COMMAND CONFERENCES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: ACC/DSC                                            Certified by: ACC/DS-2 (Brian T. Kelly)
                                                                                     Pages: 25
Supersedes:    ACCI90-102, 12 March 2009


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-10, Policy Formation, and
describes the procedures for scheduling and conducting conferences and meetings in the General
Bill Creech Conference Center, and Quesada Hall. This publication applies to all HQ Air
Combat Command (ACC) staff and tenant agencies, Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units
and the Air National Guard (ANG). Maintain records created as a result of prescribed processes
in accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of them IAW
the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at http://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact
supporting records managers as required. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; send AF Form 847 to the ACC Bill Creech
Conference Center (ACC/DSC), 190 Dodd Boulevard Suite 200, Joint Base Langley-Eustis,
Virginia 23665.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Updates office symbols of reorganized units; updates requirement for ACC/CV approval of all
conferences either on or off base; adds requirement for SAF approval for certain conferences and
references SAF policy memo; updates Attachment 9, Electronic Staff Summary Sheet Template;
updates requirement for submission of final agenda and seating chart from 14 days prior to start
of conference to 7 days; updates instructions for reserving group lodging; deletes requirement for
conference requests to be submitted through one directorate point of contact; clarifies
audiovisual support; rescinds policy prohibiting refreshments in conference and meeting rooms.
 2                                                                                           ACCI90-102 28 JANUARY 2013


        1.      General. ..................................................................................................................    2
        2.      General Bill Creech Conference Center Facilities. ................................................                             3
        3.      Security Requirements and Responsibilities. .........................................................                          4
        4.      Planning and Coordinating Conferences. ..............................................................                          4
        5.      Planning and Coordinating Leadership Development Program (LDP)
                Conferences. ..........................................................................................................        5
        6.      Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................        5
        7.      Audiovisual Support. .............................................................................................             8

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                 9

Attachment 2—ACC LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
             CONFERENCES/AND COURSES                                                                                                          11

Attachment 3—CONFERENCE/MEETING FACILITIES                                                                                                    12

Attachment 4—GENERAL BILL CREECH CONFERENCE CENTER LAYOUT                                                                                     13

Attachment 5—CONFERENCE ROOM 1 SEATING CHART                                                                                                  14

Attachment 6—CONFERENCE ROOM 2 SEATING CHART                                                                                                  15

Attachment 7—AMPHITHEATER SEATING CHART                                                                                                       16

Attachment 8—QUESADA HALL FLOOR PLAN                                                                                                          17

Attachment 9—ELECTRONIC STAFF SUMMARY SHEET TEMPLATE                                                                                          18

Attachment 10—GENERAL CONFERENCE PLANNING CHECKLIST                                                                                           21

Attachment 11—AUDIOVISUAL EQUIPMENT                                                                                                           24


1. General. The General Bill Creech Conference Center facilities are controlled by the Air
Combat Command Director of Staff (ACC/DS) and managed by the conference center director
(ACC/DSC) using an ACC/DS-approved master conference calendar.
     1.1. During scheduled conferences, the conference center operating hours begin at 0730 and
     end at 1700. Conference start time is no earlier than 0800 with refreshments and/or
     registration (if desired) at 0730. The conference should conclude no later than 1700. The
     last refreshment break of the day should be no later than 1530 to allow wait staff time to
     clean and reset the break room. If requested, the conference center staff will arrive at 0630 to
     open the facility, and will remain after the conference concludes to clean and reset for the
     next day. Variations to opening, start and end times must be coordinated prior to the start of
     the conference.
     1.2. The conference center has local area network (LAN) access at the conference tables in
     conference rooms one and two. There is LAN connectivity in each of the phone/computer
ACCI90-102 28 JANUARY 2013                                                                    3


   areas and each of the two meeting rooms. Commercial wireless internet service is available
   throughout the conference center.
   1.3. A printer/copier and fax machine (DSN 574-4188) are available for customer use for
   unclassified material.    However, printer/copier usage is limited and large volume
   printing/copying (especially color) must be accomplished in the host directorate’s facility.
   1.4. Secure Telephone Equipment (STE) telephones are available upon request.
   1.5. ACC approved Leadership Development Program (LDP) conferences (see Attachment
   2) take priority for scheduling space in the conference center. Other conferences, meetings,
   commander/director calls and ceremonies may be scheduled in the conference center or
   Quesada Hall on a space available basis.
   1.6. Langley AFB has numerous facilities available to host small conferences, meetings and
   workshops and very few facilities available to host larger groups. A meeting facilities list
   (see Attachment 3) is available to assist organizations in reserving alternate meeting space.
   Organizations will attempt to reserve one of the Air Force facilities listed on the
   Conference/Meeting Facilities Listing at Figure A3.1 prior to requesting use of the General
   Bill Creech Conference Center/Quesada Hall for smaller events (less than 30 attendees). The
   National Aeronautics and Space Agency (NASA) has two facilities, the H.J.E. Reid
   Conference Center and the Pearl Young Auditorium, that are available for large conferences
   and meetings. Air Force personnel who reserve the NASA facilities must provide a letter
   confirming their conference dates and times to the NASA-Air Force Liaison (DSN 574-4869)
   prior to the start of their scheduled conference or the conference may be canceled without
   notice.
2. General Bill Creech Conference Center Facilities. The General Bill Creech Conference
Center consists of two separate facilities located in Building 587 (190 Dodd Boulevard) and
Building 590 (115 Thompson Street).
   2.1. The Creech Conference Center (Building 587, second floor), houses five separate
   meeting spaces (see facility layout at Attachment 4):
       2.1.1. Conference Room 1 (see Attachment 5) seats 93 individuals with 53 at tabletops
       (three at head table) and 40 in perimeter seating.
       2.1.2. Conference Room 2 (see Attachment 6) seats 67 individuals with 21 at tabletops
       (three at the head table) and 46 in perimeter seating.
       2.1.3. Amphitheater (see Attachment 7) seats 40 at tabletops
       2.1.4. Meeting Rooms 1 and 2, which seat 25 each with 11 at the table, and 14 perimeter
       seats.
   2.2. Quesada Hall, Building 590, is a 194-seat auditorium which can be used for
   conferences, meetings, commander’s/director’s calls, and ceremonies. (See Attachment 8
   for facility layout). Please note full day conferences are not recommended for this space as
   restrooms and food and beverage service space are very limited.
   2.3. There are seven parking spaces located just off Thompson Street which can be reserved
   upon request for general officers, distinguished visitors (DV) and briefers who are attending
 4                                                              ACCI90-102 28 JANUARY 2013


     conferences. Additional parking can be arranged in the parking lot on Dodd Boulevard, but
     this space is reserved for general officers and civilian equivalents only.
3. Security Requirements and Responsibilities. The conference rooms in the conference
center and the auditorium in Quesada Hall can be used for classified briefings. See Table A11.1
for classification levels of each room. Security is a primary concern when conferences include
classified information or equipment; Project Officers (POs) are therefore responsible for the
strict enforcement of all security requirements and procedures (see AFI 31-401_ACCSUP,
Information Security Program Management) and for ensuring that conferees adhere to all
security measures when classified material is present. Briefers will not use hand-held or lapel
microphones to deliver classified briefings. Limited classified storage space is available at the
conference center (Bldg 587) but there is no storage available in Quesada Hall (Bldg 590).
4. Planning and Coordinating Conferences.
     4.1. On base facilities should always be the first option for scheduling HQ hosted events.
     All off-base events, conferences, courses, workshops, etc. require ACC Vice Commander
     (ACC/CV) approval.
     4.2. ACC/CV approval is required for all HQ hosted events which meet the criteria defining
     a conference (see paragraph 4.4).
     4.3. All conferences which meet or exceed the maximum funds expenditures for conference
     releated costs (including travel) requiring HHQ approval according to current SECAF policy;
     those involving co-sponsorship with a non-Federal entity or other Government agency
     (regardless of the level of expenditures); and those involving spouse travel (regardless of the
     level of expenditures) must be processed through SAF/AAA for approval by the Secretary of
     the Air Force (SECAF) or the Under Secretary of the Air Force (USECAF).
     4.4. The JTR/JFTR broadly defines a ―conference‖ as a ―meeting, retreat, seminar,
     symposium, or event that involves travel.‖
        4.4.1. SECAF policy states ―in recognition of the fact that a number of gatherings
        necessary to carry out official business might otherwise fall under the broad JTR/JFTR
        definition, ―conference‖ has been interpreted not to include assemplies or gatherings
        convened to address business matters internal to the Air Force (or other topics with little
        relevance outside the Air Force) and those primarily involving day-to-day Government
        operations. This exception further includes events required to carry out the Air Force’s
        statutory and regulatory functions, such as inspections, audits, investigations, site visits,
        negotiations and litigation. Examples of the types of internal deliberative-type decision-
        making events not considered to be ―conferences‖ are Air Force Corporate Process
        activities, personnel boards (e.g., promotion), and developmental teams.‖
        4.4.2. ―Events that may otherwise fall outside the definition of a ―conference‖ may fall
        within this policy and guidance, depending on the facts, if they take on indicia or
        characteristics of a ―conference.‖ These include registration, a published substantive
        agenda, scheduled speakers or discussion panels, participation of non-Air Force
        personnel, etc. Organizers and approval authorities should carefully examine the factors
        and considerations set out herein and seek advice from their local legal advisor as
        appropriate. Any doubt regarding the application of these policies and guidance will be
        resolved in favor of seeking approval.‖
ACCI90-102 28 JANUARY 2013                                                                     5


   4.5. ACC/FM and ACC/JA coordination will be required on all conference approval requests
   submitted for ACC/CV approval.
   4.6. All directorates are required to maintain records pertaining to their conference planning
   and conference approval. These records shall include documentation on total costs in an
   itemized fashion. ACC/FM will be the POC for tracking requests for ACC wide conferences.
   4.7. To schedule a conference at the conference center, contact ACC/DSC at DSN 574-7751
   or organizational email (acc.dsc@langley.af.mil) to check available dates. After availability
   is coordinated, a reservation request will be provided to the requester. When the reservation
   request is completed and returned, the reservation will be confirmed. The conference PO
   should use the general conference planning checklist (see Attachment 11) to complete all
   required coordination actions.
   4.8. Once a conference is scheduled in the conference center, the PO will coordinate the
   organization's needs and requirements through their designated conference center technician
   at DSN 574-7751, Lodging at 574-4667, Transportation at 574-5711, and ACC/DSP at 574-
   5044, early in the conference planning process to ensure there are no conflicts with
   previously scheduled activities. The PO should contact Transient Maintenance at 574-
   4517/2539 when planning a conference that requires aircraft parking. Coordination with
   ACC/DSP is required when general officers, foreign officials or other DVs are expected.
   4.9. When a conflict exists with proposed conference dates and the availability of base
   facilities, the conference center director will suggest alternate dates or work with the PO to
   schedule another date/location for the proposed conference.
   4.10. Comply with ACCI 90-110 if DVs will attend the conference or associated social
   functions. Contact ACC/DSP for additional details. ACC/DSP will schedule lodging
   requests for each O6 and above and their civilian equivalents, based on availability of DV
   quarters.
   4.11. Review the General Conference Planning Checklist (see Attachment 10) for further
   information on conference coordination and planning. The checklist (Table A10.1) is
   provided for overall planning and is not all inclusive.
5. Planning and Coordinating Leadership Development Program (LDP) Conferences.
   5.1. Refer to paragraph 4. for information applicable to all conferences.
   5.2. The General Bill Creech Conference Center supports the LDP requirements for the
   Commander, Air Combat Command (COMACC) Vice Commander (CV) and ACC
   headquarters directorates and those conferences take priority in scheduling.
   5.3. In August of each year the Director, General Creech Conference Center (ACC/DSC)
   sends a request for command directorate inputs for placement of their LDP conferences on
   the calendar for the coming new year. Once all directorate inputs are received and de-
   conflicted, a tentative calendar is produced and forwarded to ACC/DS for review and final
   approval. Once the calendar is approved, ACC/DSC will schedule additional requests during
   open timeframes.
6. Responsibilities.
   6.1. The PO is responsible for:
6                                                           ACCI90-102 28 JANUARY 2013


    6.1.1. Ensuring the conference request (at Attachment 9) is signed by a General Officer
    or Senior Executive Service Employee.
    6.1.2. Ensuring adequate records are maintained to reflect the total costs for the
    conference in an itemized fashion.
    6.1.3. Coordinating all audiovisual requirements and conference planning support with
    the conference and audiovisual technicians.
    6.1.4. Ensuring compliance with ACCI 90-110 when applicable.
    6.1.5. Obtaining all briefing materials from briefers, consolidating all briefings in order
    according to agenda, and delivering the briefings along with any audio and/or video files
    to the audiovisual technician no later than one day prior to the start of the conference.
    6.1.6. Ensuring all briefing materials are compatible with available projection equipment
    and classification levels as noted in the audiovisual equipment chart (Table A11.1 at
    Attachment 11).
    6.1.7. Providing any equipment not available in the facility but required for the
    conference attendees’ use. This is especially important if utilizing meeting rooms 1 and 2
    where audiovisual equipment is limited.
    6.1.8. Providing the conference technician with a final version of the conference agenda
    no later than 7 duty days prior to the conference start date. The PO must coordinate any
    changes made to the agenda prior to and during the conference with the conference and
    audiovisual technicians. If there is any Command Section involvement, the PO must
    forward a copy of the agenda and attendee list to their front office and the respective front
    office will forward to COMACC, CV, DS, and ACC Commanders Action Group
    (ACC/CCX) at least one duty day prior to their scheduled event.
    6.1.9. Providing the conference technician a final version of the seating chart at least 7
    duty days prior to conference start date. Conference room specific seating charts will be
    provided to the PO well in advance of the conference start date. POs may use their own
    seating chart format if preferred. The conference technician will post the final seating
    chart outside the conference room door. The DSC staff will prepare seat tags when
    requested.
    6.1.10. Making proper arrangements for refreshments. The PO must contract the
    Langley Club (766-1361) wait staff if refreshments are provided for conferences,
    briefings and workshops held in the conference center or Quesada Hall. Organizations
    may provide their own food/drinks or supplement the Club menu, but Club wait staff
    must be contracted to prepare/serve the refreshments and set up/break down the break
    rooms. The only exception is promotion and retirement ceremonies in Quesada Hall;
    ceremonies may be catered by the organization or individual(s) sponsoring those events.
    The organization or individual(s) will be responsible for all setup and clean up of the
    kitchen and foyer areas. Alcoholic beverages and all tobacco products are prohibited in
    all of the conference center facilities.
    6.1.11. Collecting conference fees, if applicable. A reception area can be designated for
    collecting fees and/or registration upon request.
ACCI90-102 28 JANUARY 2013                                                                    7


     6.1.12. Adhering to security requirements for classified conferences (see AFI 31-
     401_ACCSUP).
     6.1.13. Monitoring admission to the facility during classified presentations. POs must
     thoroughly check the facility after each session and at the end of each day to ensure that
     all classified material and equipment is adequately safeguarded or secured.
  6.2. The General Bill Creech Conference Center conference technician is responsible for:
     6.2.1. Arranging an initial meeting with the organizational PO at the conference center or
     Quesada Hall, 60-90 days prior to conference start date to brief them on the proper
     facility use and operation.
     6.2.2. Providing guidance, instruction and assistance with proper conference planning
     and execution to include registration, protocol, catering, transportation, etc.
     6.2.3. The physical preparation of the facility such as conference room setup, seat tags,
     protocol support, and designating parking for DVs.
     6.2.4. Maintaining the facilities and operating related equipment.
     6.2.5. Assisting the PO in coordinating audiovisual requirements and briefing support.
     6.2.6. Instructing Club employees on proper procedures for set up and cleaning of the
     conference center break rooms and foyer areas in Quesada Hall. Instructing the catering
     employees on cleaning the kitchen and appliances and ensuring that they are returned to
     the condition in which they were found.
     6.2.7. Ensuring compliance with ACCI 90-110 when applicable.
     6.2.8. Receiving incoming calls and taking messages for conferees. Setup and cleaning
     of the reception areas, telephone booths and additional meeting rooms in the center.
     6.2.9. Opening and securing facilities.
     6.2.10. Ensuring that telephone and computer rooms are stocked with required supplies
     (note pads, phone books, pens, pencils, etc.) before and during each conference.
  6.3. The General Bill Creech Conference Center audiovisual technician is responsible for:
     6.3.1. Maintaining the audiovisual booths and operating related equipment.
     6.3.2. Assisting the PO in all audiovisual requirements and associated support.
     6.3.3. Remaining on duty during the conference (with the exception of conference breaks
     and lunch hour) to operate equipment, load briefings and answer questions pertaining to
     briefing execution.
     6.3.4. Opening and securing the AV booths.
     6.3.5. Troubleshooting problem areas in each of the audiovisual areas.
     6.3.6. Adhering to security requirements for classified briefings.
  6.4. Catering personnel are required to accomplish the following duties:
     6.4.1. Setup and cleaning break rooms and foyer areas in conference center and Quesada
     Hall.
 8                                                            ACCI90-102 28 JANUARY 2013


        6.4.2. Providing refreshments to conferees.
        6.4.3. Replenishing coffee cups, glasses, napkins, and tableware and changing linens
        when soiled during the conferences and at the end of each conference.
        6.4.4. Cleaning all areas used. The kitchen and appliances will be returned to the
        condition in which they were found. Once cleaning is complete, catering staff will
        coordinate their departure with the PO or conference center staff before being relieved of
        assigned duties at the conference center/Quesada Hall.
        6.4.5. Coordinating arrangements for leftover refreshments with PO.
7. Audiovisual Support.
     7.1. ACC/DSC will provide audiovisual support for all LDP functions. Conference center
     staff are the only personnel permitted to operate the audiovisual equipment. No one is
     permitted to enter the AV booth without the presence of a member of the conference center
     staff or without express prior approval. Occasionally, when non-LDP functions are
     scheduled audiovisual support will not be available. During those times, the event can be
     scheduled; however, the briefing(s) must be provided in one consolidated presentation. The
     briefing file will be loaded to the computer system and a slice advancer (―clicker‖) will be
     provided to the PO for briefers to advance their own slides.




                                             MICHAEL J. JORDAN, Colonel, USAF
                                             Director of Staff
ACCI90-102 28 JANUARY 2013                                                   9


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI31-401_ACC SUP 1, Information Security Program Management, 7 April 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 90-1, Policy Formation, 6 October 2010
ACCI 90-110, Distinguished Visitors, 16 October 2007
Prescribed Forms
This instruction does not prescribe any forms.
Adopted Forms
This instruction does not contain any adopted forms.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
633 FSS/FSVL—-Langley Lodging
ACC—-Air Combat Command
AV—-Audiovisual
COMACC—-Commander Air Combat Command
ACC/CCQ—-Air Combat Command Orderly Room
ACC/CCX—-ACC Commanders Action Group
ACC/CV—-Vice Commander Air Combat Command
ACC/DS—-ACC Director of Staff
ACC/DSC—-General Bill Creech Conference Center
ACC/DSP—-ACC Executive Support
DOR—-Date of Rank
DV—-Distinguished Visitor
LDP—-Leadership Development Program
NASA—-National Aeronautics and Space Administration
PO—-Project Officer
SSS—-Staff Summary Sheet
TDY—-Temporary Duty
VTC—-Video Teleconference
 10                                                          ACCI90-102 28 JANUARY 2013


Terms
Conference/Course/Meeting—Includes a gathering of individuals during which presentations
are given to inform or brief. A meeting held to reach a mutual agreement or resolve mutual
problems. A meeting held to complete a specific task or project.
Project Officer (PO)—A person assigned to an organization conducting or sponsoring a
conference that is responsible for all items outlined in paragraph 7.1 who works closely with the
conference and audio technicians in planning, coordinating, and monitoring the progress of a
conference.
Approved ACC Leadership Development Program Conferences and Courses—-See
attachment 2) A program that includes a group of courses, seminars, workshops, and conferences
that emphasize ACC’s philosophy and organizational principles that have been approved by
COMACC or the Vice Commander. Paragraph 4 outlines how these conferences and courses are
placed on the conference center annual calendar before all other conference and course requests.
Other Conferences, Courses, and Meetings—Any conference, course or meeting not listed or
defined under the ACC Leadership Development Program. Paragraph 5 outlines how these
conferences, courses, and meetings are placed on the conference center calendar on a space
available basis, and only after all LDP conferences and courses are placed on the conference
center calendar.
ACCI90-102 28 JANUARY 2013                                                            11


                                         Attachment 2
 ACC LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM CONFERENCES/AND COURSES

Table A2.1. Leadership development program listing.

    CC       CAF Commanders Conference (Fall)
             CAF/MAF Commanders Conference (Spring)
             Fall ACC Commanders & Spouses Conference
             Spring ACC Commanders Conference
             Adjutant Generals Conference
    CV       CAF Airpower Symposium
    CCC      12 Outstanding Airmen of the Year Conference
             ACC Command Chief Master Sergeants Conference
    CR       ACC Mobilization Assistant (MA) Conference
    FM       ACC Comptrollers and Superintendents Conference
    HC       ACC Wing Chaplain and NCOIC Conference
    HO       ACC Historian’s Workshop
    JA       ACC Staff Judge Advocate/Law Office Managers Conference
    PA       ACC Commanders Group Conference
             ACC Public Affairs Conference
             ACC Sponsored Civic Outreach Tours
    SE       ACC Combined Safety Conference
    SG       ACC Medical Leadership Conference
    A1       ACC Civilian Personnel Officers’ Conference
             ACC Airman and Family Services Flight Leadership/Management Conference
             ACC Manpower and Organization (MO) Chiefs’ Conference
             ACC Force Support Squadron Commanders Conference
             ACC Squadron Commanders and Spouses Orientation Course
             ACC Intern Conference
    A2       C-NAF Intelligence Conference
             ACC Unit Intelligence Leadership/Management Course
             ACC Unit-Level Intelligence Conference (ULIC)
    A3       ACC Airfield Operations Conference
             ACC Flying/OSS Squadron Commanders Conference
             ACC Operations Group Commanders Conference
             ACC Weather Conference
             Realistic Training Review Board (RTRB) (Spring/Fall)
             Total Force Personnel Recovery Conference
    A4       ACC Logistics Readiness Squadron Commanders Conference
             ACC Maintenance Group Commanders Conference
             ACC Senior Leaders Maintenance Course
             ACC Maintenance Group Superintendents Conference
    A6       ACC/A6 Commanders Conference
    A7       ACC Civil Engineer Commanders Conference
             ACC Civil Engineering Operations Conference
             ACC Contracting Conference
             ACC Security Forces Conference
             ACC Mission Support Group Commanders Conference
 12                                                  ACCI90-102 28 JANUARY 2013


                                      Attachment 3
                       CONFERENCE/MEETING FACILITIES

Figure A3.1. Conference/Meeting Facilities Listing
ACCI90-102 28 JANUARY 2013                                                           13


                                     Attachment 4
            GENERAL BILL CREECH CONFERENCE CENTER LAYOUT

A4.1. Layout of General Bill Creech Conference Center. The current layout of the General
Bill Creech Conference Center is contained in Figure A4.1.

Figure A4.1. Layout of General Bill Creech Conference Center.
 14                                                    ACCI90-102 28 JANUARY 2013


                                     Attachment 5
                     CONFERENCE ROOM 1 SEATING CHART

A5.1. Seating chart for Conference Room 1. The current seating chart for Conference Room
1 is at Figure A6.1

Figure A5.1. Conference Room 1 Seating Chart.
ACCI90-102 28 JANUARY 2013                                                            15


                                     Attachment 6
                     CONFERENCE ROOM 2 SEATING CHART

A6.1. Seating chart for Conference Room 2. The current seating layout for Conference Room
2 is at Figure A7.1
Figure A6.1. Conference Room 2 Seating

 Chart.
 16                                                    ACCI90-102 28 JANUARY 2013


                                     Attachment 7
                        AMPHITHEATER SEATING CHART

A7.1. Seating chart for Amphitheater. The current seating layout for Amphitheater is at
Figure A8.1
                       Figure A7.1. Amphitheater Seating Chart.
ACCI90-102 28 JANUARY 2013                                                                17


                                       Attachment 8
                            QUESADA HALL FLOOR PLAN

A8.1. Quesada Hall Floor Plan. The current Quesada Hall seating floor plan is at Figure A5.1

Figure A8.1. Quesada Hall Floor Plan.
 18                                                        ACCI90-102 28 JANUARY 2013


                                        Attachment 9
                 ELECTRONIC STAFF SUMMARY SHEET TEMPLATE

A9.1. Electronic Staff Summary Sheet Template: DS: Coord
CV: Apprv

Action Officer: Lt Col David K. Smith, A1, 4-6565
Tasking Number and Suspense Date: N/A
Coordination: 633 ABW/CC, ACC/DSC, ACC/DSP

1. Purpose: Obtain CV approval to hold a XXXXXX conference at ___________ (location)
____________________(dates).

2. Background:

      a.    Requesting command/organization:
      b.   Co-sponsoring entity:
      c.   Conference title:
      d.   Proposed dates:
      e.   Conference mission purpose/justification: (be specific, cite tangible benefits)
      f.   What alternatives to a conference were considered and why was each found not
           acceptable from a mission perspective?
      g.   Proposed location (city/state):
      h.   Why is proposed location preferred: (What alternatives were considered? What
           factors were considered?)
      i.   Proposed venue (commercial) (government) (Be as specific as possible):
      j.   How has the ―local first‖ policy on government travel and conference-related
           spending been considered/implemented?
      k.   If proposed venue is not a government owned or provided location, what steps were
           taken to secure such a location? If none are available, why?
      l.   Why is proposed venue preferred? (What alternatives were considered? What factors
           were considered?)
      m.     What has been done to identify and assess potential security or force protection
           concerns? What actions will be taken to address these concerns?
      n.   Proposed participants (Indicate range of grades of participants and numbers
           expected/invited):
           Military attendees:
               General officers:
           DoD civilian attendees:
               Political appointees:
               SES:
           DoD contractor attendees:
           Non-DoD attendees:
           Other invitees:
ACCI90-102 28 JANUARY 2013                                                                   19


     o. How large a support staff (Air Force and contractor) will be involved? How much has
        been spent on preliminary planning?
     p. What steps have been taken to minimize the number of attendees, invitees and
        support staff?
     q. How many attendees and/or support staff will be in a temporary duty status and how
        many will be from the local area?
     r. Is spouse travel funded at government expense being requested?
        Are separate spouse sessions planned? (Provide agenda)
        Number of spouses to attend:
        Justification for spouse travel/participation:
     s. Will conference be held in conjunction with or be co-sponsored by a non-federal
        entity or other government organization?
        Has co-sponsoring organization been appropriately certified? (If yes, attach copy)
        Provide details of proposed co-sponsorship arrangement or agreement (Delineate
        expected contributions/responsibilities of parties)
     t. Will funding for a portion of the conference be provided by an outside source? (If
        yes, describe source and uses of these funds)
     u. What is the agenda? (Attach a copy with as much specificity as possible, include
        ―break out sessions,‖ social events, collateral activities)
        What are the proposed travel dates for attendees?
        Will the agenda include any classified information ? (If so, what steps will be taken to
        safeguard this information?)
     v. Has a conference planner or coordinator or similar commercial source of support been
        engaged? (Describe expected duties and projected costs)
     w. Anticipated total costs:
        Attendee travel:
        Support staff travel:
        Speaker travel:
        Attendee local area transportation:
        Support staff local area transportation:
        Speaker local area transportation:
        Attendee lodging:
        Support staff lodging:
        Speaker lodging:
        Attendee MI&E:
        Support staff MI&E:
        Speaker MI&E:
        Speaker honoraria:
        Venue rental/charge:
        Audiovisual and IT charges:
        Facilitator costs:
        Other costs:
     x. Will a registration fee be collected? (From whom, how much and for what purposes?)
     y. How will meals and snacks be handled – in terms of funding?
     z. What are the results of a cost-benefit assessment (Use tool at:
        https://www.cape.osd.mil/costguidance/)?
 20                                                         ACCI90-102 28 JANUARY 2013


       aa. What steps have been taken to minimize conference-related expenses?
           When was it last held?
           What were the total costs?
           How will the proposed event differ?
           What steps have been taken to ensure economies/cost savings or cost reductions over
           prior years?
       bb. If this event has been held in prior years,
       cc. Other pertinent information:
       dd. Conference POC:

3. Views of Others:

4. Recommendation: CV approve proposed conference being held at ___________ (location),
___________ (date).



JOHN D. SAMPLE, Brig Gen, USAF
Director of _______________

2 Tabs
1. Conference Agenda
2. List of Attendees
ACCI90-102 28 JANUARY 2013                                                                     21


                                         Attachment 10
                  GENERAL CONFERENCE PLANNING CHECKLIST

A10.1. Checklist. Generally speaking all conferences have certain elements in common. This
checklist is divided into six main areas for your use. Keep in mind, checklist items and the noted
time frames are meant to guide you. Remember your customer has the final say and will
determine if the conference was a success.

Table A10.1. Checklist.
ITEM                       CONFERENCE COORDINATION                                     # DAYS
  #                                                                                    PRIOR
  1      Planning and Scheduling
         Determine the dates of conference and coordinate the action through         ASAP
         your directorate leadership
         Notify Base Operations and Trans Maintenance of the following:              ASAP
            Conference dates
            Total # of attendees arriving/departing via MILAIR/DOD Aircraft
            Arrival/departure times/dates
            Tail number and type of aircraft
         Meet with your conference center technician                                 60-90
         Determine VTC requirements                                                  30-60
         Send notification message to field                                          30-60
         Task your assistant project officers with the following duties:             30-60
            Administrative duties
            Transportation requirements
            Escort duties
            Social requirements
            Lodging arrangements
         Send message to the field requesting confirmation of attendees              30-60
         Discuss refreshments/costs, etc. with the Bayside Enlisted Club or the      30-60
         Officers’ Club
         Determine your conference fees that will be used to pay for the             30-60
         following:
            Social events
            Other misc. expenses
         Send final message to the field with the following information:             30
            Final instructions
            Solicit last minute requirements
            Provide information on fees, phone and fax numbers for incoming
            calls, etc.
         Continue follow-up coordination with your conference technician             As needed
         Coordinate with all agencies/project officers on changes                    As needed
22                                                       ACCI90-102 28 JANUARY 2013


ITEM                    CONFERENCE COORDINATION                                   # DAYS
  #                                                                               PRIOR
       Coordinate with the Executive Support Office (ACC/DSP – Protocol)         30
       and provide DV notifications for Brig Gen (1 star/equivalents) and
       above:
          Determine if mementos are required for guest speakers and or
          attendees
          Prepare memento for presentation
 2     Agenda
       Solicit agenda items from the field                                       60-90
       Schedule opening/closing speakers for conference (COMACC, Vice
       Commander, etc.):
          Initial                                                                60-90
          First follow-up                                                        30
          Prepare/coordinate welcome remarks for senior staff. If COMACC or      14
          CV is presenting remarks coordinate with ACC/CCX
          Final follow-up for opening/closing remarks                            7
       Incorporate photo session in agenda                                       30-60
          Coordinate photo timing with DSP if senior staff is included
          Schedule photographer
       Develop rough draft of agenda                                             30-60
       Schedule guest briefer and speakers                                       30-60
       Identify agenda topics to develop briefings                               30-60
          Determine classification of briefings
          Inform briefer of presentation options/capabilities
       Confirm guest speakers and briefing times on agenda                       30-60
          If guest speakers require invitational orders prepare as required      ASAP
       Coordinate special visits for guest speakers as appropriate               ASAP
          For COMACC or CV coordinate with ACC/CCX
       If general officers are attending, notify Executive Support IAW ACCI      30
       90-110
       Confirm final agenda with conference center                               7
 3     Social Events
       Schedule events (golf, bowling, etc.)                                     ASAP
       Make arrangements with Club for icebreaker                                ASAP
          Confirm dates for social with Club                                     ASAP
          Reserve Club for dinner social                                         ASAP
          Coordinate specifics for dinner social                                 ASAP
          Notify directors/appropriate guests of icebreaker/dinner               ASAP
             Use e-mail (address to secretaries) if possible
          Coordinate with Club to expect increased patronage during conference   30
          period
          Call those who have not RSVP’d                                         10
          Sign refreshment contract at Club                                      7-10
ACCI90-102 28 JANUARY 2013                                                                  23


ITEM                     CONFERENCE COORDINATION                                    # DAYS
  #                                                                                 PRIOR
  4    Transportation
       Notify transportation of conference period and projected number of           30-60
       attendees
       Send letter to transportation requesting                                     30-60
           U-drive vans
           Bus transportation to dinner
           Bus transportation to/from General Bill Creech Conference Center,
       Lodging, Club, etc.
       Follow-up request and confirm transportation                                 30
       Publish what transportation is available and cost to/from airport in final   30
       message to field or information sent directly to attendees
       Confirm and set up schedule for pick up at conference center, VOQ, etc.      30
       Include transportation schedule with agenda                                  15
       Have attendees notify conference PO if they will require assistance with     14
       transportation
  5    Lodging
       Send email to lodging requesting a block of rooms to support the             30
       conference
       Provide lodging, with a final list of attendees                              10
           Include rank, arrival/departure dates/times
  6      Administrative Actions
       If publishing Talking Papers in conference booklet                           15-30
           Standardize format
           Collect final papers
       Prepare conference/course books                                              14
       Plan conference center seating chart                                         14
       Collect materials/supplies (pens, papers, notepads)                          14
       Refreshments
           Determine what is desired (based on # involved and duration)             14
           Confirm refreshment order with Enlisted or Officers Club                 3
           Club staff will deliver food to conference center                        1
       Deliver final seating chart to conference center staff for seat tags         7
 24                                                        ACCI90-102 28 JANUARY 2013


                                       Attachment 11
                              AUDIOVISUAL EQUIPMENT

A11.1. Conference Rooms Projection/Equipment Capability:

Table A11.1. Projection/Equipment.
Conference Room One (CR1)
   - Rear screen projection (single/dual screen)
   - Microsoft PowerPoint electronic presentation format
   - CD/DVD compatible (computer drives)
   - Two podiums with microphones
   - Laptop connection (with audio) to projector at one podium and in AV booth
   - Stationery microphones at each table top seats
   - Lapel microphones available
   - LAN connectivity at table top seats (53 seats) – subject to port security
   - Commercial wireless available
   - Camera view of conference room or briefing projection view available on flat screen
      monitor in Meeting Room 1 (adjacent to the conference room)
   - Computers cleared for classification level of Secret
   - Room cleared for discussion classification level of Top Secret
   - Top Secret briefings may be presented with user-provided laptop
   -
Conference Room Two (CR2)
   - Front screen projection (single/dual screen)
   - Microsoft PowerPoint electronic presentation format
   - CD/DVD compatible (computer drives)
   - Two podiums with microphones
   - Laptop connection (no audio) to projector at one podium or table top seat
   - Laptop connection (with audio) in AV booth
   - Multidirectional microphones at tabletop and ceiling microphones for perimeter seats
   - LAN connectivity at table (19 seats)
   - Commercial wireless available
   - Computers cleared for classification level of Secret
   - Room cleared for discussion classification level of Top Secret
   - Top Secret briefings may be presented with user-provided laptop
   -
ACCI90-102 28 JANUARY 2013                                                           25


Amphitheater
  - Rear screen projection (single screen only)
  - Microsoft PowerPoint electronic presentation format
  - CD/DVD compatible (computer drives)
  - Two podiums with microphones
  - Laptop connection (with audio) to projector at one podium
  - Commercial wireless available
  - No classified computers available
  - Room cleared for discussion classification level of Top Secret
  - Secret and Top Secret briefings may be presented with user-provided laptop

Quesada Hall
  - Rear screen projection (single/dual screen)
  - Microsoft PowerPoint electronic presentation format
  - CD/DVD compatible (computer drives)
  - Two podiums with microphones
  - Laptop connection (with audio) to projector at both podiums
  - Hand held and lapel microphones available
  - Computers cleared for classification level of Secret
  - Room cleared for discussion classification level of Secret

Meeting Room One (MR1)
  - Front screen projection (single screen) with portable screen
  - No computer available – user must provide laptop
  - LAN connection available for laptop connection
  - Commercial wireless available
  - Camera view of Conference Room 1 or briefing projection view available on wall
      mounted flat screen monitor
  - Room cleared for discussion classification level of Secret
  - Secret briefings may be presented with user-provided laptop

Meeting Room Two (MR2)
  - Front screen projection (single screen) with flat screen monitor
  - No computer available – user must provide laptop
  - LAN connection available for laptop connection
  - Commercial wireless available
  - Room cleared for discussion classification level of Secret
  - Secret briefings may be presented with user-provided laptop
