BY ORDER OF THE                                                            ACC INSTRUCTION 90-107
COMMANDER AIR COMBAT COMMAND                                                        6 DECEMBER 1999

                                                                                        Command Policy

                                                       AVAILABILITY OF KEY MEMBERS OF THE
                                                                                ACC STAFF


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY




OPR: ACC/CSA (Major Michael V. McKelvey)              Certified by: ACC/CS (Colonel William T. Lord)
Supersedes ACCI 90-107, 24 March 1999                                                       Pages: 3
                                                                                     Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 90-1, Policy Formulation, and establishes responsibilities and proce-
dures for notification of availability of ACC key staff members. It applies to all Headquarters ACC direc-
torates and staff agencies. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)/
National Guard Bureau (ANG) units or members. Send comments and suggested improvements on AF
Form 874, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through channels to ACC/CSA, 205 Dodd
Blvd, Suite 207, Langley AFB VA 23665-2788.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
Adds the Air Expeditionary Force (AEF) Center Commanders and the Aerospace Command and Control
and Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance Center (AC2ISRC) Commander as “immediately avail-
able” key staff members. Updates organizational office symbols throughout the instruction.



1. General. The procedures and responsibilities in this instruction are designed to give the ACC Com-
mander timely access to the key staff and to ensure an appropriate Senior Responsible Officer (SRO) is
available during dual and triple absences. The degree of availability needed for key staff depends prima-
rily on their contingency functions.
   1.1. A dual absence is defined as an absence of the Commander and Vice Commander from the duty
   location. Per VCSAF message, 011437Z Oct 97, dual absences should be exceptions.
   1.2. A triple absence is defined as an absence of the Commander, Vice Commander, and the senior
   rated officer on the ACC Headquarters staff. Per VCSAF message, triple absences should be rare;
   when they do occur, a general officer with broad-rated experience will serve as the SRO for Air Com-
   bat Command.

2. Availability Categories.
2                                                                    ACCI90-107 6 DECEMBER 1999

    2.1. There are two categories of key staff availability as defined below.
       2.1.1. Immediately Available. Key staff whose contingency function or other duties require them
       to be available at all times. Individuals occupying the following positions are classified as “Imme-
       diately Available”: CC, CV, CS, CCE, CCA, XO, AXO, AXO-IDE, XO-AEF Center (Blue
       Team), XO-AEF Center (Silver Team), XP, XR, LG, SC, CE, SF, PA, AC2ISRC, and SRO.
    2.2. Readily Available. Other key staff who are not required to be immediately available. Individuals
    occupying the following positions are classified as “Readily Available”: CCC, SG, IG, JA, SE, FM,
    SV, HC, CR, CG, CCX, and DP.

3. Responsibilities.
    3.1. All key staff members will keep their office and the ACC Command Center advised of their
    availability using procedures in paragraph 4 below. During TDY/leave absences, acting key staff
    members will follow the same procedures.
    3.2. SRO Responsibilities. The executive officer to the SRO will ensure the Command Center has
    contact phone numbers for the SRO. The SRO is responsible for obtaining guidance for their dual/tri-
    ple absence period from the Commander or Vice Commander as appropriate. The Director of Staff
    (ACC/CS), Commander’s Executive Officer (ACC/CCE), or the Vice Commander’s Executive
    Officer (ACC/CVE) will notify the SRO of any high priority actions requiring immediate attention.
    Additionally, during and/or after the dual/triple absence period, the SRO will notify the Commander
    and Vice Commander of any issues/actions requiring their involvement or attention.
    3.3. The ACC Command Center will maintain location and communication contact (pager/cellular
    telephone), as applicable.

4. Procedures.
    4.1. Immediately Available key staff:
       4.1.1. Duty hours. Keep your office advised of your location and be accessible by telephone
       (hard line or cellular).
       4.1.2. Non-duty hours. Keep the ACC Command Center advised of your location and phone
       number when not at home.
       4.1.3. Dual/Triple Absence Procedures. CVE will determine when a dual absence or triple
       absence will occur and will determine availability of potential SROs (XO, XP, IG, XR; these posi-
       tions are filled by general officers with broad, rated experience). The Vice Commander will select
       the SRO for that period, and CVE will submit an approval request to the VCSAF in accordance
       with AFI 10-205, Availability of Major Command Commanders.
       4.1.4. Current technologies allow the Commander and Vice Commander access to correspon-
       dence forwarded for their information or approval. In most cases, they will coordinate on elec-
       tronic packages while TDY. However, in the case of hardcopy correspondence or time sensitive
       issues, there may be occasions when the SRO acts on behalf of the Commander. Examples
       include approval of military airlift requests for ACC commanders and approval of orientation
       flights.
    4.2. Readily Available key staff.
ACCI90-107 6 DECEMBER 1999                                                                      3

     4.2.1. Duty hours. Keep your office advised of your location.
     4.2.2. Non-duty hours. Advise the ACC Command Center of absences of more than 4 hours and
     give the name of the responsible officer in your staff agency.
  4.3. TDY and leave. At least 1 week prior to every TDY/leave/dual absence, notify the ACC Vice
  Commander’s office (ACC/CV) and ACC Director of Staff’s office (ACC/CS).
  4.4. The ACC Command Center prepares a daily log of key staff member availability. Report
  changes in availability to the ACC Command Center.
  4.5. The ACC Command Center will keep a cellular telephone and three pagers available for tempo-
  rary loan to key staff members when required.



                                      RALPH E. EBERHART, General, USAF
                                      Commander
